                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                              Report No: ICR2459



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-45450 TF-93654)



                                     ON A

                                  CREDIT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR2.3 MILLION
                       (US$3.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    AND A

                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY GRANT
                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.0 MILLION

                                   TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                    FOR A

       SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF FISH RESOURCES PROJECT



                                February 5, 2013




Environment and Natural Resources Management Unit 3 (AFTN3)
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department 1 (AFCF1)
Africa Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012)

                            Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                               CFAF500 = US$1.00
                               US$1.00 = SDR0.66

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             [January 1 – December 31]

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD     Agence Française de Développement – French Agency for Development
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CBD     Convention on Biological Diversity
CCLME   Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem Project
CLP     Comité Local de Pêcheurs / Local Fishers’ Committee
CLPA    Conseil Local de Pêche Artisanale / Local Council of Artisanal Fishers
CMS     Crédit Mutuel du Sénégal/Credit Union of Senegal
CNCPM   Conseil National Consultatif de Pêches Maritimes/ National Consultative
        Council for Marine Fisheries
COMO    Cellule Opérationnelle de Mise en Oeuvre/Project Implementation Unit
COREMAP Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Project
CPUE    Catch-per-unit effort
DDI     Direction de la Dette et de l’Investissement /Directorate for Debt and
        Investment
DPM     Direction des Pêches Maritimes /Directorate for Marine Fisheries
DPSP    Direction de la Protection et de la Surveillance des Pêches/ Directorate for
        Fishing Protection and Surveillance
EOP     End of Project
ESW     Economic and Sector Work
FRAP    Fonds de Reconversion des Artisans Pêcheurs/Alternative Livelihoods to
        Fishing and Poverty Reduction Fund
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GDRH    Projet de Gestion Durable des Ressources Halieutiques/ Sustainable
        Management of Fish Resources Project
GEF     Global Environment Facility
GIRMaC  Projet de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et Côtières /Integrated
        Marine and Coastal Resource Management Project
IAT     Institution d’Appui Technique / Technical Assistance Institution
IDA     International Development Association
JICA    Japan International Cooperation Agency
LSP     Letter of Sector Policy
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MCS     Monitoring, Control and Surveillance
MFMA     Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Affairs (previously Ministry of Maritime
         Economy) /Ministère de la Pêche et des Affaires Maritimes
MFI      Micro Finance Institution
PNI      Programme National d’Immatriculation /National Registration Program
UNCLOS   United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
ZER      Zone d’Exploitation Réglementé /Controlled Fishing Zone
ZIP      Zone d’Interdiction de Pêche /Prohibited Fishing Zone
ZPP      Zone de Pêche Protégée/Protected Fishing Zone




                            Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
                          Country Director:   Vera Songwe
                           Sector Manager:    Magdolna Lovei
                      Project Team Leader:    John Virdin
                         ICR Team Leader:     John Virdin
                                         SENEGAL
                       Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design ............. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environmet Outcome .. 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 39
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 40
  Annex 5. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 42
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 46
  Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 73
  Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 74
A. Basic Information
                                                                    Sustainable
Country:              Senegal                 Project Name:         Management of Fish
                                                                    Resources
Project ID:           P105881,P092062         L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-45450,TF-93654
ICR Date:             02/06/2013              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:   SIL,SIL                 Borrower:
                                                                    SENEGAL
Original Total        XDR 2.30M,USD                                 XDR 1.49M,USD
                                              Disbursed Amount:
Commitment:           6.00M                                         2.37M


Environmental Category: B,B                   Focal Area: I
Implementing Agencies:
 Direction Peches Maritimes - COMO Peche
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:



B. Key Dates
Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - P105881
                                                                          Revised / Actual
     Process            Date               Process        Original Date
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/24/2006   Effectiveness:          11/12/2009       11/06/2009
Appraisal:            07/21/2008   Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/16/2008   Mid-term Review:        11/15/2011
                                   Closing:                03/31/2012       06/30/2012

Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - P092062
                                                                          Revised / Actual
     Process            Date               Process        Original Date
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:       07/24/2006   Effectiveness:          11/12/2009       11/06/2009
Appraisal:            07/21/2008   Restructuring(s):
Approval:             12/16/2008   Mid-term Review:        05/02/2011
                                   Closing:                03/31/2012       06/30/2012




C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                      Unsatisfactory
GEO Outcomes                                  Unsatisfactory



                                              i
Risk to Development Outcome                         High
Risk to GEO Outcome                                 High
Bank Performance                                    Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                                Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                    Ratings
                             Moderately                                          Moderately
Quality at Entry                                Government:
                           Unsatisfactory                                       Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                 Unsatisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                 Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                                                Unsatisfactory
Performance                Unsatisfactory       Performance


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - P105881
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating:
       Performance                                (if any)
Potential Problem Project                     Quality at Entry
                                Yes                                                None
  at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA)
 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                                Yes                                                None
      time (Yes/No):                         Supervision (QSA)
     DO rating before
                           Unsatisfactory
 Closing/Inactive status

Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - P092062
    Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                           Indicators                                             Rating:
      Performance                                (if any)
Potential Problem Project                    Quality at Entry
                               No                                                  None
 at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA)
 Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                               No                                                  None
     time (Yes/No):                         Supervision (QSA)
   GEO rating before
                          Unsatisfactory
 Closing/Inactive Status




D. Sector and Theme Codes
Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - P105881
                                                                     Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       80               80



                                                   ii
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry       20                 20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other environment and natural resources management             100               100

Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - P092062
                                                            Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector               80                 80
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry       20                 20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                    52                52
Environmental policies and institutions                         25                25
Other environment and natural resources management              7                  7
Participation and civic engagement                              16                16




E. Bank Staff
Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - P105881
        Positions                 At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:      Makhtar Diop                          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:    Vera Songwe                           McDonald P. Benjamin
Sector Manager:      Magdolna Lovei                        Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Project Team Leader: John Virdin                           John Virdin
ICR Team Leader:     John Virdin
ICR Primary Author:  Huong-Giang Lucie Tran

Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - P092062
        Positions                 At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:      Makhtar Diop                          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:    Vera Songwe                           McDonald P. Benjamin
Sector Manager:      Magdolna Lovei                        Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Project Team Leader: John Virdin                           John Virdin
ICR Team Leader:     John Virdin
ICR Primary Author:  Huong-Giang Lucie Tran




                                                   iii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The combined development objective/global objective of the project is to empower
communities to reduce fishing pressure on the fish stocks supporting the central coastal
fisheries of Senegal (from the Cap Vert Peninsula to the Saloum River Delta), by (i)
promoting co-management of the coastal fisheries, (ii) contributing to the rehabilitation
of the essential ecosystems for the coastal fisheries, and (iii) supporting alternative
livelihoods and accompanying poverty reduction measures in targeted poor fishing
communities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Revised

Global Environment Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
See above

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Revised

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target        Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
                Increase in the average size of fish caught for targeted species in co-management
Indicator 1 :
                sites;
Value
                                             % increase above
(quantitative or Determined by month 2                            not revised    N/A
                                             baseline
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/06/2010                     03/31/2012           03/31/2012     03/31/2012
                 Partially met for the 4 pilot sites under the
Comments
                 IMCFM (GIRMaC) Project. Not met for the 8
(incl. %
                 additional sites for which sub-project proposals submitted to authorities
achievement)
                 but not yet approved as legal agreements with the Government.
                 Reduction in the level of fishing effort for targeted species in co-management
Indicator 2 :
                 sites
Value
                                             % reduction from
(quantitative or Determined by month 2                            not revised    N/A
                                             baseline
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2010                     03/31/2012           03/31/2012     03/31/2012
                 Partially met. 8 new sub-project submitted to local and central level authorities
Comments
                 for
(incl. %
                 validation and are awaiting approval. Following approval, implementation of the
achievement)
                 sub-projects will be supported under the restructured WARFP.
                 8 new co-management sub-project proposals are
Indicator 3 :
                 approved as legal agreements with the Government


                                                iv
                   and successfully implemented by EOP.
Value
                                               8 Successfully
(quantitative or 0                                                 not revised 0
                                               implemented.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                       03/31/2012          03/31/2012  03/31/2012
                 Partially met. 8 new sub-project submitted to local and central level authorities
Comments
                 for
(incl. %
                 validation and are awaiting approval. Following approval, implementation of the
achievement)
                 sub-projects will be supported under the restructured WARFP.
                 Rehabilitation of coastal ecosystems indicator:
                 70 percent of community members surveyed in
Indicator 4 : participating communities are satisfied with project
                 activities to rehabilitate coastal fish stocks (ZPPs,
                 artificial reefs, ecolabelling).
Value
(quantitative or Determined by month 2 70%                         not revised 0
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/06/2010                       03/31/2010          03/31/2012  03/31/2012
Comments
                 Not met. Remaining
(incl. %
                 activities will be funded under the WARFP.
achievement)
                 Each community targeted by the project has access
                 to a system of micro-credit, and project-supported
Indicator 5 :
                 poverty reduction measures are implemented in at
                 least the four initial pilot sites, by EOP.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) GEO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target  Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from     Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value
                                              approval       Target       Completion or
                                            documents)       Values        Target Years
                   Same as above. PDO and GEO were combined under the same objective and
Indicator 1 :
                   indicators.
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %



                                                v
achievement)


(c) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                  Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                     approval                      Completion or
                                                                   Target Values
                                                   documents)                       Target Years
                 8 new CLPs legally established in the central coastal
Indicator 1 :
                 region, within the first 18 months of implementation
Value                                          8 new CLPs in
                                                                                 8 CLPs submitted
(quantitative or 4CLPs in initial pilot sites addition to 4 in     not revised
                                                                                 for approval
Qualitative)                                   initial pilot sites
Date achieved 11/06/2009                       11/06/2010          03/31/2012    03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %         Met satisfactorily. CLPs established by end of first year of implementation.
achievement)
                 4 consolidated local fisheries management plans are
                 approved by the relevant Local Artisanal Fishers’
Indicator 2 :
                 Councils (CLPAs) within 24 months of project
                 implementation, and implemented by EOP.
Value
                                               4 plans
(quantitative or 0                                                 not revised   0
                                               implemented.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2012                       03/31/2012          03/31/2012    06/30/2012
Comments         Not met. However, under the WARFP, three
(incl. %         consolidated fisheries management plans will be approved and implemented
achievement) around the 4 initial pilot sites.
                 2 protected fisheries zones (ZPPs) are created and
Indicator 3 : legally established and their management plans
                 prepared.
                                               2 ZPPs leagally
Value                                          established and
                 2 ZPPs identified but not
(quantitative or                               actively managed. not revised     0
                 established.
Qualitative)                                   Mgt plan for 2nd
                                               ZPP prepared.
Date achieved 11/06/2009                       03/31/2012          03/31/2012    06/30/2012
Comments         Not met. Delay of 12-mths in recruiting the consulting firm (WWF-WAMER)
(incl. %         which led to delays in implementing the activities. Activities have transferred for
achievement) implementation by the same firm under the restructured WARFP.
                 At least 2 artificial reefs are expanded/ submerged
Indicator 4 : and co-managed with the local communities by
                 EOP.
Value
                                               2 artificial reefs
(quantitative or 2 artificial reefs identified                     not revised   0
                                               under co-mgt
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                       03/31/2012          03/31/2012    06/30/2012



                                                 vi
Comments         Not met. Delay of 12 mths in recruiting consulting firm (WWF-WAMER)
(incl. %         which led to delays in implementing the activities. Activities transferred for
achievement)     implementation by same firm to restructured WARFP.
                 Access rights are defined, legally recognized and
Indicator 5 :
                 introduced in 2 of fisheries under co-management.
Value                                         Access rights
                 0 fisheries have access
(quantitative or                              allocated to fishers not revised  0
                 rights
Qualitative)                                  in 2 fisheries
Date achieved 11/06/2009                      03/31/2012           03/31/2012   06/30/2012
Comments
                 Not met due to delays in implementation of co-mgt activities, ZPPs and placing
(incl. %
                 of artificial reefs. Activities transferred to restructured WARFP.
achievement)
                 All small-scale fishing and transport vessels
                 originating from within the central coastal region are
Indicator 6 : registered by the National Registration Program
                 (PNI) within the first six months of project
                 implementation.
Value
                                                                                85% of all fishing
(quantitative or &lt;5%                       100%                 not revised
                                                                                vessels registered.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                      03/31/2012           03/31/2012   03/31/2012
Comments         Met satisfactorily, but with delay. However, with additional funding from
(incl. %         WARFP, about 17,500 small vessels (85%) are registered. Remaining 15% of
achievement) fleet are from neighboring countries.
                 At least 1 fishery is eligible for eco-certification
Indicator 7 :
                 according to the criteria of the Marine Stewardship Council by EOP.
Value                                         Full evaluation
(quantitative or 0 fishery eligible           conducted,           not revised  0
Qualitative)                                  eligibility.
Date achieved 11/06/2009                      03/31/2012           03/31/2012   03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %         Not met. Activities transferred to restructured WARFP.
achievement)
                 Feasibility study and consensus on a sustainable
Indicator 8 :
                 financing mechanism for the recurrent costs of ZPPs.
Value
                                              Consensus on
(quantitative or No study conducted.                               not revised  0
                                              mechanism.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                      03/31/2012           03/31/2012   03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %         Not met. Activity transferred to restructured WARFP.
achievement)
                 Percentage of women in participating communities
Indicator 9 : that are benefiting from micro-credit to develop
                 activities outside the fisheries sector.
Value
(quantitative or 0%                           20%                  not revised  0%
Qualitative)



                                                 vii
Date achieved      11/06/2009                  03/31/2012          03/31/2012      03/31/2012
Comments           Not met. However, about 1,703 eligible beneficiaries were selected, of which
(incl. %           1,430 requests for micro-credit for women. Of these, 20 had viable micro-
achievement)       projects acceptable for funding by CMS, but none benefitted by EOP.
                   Percentage of targeted fishing communities
                   receiving micro finance, and number of families in
Indicator 10 :
                   targeted communities that are entering new
                   commercial markets.
Value                                                                              4 pilot sites
                   Determined by
(quantitative or                               N/A                 not revised     received IGAs
                   effectiveness
Qualitative)                                                                       support
Date achieved      11/06/2009                  03/31/2012          03/31/2012      03/31/2012
Comments           IGAs and marketing support implemented in 4 initial pilot sites. IGA sub-
(incl. %           projects identified and outlined for 8 additional sites; no objection received from
achievement)       the Bank.
                   Percentage of alternative livelihoods (reconversion) undertaken by fishers
                   receiving micro finance access and smallenterprise training from the project,
Indicator 11 :
                   sustained
                   profitably at EOP.
Value
(quantitative or 0%                         40%               not revised     0%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                    03/31/2012        03/31/2012      06/30/2012
                 Not met. However, about 1,703 eligible beneficiaries were selected, of which
Comments
                 273 were requests for the reconversion fund. 22 beneficiaries had viable micro-
(incl. %
                 projects which could have been financed by CMS. No reconversion projects
achievement)
                 financed by EOP.
                 Annual M&E reports with all data on results
Indicator 12 :
                 indicators and M&E plan completed.
Value
(quantitative or N/A                        Reports received not revised      None received
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                    03/31/2012        03/31/2012      06/30/2012
Comments
                 Not met. Some baseline data available. However, no operational M&E system
(incl. %
                 has been established.
achievement)
                 Participating communities receive information on
Indicator 13 :
                 key indicators in a timely manner.
Value
(quantitative or N/A                        100%              not revised     0
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009                    03/31/2012        03/31/2012      06/30/2012
Comments
                 Not met. Some baseline data available. However, no operational M&E system
(incl. %
                 has been established.
achievement)
Indicator 14 : Annual audit opinion has been unqualified.
Value                                                                         Audits were
                 N/A                        Audit unqualified not revised
(quantitative or                                                              unqualified.



                                                  viii
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/06/2009               03/31/2012   03/31/2012    03/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Audits were unqualified.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 -
                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR                                                  Disbursements
No.                      DO            GEO           IP            (USD millions)
         Archived
                                                                 Project 1 Project 2
     1   06/29/2009       S              S           S             0.00        0.00
     2   12/16/2009       S              S           S             0.00        0.00
     3   05/25/2010       S              S           S             0.44        0.76
     4   03/16/2011      MS             MS          MS             1.89        1.05
     5   08/17/2011      MS             MS          MS             2.03        1.40
     6   03/13/2012       U              U           U             2.30        1.86




H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                             ix
I. Disbursement Profile
P105881




P092062




                          x
1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Senegal and its neighbors are endowed with some of the richest fishing grounds in the world and
its coastal marine fish resources play a critical role in the economy. Fishing and the associated
activities are estimated to provide more than 600,000 jobs. Fisheries makes a significant
contribution to food security, constituting about 70 percent of animal protein consumption in the
country, and fish products accounted for about 32 percent of the country’s exports.

At appraisal, the sector was experiencing overfishing and uncontrolled expansion of fishers,
boats and gear, as well as land-based fish processing and preservation facilities. Fish catch and
growth rates were experiencing variable growth and decline and although the number of
industrial vessels has remained stable, small-scale fishing effort has increased since 1985 while
fish stocks and catches declined. This was due, in part, to rising world prices and demand for
fish which offset the declining catch rates, and by vessels fishing along the coast of West Africa
or replacing overfished higher value species for lower value ones. As a result, high value coastal
demersal stocks, which accounted for over 25 percent of the country’s total catch volume, and
more than 50 percent of the total value of fishery exports became severely depleted 1. Small-
scale fishery migrated to neighbouring waters and over 30 percent of the coastal demersal
species landed in Senegal by small-scale fishers are caught outside came from the neighbouring
countries of The Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania, and Guinée. Overexploitation of the
coastal fisheries and declining fish resources impacted the livelihood of thousands of small-scale
fishers and also the country’s largest exports.

Government Response to Key Sector Issues and Constraints. The Government of Senegal
named the fisheries sector as one of the key drivers of the “creation of wealth? pillar in the fight
against poverty in the first Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2003-2005) and second Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (2006-2010). Senegal’s Accelerated Growth Strategy also named
fisheries as one of the five sectors of the national economy with high economic potential and
driver of accelerated economic growth.

The Government’s 2008 Letter of Sector Policy emphasized sustainable management of fish
resources, in which it proposed a two-pronged approach: (i) implement systems of collaborative


1
    Gert van Santen, Moubarak Lo, John Virdin, “Republic of Senegal, Fishery Sector Strategy,? May 19,
    2005. The report confirmed Senegal’s “fisheries sector is in crisis and requires effective
    governance?…meaning: rebuilding of fish stocks, the Government will need to more effectively the
    fish resources for which it is responsible, an effective process to design and administer the restructuring
    of the sector to accommodate reduction in fishing effort and the introduction of new management
    systems, a target of zero percent growth of demersal fish production from the country’s Exclusive
    Economic Zone with stable annual catch levels of other species, and annual fisheries management plans,
    restructure the sector and create a new management system.


                                                       1
or co-management for the coastal fisheries, to devolve more of the responsibility for managing
these overfished resources to the users, to support them to implement needed reforms, and (ii)
introduce a system of fishing access rights to fishers (including offshore fishers) as a tool to
offset the reduction of fishing capacity and the recovery of the stocks.

To address the introduction of fishing access rights, the Government was working with eight
neighboring countries to prepare a regional initiative that would be co-financed by the World
Bank and GEF, the West Africa Regional Project for Fisheries (WARFP), which would support
the introduction of rights on a large scale, in complement to the co-management initiatives of the
Integrated Marine and Coastal Resource Management Project (Projet de Gestion Intégrée des
Ressources Marines et Côtières (GIRMaC)) and this Project, the Sustainable Management of
Fish Resources Project (Gestion Durable des Ressources Halieutiques (GDRH)). The
Government was also participating in the GEF-funded Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem
Project (CCLME), which addresses transboundary concerns on declining fisheries, biodiversity
and water quality through governance, and investment and management programs. It was also
managed by the Ministry of Maritime Economy (now the Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime
Affairs) in order to ensure synergies across programs.

Country Eligibility for GEF Co-Financing. Senegal ratified the United Nations Convention on
the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) in October 1984 and the Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD) in June 1994. GEF co-financing helped the Government of Senegal address the
International Waters focal area of the GEF (unsustainable exploitation of fisheries and protection
of fisheries habitats) and helped Senegal respond to the first, second and third Conferences of the
Parties (COP) to the Biodiversity Convention, which stresses the importance of in situ
conservation of marine and coastal ecosystems. It responded specifically to the Jakarta Mandate
approved by COP2, in that it supported the sustainable use and conservation of vulnerable
habitats and species. The proposed GEF co-financing was also to assist the Government of
Senegal in meeting the targets set by the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD) in
Johannesburg in 2002, both for (a) sustainable fisheries to be achieved by 2015, and (b) a
network of representative marine protected areas to be implemented by 2012.

Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank’s agriculture and rural development strategy,
Reaching the Rural Poor (2002), together with its Fisheries Approach Paper, Saving Fish and
Fishers (2004), provided the rationale for the Bank’s support to the management of the coastal
fisheries reforms piloted through the GIRMaC, and expanded in this Project.

The two projects, the GDRH with the IDA credit of the GIRMaC, were to support community-
based fisheries management reforms in the central coastal region of the country, and serve as
pilots for the investments in the country’s fisheries through the WARFP. The package of
operations was to support the implementation of the first objective of the Government of
Senegal’s 2008 Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) and formed part of a multi-donor program to assist
the Government implement the LSP. The Government also expected that the two projects would
provide lessons for the larger CCLME project in Senegal. The aim was to ensure sustainable
management and restoration of the fish resources and their habitats, so that the sector can realize
its potential as a pillar of economic growth for the country, as planned in the Accelerated Growth
Strategy. The Project also supported alternative livelihoods to fishing in targeted communities in



                                                2
order to reduce pressure on resources and address key social issues through a ‘fishers’
reconversion fund.’

The Project is line with the Strategic Partnership for Africa’s eligibility criteria and consistent
with the Partnership’s 10 operating principles.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The combined development PDO/GEO of the project was to empower communities to reduce
fishing pressure on the fish stocks supporting the central coastal fisheries of Senegal (from the
Cap-Vert Peninsula to the Saloum River Delta), by: (i) promoting co-management of the coastal
fisheries, (ii) contributing to the rehabilitation of the essential ecosystems for the coastal fisheries,
and (iii) supporting alternative livelihoods and accompanying poverty reduction measures in
targeted poor fishing communities.

The Key Indicators for the Project were:
   • An increase in the average size of fish caught for targeted species in co-management
      sites;
   • A reduction in the level of fishing effort for targeted species in co-management sites;
   • Eight new co-management sub-project proposals are approved as legal agreements with
      the Government and successfully implemented by end-of-project (EOP);
   • 70 percent of community members surveyed in participating communities are satisfied
      with project activities to rehabilitate coastal fish stocks (Zone de Pêches Protégées (ZPPs),
      artificial reefs, ecolabelling);
   • Each community targeted by the project has access to a system of micro-credit, and
      project-supported poverty reduction measures are implemented in at least the four initial
      pilot sites, by EOP.

1.3 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
As above.

1.4 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised.

1.5 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The GEO was not revised.

1.6 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO/GEO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to
benefit from the project)

At the departmental and local levels, the primary beneficiaries were the members of the fishing
communities in the 12 project sites (the 4 initial pilot sites of Ouakam, Ngaparou, Foundiougne,
and Betenty, and the eight additional sites of Soumbédioune, Bargny, Yenne, Mballing, Nianing,


                                                   3
Pointe-Sarène, Mbodiène, and Fimela-Ndangane). The Local Fisher Committees (CLPs)
representing the fishing communities, and the Local Artisanal Fisheries Council (CLPAs)
members as the project seeks to reinforce their structure and capacity to guide the CLPs in the
selection process and evaluation of sub-projects, were supported under the Project. The
departmental or regional representatives of the Government administration, community
facilitators were beneficiaries of project funding, having been trained and employed as
consultants under the Project.

At the national level, the beneficiaries, as direct recipients of capacity-building, technical
assistance and training support, and provisions of equipment and materials were the personnel of
the Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Affairs (previously the Ministry of Maritime Economy)
involved in the Project, the Senegalese agency for fisheries monitoring, control and surveillance
(DPSP), the personnel of the Direction des Pêches Maritimes’ Implementation Unit (Cellule
Opérationnelle de Mise en Oeuvre (COMO)), the Conseil National Consultatif de Pêche
Maritimes (CNCPM), the National research institutions such as the Centre de Recherches
Océanographiques de Dakar-Thiaroye (CRODT)(GIRMaC). In terms of consultancies, firms
included the World Wildlife Fund (WWF WAMER) was contracted to implement Component 2-
Rehabilitation of Ecosystems activities of the Project; the Crédit Mutuel de Sénégal (CMS) was
the banking institution responsible for managing the grant funds for communities’ micro-credit
funds, the technical assistance institution, SEN Ingénierie Consult, contracted for the technical
aspects of implementation and management of the micro-credit fund with the communities for
Component 3. Individual consultants hired under the project for technical and advisory services
included those for M&E, and co-management, as well as for fiduciary responsibilities.

1.7 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Co-management of Coastal Fisheries (US$2.0m IDA-GIRMaC project,
US$2.66m GEF, US$2.60m EU, US$0.34m Government of Senegal). The objective of this
component was to implement co-management systems to improve the governance of the coastal
fisheries for a more sustainable use of the resources, through the following sub-components:

1.1 Promotion of local co-management initiatives in four pilot sites ($2.00m IDA GIRMaC
    project);
1.2 Consolidation and strengthening of coastal fisheries co-management ($2.36m GEF, $0.30m
    Government); and
1.3 Institutional support for a system of local fisheries governance ($0.30m GEF, $2.60m EU,
    $0.04m Government).

Component 2: Rehabilitation of Ecosystems Essential for Coastal Fisheries (US$2.4m GEF,
US$0.5m IDA-GIRMaC project, US$1.5m EU, US$0.5m Switzerland, US$0.4m
Government). The objective of this component was to contribute to the rehabilitation of
ecosystems essential to the coastal fisheries, by establishing Protected Fishing Zones (Zones de
Pêches Protégées (ZPPs)) in association with artificial reefs, in order to help regenerate the
natural resources, and by creating market mechanisms to encourage sustainable management of
the ecosystems through the following sub-components:




                                               4
2.1   Protected fishing zones ($0.9m GEF, $0.15m Government);
2.2   Artificial reefs ($0.8m GEF, $0.13m Government);
2.3   Introduction of access rights and associated management instruments ($0.1m GEF, $0. 5m
      IDA-GIRMaC project, $1.5m EU, $0.5m Switzerland); and
2.4   Market incentives for sustainable management for targeted fisheries ($0.6m GEF, $0.12m
      Government).

Component 3: Poverty Alleviation Measures for Fishing Communities and Alternative
Livelihoods for Fishers, Fish Processors, and Fish Transporters (mareyeurs) (US$3.5m IDA,
US$0.46m Government). The objective of this component was to offset any negative socio-
economic impacts for targeted fishing communities resulting from co-management initiatives or
management plans (including the introduction of instruments such as ZPPs, artificial reefs, eco-
labels, etc.), through the following sub-components:

3.1 Poverty alleviation initiatives in Project-targeted communities ($2.0m IDA, $0.25m
    Government);
3.2 Support for alternative livelihoods to fishing ($1.0m IDA, $0.1m Government); and (3)
    Capacity building, monitoring and evaluation, and communications ($0.5m IDA, $0.11m
    Government).

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening for Fisheries Management, Project Management
and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2.5m IDA-GIRMaC project, US$0.94m GEF,
US$5.1m EU, US$0.15m Government). The objective of this component wa to support the
Ministry of Maritime Economy to manage and implement the project in the context of the Letter
of Sector Policy, and to monitor and evaluate results, through the following sub-components:

4.1 Development of a fisheries code and support for the implementation of fisheries
    management plans ($0.9m IDA-GIRMaC project, $4.4m EU, $0.28m GEF, $0.04m
    Government);
4.2 Project management, monitoring and evaluation ($1.6m IDA-GIRMaC project, $0.7m EU,
    $0.6m GEF, $0.11m Government); and
4.3 Replication of project ativities at the sub-regional and regional level ($0.06 m GEF).

1.8 Revised Components
The components were not revised.

1.9 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
There were not changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)



                                                    5
Lessons Learned. The Project design was based on sound economic and sector work 2, and
lessons from global best practice (JICA in co-management and GTZ study on ecolabelling of fish
products) and other Bank operations in the sector. It expanded and scaled up the fisheries
resources co-management model which was piloted successfully with fishing communities under
another Bank operation ongoing at the time (GIRMaC Project). It also took into account
synergies with other programs of the Bank (GIRMaC, WAFRP) and in country (CCLME) and
collaborated closely in the preparation and design phase with other donors to ensure synergies in
the sector 3. The Project was designed to be part of a larger program of donor interventions in the
fisheries sector in order to respond to the Government’s 2008 Letter of Sector Policy, and to be
consistent with the Government’s sector strategy.

Project Design and Quality at Entry. The Project’s objectives were clearly defined combining
both the PDO and GDO of empowering communities to take measures to reduce pressure on fish
resources. However, the design and scope of activities packaged into the three-year timeframe
was overly ambitious and the decision taken by both the Government and the Bank to keep this
timeframe was a shortfall in project design. It would have been more suitable for a long-term
timeframe.

Past experience with the GIRMaC showed that establishing co-management initiatives and
getting sub-projects approved, along with the supporting structure for the four pilots sites took,
on average, two years from the time the CLPs are created or established, to the time sub-projects
are approved and validated by the authorities at the local and central levels. The Project was
designed to coincide with the timeframe of the GIRMaC (originally June 1, 2010, later extended
to May 1, 2012), and possibly the EU’s STABEX project which was to be implemented over a
36-month period beginning in December 2008 (actual closing date March 31, 2010). At the time
of preparation, the Bank team originally proposed a more realistic four-year time frame for
implementation but accommodated the Government’s request for three-years because of concern
over additional counterpart funding for operating costs. It was implemented on the premise that
the Project could be extended if needed.

However, the GDRH’s design was efficient in that it used the existing institutional structure to
avoid creating or involving additional implementing agencies. The decision to place the project
within the MFMA’s DPM was an appropriate choice since it was also responsible for managing
other fisheries initiatives in Senegal. Detailed implementation planning was reflected in the
PAD (albeit too ambitious for the project timeline), as well a preliminary Monitoring and



2
 Gert van Santen, Moubarak Lo, John Virdin, “Republic of Senegal, Fishery Sector Strategy,? May 19,
2005.
3
    JICA (co-management experience in central coast at Nianing); the EU (STABEX Project which supports
     the design and implementation of management plans for artisanal fisheries and the strengthening of the
     management capacity of the MFMA and local stakeholders), and AfDB (industrial and artisanal
     capacity reduction, including buyback of vessels and compensation for the affected population (after a
     registration and licensing system was established).



                                                      6
Evaluation (M&E) plan. Under the GEF Project Preparation Grant 4 , most the necessary
preliminary work was carried out; a few studies, such as the M&E design and information
systems study was dropped, possibly because other donors were funding similar work, e.g., the
EU STABEX project which contained activities to build the capacity of the MMA in M&E.
Required reviews at preparation were carried out for guidance purposes, including a QER on
April 23, 2003.

Government Ownership and Participatory Processes were adequate. The Project was designed
with substantial input from the fisheries specialists on the Government preparation team, who
also proposed the activities for the PPG. The Project was then prepared with strong donor
collaboration from the EU, AfDB, JICA, and the Spanish Corporation in the context of donor
interventions to support the Government in implementing the 2008 Letter of Sector Policy. The
new communities were implicated in the consultation process through best practice examples and
dissemination of results obtained from the GIRMaC Project, and consultation workshops were
held to launch the preparation process for all stakeholders. The Government also took the lead in
deciding the content and scope of the project design (target sites, timeline, scope of project
activities, scope of protected areas, number of agencies involved in implementation).

Identification and Mitigation of Risks. The PAD correctly identified a number of critical risks
for the Project, particularly the risks to component results regarding conflict between
neighboring fishing communities sharing the same resources. The corresponding mitigation
measure (using co-management and Information, Education and Communication (IEC)) is
adequate, although if resolution needed to be escalated beyond community level, local authorities
and the legal system would need to be involved. This was to be addressed in the revised
Fisheries Code which is pending approval by the Government.

Some of the risks never materialized, e.g., low uptake of micro-finance and high default rate,
because project activities did not start or could not be completed by EOP to test the mitigation
measures.



4
    The PPF ($256,740, of which $245,890 disbursed) funded the following studies:
      1. Feasibility study for establishment of a donor coordination unit (institutional audit, government
          scorecard/sector strategy),
      2. Feasibility study for establishment of a sustainable fisheries management fund,
      3. Feasibility study for phasing out fishing fuel subsidies,
      4. Preparation of alternative fishing technologies sub-component,
      5. Preparation of eco-certification pilots,
      6. Environmental Assessment and Process Framework,
      7. Preparation of reports, studies to design marine reserves, artificial reefs sub-components,
      8. Preparation activities for coordinator to draft Project documents, the operational manual, and
          costs for preparation management.

      The following were to be funded initially under the PPG but were later dropped:
      1. Study on replication of co-management pilots,
      2. Study to develop a Code of Conduct for Fisheries, support to participation in the CCLME,
      3. Study to establish information system, M&E.


                                                      7
The risk to the PDO from institutional difficulties (unstable project management) of the
GIRMaC was correctly identified but not appropriate for the PDO/GDO. It would have been a
more appropriate risk identified for Component 4 – Institutional Strengthening for Fisheries
Management, Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation. The Project did not identify
the fiduciary risks (mismanagement of funds and slow procurement due to lack of capacity), nor
did it anticipate project mismanagement which stalled project implementation.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

No major changes the project design and scope was made following Board approval. However,
implementation was slow due to several factors: (a) an ambitious scope of activities and timeline
(mentioned above); (b) delays in procurement processing for two major consultant contracts
affecting the implementation of Components 2 (Ecosystems Rehabilitation) and 3 (Alternative
Livelihoods), (c) weak capacities and project mismanagement at the central level.

Delays in Procurement. The Project started slowly during the first year of implementation due
to delays in the recruitment of the firm responsible for assisting in implementing activities for
Components 2 (Rehabilitation of Ecosystems) and 3 (Poverty Alleviation and Alternative
Livelihoods). The delays were caused by the implementing agency missing a step in complying
with the country’s procurement procedures, specifically the Procurement Code, although it
complied with the Bank’s procurement procedures and was ready for signing. As a result, the
National procurement agency cancelled both contracts although the Bank had already given its
no-objection and the process had to be re-launched costing an additional eight months or more in
implementation time. Since the Bank was piloting the Use of Country Systems at the time and
Senegal was being piloted, the implementing agency was obliged to comply with two systems.
While Bank supervision was able to provide timely procurement support throughout
implementation, it is not clear whether the country systems was able to provide the same
guidance to the implementation unit. Once the procurement delays were resolved, however, the
project was quickly back on track as of early 2011, and faced an ambitious work program for the
remaining year of implementation.

Project Management. By August 2011, progress on agreed actions from the June mission had
slowed down significantly and came to a standstill in December 2011. A preliminary financial
management review around that time confirmed that, not only did actions agreed in the previous
mission not get implemented but ineligible expenses were also incurred. Financial management
was downgraded to “unsatisfactory? from a “satisfactory? rating previously. Although a Mid-
Term Review was planned for November 2011, it could not be carried out. Similarly, an 18-
month extension of the closing date had also been discussed earlier but was no longer possible
given the reported lack of progress.

The team made several attempts to discuss and resolve the issues but received no response from
the Project Coordinator. It was concluded that the problems were due to a disagreement on
unacceptable clauses contained in the consultant contracts for the technical experts in the Project
implementation Unit to which the Bank refused to give its no-objection. Subsequently, the
Project Coordinator stopped implementing the Project activities. The Task Team took


                                                    8
appropriate action and flagged the Project as “at risk? in February 2012 with an “unsatisfactory?
rating overall, with a view to closing the project after attempts to resolve the issues brought no
results. Management commended the team on its candid reporting 5 and agreements were reached
with the Government on an action plan which included closing the Project, the reimbursement
for ineligible expenditures, return of remaining undisbursed funds for the unutilized line of credit,
justification for expenses, and a proposal to transfer activities and reallocate the remaining IDA
funds to the ongoing WARFP in the sector.

Even though it had an “unsatisfactory? rating, the Bank agreed to an extension of the closing
date by three months to allow for the completion of certain activities: contracts for community
facilitators, the technical firm supporting alternative livelihoods to fishing, and technical experts
in the Project’s implementation unit. The extension period also allowed the Bank to discuss and
agree with the Borrower on the transfer of specific activities to the WARFP and its restructuring.
The Project was closed with an “unsatisfactory? rating on June 31, 2012, two years and seven
months into implementation.

Weaknesses in M&E (details given below) also contributed to delays in implementation for to
the reasons summarized below.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The key indicators were clearly defined and a detailed M&E arrangement was included in
preparation, outlined in the PAD, and agreed upon during negotiations. The PCU prepared the
original M&E plan included reporting and coordination system, impact and performance
indicators during project preparation. The reporting system was based on the actual system used
by the DPM and other government agencies such as the DNP, DMF, and the CRODT. However,
the targets were both difficult to achieve and measure within a three-year project implementation
period, particularly if unforeseen delays occur, as was the case in the recruitment of consulting
firms responsible for the implementation of Components 2 and 3. Delays in the sequence of
activities affected the chain of interdependent activities, e.g., approval/endorsement of sub-
projects by authorities was necessary before any activities could begin. Within a longer project
timeframe, the targets would likely be achievable since many of the indicators could be collected
at local level by, e.g., facilitators.

The M&E system did make a good start in the beginning of the project. The COMO-DPM
produced a detailed report of baseline indicators for each of the eight new co-management sites
of the Project 6 soon after effectiveness, and as required in the PAD. The report also outlined
training to be conducted in the field, data collection techniques, and sample data collection sheets
to be distributed at the local levels. This indicated a clear understanding by the COMO of the key
performance indicators and the monitoring needs.


5
    As reported in the desktop ISR of February 29, 2012.
6
    “Etat de référence des indicateurs de performance du GDRH, Saison sèche (mars 2010),? Ministère de
     l’Economie Maritime, de la Pêche et des Transport Maritimes, Direction des Pêches Maritimes, Cellule
     Opérationnelle de Mise en oeuvre (COMO-Pêche), Avril 2010.


                                                     9
As the Project progressed, however, a system was never established for monitoring to be
operational. Data was not collected on a regular basis for it to be consolidated into the trimester
reports needed for monitoring project results. The oversight on M&E for the Project was carried
out in a piecemeal manner and lacked follow-up, particularly at the community level where
positive results on fish catch and rejuvenation of resources were observed. Some local data
collected under the Project were officially validated by the MFMA at the regional and central
levels, but still need continued support to sustain the effort. In addition, the DPM was
inadequately staffed with qualified personnel for M&E, although a specialist in M&E was
recruited for the Project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Procurement. As mentioned above, non-compliance with the country’s Procurement Code
caused delays for two important consulting contracts which affected the pace of implementation
of Components 2 and 3 of the Project. The contracts took a year to reach signature stage before
they had to be re-launched, adding a further 8 months to the process until the contracts were
signed in early 2011 7.

Procurement delays during the early part of project implementation was partly due to the Bank’s
decision to pilot the use of country systems for Senegal at that time. However, this doubled the
burden of compliance with procurement procedures for project staff, compounded by the
absence of a full-time procurement specialist for the Project. Temporary personnel filled in until
a full-time procurement specialist was recruited in November 2010. This was a decision taken
during preparation by both the Government and the Bank to reduce operating costs by putting in
place a part-time procurement specialist during the first year of implementation. However, the
volume of procurement needed during the first year of project implementation and the
cumbersome procedures for some contracts required the availability of a full-time procurement
specialist.

Financial Management. Financial Management Reports were received in a timely manner and
on the whole were considered satisfactory in terms of quality of reporting. However, the overall
performance of financial management for the Project was rated unsatisfactory for the following
reasons:



7
    The longest time was taken by the Project’s implementation agency (selection of firm for Component 2,
    short list preparation and call for proposals took 5 months (end July-Dec 2009); another two months to
    review the proposals (end January – end March 2010); the proposals were received end May 2010;
    bids were opened in beginning July 2010; the final report reviewing technical proposals finalized in
    August 2010, and was submitted late to the national level control, the DCMP, and for Bank review.
    (i.e., the process took about one year).




                                                     10
      (a) Ineligible expenses amounting to CFAF 8.7 million, and expenses for which insufficient
          documentation was provided estimated at CFAF 68 million;
      (b) The recruitment of three persons with IDA funds at a cost of CFAF 5.04 million without
          the Bank’s authorization and which were not budgeted under the Project; two of the
          persons recruited were for the Ministry of Maritime Economy (now the Ministry of
          Fisheries and Maritime Affairs);
      (c) Monthly supplements of CFAF 1 million to the Project Coordinator’s salary charged to
          the Project even though he was a in civil service post;
      (d) Operating costs which exceeded by 13 percent the budget limit set for the project
          implementation period, despite delays in implementation of project activities;
      (e) Long delays in implementing the micro-credit activities, with funds amounting to CFAF
          550 million (over US$1 million) disbursed under IDA and deposited at the Crédit
          Mutuel du Sénégal (CMS) for over a year without activity.

The review team also noted that project implementation slowed considerably since August 2011
and that disbursements amounts were low. As of March 2012, disbursements rates for the IDA
credit was 52 percent of total financing, and for the GEF Grant, 32 percent, which would not
have reached a satisfactory implementation level for the Project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The GIRMaC and the GDRH, together with the WARFP 8 , formed the Banlk’s program of
support to the fisheries sector in Senegal. It addresses the constraints of open access in specific
pilot sites from local management of fisheries to the national and regional levels. The WARFP is
a nine-country regional program which supports sustainable increase in the economic returns to
the region from marine fisheries, by strengthening governance arrangements to address the
constraints posed by open access to the resources, to increase surveillance of the fisheries to
reduce illegal fishing and enhance compliance with strengthened governance, and, once these
two steps are completed, to support increased local value added to healthier fisheries, via
infrastructure and skills investments. WARFP investment would support expansion of the co-
management pilots to the national level, national licensing for fisheries, reduction of the
industrial fleet, increased surveillance of the fisheries and infrastructure.

The WARFP has been restructured to support the following activities transferred from the
GDRH:
   • Implementation of Sub-projects and Co-management initiatives for the eight additional
     co-management sites;
   • Rehabilitation of coastal ecosystems and contract with the WWF WAMER;
   • Three consolidated fisheries management plans for the initial pilot sites of the GIRMaC;


8
    The ongoing WARFP was approved in April 2008 and spans seven countries with US$15.0 million
    allocated to Senegal. The WARFP has been effective in Senegal since June 2010.



                                                 11
    •   Creation and establishment of the 2 Protected fishing zones (ZPPs);
    •   Expansion of two artificial reefs;
    •   Definition and legal establishment of access rights for 2 fisheries under co-management;
    •   Completion and transfer of the PNI to the MFMA administration; and
    •   Feasibility study on the sustainable financing mechanism for the recurrent costs of ZPPs.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives, design, and implementation of the Project remain relevant to country and global
priorities as they supported diversification of the agricultural sector and sustainable development
and management of natural resources, through methods used to promote sustainable management
of fisheries resources. The Project also supported increased access to social services and creating
opportunities for poor and vulnerable groups through facilities designed to provide access to
micro-finance and opportunities for alternative livelihoods. The design of local co-management
initiatives remains relevant since it focuses on artisanal fisheries, a sector which plays a major
role in poverty alleviation as a major contributor to employment for the rural sector. These were
in line with the country and sector priorities outlined in the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) of May 2007 and Senegal’s Poverty Reduction Strategy, as well as in the Letter of Sector
Policy.

The Project’s objectives and design regarding ecosystems rehabilitation and management are still
relevant to current global priorities and regional priorities in the context of the GEF focal areas.
They also are relevant to Strategic Partnership for Africa’s priorities which is targeted to
transboundary fishermen and fish stocks, as well as sustainable fisheries management issues
within countries (in Africa) designed as country-level projects.

However, the sector is risky and difficult to regulate and donor support would require a long-
term timeframe for reforms and interventions to take hold. Issues of sustainability of operating
costs, support for funding infrastructure and investments, and sustaining reforms and local level
initiatives, attention to sustainability of livelihood promotion to alleviate overfishing and
poverty, identification of capacity building needs, remain important challenges.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environment Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 4)

The Project has only partially achieved its PDO/GDO and is rated unsatisfactory. Under the
GIRMaC and the GDRH, communities have been empowered through the successful piloting of
the co-management model. Through these operations, the successes and failures of co-
management have been demonstrated and made available to other targeted communities and
lessons were disseminated that were used for replication. Another positive indicator of
sustainability is that the four initial pilots have been able to implement income-generating
proposals and keep them operating, indicating community ownership and a positive response to



                                                    12
initiatives. The high community participation rate in measures introduced to rehabilitate or
conserve coastal resources (cleaning of sea beds, demarcation of restricted fishing zones,
surveillance patrols, compliance with biological rest periods, compliance with not using harmful
fishing gear and methods, etc.) has resulted in visible benefits such as increased fish catch
volume, and average catch size at the four pilot sites.

Unfortunately, the project timeline was too short to allow for full replication to the eight
additional sites due to delays in project start-up of certain activities, and due to poor project
management which derailed the project. However, the targeted communities were empowered in
that they were able to submit eight sub-project proposals for approval by local and central
authorities.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

From the PAD, indicative cost-benefit analysis was given as proxies to illustrate the basis for
deciding on the merits of the project. At the ICR level, the same approach is used but it should be
noted that at this level, no concrete data are available to carry out a cost-benefit analysis.
However, as these new co-management sites and initiatives are implemented based on the same
model and results from the GIRMaC in the same area for the fishing communities, it can be
argued that these new ones could have similar results but over a longer timeframe.

With respect to the pilot co-management initiatives, such co-management measures (including
the implementation of ZPPs) can result in an increase of the CPUE (Catch-per-unit-Effort) and in
a stock recovery as in a higher quality fisheries products. As the implementation of such
measures may negatively impact some groups in the communities, they will need support for
alternative livelihoods to mitigate that risk. Therefore, although the project has not been able to
demonstrate real results at this stage, the positive results which have been obtained from the pilot
sites would justify the continued expansion of the area of co-management along the central coast
of the country.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome and Global Environment Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDO/GEOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Unsatisfactory.

The Project has only partially achieved its stated PDO/GDO. Out of the five KPIs for the
combined PDO/GDO outcome, none have been fully met (see Annex 5 – Results Framework
analysis).

The Development Objective Indicator was partially met. Data on increases in average fish catch
size and reduction in fishing efforts have been validated for the four pilot sites only and were not
replicated to the eight additional sites.

The Co-management of coastal fisheries was partially met with the eight sub-project proposals
finalized and submitted to authorities for approval, but were not approved by EOP.



                                                    13
The rehabilitation of coastal ecosystems indicator was not met.

With regards to the alternative livelihoods to fishing indicator, access to a system of micro-credit
was introduced, but did not disburse, whereas poverty reduction measures at the four pilot sites
are established but need further analysis to determine their future profitability and sustainability.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impact. The artisanal fisheries sector is an important source of employment for the rural
sector where most of the fishing methods are traditional. Women’s groups are involved mainly in
the processing of fish products. The Project’s objectives are focused on poverty reduction and
the sustainability of local resources, by targeting small-scale, labor-intensive fisheries. This is
carried out through support to the organization of fishers and the allocation of user rights, the
promotion of alternative livelihoods, and the establishment of restricted fishing areas. The
protection of fisheries resources at the local, small-scale level remains important for providing
food security for the poor fishing communities which depend on them for their livelihood.
Where income-generating activities have been successfully managed (fishing goods and supplies
stores, refrigerated truck, household goods stores) they have also generated a modest increase in
employment and income for the communities.

Through the Project, the co-management initiatives used to gain the support of communities have
been successful in controlling unsustainable fishing methods and reducing overfishing at the four
pilot sites while ecosystems rehabilitation initiatives have raised awareness and increased
capacity of communities to also manage the use of natural resources on which they depend.
Relevant sector policies and regulations finalized under the Project provide support and
strengthen the level of contribution of local fishing and harvesting activities to poverty
alleviation and food security.

Gender Aspects. Although the participation of women in fisheries is mostly in processing and
post harvesting activities, the provisions for identifying the impact of project initiatives on
women were in the preparation of sub-projects and local fisheries management plans. In some
activities, such as the management of Cymbium (Yeet), post harvesting processing is traditionally
carried out by women.

Women’s interest groups were well represented in CLPs (e.g., posts of president of women’s
associations) and participated in the drafting of these co-management proposals. The Project
provided support for women’s groups involved in fish processing and marketing (e.g., Betenty
shrimp processing women’s group were able to access additional markets), and made micro-
credit funds available for micro-projects. The Project also funded the construction and equipping
of a household goods and cooking utensils store (Foundioungne), procured the goods and
materials, provided technical advice and training in small business skills for beneficiaries.




                                                   14
In terms of social development, the cohesion of groups targeted by the Project were strengthened
through the co-management initiatives, and existing associations were supported with funding
and procurement of goods.

Funds generated from the construction of fishing goods and supplies stores in support of income-
generating activities have enabled the CLP of Foundiougne to distribute essential food items
(rice and sugar) to families during imposed biological rest periods, reinforcing group cohesion in
the area. In Ngaparou, income generated from a similar store enabled the CLP to fund several
social activities for their communities (assistance for the sick, payment of school fees for
families in need, assistance for baptisms and funerals, among others).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The MFMA was strengthened with technical assistance provided by national and international
consultant services, training programs, workshops, office equipment and software, as well as
vehicles and budget for operating costs during the life of the project. The Bank teams provided
substantial support and inputs into national level strategic, legal and regulatory documents such
as the Fisheries Code revisions and the Letter of Sector Policy, as well as sector studies and
strategies for relevant sectors, and provided technical inputs into the preparation and
implementation of fisheries programs. In this context, the MFMA was strengthened to provide
support and influence to changes in policy in the fisheries sector at the national level, and at the
local level, changed the perception of local communities as partners and modified the traditional
top-down approach. Local communities also changed their perception of Government as
partners.

In an important area, the establishment of the Programme National d’Immatriculation (PNI) for
registering small-scale fishing vessels provided Senegal with an effective means to control
fishing effort in-country, with the potential for further collaboration with neighboring countries.
The PNI was a key policy priority for the MFMA and a key action listed in the 2008 Letter of
Sector Policy and one of the major instruments for introducing access rights to fisheries
resources. Although implemented with delays, the PNI was also a key achievement of the Project
and a performance indicator for Component 2.

The Project also presented an opportunity to strengthen the capacity of non-governmental
organizations such as the WWF and the national technical assistance firm responsible for
ecosystems rehabilitation activities of component 2.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

A positive development was that two of the CLPs have evolved into a type of social fund. In
Ngaparou, the CLP uses funds from several sources, including membership fees, revenues
generated from the fishing goods and supplies store, to carry out social activities including:
finding fishing vessels in difficulty, providing assistance for baptisms and funerals in the
community, providing assistance to the sick, subsidies to the sports association (Association
Sportive Culturelle) for members, and assistance with school fees.



                                                   15
In Foundiougne, funds generated from the fishing goods and supplies store have been able to
provide essential food items (rice and sugar) to families in need during biological rest periods
which were imposed on the area by the community itself to allow small shrimp and juvenile fish
to regenerate.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

No survey or stakeholder workshops were carried out.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environment Outcome
Rating: High

The Government has initiated important sectoral reforms and legislation in the fisheries sector
which has provided a conducive policy environment for promoting the co-management model
for artisanal fisheries management and for sustainable fisheries management in Senegal.
However, since the co-management model is not yet replicated successfully across Senegal, the
risks remain high because, essentially, it remains at pilot stage. Encouraging developments have
taken place, however, at the initial four pilot sites, but their implementation period has been
much longer, which is a good indicator of the time required to implement such initiatives
successfully.

In addition, because Senegal shares its fisheries resources with neighboring countries, Mauritania,
The Gambia, Guinea, and Guinea-Bissau, a regional approach to fisheries management would be
necessary to ensure sustainability on the larger scale, while local resources use is tackled at the
community level using the co-management model. Because of the scale of challenges facing the
fisheries sector, from industrial to artisanal levels, donor coordination and collaboration is crucial
to ensure synergies and maximum impact on a country level and on a regional level.

Institutional capacity within the MFMA is weak and implementing similar projects will require
the necessary resources, both in terms of personnel and budget, to implement the reforms
outlined for the sector, and to cover the geographical territory required to promote the co-
management model in numerous communities along the coast. A more thorough analysis of
institutional capacity would have allowed better targeted assistance, with identification of needs,
type of assistance, and accompanying budget needs or constraints, to strengthen capacity
effectively.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Project preparation benefitted from strong and quality fisheries expertise, micro-finance
guidance, and management guidance (including a Quality Enhancement Review held on April 23,


                                                  16
2008) at all the stages of preparation. There was good coordination and consultation with other
donors involved in the sector (JICA, EU, AfDB, FAO) which obtained the support and inclusion
of the EU for its STABEX project. Preparation through to effectiveness also ensured that the
Government played a leadership role in preparation and project launch (e.g., Government experts
outlined PPG activities, provided technical input into project design; Government decision to
drop large-scale marine protected area network for local ecosystem rehabilitation for coastal
fisheries; the 3-day launch workshop organized by the Government team) including the
appropriate staffing of the Government’s implementation unit team within the MFMA, which
also had strong fisheries expertise on the team.

However, the project design was too ambitious and the timeframe too short to carry out the range
of activities required by the Project. The Task Team initially proposed a four-year timeframe, but
finally agreed to three years to accommodate the wishes of the Government to contain
counterpart funding for operating costs. Preparation time was about two years from concept
review to appraisal, but from Board to effectiveness took longer than average (about 11 months),
due to the number of effectiveness conditions. The assumption that the Project could be extended
if needed was an indication that project activities could take more time to implement. The size
of the scaling up could have been reduced to reflect the following: timing and preparation for
scaling up (i.e., more preparation before project launch), staffing shortages or requirements for
scaling up while maintaining momentum at the four pilot sites (phasing), and implementation
timeframe (longer term/programmatic approach).

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In order to provide quality support during supervision, the Bank placed in the country office a
full-time, local fisheries specialist to provide implementation support to the Borrower. The Task
Team carried out implementation assistance missions at regular intervals of about every six-eight
months with an appropriate skills mix and focused on fisheries assistance. Documentation and
reporting were of good quality. Management commended the team on the quality of reporting.
Financial Management missions lagged supervision missions somewhat, but its supervision was
strong. When project activities stalled, the team made repeated attempts to resolve the issues
before taking the decision to close the Project. The project closing date was extended by three
months to allow for completion of local level consulting contracts, and to hold discussions on the
transfer of remaining activities to the WARFP. This ensured that adequate transition
arrangements are in place after the Project closes.

However, Bank implementation assistance could have been stronger in providing timely
guidance and expertise on M&E aspects as this was noted to be a weak point in the GIRMaC as
well as in the GDRH reporting. Even with the recruitment of an M&E specialist, the system was
collecting data in a piecemeal manner and guidance from donors as well as the Bank on how to
operationalize the system to track donor interventions and results would have been timely.




                                                   17
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Project was prepared with a balanced mix of local level innovations, local development and
environment initiatives appropriate for community development and natural resource
management projects, supported by institutional reforms (through co-financing from the
GIRMaC Project). The Government took a leadership role in project preparation. Detailed
implementation arrangements were outlined in the PAD. However, an important shortcoming
was that the design was too ambitious for a three-year timeframe so that scaling up of a
successful co-management model could not be completely replicated and implemented by the
end of project. Although the combined PDO and GDO were clearly defined, relevant and
important to the sector, they would likely have been achievable in a longer term timeframe.

Supervision was carried out with adequate resources and skills mix and on a regular basis until
problems with Project management began in August 2011. The decision to close the Project was
timely and supported by Bank management.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Government took a strong leadership role in the preparation of the Project by providing the
necessary fisheries expertise to design the proposals for the PPG and for the initial project design.
It also provided a conducive environment for implementing the sectoral reforms and initiatives in
the fisheries sector through the 2008 Letter of Sector Policy and the revised Fisheries Code. The
PNI was also successfully carried out, although with long delays; over 85 percent (about 18,900)
of small-scale fishing vessels are now registered. This was an important breakthrough and a key
success for the Government in implementing resource management reforms.

However, Ministerial interference in the Project’s implementation seriously jeopardized the
Project’s prospects to contribute to the country’s sectoral reform agenda. In addition, the
country’s demanding Procurement Code established with the national procurement agency has
added to the burdens of day-to-day project management for the implementation teams,
particularly if not consistent with donor procurement procedures. This caused long delays in
implementing two important consultant firm contracts under the Project which could have been
avoided through an agreement or a harmonizing of the two systems before requiring project
teams to comply to both.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

There were important achievements at the local level by MFMA staff. Its DPM staff, including
the COMO unit, succeeded in providing the necessary support to the communities to submit sub-
project proposals through the proper recruitment and placement of qualified facilitators at project
sites to enable them to work productively with the newly formed CLPs. The DPM also
supervised the completion of studies and research works as well as mobilized the CLPAs and




                                                18
CNCPM to support the validation process for sub-projects, both for the GIRMaC and for the
GDRH.

However, the Project was implemented with long start-up delays, due to the relaunching of two
important consulting firm contracts, lacked a full-time procurement specialist at the
implementation unit to assist with procurement contracts, and suffered from the disruption of
poor project management (August 2011). As result, project implementation stalled and
mismanagement eliminated the possibility of extending the closing date which could have made
a difference in outcome. M&E was particularly weak, even after a specialist was recruited; it
lacked clarity and commitment and an operational system was never designed. Annual reporting
of progress was overlooked. Key performance indicators and physical targets were partially met
or not met.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The Government has provided an environment conducive to implementing sectoral reforms. The
national small-scale fishing vessels registration program has been implemented for the first time
in Senegal successfully and has put in place a surveillance tool for managing artisanal fisheries
in the sector. However, many of the targets set for the Project were not been met and the
operation has seriously taxed, in terms of resources and morale, the capacity of the implementing
agency due to Ministerial imposition and poor management of the Project. M&E was important
for both the GIRMaC and the GDRH but was particularly weak and did not improve with a
specialist recruited for the task. Actions which derailed the Project were within the control of the
Ministry and the implementing agency and detracted from the efforts (technical and operational)
and results achieved in the field.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

Implementation

   •   M&E was weak and lacked attention on the part of the implementing agencies and the
       Bank did not sufficiently monitor progress. M&E arrangements should be included in the
       Project’s implementation plan with realistic targets and timelines. This is better achieved
       through obtaining agreements on clear, measurable indicators and targets through joint
       formulation of indicators (at project preparation workshops); implementation of the M&E
       system should followed up closely for early identification of constraints (e.g.,
       institutional capacity, knowledge gaps, budget and time, technical); up-front/re-fresher
       M&E training should be given to project teams before implementation begins and
       repeated as necessary (in cases of staff turnover).

   •   Strong donor collaboration is essential for coordinating support and for ensuring greater
       impact through better synergy and to avoid duplication of efforts, waste of resources, and
       lost opportunities. Donor collaboration during preparation of the GIRMaC and GDRH
       was strong, aided by the sectoral reforms in place.



                                                19
   •   The slow process of implementation caused by procurement delays in the early phases of
       project implementation due to cumbersome procurement regulations. Piloting the use of
       country systems in cases where the capacity is already weak places additional burdens on
       project teams and results in costly delays for both the Government and the Bank.
       Agreements on harmonizing the procurement rules and procedures should reached
       between the Borrower and the Bank before they are imposed on projects and should be
       accompanied by sufficient support during implementation.

   •   For a short project implementation timeframe, a longer preparation phase would have
       been necessary to ensure that the project begins implementing without delay. Up-front
       preparation could include: completing the site selections, the training of facilitators,
       selection of existing CLPs, and beginning the consultation process with communities,
       prior to project effectiveness.

   •   The design and scope of project activities were overly ambitious for the timeline and
       should have been reduced to a more realistic level. The scaling up of sites for replication
       could have been phased in to take into account the staffing requirements and capacity of
       the DPM and MFMA. However, such a phasing would be more realistic with a longer
       term programmatic approach and timeframe. Preparation of the Project’s costs and
       budget for counterpart funding should include regional and local level administration
       staff implicated in the implementation of the Projects. This was overlooked both for the
       GIRMaC and the GDRH.

   •   Stakeholder or beneficiary assessments are important requirements for assessing the
       success of community development projects in terms of social impact, ownership,
       cohesion and satisfaction as indicators of their sustainability and should not be
       overlooked

   •   The Bank could not have predicted the level of ministerial interference in project
       activities nor the sudden downturn in the project’s management. This should be escalated
       to the higher levels of dialogue between Bank management and Government once the
       team has attempted to resolve the problems without success.

Institutional

   •   Community empowerment and involvement ensures greater sustainability of sectoral
       reforms. The fisher community involvement at all levels of the GIRMaC and the
       GDRH’s implementation greatly increased the success rate of the co-management model
       being piloted. To be effective, they should also be accompanied by a vigorous IEC
       campaign tailored to the local level concerns. When effectively carried out (as in the case
       of Ngaparou’s reputation which was well-known to neighboring communities), local
       fishers/community members can be formidable partners in promoting reform if it
       concerns their interests.




                                               20
       •   Institutional strengthening needs to be adequately assessed during preparation to
           determine the current capacity of the implementing agency, the demands of the project on
           the agency, and which strengthening support would be required. Monitoring and
           evaluation of performance should be included in the project’s implementation plan, e.g.,
           an indicator for the successful establishment of an operational M&E system.


Technical

       •   For the co-management model to become truly sustainable and fully address the
           fundamental constraint of open access to the resources, the legal and institutional
           framework will need to provide local users and associations not just the authority to
           manage (i.e. regulate) targeted fisheries, but also to limit access. Unless there is some
           scope for control of access to these fishing grounds that are locally managed, their
           success will also be their downfall – as improved fisheries and higher catch rates will
           only attract more fishers from neighboring waters, so that overall exploitation increase to
           the point that the stock sizes and catch rates decrease to pre-project levels. In fact, in a
           number of the pilot sites fishing activity has increased as a result of the success of local
           management measures, and this threat will become larger in the future. Essentially,
           creating and allocating the right to manage targeted fisheries has been a very successful
           first step, but the country will need to take the next step to create and allocate rights to
           access the fisheries, in order for this progress to be maintained.

       •   Greater community involvement in identifying issues and solutions ensured greater
           ownership of initiatives, enhancing prospects for sustainability of new approaches.
           Formalizing the co-management proposals through legal agreements between community
           associations and government gave communities a voice and shared accountability with
           decision-makers. However, the sustainability of certain activities launched under the
           Project such as operating costs for MCS activities, technical advice or assistance for
           marketing and market access, needs to be addressed in follow-up operations.

       •   As benefits are being made known and fish resources show improvements, the need for
           MCS will also increase and the number of infractions will rise. Viable options for
           funding and sustaining local efforts at MCS need to be found urgently to prevent loss of
           momentum to local efforts at MCS.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
n.a.
(b) Cofinanciers
n.a.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
n.a.




                                                   21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (IDA, GEF, Government) (in USD Million equivalent) (as of
       June 30, 2012)

Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - Total Project Costs (IDA, GEF, Government)
                                     Appraisal          Actual/Latest
                                     Estimate             Estimate        Percentage of
          Components               (USD millions)      (USD millions)       Appraisal
1. Co-management of Coastal
Fisheries                               2.80                 0.71             25%

2. Rehabilitation of Ecosystems          2.80               0.48              17%
3. Alternative livelihoods and
Accompanying Social Measures             4.03               0.85              21%
4. Institutional Strengthening for
Fisheries Management, M&E                1.03               0.80              78%
             Total Baseline Cost        10.66               2.84              27%
Physical Contingencies                   0.10               0.00               0%
Price Contingencies                      0.09               0.00               0%
              Total Project Costs       10.85               2.84              26%
       Total Financing Required         10.85               2.84


Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - P105881 - IDA
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
           Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                          millions)
1. Co-management of Coastal
Fisheries                                0.00               0.00               0%
2. Rehabilitation of Ecosystems          0.00               0.00               0%
3. Alternative livelihoods and
Accompanying Social Measures             3.50               0.85              24%
4. Institutional Strengthening for
Fisheries Management, M&E                0.00               0.00               0%
              Total Baseline Cost        3.50               0.85              24%
Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00               0%
Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00               0%
              Total Project Costs        3.50               0.85              24%
       Total Financing Required          3.50




                                                22
Sustainable Management of Fish Resources - P092062 /TF93654– GEF
                                       Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                     Estimate (USD     Estimate (USD      Percentage of
           Components                   millions)         millions)        Appraisal
1. Co-management of Coastal
Fisheries                                2.50               0.81               32%

2. Rehabilitation of Ecosystems          2.40               0.49               20%
3. Alternative livelihoods and
Accompanying Social Measures             0.00               0.00               0%
4. Institutional Strengthening for
Fisheries Management, M&E                0.94               0.90               96%
              Total Baseline Cost        5.84               2.20               38%
Physical Contingencies                   0.07               0.07              100%
Price Contingencies                      0.09               0.09              100%
              Total Project Costs        6.00               2.36               39%
       Total Financing Required          6.00



   (b) Financing (as of June 30, 2012)

IDA - P105881 - Sustainable Management of Fish Resources
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                    Type of                                   Percentage of
          Source of Funds                         Estimate       Estimate
                                   Financing                                   Appraisal
                                                (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                          Counterpart            0.53           0.13      24%
International Development
Association (IDA)                    Credit              3.50           1.23      24%
   Total                                                 4.03           1.36      34%




                                                23
GEF - P092062 - Sustainable Management of Fish Resources
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of                                 Percentage of
          Source of Funds                         Estimate      Estimate
                                   Financing                                  Appraisal
                                               (USD millions) (USD millions)
                                                            9
 Borrower                          Counterpart         1.35            0.00       0%
 EC: EU - European Agency for        Parallel
 Reconstruction (EAR)               Financing            9.20           n.a.      n.a.
 Global Environment - Associated
 IDA Fund                             Grant              8.50          6.30      74%
 Global Environment Facility (GEF)    Grant              6.00          1.99      33%
 Govt. of Switzerland (Except
 for FOFEA)                           Grant              0.50          0.47      89%
  Total                                                25.54

N.B.: As of July 2009, the EU’s COM STABEX Pêche (Stratégie d’Aménagement des Pêcheries du
      Sénégal/SAGPS) showed a total commitment of Euros 6.0 million, of which Euros 0.5 million
      (about $0.76 million) (8%) was paid as of December 31, 2008, and about Euros 4.1 million (68%)
      was pending. The team has not been able to obtain 2009 disbursement figures.

         The project was signed initially in February 2008, with a planned implementation period of 36
         months, but due to delays and lack of progress, project activities ceased in December 2009 and the
         project was closed in March 31, 2010 10.

Other Funding:

                                                            Signed         Disbursed     Cancelled
                      Type of                               Amount          Amount        Amount
                     Financing       Approval Date           (USD)           (USD)        (USD)
     TF 90576        PPG Grant       April 18, 2007         256,740         245,890       10,849




9
     Includes estimated Government of Senegal contribution of $530,000 for IDA-funded activities and
     $820,000 for GEF-funded activities.
10
     EU Annual Report for 2008, “RAC 2008?, Version finale Juillet 2009.




                                                       24
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project (Projet de Gestion Durable des
Ressources Halieutiques (GDRH)) was designed as a complementary project to the Integrated
Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project (Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et
Côtières (GIRMaC)), and the two projects, together with the West Africa Regional Fisheries
Program comprised the Bank’s support to the fisheries sector in Senegal and contributed to the
Government’s implementation of the 2008 Letter of Sector Policy (LSP).

The GDRH Project was to build on the successes and lessons of the GIRMaC Project and
replicate the co-management model for consolidating fisheries resources management along the
central coast of Senegal across eight additional sites. The initial four pilot sites of Ouakam,
Ngaparou, Foundiougne and Betenty, which spanned the coastline of Senegal from Cap-Vert
Peninsula in the north to the Saloum River Delta in the south near the border with the Gambia,
successfully implemented most of the co-management initiatives, planned by the LFC (CLP)
which comprised each site’s sub-project financed under the IMCFRM. Co-management
agreements, approved by the CLPA and CNCPM, were signed between the CLP and the Minister
of Maritime Economy (now the MFMA), who issues a legal decree to support the
implementation of the co-management initiatives, thus providing legal backing for the initiatives.
The project also supported the CLPAs representing a geographic area of targeted CLPs, to
prepare consolidated local fisheries management plans for that area. Together, the co-
management agreements and the consolidated local fisheries management plans were to provide
the framework for various management measures (such as fisheries conservation areas, artificial
reefs, eco-labeling) to be implemented.

Component 1: Co-management of Coastal Fisheries (US$2.0 m IDA-GIRMaC project,
US$2.66 m GEF, US$2.60 m EU, US$0.34 m Government of Senegal).

The objective of this component was to implement co-management systems to improve the
governance of the coastal fisheries for a more sustainable use of the resources.

The component’s key indicator for the establishment of eight new CLPs have been satisfactorily
met. The second indicator was not met, although three have been prepared under the GIRMaC
and this Project. It is expected that the three local fisheries management plans will be approved
and implemented under the WARFP which has been recently restructured to incorporate many of
the activities which could not be completed under this Project.

Promotion of local co-management initiatives in four pilot sites 11.

The promotion of local co-management initiatives in the four pilot sites (Ouakam, Ngaparou,
Foundiougne, and Betenty) was funded by the GirMAC Project. It was successfully carried out


11
     For additional details, please refer to the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) for the
     Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project, Report No.: ICR 2377, dated October
     30, 2012, p. 37.



                                                     25
for the most part and formed the key successes of this project. By the end of the project, sub-
projects were successfully implemented in three pilot sites, while in the fourth, Ouakam, one
conservation activity (placement of artificial reefs) was ongoing at the time the project closed, a
result of delays in project start-up. The process of selection and placement of facilitators into
local communities was also successful: no facilitators were rejected by the communities and all
remained at their posts until the end of their contracts; facilitators helped the CLPs to
successfully prepare and implement their sub-projects; and local facilitators from communities
were subsequently trained and worked with the project facilitators. Local communities were
actively engaged in the design and implementation of sub-projects (comprised of several co-
management initiatives) and demonstrated strong ownership of agreed initiatives. Benefits were
visible in terms of reduced fishing, increase in catch/landings, and in the average size of catch,
surveillance patrols and teams were formed and operational (although the financing of operating
costs was a concern), and under financing from the GDRH, marketing and commercialization
sub-projects were being proposed which were to improve production quality and quantity.

In terms of impact, the co-management approach built strong local community ownership and
participation in national fisheries resource management and conservation efforts and in building
partnership between local communities and Government authorities. It fostered shared decision-
making and accountability, and contributed to improved local governance of coastal and fisheries
resources in the co-management areas.

Monitoring, control and surveillance supported under the GirMAC were successful in soliciting
the support of local fishing communities in carrying out periodic surveillance patrols (by CLP
members) of pilot sites with minimal conflict. Data collected at the pilot sites by CLPs and
validated by the MFMA showed encouraging results in average size and catch volume as a result
of co-management initiatives and conservation methods which were being piloted (sanctioning
the use of unsustainable fishing gear and fishing methods, improved monitoring, control and
surveillances, legal backing for local initiatives, fisheries resources management through the
creation of restricted fishing zones, imposed biological rest periods, conservation management
methods including setting artificial reefs, cleaning of sea beds, and supportive measures
including procurement of goods and materials, and training and technical assistance.)

CLPs of the pilot sites were active in sharing information, lessons, and results of their experience
to neighboring villages. The CLPAs associated with the pilot sites also contributed to the
expansion of the initiatives through local fisheries management plans. Recently, each of the two
pilot sites of Foundiougne and Betenty have proposed a new co-management initiative to support
the ongoing efforts to sustainably manage coastal shrimp resources which demonstrated their
willingness to move towards sustainably managing shared fisheries resources.




                                                26
            Change in Catch Volume and Market Price over time in co-management pilot sites
                                           (2005-2007)

           Ouakam                                                              Year
Targeted
                                 2005           2006          2007             2008         2009           2010          2011
species
              Quantity of
                           N/A              N/A            10,100        13,960          22,200        17,200         23,300
              catches (Kg)
‘‘Thiof’’     Commercial
Epinephelus                N/A              N/A            38.020,000    52,431,000      76,250,000    55,540,000     85,511,000
              value (FCFA)
aenus         Average
              price/unit   N/A              N/A            3,670         3,980           3,380         3,620          4,500
              (FCFA/Kg)
         Ngaparou                                                              Year
 Targeted
                                 2005           2006          2007             2008         2009           2010          2011
 species
             Quantity of
                          770               700                  1,575          1,561          1,645         2,835           4,095
             catches (Kg)
             Commercial
 Green                    5,075,000         4,515,000      11,200,000    11,161,500      11,322,500    13,272,000     28,962,500
             value (FCFA)
 Lobster
             Average
             price/unit   4,900             6,000          6,270         6,850           5,727         5,700          6,725
             (FCFA/Kg)
          Betenty                                                              Year
 Targeted
                              2005              2006          2007             2008         2009           2010          2011
 species
 Coastal     Quantity of
                          365,700           336,200        340,700       328,900         296,900       237,200        229,400
 shrimp      catches (Kg)
             Commercial
             value        146,280,000       184,910,000 204,420,000 197,340,000          207,830,000 213,480,000 183,520,000
             (FCFA12)
             Average
             price/unit   400               550            600           600             700           900            800
             (FCFA/Kg)

Source: Data collected at the pilot co-management sites by the fishing communities in partnership with the local
fisheries administration, and data validated by the Fisheries Authorities at regional or central level.




12
   The total commercial value of coastal shrimp caught in Betenty has declined by a small amount from 2010 and 2011 due to
the drop in the number of active fishermen targeting this species (from 693 fishermen in 2010 to only 649 in 2011).




                                                             27
                Bétenty: Detailed Catch Data for Shrimp and fishing vessels (2005-2011)

    Year           Catch (‘000        No. of            Price         Market Price          Shrimp           No. of
                       kg)          Fishermen          (FCFA)          (CFAF)              count/kg          fishing
                                                                                                             vessels
     2005            365.7              831             400            146,280,000           226                65
     2006            336.2              768             550            184,910,000           179                 59
     2007            340.7              784             600            204,420,000           184                 62
     2008            328.9              672             600            197,340,000           175                 53
     2009            296.9              727             700            207,830,000           144                 57
     2010            237.2              693             900            213,480,000           138                 51
     2011            229.4              649             800            183,520,000           141                 59

N.B.: A majority of shrimp harvesters work on foot; those on boats normally are two to a boat. Prices quoted are
landing price/kg for fresh shrimp.

                                      Ngaparou: Fishing vessels (2005-2011)

            Year                 2005          2006        2007         2008       2009          2010         2011
 Local fishing vessels               103         140            83         90         103           105           103
 Seasonal fishing vessels               88        46            34         35         29                43            40
 TOTAL                               190         186          117         125        131            148           143

            Year                 2005          2006        2007        2008        2009          2010        2011
 Local fishermen                    410          558          330         360        410           418            410
 Foreign fishermen                  350          184          136         140        114           172            160
 TOTAL                              760          742          466         500        524           590            570


            Foundiougne: Catch Volume Data for Various Species (2007-2011)

              Shrimp              Ethmalose       Mullet              Tilapia        Barracuda           Total
 2007         343,370             770,650         212,050             193,500        10,250              1,529,820
 2008         287,190             742,400          292,550            275,250        10,700              1,608,090
 2009         362,835             630,300         180,450             171,350        22,600              1,367,535
 2010         274,232             815,660         252,521             307,336        44,622              1,694,371
 2011         431,625             631,940         416,780             709,530        140,830             2,330,705

                                               Market Prices
                                    2007              2008              2009              2010               2011

 Landing Price (CFAF)            473,341,600     486,081,000         449,300,836     476,866,035         982,549,250




                                                              28
                                        Fishing Vessels
    No. of fishermen        1,600         1,700           1,710           1,750        2,650
     No. of vessels          127           120            142             160          300

                                          Average Shrimp Count/kg
                             2007          2008         2009              2010         2011
   Number of shrimp
                             178            96             92              88          115
     (count) / kg


              Change in Average Market Price (CFAF) at landing for Various Species
                  Shrimp      Ethmalose          Mullet         Tilapia    Barracuda
    2007            600          100              300            350          900
    2008            600          100              300            350          950
    2009            550          100              250            300         1,000
    2010            500          100              300            200         1,750
    2011            750          150              300            200         2,000



Consolidation and strengthening of coastal fisheries co-management

Under this sub-component of the GDRH Project, the successful co-management experience of
the initial four pilot sites of the GirMAC was to be scaled up into eight new sites along the
central coastline of Senegal, between Cap-Vert and the Saloum River Delta. The eight new sites
selected were:
    - Soumbédioune, Bargny and Yenne (ongoing management of artificial reefs), for the
        Dakar region,
    - Mballing, Nianing, Pointe Sarène and Mbodiène, for the Thiès region, and
    - Fimela-Ndangane for the Fatick region.

The eight sites selected were the same as those selected during preparation except for
Soumbédioune and Fimela-Ndangane. The Fambine site, selected during preparation, was
merged/linked with the CLP for Foundiougne to provide a critical mass for the creation of a
protected fishing zone as part of the site’s co-management initiative.

Community facilitators were recruited early in implementation through a participatory process,
trained and successfully placed at the eight new sites. Eight new Local Fisher Committees
(Comité Local des Pêcheurs (CLP) were formed with the help of the facilitators, and legally
established at each of the eight new sites. The CLPs worked with the facilitators to identify co-
management initiatives with communities and finalize sub-project proposal for each of the eight
sites which have been submitted to the local and central authorities (DPM, CLPs, CLPAs, and
the CNCPM) for approval. Accompanying measures such as MCS, IEC, and M&E were also
included in the sub-project proposals. Co-management initiatives focused on the fisheries species
which were considered economically important and representative of each site. In the Dakar
region, co-management initiative targeted the white grouper (Epinephelus aenus) and related
species. Initiatives selected by the Petite-Côte included the octopus (Octopus vulgaris) et the
cymbium (Cymbium spp.) initiated by an earlier JICA-funded project.


                                                   29
By end of project, the sub-project proposals had not yet been approved. Following validation, it
is expected that implementation would be supported under the ongoing WARFP.

Institutional support for a system of local fisheries governance.

This sub-component was also financed in parallel by the European Union’s COM STABEX –
Fisheries Project (total commitment Euros 6.0 million) which included a component on
“Capacity Building of Local Governance (establishment of new CLPAs, EIC tools, outlining and
monitoring of local and national management plans, reinforcement of coastal surveillance,
management of marginalization caused by co-management)?. As of end 2008, about Euros 0.5
million was disbursed.

Support to the CNCPM and the CLPAs was limited to implicating the organizations in the
validation process for community sub-projects and local consolidated fisheries management
plans.

Over one year into implementation, the CLPAs were not yet established in the central region.
Organization and motivation were the main challenges with implicating the CLPAs in the sub-
project validation process, along with other issues facing the CLPAs:

           o their role in fisheries management not clearly defined;
           o an evaluation study on CLPAs based on experience with 4 pilots found that
             CLPAs lacked motivation, their organization needed to be restructured (some
             CLPAs were very spread geographically), and their missions redefined;
           o as of 2010, most were not functioning;
           o the structure of CLPAs were administrative (CLPs were private organizations),
             and therefore accountability of the main actors was unclear, and CLPAs lacked
             resources; and
           o other development programs besides the EU STABEX are working with CLPAs;
             some have created consultative groups in parallel with the CLPAs creating
             confusion at the base.

Support to the CLPs included capacity-building and the provision of technical assistance from
Government fisheries administration staff and consultants, including facilitators, to form the
CLPs, train and organize its members to contribute to the participatory process of identifying and
finalizing co-management initiatives and sub-project proposals. It gave the communities the
means of representation and a voice in the decision-making process and a role in the
management of fisheries resources directly affecting their community.

Component 2: Rehabilitation of Ecosystems Essential for Coastal Fisheries. (US$2.4 m GEF,
US$0.5 m IDA-GIRMaC project, US$1.5 m EU, US$0.5 m Switzerland, US$0.4 m Government).

The objective of this component was to contribute to the rehabilitation of essential coastal
fisheries ecosystems, by establishing Protected Fishing Zones (Zones de Pêches Protégées




                                               30
(ZPPs)) in association with artificial reefs, in order to help regenerate the natural resources, and
by creating market mechanisms to encourage sustainable management of the ecosystems.

The small-scale fishing vessels under the Programme National d’Immatriculation (PNI),was a
key achievement of the Project, although it was implemented with delay. The PNI was key
policy priority for the MFMA and a key action listed in the 2008 Letter of Sector Policy and one
of the major instruments for introducing access rights to fisheries resources.

Except for the registration of small-scale fishing vessels under the PNI, the remaining key
performance indicators for this component were partially met. Other activities on the
rehabilitation of ecosystems including the legal establishment of ZPPs and artificial and their
related activities began but could not be completed due to the delayed recruitment of the
consulting firm (World Wildlife Fund - West Africa Marine Eco-region (WWF-WAMER))
responsible for providing technical assistance to component activities. The activities on artificial
reefs were also delayed for the same reason. Both of the initiatives received strong support from
communities and will be transferred for funding under the restructured WARFP.

Protected fishing zones (Zones de Pêche Protégées (ZPPs)) and Artificial Reefs.

Two ZPPs were identified by July 2010. Although they have not been legally established,
initiatives which would facilitate the establishment of such areas have been introduced in certain
sites. In Ouakam, a controlled fishing areas (Zone d’exploitation réglementé – ZER, and Zone
d’interdiction de pêche - ZIP) has been created and managed by the fishing community, while
Ngaparou, alternate closures to fishing has been introduced. Both have received strong support
from their communities although there are some difficulties with managing them were reported
by CLPs. In Ngaparou, ongoing incursions from fishermen of neighboring villages (Rufisque
and Bargny) have created problems for the placement of artificial reefs which just beginning to
take place; in Ouakam, the efforts to define and delimit ZERs and ZIPs met with resistance from
neighboring communities (buoys which were placed at sea would disappear or are removed).
Protected fishing zones would need to be ensured in order to attract fish and enforcement would
need support from the DPSP and the local authorities (police).

Technical Assistance and Recruitment of Firm. The Project suffered from delays in recruiting
the firm to lead the implementation of Component 2 activities. Although documents were
prepared well ahead of time, the contract was cancelled in early 2010 by the national Central
Procurement Agency due to non-compliance by the Government team with the Procurement
Code, even though the Bank’s no objection had been given to go ahead with the contracts. The
recruitment process had to be re-launched causing further delays to a process which had already
cost the project eight months of implementation time.

By the time the contract was signed (Feb. 2011) with the WWF-WAMER as technical assistance
agency providing implementing Component 2 activities, work was not expected to begin until
June 10, 2011, which gave the agency nine months to the first closing date to carry out a
demanding work program (establishment of ZPPs, immersion of artificial reefs, and obtaining
eco-certification for certain fisheries species piloted). By EOP, WWF/WAMER had managed to
complete an IEC plan and activities to increase the awareness of communities on issues of



                                                31
marine ecosystems rehabilitation. The remaining activities were transferred for funding and
support under the WARFP.

Introduction of access rights and associated management instruments

The introduction of access rights in selected fisheries conservation areas, ZPPs and artificial
reefs could not be carried out for the reasons mentioned above.

Implementation of the Small-Scale Vessel Registration Program (Programme National
d’Immatriculation (PNI)). The PNI was key policy priority for the MFMA and a key action
listed in the 2008 Letter of Sector Policy and one of the major instruments for introducing access
rights to fisheries resources. The successful registration of small-scale fishing and transport
vessels for the central coastal region was a key performance indicator for the project and has
been met.

The objective of establishing a functional nationwide registration system for small fishing
vessels was to provide a system for the government to control fishing efforts and reduce fishing
over time, by location, for the long-term management and sustainability of fisheries resources.

At the time of appraisal, all industrial vessels in Senegal were locally registered and licensed, but
not the artisanal pirogues and their fishermen owners. To date, about 18,900 small vessels have
been registered. The PNI in Senegal began as a two-year program from 2006-2008 with the
objective of registering an estimated 10,000 artisanal fishing boats (pirogues). Over the years
since the PNI began, the number of fishing boats seemed to grow, partly because no census had
been taken since the one conducted by the Centre de Recherches Océanographiques de Dakar-
Thiaroye (CRODT) in 1986; therefore, the beginning estimate was not accurate. In addition, the
number of boats fluctuated as new boats were being constructed and as fishermen moved from
one neighboring country to another while the registration was being carried out.

The PNI received funding totaling CFAF 1,948 million from various sources:

           Source of Funds                   (CFAF million)
           Swiss Corporation                 239
           EU                                132
           World Bank                        489
           Spanish Corporation               260
           Government of Senegal             420
             Total                           1,948

Funding from the Swiss Corporation in the form of a Trust Fund (TF90534) of $526,829 (of
which $468,516 was disbursed) from 2005-2010 was managed by the World Bank. The Bank
supported the program through three projects in various amounts: the GIRMaC (2004-2012), the
GDRH (2008-2012), and the WARFP (ongoing – 2014).




                                                 32
The PNI has been in implementation for six years and its closing date was extended four times
from 2006 to January 2011. It experienced technical difficulties and resource constraints
resulting in considerable delay to its completion.

The technical constraints were:
   • Locating itinerant fishermen (migration to the interior of the country and to neighboring
       countries), reaching areas with limited access such as Fatick and Ziguinchor;
   • fading or disappearance of registration markings (lettering and numbering) through
       voluntary removal by the fishermen, normal wear and tear, or use of poor quality paint;
   • difficulty reaching fishing areas bordering another country, e.g., St. Louis region, near
       Mauritania; limited means for personnel to travel to remote areas to follow-up on
       registration;
   • certain types of boats (senne tournante, Moudjass) which navigate in deep seas are more
       difficult to mark because of high water levels;
   • registration data issues such as equipment malfunctions and date entry management
       affecting reporting quality, shortage of registration number templates and materials;
       faulty placement of registration numbers on the boat; and
   • refusal by some fishermen to use certain assigned acronyms.

Administrative constraints were:
  • the lack of familiarity with the fishing boat sites/parc piroguier (inaccurate statistical
      data),
  • wrong application of registration procedures, non-compliance with administrative
      procedures for building new boats, and
  • lack of procedures and standardized sheet to delete non operating vessels from the
      database.

Financial constraints were:
   • insufficient compensation and delays in payments to the Economic Interest Groups
       responsible for marking the boats; and
   • frequent shortage of materials and supplies for printing the plastic registration cards.

Human resources constraints were: staffing personnel involved in the registration program
include one Coordinator, 15 information technology professionals initially (five resigned since
2006), 58 Economic Interest Groups, and 60 technical field visit teams (including the DMF
station chief, fishermen representatives, carpenter) spread across Senegal and one team per
fishing port.

Some fishermen’s groups who were concerned about the administrative and fiscal implications
initially rejected any form of registration. However, this has improved in most fishing sites
where fishing communities have been organized into co-management units under the Project. At
such sites as the Senegal River Delta where the fishing population is more mobile (moving
between Mauritania and Senegal) and groups diverse and less cohesive, registration has been
more difficult.




                                              33
Other Issues. The PNI changed coordinators in 2010. Under the Swiss TF, the cost of the
contract for the national consulting firm consumed half of the fund’s resources, the quality of its
data reporting was judged to be unsatisfactory by the PNI coordinator, and as result of the
disagreements, the firm has not been paid. The TF closed in December 2010. In terms of donor
funds, some were consumed quickly because of the ease of access to the funding. Among the
easiest donor accounts to access was the Spanish Corporation funds which was held at a
commercial bank (CNCS). Withdrawals required the signatures of the Director and the Project
Coordinator, whereas access to the other donor funds were managed by the financial
management unit of the COMO. By late 2009, most of the CFAF1,948 million had been spent,
whereas the CFAF420 million in counterpart funding never materialized.

Another factor causing delays in the program’s implementation was the management problems at
the COMO in July 2011 which stopped all project activities. As a result, no field work or follow-
up was carried out just as the program was about to move into its data consolidation phase.

Since August 2010, the PNI has been receiving funding support from the World Bank’s WARFP
until 2014 when it is expected to complete the registration and transfer the process from the
COMO to the MFMA’s administrative services. The next steps include completing the
registration for the remaining boats, nationally and sub-regionally (Mauritania), consolidating the
results of the program, ensuring the sustainability of the program, and progressively transferring
the activities of the PNI to the local administration services by end 2014.

To date, about 18,900 fishing boats covering the seven maritime regions of Senegal have been
registered electronically (registration numbers distributed to owners). Of these, 16,207 have
been manually embossed. The cost of marking a boat is estimated at CFAF3,000/boat. The
fishing boats of the continental fishing areas have not been included. A data base for the
registration program has been established by the MFMA at (www.bdpni.gouv.sn) as well as a
website (www.dpm-pni.com) containing details on program. The following is the list of
registrations by region as of July 2012:

                                   No. of canoes     No. of canoes   No. of canoes      % of
                     Total No.       registered       embossed           to be         Canoes
  Name of Region     of canoes     electronically     manually        embossed        embossed
 Dakar                 4,119            4,119            3,619            500           87.86
 Thies                 5,876            5,876            4,895            911           84.50
 St. Louis             3,210            3,210            2,186           1,024          68.10
 Louga                  223              223              163             60            73.09
 Fatick                2,105            2,105            2,051            54            97.43
 Kaolack                201              201              137             64            68.16
 Zinguichor            3,166            3,166            3,086            80            97.47
 TOTAL                18,900           18,900           16,207           2,693          85.75




                                                34
Market incentives for sustainable management for targeted fisheries

The creating of conditions necessary for eco-certification of one co-managed coastal fishery
could not be carried out due to the late recruitment of the consulting firm, WWF-WAMER for
the reasons mentioned above.

Component 3: Poverty Alleviation Measures for Fishing Communities and Alternative
Livelihoods for Fishers, Fish Processors, and Fish Transporters (mareyeurs) (FRAP)
(US$3.5 m IDA, US$0.46 m Government).

The objective of this component was to offset any negative socio-economic impacts for targeted
fishing communities resulting from co-management initiatives or management plans (including
the introduction of instruments such as ZPPs, artificial reefs, eco-labels, etc.).

The Key Performance Indicator for the project related to alternative livelihoods to fishing was
partially met in that the communities targeted had access to a system of micro-credit (although it
did not disburse for the reasons mentioned below) and poverty reduction measures (through
income-generating activities) were implemented in the four initial pilot sites; none were
completed for the eight new sites due to slow start-up and insufficient time for implementation.

The indicators for the participation of women in micro-credit was not met, although about 1,703
eligible beneficiaries were selected by the technical assistance firm as eligible for micro-credit
loans, out of which about 1,430 were requests from beneficiaries who were women. However,
of this number, only 20 women had micro-project proposals which were considered viable and
ready to be funded by the CMS. Unfortunately, by EOP, none were able to be implemented due
to the lack of time.

For the eight additional co-management sites, seven of the eight income-generating activities
proposed for the fishing communities were approved by the Bank on August 2011 but could not
be implemented by EOP due to the Project management problems which stalled project
implementation at that time. The poverty alleviation sub-projects (micro-credit activities) will be
transferred for support under the restructured West Africa Regional Fisheries Project.

Poverty alleviation initiatives in Project-targeted communities.

In support of poverty alleviation and support to marketing and commercialization of fish
products, the Project funded the construction of stores for fishing gear and supplies (at Ngaparou
and Foundiougne); the purchase of a refrigerated truck (Ngaparou); household goods and
cooking utensils store for a group of about 36 women shrimp processors (Foundiougne); a
poultry farm (Ouakam); and a tourist camp at Betenty. These have been completed and
operating since early 2010. Accompanying measures included organizing beneficiaries into small
economic interest groups, providing technical assistance to the projects and relevant training, and
monitoring progress.




                                                35
Rates of return analysis at the time the ventures were proposed showed high Internal Rates of
Return (IRR) varying from about 27 percent for the tourist camp and poultry farm, to around 47
to 59 percent for the stores. Although the CLPs at the sites have been keeping a detailed log of
revenues, costs, cash flow, etc., a financial analysis including estimated and projected operating
costs, amortizations, funds flow, and IRR will need to be carried out to determine whether the
ventures are profitable.

Support for Alternative Livelihoods to Fishing.

Access to micro-finance was made available through a protocol agreement signed at
effectiveness between the Government (Department of Fisheries (DPM)) and the CMS (a
national private micro-finance institution) for the establishment of the alternative livelihood
fund. However, the fund did not disburse for the reasons mentioned below.

A necessary accompanying measure, the recruitment of a qualified consulting firm for providing
technical assistance to fishers to use the “reconversion fund? was seriously delayed. Its contract
was cancelled early in 2010 by the national Procurement Agency of the Government due to a
failure to follow the country’s Procurement Code (although it was in compliance with Bank
procedures and had the Bank’s no-objection to sign the contract). The recruitment had to be re-
launched resulting in an additional delay of eight months. The whole process took about a year
to finalize until the contract was signed in early 2011 with work expected to begin around mid-
2011. By EOP, the firm was not able to complete the activities due to the short time remaining
until the project closed and the line of credit was not used. The CMS was to reimburse the Bank
the total amount of the line of credit (about $1.1 million).

The problems and constraints encountered by the pilot sites in the use of the reconversion fund
and the micro-credit facility included:

   o slow start-up of the activities;
   o difficulty in finding a profitable income-generating activity suitable for reconversion
     (either the conditions were not right at the time proposed, or cohesion was insufficient for
     using the micro-credit fund;
   o amount of the micro-credit was too low to motivate fishers to convert;
   o lack of experience of fishers in other domains/activities;
   o free access to fishing; and
   o children of fishers were overlooked in reconversion (i.e., limited vision of the
     reconversion fund; reconversion should target children of fishers, not the age group
     specified by the fund).

However, the establishment of the fund and system of micro-credit did accomplish the following:

    •   the endorsement of eligibility criteria for the beneficiaries,
    •   a bank account opened with CMS for the community,
    •   the communities were able to deposit a guarantee fund at the CMS,
    •   community facilitators were placed to strengthen the CLPs’ capacity,



                                               36
    •   recruitment of a technical assistance consulting firm to assist the CLPs (although some
        sites noted that the firm did not visit the community).

Capacity-building, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Communication.

In terms of support to the DPM specialists who were to manage and monitor component
activities, including FRAP specialists within DPM, the Project funded the procurement of office
equipment and supplies, technical assistance contracts, training, workshop expenses, operating
costs, and the cost of promotional materials and publication materials for IEC and dissemination
activities.

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening for Fisheries Management, Project Management
and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2.5m IDA-GIRMaC project, US$0.94m GEF, US$5.1m
EU, US$0.15m Government).

The objective of the component was to support the Ministry of Maritime Economy (now the
MFMA) to manage and implement the project in the context of the Letter of Sector Policy and to
monitor and evaluate results.

Development of a fisheries code and support for the implementation of fisheries management
plans

Under the GIRMaC, the national fisheries management plans were not completed although
substantial preparation was carried out. They will be supported in the restructured WARFP.

The project supported capacity-building for the MFMA through the provision of technical
experts and guidance through international and national consultant services. The Project funded
training programs, workshops, office equipment and software, specialized equipment for the
national boat registration program, vehicles, and a budget for operating costs during the life of
the project. The Bank teams provided substantial inputs into national level strategic, legal and
regulatory documents such as the Fisheries Code revisions and the Letter of Sector Policy, as
well as sector studies and strategies for relevant sectors, and provided technical inputs into the
preparation and implementation of fisheries programs.

Project management, monitoring and evaluation

Support for establishment of an M&E system was not successful. Although the COMO issued
an initial report on baseline values for monitoring the key performance indicators, they were not
able to be translated into an operational M&E system as none were designed nor established.

Impact of the Projects

However, in terms of overall impact, significant results have been obtained in the sector through
the contributions of the complementary GIRMaC and GDRH projects. Although the designs
reflected higher expectations than could be accomplished in the time span of the projects,
progress has been made in the sector and in Senegal compared to when the projects began. The



                                               37
pilots were an opportunity to test new approaches and replicate them in Senegal in order to
provide viable options to fisheries resources management and biodiversity conservation and
build sustainable strategies for the future.

The gaps and weaknesses in the management of the fisheries sector, including governing and
management structures has been narrowed due to: (a) the direct involvement of the MFMA and
its agencies at the central, regional and local levels involved in the implementation of the
projects; (b) the institutional strengthening of the Direction des Pêches Maritimes (DPM)
through the implementation of the projects, experience with project management and monitoring,
(c) increased government interaction with local communities; and (d) direct involvement of
ministry technical personnel providing input into the revisions of sector legislation in Senegal.

The knowledge base for policy decision making and accompanying measures has been
strengthened through the revisions to the Fisheries Code which has been submitted to Parliament
for approval, and the Letter of Sector Policy revisions in 2008. The revisions to the Fisheries
Code, once approved, is expected to address the difficult issues of access rights to fish resources.
The legislations demonstrate Government engagement at the national level and is an important
step linking improved fisheries management with the sectoral policy framework. These will also
provide a channel for more effective aid and aid coordination in the fisheries sector in the future.

The successful establishment of a nationwide system for registering small fishing vessels is an
important step towards regulating artisanal fisheries for the government; historically, government
regulation of artisanal fisheries has had little success and has been met with strong resistance
from boat owners. By end of project, however, boat owners are increasingly complying with the
registration program and the number of boats registered have almost doubled over the number
estimated at appraisal.




                                                38
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

From the PAD of the Project, indicative cost-benefit analyses of representative examples of these
investments were presented for each component of the project to illustrate the basis for deciding
the merits of the project. At EOP stage, i.e., less than three years after effectiveness, the status of
implementation of the co-management initiatives and the establishment of marine protected areas
as the support for alternative livelihoods in fishing communities is not sufficient to be able to
provide concrete results. The reasons are already highlighted in the paragraphs on assessment of
outcomes, i.e., more time is needed to implement and demonstrate results in such community-
based projects. However, as insufficient data is available to conduct a thorough analysis with
real data, an analogy with the four pilot co-management initiatives from GIRMaC can be used to
justify the rationality of the project.

Co-management activities in Component 1.               Based on the results from the first co-
management initiatives from the GIRMaC Project, the implementation of these initiatives
yielded encouraging results at the site level and in terms of increase of the CPUE (Catch-per-
unit-effort) and of stock recovery indicators. For example, after the implementation of fisheries
co-management measures, from 2005 to 2011, the CPUE of green lobster fisheries in Ngaparou
has increased from 7 kg through 40 kg per vessel, and in Ouakam, the same CPUE has increased
from 10 kg to 34 kg between 2007 and 2011 and the CPUE of Thiof has reached 166 kg per
vessel (against only 75 kg per vessel in 2007) during the implementation of co-management
fisheries measures for the declining stock of these species in these areas. And in Betenty, for
example, the number of individual shrimp per sample increased by 38 percent from 2005 through
2011, i.e., the average size of individual shrimp has increased, an indicator of higher quality
fisheries product). Given that the new co-management initiatives for the GDRH should be
implemented based on the same model as the initiatives from the GIRMaC and in the same area
(Central coastal area of the country), these new ones could have the similar results also.

Establishment of protected fishing zones (ZPPs) in Component 2. The activities under this
component, closure of key habitats and spawning areas to fishing by communities, would reduce
pressure on the fisheries resources and allow fish stocks to recover; as such they would
contribute to increasing the CPUE for the targeted species and increase the profitability of the
fishery species targeted. However, these results would need more than the three years of
implementation under the Project to yield data from such community initiatives.

The implementation of the co-management initiatives (including the establishment of the ZPPs)
will result also, in the short term, in a loss of production, and as a result, a decrease of revenue
for some groups in the communities. Consequently, alternative sources of income are needed to
mitigate these negative impacts of the initiatives and support for alternative livelihoods in fishing
communities is crucial and justified under the Project.




                                                  39
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                              IDA      GEF
         Names                              Titles                   Unit
                                                                            P105881   P092062
                                              Lending
Balde, Demba               Sr Social Development Spec               AFTCS              
Kloeppinger-Todd, Renate   Rural Finance Specialist                  ARD               
Elisabeth Mekonnen         Program Assistant                        LCC3C              
Prevost, Yves André        Environmental Advisor                    PA9SS              
Sarno Francesco            Procurement Specialist, (Consultant)                        
Strengerowski-Feldblyum,   Operations Analyst                       AFTN3              
Liba C.
Talla,Takoukam. Patrice    Counsel                                                     
Vaselopulos, Virginie      Language Program Assistant               AFTN1              
Vincent, Xavier F.P        Senior Fisheries Specialist              AFTN1              
Virdin, John               Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Spec. (TTL)    ENV               
Winter, Carolyn            Sr Social development Specialist         AFTCS              
                                              Supervision
Boisrobert, Cedric         Fisheries Specialist (Consultant)        AFTEN              
Chu, Jingjie               Natural Resources Economist              AFTN1     
Follea, Salimata D.        Operations Analyst                       AFTN1     
Hume, Andrew Christer      Junior Professional Associate            GEFNR               
Fam, Mbow Maimouna         Sr. Financial Mgt Specialist             AFTFM              
Ioniarilala, Radonirina    Fisheries Specialist (ET Consultant)     AFTN3              
Kanungo, Gayatri           Environmental Specialist                 AFTN3               
Monnet, Marguerite         Social Devel. Specialist (Consultant)    AFTHW              
Romao, Osval               Financial Mgt. Specialist                AFTFM              
Sarno Francesco            Procurement Specialist (Consultant)                         
Sanoussi, Rahamane Ibrah   Procurement Specialist                   AFTPC              
Strengerowski-Feldblyum,   Operations Analyst                       AFTN3     
Liba C.
Tran, H.G. Lucie           Consultant, ICR                          AFTN1              
Traore, Cheick             Procurement Specialist                   AFTPC              
Tynan, Ellen J.            Sr. Environmental Specialist             AFTEN              
Vincent, Xavier F.P        Senior Fisheries Specialist              AFTN1              
Virdin, John               Sr. Nat. Resources Mgmt. Spec., (TTL)     ENV               
Winter, Carolyn            Sr. Social development Specialist        AFTCS              




                                               40
(b) Staff Time and Cost

                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
            Stage                                   USD Thousands (Including
                             # Staff weeks
                                                    travel and consultant costs)
                              Lending
            FY09                  2.68                         19,239

Subtotal:                        2.68                          19,266
                          Supervision/ICR
            FY09                 0.00                            0.00
            FY10                16.78                           84,595
            FY11                30.26                           97,243
            FY12                  8.23                          56,557
            FY13                  0.00                          23,023
Subtotal                        55.27                          261,418




                                  41
Annex 5. Results Framework

     Combined PDO/GEO:                          Key Performance Indicators                                      Status at EOP
                                      Development Objective Indicators:                       Partially met for the 4 pilot sites under the
To empower communities to reduce      • Increase in the average size of fish caught for       IMCFM (GIRMaC) Project. Not met for the 8
fishing pressure on the fish stocks      targeted species in co-management sites;             additional sites for which sub-project proposals
supporting the central coastal        • Reduction in the level of fishing effort for          have been prepared and submitted to authorities
fisheries of Senegal (from the Cap       targeted species in co-management sites              but not yet approved as legal agreements with the
Vert Peninsula to the Saloum River                                                            Government; therefore sub-projects could not be
Delta).                                                                                       implemented by EOP.

                                      Co-management of coastal fisheries indicator:           Partially met. 8 new sub-project prepared and
                                      8 new co-management sub-project proposals are           submitted to local and central level authorities for
                                      approved as legal agreements with the Government        validation and are awaiting approval. Following
                                      and successfully implemented by EOP.                    approval, implementation of the sub-projects will
                                                                                              be supported under the restructured WARFP.

                                      Rehabilitation of coastal ecosystems indicator:         Not met. Due to long delays in the procurement
                                      70 percent of community members surveyed in             process, the firm (WWF-WAMER) was recruited
                                      participating communities are satisfied with project    in early 2011, one year late, and by project closing
                                      activities to rehabilitate coastal fish stocks (ZPPs,   was able to carry out activities for 12 months out
                                      artificial reefs, ecolabelling).                        of a 30 month contract awarded on the premise
                                                                                              that the Project would be extended. Remaining
                                                                                              activities will be funded under the WARFP.

                                      Alternative livelihoods to fishing indicator:           Partially met. Funds (about $1.1 m) were made
                                      Each community targeted by the project has access       available through deposit made with the micro-
                                      to a system of micro-credit, and project-supported      finance institution, CMS. However, the Project
                                      poverty reduction measures are implemented in at        implementation period did not allow sufficient to
                                      least the four initial pilot sites, by EOP.             use the funds which were returned to the Bank.

                                                                                              Poverty reduction measures being implemented at
                                                                                              4 initial pilot sites (fishing gear and supplies




                                                                      42
                                                                                                  stores, women’s household goods store, tourist
                                                                                                  camp, poultry farm). However, rate of return
                                                                                                  analysis is needed to determine profitability of
                                                                                                  ventures.
     Short-Term Outcomes                          Short-Term Outcome Indicators                                      Status at EOP
Component 1: Co-Management               8 new CLPs legally established in the central coastal    Met satisfactorily. CLPs established by end of
of Coastal Fisheries.                    region, within the first 18 months of implementation     first year of implementation.

A system of local coastal fisheries      4 consolidated local fisheries management plans are      Not met. However, under the WARFP, three
governance based on co-                  approved by the relevant Local Artisanal Fishers’        consolidated fisheries management plans will be
management that is coherent, well        Councils (CLPAs) within 24 months of project             approved and implemented around the 4 initial
understood and institutionally           implementation, and implemented by EOP.                  pilot sites.
strengthened, is established.

Component 2: Rehabilitation of           2 protected fisheries zones (ZPPs) are created and       Not met. Delay of 12-months in recruiting the
Coastal Ecosystems.                      legally established and their management plans           consulting firm (WWF-WAMER) which led to
                                         prepared.                                                delays in implementing the activities. Activities
Critical habitats for key coastal fish                                                            have transferred for implementation by the same
species are protected in a                                                                        firm under the restructured WARFP.
participatory manner, through the        At least 2 artificial reefs are expanded/ submerged      Not met for the same reasons as above.
establishment of ZPPs, the               and co-managed with the local communities by
immersion of artificial reefs, the       EOP.
introduction of access rights to
targeted fisheries, and efforts          Access rights are defined, legally recognized and        Not met due to delays in the implementation of co-
towards eco-labeling of small-scale      introduced in 2 of fisheries under co-management.        management activities, ZPPs and placing of
fish products.                                                                                    artificial reefs. These activities have been
                                                                                                  transferred to the restructured WARFP.

                                         All small-scale fishing and transport vessels            Met satisfactorily, with delay. However, with
                                         originating from within the central coastal region are   additional funding from the WARFP, about 17,500
                                         registered by the National Registration Program          small vessels (85%) are confirmed by the DPM to
                                         (PNI) within the first six months of project             be registered. The remaining 15% of the small
                                         implementation.                                          fishing vessels fleet are made up of vessels from




                                                                         43
                                                                                              neighboring countries where they fish most of the
                                                                                              year.

                                       At least 1 fishery is eligible for eco-certification   Not met. Activities transferred to the restructured
                                       according to the criteria of the Marine Stewardship    WARFP.
                                       Council by EOP.

                                       Feasibility study and consensus on a sustainable       Not met. Activity transferred to the restructured
                                       financing mechanism for the recurrent costs of ZPPs.   WARFP.

Component 3: Alleviation               Percentage of women in participating communities       Not met. According to the last quarterly report
Measures for Fishing                   that are benefiting from micro-credit to develop       (02-04/2012) from the TA institution, 1,703
Communities and Alternative            activities outside the fisheries sector.               eligible beneficiaries were selected, of which
Livelihoods for Fishers, Fish                                                                 1,430 requests for micro-credit for women
Processors, and Fish                                                                          candidates. Of these, only 20 women had micro-
transporters (mareyeurs).                                                                     projects outlined and ready for funding from the
                                                                                              CMS (MFI). By EOP, none of the women
Alternative revenue generating                                                                benefitted from Project funding.
activities are developed for fishers
and their families areas targeted by   Percentage of targeted fishing communities             IGAs (poultry farm, fishing gear/supplies store,
the project, within the fisheries      receiving micro finance, and number of families in     tourist camp, funds for groups of women
sector though better access to         targeted communities that are entering new             processors) and marketing support (grants, cold
higher value markets, or outside of    commercial markets.                                    storage truck, collection points for shrimp),
the sector with training and cash                                                             implemented in 4 initial pilot sites of the
support (micro-finance) from the                                                              GIRMaC.
project for communities to
compensate for the loss of fishing                                                            IGA sub-projects identified and outlined for the 8
effort and income, and to invest in                                                           additional sites; no objection from the Bank
alternative livelihoods.                                                                      received July 2011. However, implementation of
                                                                                              sub-projects was dependent on progress of the co-
                                                                                              management process.




                                                                       44
                                    Percentage of alternative livelihoods undertaken by   Not met. However, according to the TA firm’s report
                                    fishers receiving micro finance access and small-     (February/April 2012), 1,703 eligible beneficiaries were
                                    enterprise training from the project, sustained       selected, of which 273 were requests for the
                                    profitably at EOP.                                    reconversion fund. 22 beneficiaries had viable micro-
                                                                                          projects which could have been financed by the CMS.
                                                                                          No reconversion project was financed by EOP.

Component 4: Institutional        Annual M&E reports with all data on results             Not met. Some baseline data available. However, no
Strengthening for Fisheries       indicators and M&E plan completed.                      operational M&E system has been established.
Management, Project Management
and Monitoring and Evaluation.    Participating communities receive information on        Not met for the reasons mentioned above.
                                  key indicators in a timely manner.
 Efficient management, monitoring
 and evaluation of project and    Annual audit opinion has been unqualified.              Met. Audits were unqualified.
 dissemination of implementation
 results.




                                                                       45
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                                  REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
                                     Un Peuple – Un But – Une Foi
                                              *******




                       MINISTERE DE LA PECHE ET DES AFFAIRES MARITIMES
                                             *******
                                     DIRECTION DES PECHES MARITIMES



                  ------------------------------- ------------------------------------
                           RAPPORT D’ACHEVEMENT DU
         PROJET DE GESTION DURABLE DES RESSOURCES HALIEUTIQUES
                                            (GDRH)

PREFACE: Identification du projet

1. Contexte du projet, conception de l’objectif de développement et de l’objectif global
   environnemental
Le projet de Gestion Durable des Ressources Halieutiques (GDRH) vise à favoriser l’exploitation durable
des ressources halieutiques démersales côtières au Sénégal qui sont essentielles pour la réalisation des
objectifs de la stratégie de croissance accélérée (Grappe des produits de la Mer) à travers la Lettre de
politique sectorielle ainsi que son plan d’action 2008–2010.
En dépit de l’importance socio-économique des ressources halieutiques et des écosystèmes marins dont
elles dépendent, le secteur de la pêche maritime a été confronté à des difficultés majeures pendant les
dernières années en raison de la surexploitation des espèces à forte valeur commerciale, de l’expansion
non réglementée du nombre de pêcheurs, de navires, d’engins de pêche et d’unités de transformation et de
conservation dans les sites de débarquement.
Cette croissance incontrôlée, notamment de la pêche artisanale, a eu pour résultat une grave
surexploitation des stocks d’espèces démersales côtières à forte valeur marchande dont les contributions
macroéconomiques au développement du pays (emplois, exportations, valeur ajoutée…) sont aujourd’hui
en net recul depuis quelques années.
La surexploitation des pêcheries côtières du Sénégal a des impacts importants sur la pauvreté rurale, la
sécurité alimentaire et la croissance macro-économique.
Les impacts sociaux se reflètent déjà dans le nombre de pêcheurs sénégalais qui vont grossir les rangs des
émigrants sénégalais (y compris de jeunes pêcheurs) qui regagnent l’Espagne et l’Europe en général par
mer.
Le présent projet qui vise à s’attaquer aux menaces pesant sur la pêche et les stocks halieutiques côtiers
du Sénégal a été conçu pour être complémentaire au projet de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et
Côtières (GIRMaC) ainsi que les initiatives d’autres bailleurs de fonds tels que le Japon et l’Union
Européenne. Pour freiner la surexploitation des ressources, le projet vise à reconstituer les stocks
d’espèces démersales côtières, par l’extension de la cogestion des pêcheries côtières et par la mise en
place de divers instruments de réhabilitation des écosystèmes marins côtiers dégradés (implantation de
récifs artificiels, promotion de Zones de Pêche Protégées) dont dépendent les stocks exploités ainsi que


                                                   46
des mécanismes d’incitation commerciale tels que l’éco-certification des pêcheries et la labellisation des
produits halieutiques.

    1.1. Contexte à la phase de conception et d’évaluation préalable
Le projet « Gestion durable des ressources halieutiques du Sénégal », complémentaire du projet GIRMaC,
permettra : i) d’aider le gouvernement à procéder aux importants remaniements de politique engagés dans
le cadre du projet GIRMaC, en travaillant avec d’autres bailleurs de fonds pour aider les pouvoirs publics
à appliquer la Lettre de politique sectorielle récemment adoptée, et ii) d’élargir la portée des activités
pilotes de cogestion des pêcheries côtières exécutées au titre du projet GIRMaC. Ce projet permettrait en
outre à la Banque mondiale d’aider le gouvernement à promouvoir d’autres moyens de subsistance dans
certaines communautés de pêcheurs afin de soulager les pressions exercées sur les ressources et de
remédier à certaines des graves difficultés sociales que connaît le secteur en constituant un «fonds de
reconversion des pêcheurs». Ce fonds, initialement prévu par le projet GIRMaC, n’a pu être créé faute de
financements suffisants sur les fonds IDA; la Banque mondiale s’est donc engagée à financer ces activités
(pour permettre au gouvernement de respecter les principes de sauvegarde applicables au projet GIRMaC)
qui constitueraient un projet parallèle de développement communautaire. Ce projet n’a pas été réalisé
comme initialement prévu, d’où les retards dans l’acheminement des aides.
Le secteur de la pêche côtière au Sénégal se situe à l’intersection de la lutte contre la pauvreté et de la
protection de l’environnement étant donné que les stocks halieutiques et les écosystèmes qui les abritent
sont surexploités et dégradés. En conséquence, les communautés côtières de pêcheurs qui en dépendent
pour leur subsistance sont confrontées à une précarité croissante. Cette association étroite constitue l’un
des piliers de la stratégie de développement agricole et rural de la Banque mondiale pour réduire la
pauvreté en zone rurale (2002). Cette stratégie a justifié l’appui initialement apporté par la Banque aux
réformes de la gestion des pêches côtières du Sénégal au moyen des activités pilotes du projet GIRMaC,
comme elle légitime aujourd’hui la consolidation et l’expansion de ces réformes par le GDRH. Encouragé
par les résultats obtenus par le projet GIRMaC, le gouvernement a fait de la cogestion des pêcheries
côtières l’un des objectifs premiers de sa récente Lettre de Politique Sectorielle de la Pêche et de
l’Aquaculture signée en 2008. Le projet proposé, en plus du GIRMaC, permettra au gouvernement
sénégalais de promouvoir les objectifs de cogestion des pêcheries côtières dans toute la zone centrale du
littoral, de la péninsule depuis le Cap-Vert jusqu’au delta du Saloum. Il l’aidera à appliquer et à
développer les réformes amorcées par le GIRMaC pour instaurer la cogestion et contribuer à la
restauration des ressources halieutiques côtières de la zone d’intervention. Le projet proposé sera donc
aussi une activité pilote qui pourra être reproduite à plus grande échelle dans toute la zone couverte par le
projet Gestion du grand écosystème marin du courant des Canaries (projet CCLME).
Le Gouvernement du Sénégal et la Banque Mondiale ont en conséquence décidé de renforcer le
programme de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et Côtières (GIRMaC) au triple plan spatial
(extension de la cogestion), social (mise en place d’un Fonds Social commun au GIRMaC et au GDRH)
et environnemental (réhabilitation des habitats dégradés des zones côtières qui sont essentiels pour les
ressources démersales ciblées).
L’hypothèse de développement du projet, que reflète également la Lettre de Politique Sectorielle de la
Pêche et de l’Aquaculture du gouvernement sénégalais, est que l’on ne peut s’atteler à la double
problématique de la pauvreté et de la dégradation des ressources halieutiques côtières qu’en dotant les
communautés côtières des capacités nécessaires et, éventuellement, en les aidant à s’organiser (par
exemple en Comités Locaux de Pêcheurs officiellement reconnus) pour participer, aux côtés des
organismes publics (Services de pêche et ou de surveillance), à la gestion et à l’utilisation durable des
pêcheries côtières. L’idée de base est que les ménages des communautés côtières seront plus motivés pour
exploiter durablement les ressources et investir dans leur régénération s’ils en sont responsables et s’ils
ont le pouvoir de contrôler leur exploitation.




                                                     47
    1.2. Objectif de développement du projet et les indicateurs clés de performance
L’objectif double environnemental et de développement du Projet est d’habiliter les communautés de
pêcheurs dans la réduction de la pression de pêche sur les ressources halieutiques qui supportent les
pêcheries de la côte centrale du Sénégal (de la péninsule du Cap Vert au delta du Saloum). Le projet
devait atteindre ces objectifs par : i) la promotion de la cogestion des pêcheries côtières ; ii) la
contribution à la réhabilitation des écosystèmes dont elles dépendent ; et iii) l’aide octroyée aux pêcheurs
pour qu’ils s’orientent vers de nouveaux métiers et les mesures de réduction de la pauvreté au sein des
communautés cibles.
Les indicateurs de performance des résultats du projet sont définis comme suit :
    •   La taille moyenne de capture des espèces ciblées dans les sites mettant en œuvre des initiatives de
        cogestion a augmenté.
    •   Le niveau de l’effort de pêche pour les espèces ciblées dans les sites mettant en œuvre des
        initiatives de cogestion a baissé.
    •   Huit (8) nouvelles propositions de sous-projets de cogestion sont approuvées sous forme
        d’accords légaux avec le Gouvernement et sont mises en œuvre avec succès avant la fin du projet
    •   70% des villages interrogés dans les communautés associées se disent satisfaits des activités
        mises en œuvre par le projet pour reconstituer les stocks halieutiques côtiers (via les Zones de
        pêche protégées, les récifs artificiels et l’éco-certification).
    •   Chaque communauté cible a accès à un système de microcrédits et des mesures d’appui à la
        réduction de la pauvreté sont mises en œuvre au moins dans les 4 sites pilotes initiaux.

    1.3. Principaux bénéficiaires
Les bénéficiaires du Projet sont les pêcheurs et leurs familles ainsi que les autres usagers des ressources
halieutiques des sites d’intervention (mareyeurs, transformatrices …), des agents des pêches et ou de la
surveillance, etc. Pour ce qui concerne spécifiquement la pêche industrielle, les bénéficiaires indirects
sont les agents économiques de l’ensemble de la filière démersale côtière qui vont bénéficier des effets de
la baisse de la pression de pêche artisanale en zone côtière et de la réhabilitation des écosystèmes côtiers
dont dépendent les ressources exploitées plus au large.
Les bénéficiaires peuvent également être impliqués ou impactés à travers leurs organisations
professionnelles (GIE, Groupement, associations, comités, fédérations, etc.) ou leurs structures
administratives (DPM, DPSP, CRODT, etc).

    1.4. Composantes du projet
Le projet GDRH est structuré en quatre composantes comme suit :
La Composante 1 « Cogestion des pêcheries côtières » qui a pour objectif de mettre en œuvre des
systèmes de cogestion locale, afin d’améliorer la gouvernance des pêcheries côtières en vue d’assurer une
exploitation durable des ressources halieutiques. Cette composante est constituée des trois sous-
composantes suivantes :
• La promotion des initiatives locales de cogestion dans les quatre sites pilotes ;
• L’extension géographique et la consolidation de la cogestion locale des pêcheries côtières ;
• L’appui institutionnel pour la mise en place d’un système de cogestion locale des pêcheries ;
La Composante 2 « Réhabilitation des écosystèmes essentiels pour les pêcheries côtières » qui a pour
objectif de contribuer à la régénération des écosystèmes essentiels pour les pêcheries côtières, par la mise
en place de Zones de Pêche Protégées (ZPP) associées à des Récifs Artificiels, et de mesures d’incitation
commerciales contribuant à encourager la gestion durable des écosystèmes. Cette composante comprend
des quatre sous-composantes suivantes :
• Zones de Pêche Protégées (ZPP) ;
• Récifs Artificiels ;

                                                    48
•   Introduction de Droits d’Accès et Instruments de Gestion Associés ;
•   Mesures d’incitation commerciales en vue de la gestion durable des pêcheries ciblées.
La Composante 3 « Mesures d’atténuation de la pauvreté pour les communautés de pêcheurs et
appui à la reconversion des pêcheurs, des femmes transformatrices et mareyeurs » qui a pour
objectif de mettre en place des mesures destinées à atténuer la pauvreté des communautés de pêcheurs
ciblées et à compenser toute incidence négative sur elles, des initiatives locales de cogestion ou
réhabilitation des écosystèmes marins. Cette composante comprend des trois sous-composantes suivantes:
• Initiatives d’Atténuation de la pauvreté dans les communautés ciblées par le Projet ;
• Appui à la Reconversion des Pêcheurs, des Femmes transformatrices et Mareyeurs ;
• Renforcement des Capacités, Suivi-Evaluation et Communication.
La Composante 4 « Appui institutionnel pour la gestion des pêcheries, la gestion de projet et suivi et
évaluation » qui a pour objectif d’aider le Ministère en charge de la pêche à gérer et exécuter le Projet
conformément à la Lettre de Politique Sectorielle de la Pêche et de l’Aquaculture et d’assurer le suivi et
l’évaluation des résultats. Cette composante comprend des trois sous-composantes suivantes :
• Elaboration d’un Code de la Pêche Maritime et appui à la mise en œuvre de plans nationaux
    d’aménagement des pêcheries ;
• Gestion, Suivi-Evaluation du Projet ;
• Articulation du Projet avec les activités sous-régionales et régionales.

2. Facteurs affectant la mise en œuvre du Projet

    2.1. Préparation du projet, Conception et Qualité de la préparation
Le processus de préparation du projet a largement bénéficié des leçons tirées du GIRMaC. La Banque et
le Gouvernement ont ainsi mis en place deux équipes de préparation. Celle du Gouvernement a permis à
l’Unité de Coordination du projet GIRMaC et la COMO-Pêche de travailler en étroite collaboration avec
les responsables de la Direction des Pêches Maritimes (DPM). Le processus de préparation a englobé
plusieurs étapes : (i) la préparation par le Gouvernement d’une Note Conceptuelle approuvée par la
Banque, (ii) la requête du Gouvernement au FEM (31 janvier 2007) et d’un projet pour le financement
d’un PDF Bloc B sur les ressources additionnelles du Fonds pour l’Environnement Mondial (FEM)
inscrites dans le Partenariat Stratégique FAO-WWF-Banque Mondiale pour la pêche, (iii) la conduite de 9
études (Annexe 1.5.) pour appuyer la préparation (pré-évaluation, évaluation) du projet GDRH.
L’Agrément du Don FEM (GEF PPG Grant TF 090576), d’un montant de 256 740 US$, a été approuvé
par le Gouvernement en août 2007 pour une durée de 12 mois.
Le projet GDRH a été jugé conforme avec les critères d’admissibilité du Partenariat Stratégique et
satisfait les 10 principes opérationnels dudit Partenariat.
La mise en vigueur initiale, fixée au 12 septembre 2009, a été effective le 09 novembre 2009 suite à une
demande de prorogation faite par le Gouvernement en raison du retard dans l’obtention à temps de l’Avis
juridique sur l’Accord Subsidiaire entre l’Institution de Microfinance (CMS) et le GDRH.
La préparation technique du projet a été faite selon un processus participatif avec les acteurs de la pêche
artisanale dans les sites potentiels et l’administration déconcentrée des pêches et de la surveillance. Cette
démarche a été renforcée avec les ateliers de partage des études préparatoires réalisées et les visites de
sites (Petite Côte, région de Dakar, etc.). Les risques d’impacts négatifs du projet ont été identifiés et les
mesures de mitigation définies et prises en considération. Le GDRH tire les enseignements du projet
GIRMaC, et affine l’hypothèse de développement fondée sur la cogestion des ressources par les
communautés côtières pour aider les pouvoirs publics à développer la contribution du secteur halieutique
à la croissance économique et enrayer la surpêche et les graves dégradations environnementales prévalant
dans certaines zones. Il devrait permettre de consolider et d’étendre les succès du GIRMaC en matière de
cogestion mais également de procéder à l’essai de nouveaux outils visant à restaurer les pêcheries côtières,
tels que la création d’aires de conservation pour la pêche, des démarches fondées sur le jeu du marché

                                                     49
pour promouvoir la gestion durable des ressources (éco-certification/labellisation des produits de la
pêche), l’implantation de récifs artificiels, et d’autres encore. Comme le projet GIRMaC, le GDRH
utilisera un fonds de reconversion professionnelle mis en place par le gouvernement pour attribuer des
subventions globales et des micro-financements à des communautés sélectionnées, aider les pêcheurs
intéressés à se tourner vers des métiers nouveaux et atténuer ainsi les pressions exercées sur les ressources.

    2.2. Mise en œuvre
Le projet GDRH n’a pas connu de revue à mi-parcours comme le GIRMaC. Toutefois, les principaux
changements intervenus dans l’expertise technique de la COMO-Pêche concernent (i) le recrutement d’un
spécialiste national en cogestion (SCOPE) avant la date de mise en vigueur du projet en remplacement du
spécialiste international (SICOPE) qui a démarré le processus de cogestion dans le cadre du GIRMaC, et
(ii) le recrutement d’un nouveau spécialiste en suivi-évaluation dès janvier 2010.
      2.3. Conception, mise en œuvre et utilisation du système de suivi-évaluation (S&E)
Le projet GDRH, jusqu’à sa clôture, n’a pas bénéficié d’un système de suivi-évaluation conçu, validé et
mise en œuvre. La principale conséquence est le manque de suivi des indicateurs du projet, notamment
dans les sites initiaux où se sont poursuivies les activités de cogestion initiées dans le cadre du projet
GIRMaC.
      2.4. Conformité et respect des procédures fiduciaires et de sauvegarde.
        2.4.1. Problèmes rencontrés dans les procédures fiduciaires
La passation des marchés du GDRH a connu des contreperformances handicapantes, liées notamment à
une mauvaise option du Gouvernement et de la Banque Mondiale, de démarrer la mise en œuvre du
projet, avec un Spécialiste en Passation de Marché recruté à temps partiel, et dont la durée de
l’intervention (1 jour par semaine) était sans commune mesure avec le volume des marchés à pourvoir,
surtout au tout début du projet, à la fois pour satisfaire les conditions de mise en vigueur, les conditions de
décaissement, et les engagements datés. Malheureusement, le GDRH a cheminé avec cette option durant
huit mois, à compter de la date de mise en vigueur du projet, coïncidant avec la période de démarrage où
les besoins en passation des marchés sont énormes et se posent quotidiennement. Ce temps de présence
trop limité du Spécialiste en Passation de Marché combiné aux lourdeurs consécutives à la double
application des procédures nationales et de la Banque Mondiale, se sont traduits dans la passation des
marchés, par des lenteurs qui ont gravement perturbé la bonne mise en œuvre du Projet GDRH.
Par ailleurs, pour un projet qui a seulement trois années d’existence, le GDRH a connu deux (2)
spécialistes en passation des marchés (SPM), deux coordonnateurs de projet et deux responsables
fiduciaires (Directeur des Pêches Maritimes). Ce faisant, les délais de sélection et de remplacement des
spécialistes en passation des marchés (SPM) ont beaucoup freiné l’évolution du projet.
La sélection de l’Institution d’Appui Technique (IAT) illustre toutes ces difficultés. En effet, la sélection
de l’IAT, condition de mise en vigueur du projet GDRH, n’a été effective qu’en juillet 2011 avec
l’approbation du contrat par la DCMP et le Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances de la République du
Sénégal. Pourtant, c’est en janvier 2009 que la procédure de sélection de l’IAT a débuté avec la
publication de l’Avis général de passation des marchés dans le DG Market et une sollicitation de
manifestations d’intérêt parue dans le quotidien national « Le Soleil » du 15 janvier 2009. Mais, une fois
conduite à terme, cette première procédure a été rejetée par la Direction Centrale des Marchés publics
(DCMP) pour violation des articles 29 et 138 du Code des marchés publics, puis annulée par une
Décision (N° 012/010/ARMP/CRD du 02 février 2010) de l’Autorité de Régulation des Marchés publics
(ARMP), suite à une demande de régularisation introduite par la DPM le 1er décembre 2009, par courrier
n° 1425/DPM/MGN/YB. Ce faisant, la procédure de sélection de l’IAT a été reprise une seconde fois
avec une nouvelle sollicitation de manifestations d’intérêt (Quotidien « Le Soleil » du 29 avril 2010).
Avec le recrutement d’un nouveau spécialiste en passation des marchés à temps plein, en novembre 2010,
le contrat de l’IAT a pu être approuvé en juillet 2011.


                                                      50
De manière générale, l’avènement du Code des marchés publics et les cadres institutionnels chargés de sa
mise en œuvre (DCMP, ARMP, Commissions et Cellules de passation des marchés, etc.), s’est traduit
par la mise en vigueur de procédures nationales de passation des marchés avec l’intervention de cellules
de passation qui ne maitrisaient pas toujours les procédures applicables. Le respect des procédures
nationales et celles de la Banque Mondiale rallongent encore les délais de contractualisation, notamment
dans le cas des firmes. La contractualisation de la firme WWF WAMER a ainsi connu un retard
énorme (12 mois): elle a eu lieu en mai-juin 2011 au lieu de mai-juin 2010 comme initialement planifié
dans le projet.
Les procédures de gestion financière, y compris les DRF, ont occasionné moins de contraintes et sont plus
régulièrement améliorées que la passation des marchés.

        2.4.2. Problèmes rencontrés dans les procédures de sauvegarde environnementale et
             sociale
Pour la prise en charge des mesures de sauvegarde sociale dans le Projet de Gestion Durable des
Ressources Halieutiques (GDRH), une composante 3 intitulée « Mesures d’atténuation de la pauvreté
pour les communautés de pêcheurs et Appui à la Reconversion des Pêcheurs, des Femmes
Transformatrices et Mareyeurs » a été instituée. Financé par un Fonds de Reconversion des Artisans
Pêcheurs (FRAP) d’un montant de 3 500 000 $ US (soit 1575 000 000 F CFA), cette composante devait
mettre en œuvre, dans 12 sites de cogestion ciblées, y compris dans les 4 sites pilotes initiaux qui
n’avaient pas bénéficié de mesures de sauvegarde sociale, quatre catégories d’activités à caractère social
(i) des activités génératrices de revenus (AGR), (ii) des activités d’appui à la commercialisation d’espèces
halieutiques cogérées, (iii) des mesures sociales intérimaires en faveur des femmes affectées par la
cogestion de la crevette côtière dans le Delta du Saloum, et (iv) des activités de microcrédits pour la
reconversion des acteurs de la pêche et l’entreprenariat féminin.
Hormis les réalisations effectuées dans les 4 sites pilotes, où des sous-projets d’AGR (ferme avicole,
quincailleries maritimes, campement touristique), des sous-projets d’appui à la commercialisation (fonds
d’appui à la commercialisation, camion frigorifique, point de collecte de la crevette) et des mesures
sociales intérimaires (appuis à des groupements de femmes vendeuses de produits halieutiques
transformés) ont été concrètement mis en œuvre en faveur des communautés de pêcheurs, aucune de ces
mesures de sauvegarde sociale, n’a pu être effectivement implantée dans les 8 sites du GDRH à la fin du
projet, quand bien même les processus structurants les concernant ont-ils été bouclés depuis. Cela
s’explique par les diverses raisons suivantes :
Pour les AGR, les sous-projets identifiés et élaborés en faveur des 8 sites du GDRH (Soumbédioune,
Bargny, Yenne, Nianing, Pointe Sarène, Mballing, Fimela, Mbodiène) ont obtenu l’avis de non objection
de la Banque Mondiale (BioMarine 379) depuis juillet 2011, mais leur mise en œuvre était suspendue au
déroulement du processus de cogestion locale, qui n’avait pas beaucoup évolué dans ces sites.
Pour le fonds de microcrédits d’un montant de 600 000 000 F CFA (dont 50 millions de F CFA d’appui
institutionnel à la DPM), il avait été mis à la disposition du Crédit Mutuel du Sénégal (CMS) en janvier
2011 sur la base d’un protocole de partenariat signé le 26 mai 2010. Cependant, du fait des problèmes
rencontrés dans les procédures de passation des marchés pour la sélection de l’Institution d’Appui
Technique (IAT) en entreprenariat et en gestion de micro-entreprises (voir paragraphe sur les problèmes
rencontrés dans les procédures fiduciaires), aucun microprojet de reconversion ou d’entreprenariat
féminin n’a pu être financé à la fin du projet. Même si, entre octobre 2011 (date de son installation
effective sur les sites) et mars 2012 (période qui correspond à la tenue de la revue fiduciaire de la Banque
Mondiale ayant recommandé le recouvrement du fonds de microcrédit des livres du CMS pour un
montant global de 735 526 000 F CFA), l’IAT a eu à mener tout une série d’activités (formation et
installation des animateurs de l’IAT, installation et formation des Comités locaux de microcrédit,
sensibilisation et information des acteurs, enquêtes sur les créneaux porteurs, sélection de 1703
bénéficiaires éligibles) ayant abouti à l’élaboration, au profit des bénéficiaires éligibles, de près de 42
dossiers de microprojets à soumettre pour financement au niveau des caisses du CMS.


                                                    51
Pour l’appui à la commercialisation des espèces cogérées, l’identification et l’élaboration des sous-
projets devaient être réalisées avec l’appui d’un consultant spécialisé dans la commercialisation des
produits agro-alimentaires. Cependant, ce consultant n’a jamais été sélectionné, parce qu’il devait
intervenir après l’élaboration des sous-projets de cogestion locale, pour accompagner leur mise en œuvre
dans les 8 sites du GDRH. Alors que ces sous-projets en question, n’ont jamais étaient validés.


    2.5. Opération post-achèvement/Phase suivante.
La Banque Mondiale a donné un avis favorable pour l’intégration des activités de la composante 2 du
GDRH, relative à la réhabilitation des écosystèmes côtiers, dans le projet PRAO-SN en cours de
restructuration. En conséquence, le contrat signé entre la DPM et la firme WWF-WAMER sera poursuivi,
par voie d’Avenant, dans le cadre de la nouvelle convention de financement.

3. Evaluation des résultats.
    3.1. Pertinence des Objectifs, de la Conception et de la Mise en Œuvre
•   Cohérence du Programme avec les politiques nationales de Pêche et d’Environnement
    et celles de la Banque mondiale
L’analyse des composantes 1 et 2 du Projet GDRH et de leurs sous-composantes montre qu’elles
s’inscrivent toutes dans l’une ou l’autre des objectifs stratégiques de développement de la pêche ainsi que
des politiques environnementales du Gouvernement.

Ce projet contribue directement à la stratégie de croissance accélérée du gouvernement sénégalais qui
veut faire de la pêche l’un des principaux moteurs de la croissance économique en favorisant
l’exploitation durable des ressources et la réalisation de valeur ajoutée. Pour faciliter la réalisation des
objectifs de la stratégie de croissance accélérée, le gouvernement a préparé en 2008 une Lettre de
Politique Sectorielle de la Pêche et de l’Aquaculture ainsi qu’un plan d’action pour sa mise en œuvre
pendant la période 2008–2010. Il a sollicité l’appui de la communauté de bailleurs de fonds pour
l’application de ce plan d’action. Tout comme le projet GIRMaC, le GDRH répond à cette demande en
appuyant l’un des grands axes et objectifs du plan, à savoir la reconstitution des pêcheries côtières par
l’introduction de systèmes de cogestion reposant sur divers outils dont l’implantation de récifs artificiels
et des mesures d’incitation commerciale tels que l’éco-certification des produits halieutiques.
Le projet apporte une réponse directe aux défis identifiés dans l’avant-projet de Stratégie d'aide-pays
(CAS), pour l’exercice 07-10, dont le grand axe «Croissance accélérée/création de richesse/renforcement
des grands facteurs de croissance » — prévoit une réalisation portant sur la « promotion du
développement durable et de la gestion des ressources naturelles », les ressources halieutiques étant les
premières citées. Compte tenu de cette situation, la Banque a maintenu son soutien au secteur de la pêche
et que « les aides financières apportées par le FEM au titre du projet Gestion durable de la pêche
permettront à la Banque de renforcer la réglementation régissant l’accès aux ressources halieutiques, et
d’appuyer la décision présidentielle visant à créer 10 nouvelles aires marines protégées ».

Les activités de gestion durable de la pêche, appuyées par le projet, s’inscrivent en droite ligne de
l’Objectif Stratégique n° 1 du FEM « Eaux Internationales » et plus particulièrement le Programme
Stratégique n° 1: « Restaurer et soutenir les stocks de poissons côtiers et marins et diversité biologique
associée ». De façon spécifique, le projet permettra au Sénégal de travailler avec les pêcheurs artisanaux
pour mettre en œuvre des réformes de gestion des pêcheries et des habitats, comme les plans de cogestion,
ou des zones de pêche protégées (i.e. réserves marines), ce qui permettra au pays de s’attaquer au
problème de la surexploitation des pêcheries et stocks de poissons transfrontaliers.

L’appui du FEM (Partenariat Stratégique) permettra également de renforcer le réseau d’aires de
conservation pour la pêche au Sénégal. La participation à la cogestion des communautés locales vivant
sur leur pourtour ou à proximité contribuera à la stabilité du réseau, à la réalisation de l’objectif et des

                                                    52
résultats clés du Partenariat stratégique pour un fonds d’investissement pour l’appui d’une pêche
écologiquement viable dans les grands écosystèmes marins d’Afrique subsaharienne.


•   Pertinence des objectifs et des orientations stratégiques du Projet
Les objectifs de développement et en matière d’environnement assignés au Projet sont en phase avec les
réformes indispensables pour juguler à court et moyen termes la crise environnementale, sociale et
économique du secteur, notamment les pêcheries démersales côtières. En effet, l’expérience des
investissements et des leçons apprises dans le cadre du projet GIRMaC a permis d’acquérir une base
solide à partir de laquelle elle peut continuer d’appuyer la mise en œuvre des réformes.
Pour asseoir et consolider les réformes sectorielles à entreprendre, le gouvernement a finalisé et approuvé
en 2008 une Lettre de Politique Sectorielle de la Pêche et de l’Aquaculture ainsi qu’un plan d’action pour
sa mise en œuvre pendant la période 2008–2010. Les investissements du projet sont également en phase
avec l’axe stratégique portant sur la gouvernance des pêcheries, la reconstitution des ressources
halieutiques et la réhabilitation des écosystèmes marins.

      3.2. Réalisation des Objectifs de développement du projet et des Objectifs Globaux
           environnementaux

Pour la composante 1 : Le projet GDRH, qui vise à redresser les tendances de baisse pesant sur la pêche
et les stocks halieutiques côtiers du Sénégal, a été conçu pour compléter le projet GIRMaC. Il contribue, à
travers la promotion des initiatives locales de cogestion au niveau des quatre sites pilotes initiaux, à
l’élargissement de la portée des activités pilotes de cogestion des pêcheries côtières exécutées au titre du
projet GIRMaC.
La mise en œuvre des initiatives de cogestion s’est poursuivie dans les quatre sites pilotes initiaux de
cogestion du GIRMaC avec le renforcement des acquis en termes de cohésion sociale et la participation
des communautés regroupées en comités locaux de pêcheurs (CLP). Les résultats enregistrés dans la
restauration des ressources dans les aires de cogestion, notamment à Ngaparou, ont conduit à une
augmentation de l’effort de surveillance du fait des incursions des embarcations de braconniers cherchant
à pêcher illégalement dans les zones protégées où se concentrent d’importantes quantités de ressources
halieutiques. De nombreux conflits (entre acteurs ou entre acteurs et administration) ont résulté du succès
obtenu dans les sites de cogestion. .Les villages voisins des sites pilotes de cogestion manifestent une
grande volonté pour bénéficier d’une extension dans leurs localités des initiatives de cogestion en cours.
Plusieurs actions ont été ainsi réalisées par les CLP des sites pilotes initiaux de cogestion pour informer,
sensibiliser et partager leurs résultats de la cogestion avec les villages voisins. Les CLPA concernés par
les sites pilotes initiaux œuvrent à l’extension des initiatives via les plans de gestion consolidés des
pêcheries. Les deux sites pilotes du Saloum, Foundiougne et Bétenty, ont proposé chacun une nouvelle
initiative de cogestion devant compléter la gestion de la crevette côtière entamée avec l’initiative en cours,
confirmant ainsi leur ferme volonté d’avancer vers une gestion durable de l’ensemble de leurs pêcheries.
La mise en œuvre de ces deux nouvelles initiatives pourrait être prise en considération lors de
l’établissement des plans de gestion des pêcheries prévus dans le PRAO-SN.
Les huit nouveaux sites de cogestion ont été confirmés dans un rapport technique. Il s’agit de
Soumbédioune, Bargny et Yenne pour la région de Dakar, Mballing, Nianing, Pointe Sarène et Mbodiène
pour la région de Thiès et Fimela-Ndangane pour la région de Fatick.
Huit animateurs communautaires ont été recrutés pour ces sites selon un processus participatif, et leur
capacité théorique renforcée dans les thématiques de la cogestion des pêcheries et de la participation
communautaire. Ils ont été ensuite officiellement installés dans leurs sites d’affection par les autorités.
Les communautés des huit nouveaux sites de cogestion ont été organisées en CLP administrativement
reconnus. Des rencontres techniques successives ont permis aux acteurs de chaque site d’identifier une
initiative de cogestion d’une pêcherie d’importance économique et représentative du site. Les initiatives
de cogestion des sites localisés dans la région de Dakar ciblent le mérou blanc (Epinephelus aenus) et ses
                                                     53
espèces associées. Celles retenues par les sites situés sur la Petite-Côte s’orientent vers la restauration des
ressources en langouste verte côtière (Panilurus regius) et le renforcement de la cogestion du poulpe
(Octopus vulgaris) et du cymbium (Cymbium spp.) conduite par des projets antérieurs (JICA). L’initiative
du nouveau site du Saloum cible principalement la crevette blanche côtière (Penaeus notialis) mais
s’intéresse aussi à la protection des juvéniles et jeunes du mérou blanc (thiof) et des tilapies (cyclidae).
Lesdites initiatives ont été complétées par leurs mesures d’accompagnement (surveillance participative,
sensibilisation, recherche participative, suivi-évaluation). Les huit documents de sous projets, en attente
de validation par la DPM, les CLP élargis, les CLPA et le CNCPM, seront mis en œuvre dans le cadre du
PRAO-SN.
Pour la composante 2 : A la clôture du projet GDRH, la firme WWF WAMER, chargée des activités de
réhabilitation des écosystèmes, n’aura réalisé que 10 mois de travail effectif dans les sites d’intervention
(de septembre 2010 à juin 2011). Les activités conduites avec les communautés, y compris la mise en
œuvre d’un plan de communication, ont permis de renforcer la prise de conscience des communautés des
8 nouveaux sites notamment dans les domaines relatifs à la réhabilitation des écosystèmes marins côtiers
dont dépendent les communautés côtières comme moyens d’existence. Ce travail sera poursuivi dans le
contexte du PRAO-SN.
Les résultats du projet et des composantes sont indiqués à l’Annexe 3 (cadre des résultats).

      3.3. Thèmes généraux, Autres résultats et Impacts
(a) Impacts sur la pauvreté, Aspects genre, et Développement social
    •   Dans les 4 sites de la Petite Côte, un intérêt particulier est porté à la gestion du Cymbium (Yeet)
        par les acteurs nonobstant leur volonté de restaurer les ressources en langouste verte côtière. En
        effet, traditionnellement, le premier maillon du segment post-capture (la première vente et la
        transformation artisanale) du yeet est le fait des femmes pour la plupart. Quelques rares hommes
        interviennent dans le segment post-capture, notamment au niveau du mareyage, confirmant
        l’importance du genre dans la pêche du yeet.
    •   Le développement d'AGRs dans les 4 sites pilotes a impulsé une nouvelle dynamique sociale
        avec le développement des capacités d’autofinancement de la communauté, facilitant ainsi des
        actions sociales envers les familles les plus vulnérables à la pauvreté.
    •   Dans des sites comme Foundiougne, les ressources dégagées par la quincaillerie maritime, ont
        permis au CLP d’appuyer annuellement les familles des pêcheurs pendant le repos biologique, à
        travers la distribution de vivres, pour un montant cumulé à ce jour, de 5 050 000 F CFA. C’est
        également le cas à Ngaparou, où beaucoup d’actions sociales ont été conduites en faveur des
        membres du CLP jugés vulnérables, grâce aux ressources dégagées par la quincaillerie maritime.
    •   Dans les sites pilotes de pêche où elles sont mises en œuvre, les 4 sous-projets d’AGR appuyés
        par le projet GDRH, ont permis de créer une dizaine d’emplois directs avec des rémunérations
        fixes et régulières dont certaines ont atteint 80 000 F CFA par mois.
    •   Dans certains sites comme Ngaparou, l’appui à la commercialisation par le Fonds de
        Reconversion du Projet a solutionné les problèmes d’écoulement des produits.
    •   L’intervention du projet dans des sites comme Bétenty, a permis à d’ex-femmes transformatrices
        de la petite crevette, de s’organiser en groupements de quartiers pour renforcer leurs moyens
        d’existence, en transportant, grâce à l’appui des fonds du FRAP du GDRH, des produits
        transformés dans leur localité, vers des marchés plus rémunérateurs comme ceux de Dakar. Ce
        faisant, elles se sont senties moins vulnérables et plus à même de prendre leur destin en main.
    •   La forte représentation des femmes dans les instances des CLP, dont certaines occupent même
        des postes de responsabilités, témoigne de la prise en compte de l’approche genre dans la mise en
        œuvre de la cogestion locale. Il en est de même de l’approche intergénérationnelle, dans la
        mesure où, l’équilibre de ces organisations de base tient surtout dans leur composition, qui prend
        en compte, aussi bien les jeunes pêcheurs, les anciens que les notabilités locales.

                                                      54
    •   En permettant aux communautés de pêcheurs d’être sensibilisées sur leur présent et leur devenir,
        en leur donnant les capacités techniques et les moyens matériels et financiers de s’organiser pour
        prendre elles-mêmes à bras-le-corps la problématique de la gestion durable des ressources
        halieutiques, le GDRH, même s’il n’est récompensé par aucun résultat physique sur les sites, a le
        mérite d’y rompre l’attentisme pour créer une dynamique collective d’auto-prise en charge des
        problèmes locaux.
(b) Changement Institutionnel/renforcement (particulièrement avec référence aux impacts
    sur la capacité à long-terme et le développement institutionnel)
Par rapport au GIRMaC, l’approche de cogestion du GDRH a bénéficié d’une avancée technique dans la
conception des initiatives dans les huit sites de cogestion, notamment au plan institutionnel et financier.
    • D’une manière générale, le modèle de cogestion promu par le GDRH devait être fondé sur la mise
        en place de Comités Locaux de Pêcheurs (CLP) au sein des communautés, reconnus sur le plan
        juridique comme des associations de droit privé, et les Conseils Locaux de Pêche Artisanale
        (CLPA) comme organes du Gouvernement opérant à l’échelle de plusieurs communautés. Plus
        spécifiquement, les CLP sont définis comme entités de droit privé de pêcheurs établies par les
        communautés. Les CLPA sont définis comme des conseils locaux, composés de représentants
        locaux de l’administration, des élus, des notables, des pêcheurs artisans, des associations de
        pêcheurs artisans (CLP), des transformateurs, des mareyeurs et des aquaculteurs. Les CLPA sont
        susceptibles de réunir les représentants de plusieurs CLP, et chargés de fournir des avis au
        Ministre en charge des pêches sur des mesures de gestion et de conservation des ressources
        halieutiques.
    •   Dans le cas du GDRH, les CLP ont assumé de nouvelles fonctions d’appui aux initiatives de
        cogestion, particulièrement sous-tendant la recherche de sources alternatives de revenus et la
        réduction de la pauvreté appuyées par la composante 3 du projet. Ainsi les CLP joueront un rôle
        central en travaillant avec leurs communautés pour identifier les participants et bénéficiaires des
        microcrédits et activités alternatives génératrices de revenus (AGR). Les CLP aideront également
        au suivi des progrès de ces initiatives et joueront un rôle important par s’assurer que les
        bénéficiaires de ces programmes sont respectueux des termes de leurs accords et aussi des
        accords de cogestion des communautés. Cela est une garantie supplémentaire d’impacts à plus
        long terme pour la lutte contre la pauvreté et donc pour le maintien des stocks renouvelés.
    •   Le GDRH promeut ainsi une approche plus intégrative des activités clés et parties prenantes du
        processus d’identification des initiatives locale de cogestion. Le processus d’identification des
        acteurs négativement impactés par les initiatives (les bénéficiaires des mesures sociales de la
        composante 3) interviendra concomitamment à l’identification des initiatives de cogestion et en
        présence de toutes les parties prenantes concernées. Il en est de même des besoins en recherches
        participatives.

    •   Le seuil financier initial par sous-projet est fixé à 100 000 000 F CFA (équivalant à 4 initiatives
        de cogestion du GIRMaC, à raison de 27 500 000 F CFA par initiative), et celui-ci pourra
        augmenter de 50 000 000 F CFA si la mise en œuvre du précédent sous-projet du CLP s’est
        avérée satisfaisante.
Ces changements institutionnels et financiers ont eu comme objectif de mettre en place un modèle de
cogestion locale plus robuste et plus participatif que dans le cas du projet GIRMaC.

(c) Autres résultats et Impacts inattendus (positifs ou négatifs)
L’un des principaux impacts inattendus du GDRH est l’exacerbation des conflits entre autochtones et
allochtones dans les sites où la cogestion locale a contribué à l’accroissement de l’abondance des
ressources halieutiques de la zone côtière.
Dans un site comme Ngaparou, où l’abondance de la langouste et d’espèces pélagiques d’intérêt
commercial a été notée, les membres du CLP sont quotidiennement confrontés à des incursions de
                                                    55
pirogues venant d’autres sites pour exploiter l’aire de cogestion. Cette situation démontre toute l’urgence
et la pertinence de mettre en place un système de régulation de l’accès à la ressource dans le dispositif de
gestion de la pêche artisanale maritime sénégalaise.

4. Evaluation de Risques aux Résultats de Développement et Résultats Globaux
   environnementaux
L’évaluation des risques est indiquée à l’Annexe 1.1.

5. Evaluation de la Performance de la Banque et de l’Emprunteur

        5.1. Performance de la Banque
    La Performance globale de la Banque Mondiale a été jugée satisfaisante (Annexe1.2.).

        5.2. Performance de l’Emprunteur
    La Performance globale de l’Emprunteur a été jugée modérément satisfaisante (Annexe 1.3.).

6. Leçons tirées
Les leçons tirées du projet GDRH (composantes 1, 2 et 3) et sur les performances de la Banque et de
l’Emprunteur sont indiquées à l’Annexe 1.4. /-




                                                    56
Annexe 1.1. - Evaluation de Risques majeurs et aspects pouvant donner lieu à controverse

            Risques                   Notation du risque à Mesures d’atténuation du risque et
                                     la fin du Projet      commentaires à la fin du Projet
Risques concernant l’objectif
de développement
Capacité de mise en œuvre :                                 La COMO-pêche a été maintenue
La structure institutionnelle de                            pour la gestion du GDRH, ses
gestion recommandée lors de la                              capacités     techniques renforcées
revue à mi-parcours du projet             Satisfaisant      (affectation de 2 experts par arrêtés
GIRMaC n’a pas été retenue                                  ministériels). Les      responsabilités
pour le GDRH, et les pouvoirs                               techniques et fiduciaires du projet
d’administration des initiatives                            GDRH        ont     été    entièrement
locales de cogestion ne sont pas                            transférées à la Direction des Pêches
confiés au Ministère de                                     Maritimes (qui assure la tutelle de la
l’Economie Maritime.                                        COMO-Pêche).

Social : Le projet n’a pu mettre                            Le projet a mis en place à travers le
en place un mécanisme ayant                                 FRAP, plusieurs instruments de
spécifiquement pour objet                                   mitigation des impacts sociaux
d’atténuer le risque social (i) en        Satisfaisant      négatifs des mesures de gestion des
indemnisant les pêcheurs et                                 ressources    halieutiques :   AGR,
leurs familles en raison de leurs                           microcrédit d’entreprenariat féminin,
pertes de revenus ou de                                     microcrédit de reconversion, divers
l’érosion de leurs moyens de                                appuis      destinés     à     mieux
subsistance et (ii) en les                                  commercialiser       les     produits
encourageant à se reconvertir                               halieutiques cogérés, financement de
vers de nouveaux métiers.                                   groupements de femmes.


Risques concernant les
résultats par composante
Composante 1 :

Les pouvoirs publics ne mettent
pas en place les Conseils
Locaux de Pêche Artisanale
(CLPA) dans les zones                                       CLPA en place avec des arrêtés
d’intervention du projet et              Insatisfaisant     ministériels de création signés, appui
n’assurent pas le bon                                       au fonctionnement inexistant (sauf
fonctionnement de ceux                                      autres bailleurs) d’où des CLPA non
existants, exacerbant ainsi les                             fonctionnels, c’est à dire des
conflits et autres difficultés                              instances ne pouvant pas remplir
entre communautés et sites de                               correctement       leurs     missions
pêche voisins.                                              statutaires.

Composante 2 :                                              Ce risque n’a pu être totalement
Absence de reconnaissance par                               atténué dans certains sites comme le
le MEM des activités de gestion                             site pilote de Ngaparou où le projet a
conduites dans les sites pilotes                            enregistré des résultats positifs du
pour reconstituer les pêcheries                             projet GIRMaC sur l’abondance des
                                                    57
côtières et manque de moyens                              ressources démersales (langouste)..
nécessaires aux communautés                               De nombreuses incursions de pêche
concernées pour faire respecter      Modérément           illégale sont de plus en plus notées
les mesures de gestion locale        satisfaisant         dans l’aire de cogestion occasionnant
par les pêcheurs extérieurs.                              des conflits entre le CLP du site et les
                                                          pêcheurs migrants fautifs.           Le
                                                          manque de coordination dans le suivi
                                                          des infractions risque d’impacter
                                                          négativement sur les performances de
                                                          la cogestion.
Composante 3 :                                            Le projet a sélectionné une IMF
Pour réduire les risques de                               (CMS), avec qui il a négocié un taux
défaillance, le projet ne dispose                         d’intérêt préférentiel pour les
pas d’une         institution de                          bénéficiaires. Des Comités locaux de
microfinance bien implantée,                              microcrédit (CLM) ont été installés
réputée et jouissant d’une solide   Très satisfaisant     sur les sites pour sélectionner les
expérience et pratiquant un taux                          bénéficiaires éligibles et le CMS
d’intérêt moins élevé pour                                s’est engagé dans l’accord de
permettre       aux      pêcheurs                         partenariat à déployer ses équipes sur
concernés d’avoir accès au                                le terrain pour recouvrer les crédits.
micro-crédit.

Composante 4 :                                            Un spécialiste en S&E a été recruté
Manque de capacité de suivi des                           dès le démarrage du projet (janvier
résultats du projet en l’absence                          2010). En l’absence d’un système de
de données pour renseigner les                            S&E assorti de protocoles, les
indicateurs du cadre des             Insatisfaisant       données collectées n’ont pas permis
résultats et indisponibilité d’un                         de suivre de manière fiable les
spécialiste en suivi-évaluation à                         résultats du projet.
temps plein pour le projet.

Notation globale du risque                                Mesures d’atténuation jugées
                                                          moyennement satisfaisantes

Niveaux de risque - H (Haut Risque), S (Risque Important), M (Risque Modéré), N (Risque Négligeable
ou Faible)




                                                58
                   Annexe 1.2. Evaluation de la Performance de la Banque

   Classement de          Notation                     Commentaires à la fin du projet.
      l’action           de l’action
Qualité de la phase de       TS          A l’initiative de la Banque Mondiale, deux équipes de
préparation                             préparation ont été mises en place et, malgré la complexité du
                                        montage du projet, la préparation a été faite dans des délais très
                                        satisfaisants (préparation et soumission d’une Note
                                        conceptuelle du projet, requête et mise en œuvre d’un projet de
                                        PDF Bloc B pour la réalisation d’une dizaine d’études (annexe
                                        1.5.), etc)
Diligence des avis de         S         Les délais des avis de non objection ont été significativement
non objection (ANO)                     réduits, notamment depuis la présence d’un expert « pêche »
                                        (Co-TTL) à la Mission Résidente de la Banque au Sénégal .
Mission de                   MS         Le caractère conjoint des missions de supervision /d’appui s’est
supervision technique                   davantage confirmé.
Mission de                              La mission d’appui de juin 2011 et surtout la revue fiduciaire
supervision de la                       de décembre 2011 ont permis de relever sans complaisance des
                             TS
gestion financière                      dépenses inéligibles d’une grande ampleur, témoignant du non
                                        respect des directives et procédures applicables.

Politiques de                           Elles sont de moins en moins prises en considération lors des
sauvegarde                              missions de supervision/d’appui. L’absence systématique d’un
                             MS
environnementale et                     spécialiste en évaluation environnementale et sociale dans
sociale                                 l’équipe de la Banque, lors des missions de supervision, en
                                        témoigne.
Politiques fiduciaires        IS        Les blocages de l’avancement des activités du fait de la
                                        passation de marchés sont faiblement pris en charge lors des
                                        audits et revues fiduciaires ; il en est de même des lourdeurs
                                        des procédures dans ce domaine. L’option de la Banque de
                                        recruter pour la COMO-Pêche un SPM à mi-temps durant les 8
                                        premiers mois de démarrage du projet ont également causé des
                                        retards importants dans l’exécution à temps de certaines
                                        activités clés du GDRH. L’absence systématique d’un
                                        spécialiste en passation de marchés dans l’équipe de la Banque,
                                        lors des missions de supervision, en témoigne.
Performances                  S         Les Performances globales de la Banque Mondiale ont été
globales de la Banque                   satisfaisantes.
Mondiale

Insatisfaisant (IS), Modérément Satisfaisant (MS), Satisfaisant (S), Très Satisfaisant (TS)




                                                 59
                  Annexe 1.3. Evaluation de la Performance de l’Emprunteur


Classement       de Notation de   Commentaires à la fin du projet.
l’action            l’action
Qualité de la            TS       A l’initiative de la Banque Mondiale, deux équipes de préparation ont
phase de                          été mises en place qui, malgré la complexité du montage du projet, la
préparation                       préparation a été faite dans des délais très satisfaisants (préparation et
                                  soumission d’une Note conceptuelle du projet, requête et mise en
                                  œuvre d’un projet de PDF Bloc B pour la réalisation d’une dizaine
                                  d’études (Annexe 1.5.), etc) De même, la Gestion des fonds du PPG
                                  ont été gérés de manière très satisfaisante avec un taux de
                                  décaissement de près de 98%).
Mise à                    IS       Les fonds de contrepartie du projet ont été inscrits dans les BCI
disposition des                   annuels mis en place par l’Etat mais leur mobilisation a été irrégulière
fonds de                          notamment pour ce qui concerne le paiement des indemnités dues aux
contrepartie                      fonctionnaires impliqués dans la mise en œuvre du projet. Les
nationale                         niveaux atteints sont toujours non motivants par les bénéficiaires. Lle
                                  décret 90-600, devenu obsolète, devait être modifié depuis plusieurs
                                  années.
Gestion de la             IS      La mise en œuvre du GDRH a été jalonnée de nombreux
tutelle                           changements institutionnels intervenus au niveau de la Direction des
administrative                    Pêches Maritimes, de la DPSP et de la COMO-Pêche, ce qui a eu un
                                  impact sur la rapidité d’exécution de certaines activités.
Gestion de la             IS      La coordination technique des composantes a connu des défaillances
tutelle technique                 liées au management de la COMO-Pêche.
des composantes
Performances             MS       Les Performances globales de l’Emprunteur ont été modérément
globales de                       satisfaisantes.
l’Emprunteur

Insatisfaisant (IS), Modérément Satisfaisant (MS) Satisfaisant (S), Très Satisfaisant (TS)




                                                  60
SUR LA PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE
•   Les avantages comparatifs de la Banque mondiale en matière d’appui à la pêche et aux communautés
    de pêcheurs des zones côtières du Sénégal ont facilité le montage de ce projet dans des délais
    satisfaisants. Ces avantages tiennent à plusieurs facteurs :
         i)      le travail économique et sectoriel de qualité (Senegal Fisheries ESW, 2004) ;
         ii)      le dialogue de politique générale engagée avec les partenaires financiers pour faciliter la
                 mise en œuvre des réformes nécessaires dans la gestion des pêches côtières ;
         iii)     la coprésidence du groupe des bailleurs de fonds intervenant dans le secteur sénégalais
                 de la pêche ;
         iv)      le poids nécessaire pour réunir les parties concernées à l’échelon local et national, et
                 pour rechercher des consensus; et,
         v)      l’expérience des investissements et des leçons apprises dans le cadre du projet GIRMaC
                 qui, en dépit de ses imperfections, a permis d’acquérir une base solide à partir de laquelle
                 elle peut continuer d’appuyer la mise en œuvre des réformes.
•   La Banque Mondiale a ainsi joué un rôle important dans la préparation du u Projet, notamment lors de
    la préparation de la Note Conceptuelle du projet, la préparation du projet de PDF Bloc B, la
    coordination, le suivi et la validation des études de base conduites ainsi que la gestion des fonds de
    préparation (GEF PPG DON n° TF 090576 de 256 740 US$)
•   Le sentiment globalement partagé est que le retard dans la mise en œuvre effective des activités est dû
    en grande partie à des lenteurs observées dans les procédures de passation de marchés de la Banque
    (situation d’avant restructuration) mais également, et en plus, dans celles à dérouler au niveau
    national (situation d’après restructuration).
•   Le financement par le Crédit IDA de la Revue des Dépenses Publiques, initialement prévu sur les
    fonds PHRD, a été de nature à réduire substantiellement les fonds du Projet.
•   Il en est de même du Fonds Social qui n’a pu être pris en charge par un organisme approprié de même
    nature que l’AFDS. Les procédures internes de la Banque n’ont pas permis le financement par le
    Fonds Japonais de Développement Social (JSDF)./

SUR LA PERFORMANCE DE L’EMPRUNTEUR
•   Le gouvernement du Sénégal a également joué un rôle important dans le montage du Projet,
    notamment lors de la préparation de la Note Conceptuelle du projet, la préparation du projet de PDF
    Bloc B, la coordination, le suivi et la validation des études de base conduites ainsi que la gestion des
    fonds de préparation (GEF PPG don n° TF 090576 de 256 740 US$)
•   Le faible taux de décaissement des crédits alloués à la composante 2 (8% environ) est dû au retard
    enregistré dans la contractualisation définitive avec la firme WWF WAMER (mai-juin 2011 au lieu
    de mai-juin 2010). La main levée sur les conditions préalables de décaissement des fonds de la
    composante 2 n’a pu ainsi être notifiée à la DPM/COMO-Pêche que le 7 juin 2011. Le lancement
    officiel des interventions de la firme dans les sites du projet a ensuite enregistré trois (3) mois de
    retard en raison des dysfonctionnements du management de la COMO-Pêche.
•   Le volume des dépenses inéligibles effectuées sur le projet GDRH, relevées lors de la revue
    fiduciaire de la Banque Mondiale de décembre 2011, n’a pas permis au Gouvernement de bénéficier
    d’une prolongation du projet supérieure à trois (3) mois alors que les possibilités d’une prolongation
    d’une quatrième année ont été acceptées par les deux parties pendant les négociations finales du
    projet (22-29 octobre 2008). Le GDRH a été ainsi clôturé à la date du 30 juin 2012, après une
    prorogation de trois (3) mois demandée par le Gouvernement.
•   La mise en œuvre du GDRH a été jalonnée de nombreux changements institutionnels intervenus au
    niveau de la Direction des Pêches Maritimes, de la DPSP et de la COMO-Pêche.



                                                    61
•   L’insuffisance des effectifs et la faible motivation financière des agents de l’administration
    déconcentrée pour accompagner, d’une manière générale, les processus de cogestion des pêcheries
    côtières et de réhabilitation des écosystèmes. /-




                                                62
Annexe 1.4.             Leçons tirées

•   A la lumière de la mise en œuvre du GDRH, tout comme du GIRMaC, la motivation des
    fonctionnaires de l’Administration locale impliqués, dans la cogestion locale, est une nécessité. Les
    fonds de contrepartie doivent prendre en charge cette question en priorité.

•   Le résultat obtenu dans la reconstitution des ressources démersales cogérées, les difficultés de
    surveillance des aires de cogestion et les nombreuses infractions de pêche artisanale INN dans les
    sites pilotes initiaux démontrent l’urgence de mettre en place un mécanisme de contrôle et de
    limitation de l’accès aux ressources cogérées dans tout site de cogestion des pêcheries.


•   L’introduction des recherches participatives dans le système de cogestion locale n’a pas connu
    l’appropriation souhaitée par la DPM, le CRODT et les acteurs locaux. Un renforcement des
    capacités des parties prenantes est indispensable pour la maîtrise du concept, notamment au plan
    méthodologique.


•   Les mesures sociales de lutte contre la pauvreté (AGR, activités d’appui à la commercialisation)
    initiées suite à la mobilisation du FRAP dans le cadre du projet complémentaire (GDRH) ont
    encouragé les communautés et renforcé leur participation à l’effort de gestion durable des ressources
    halieutiques.


•   Les nombreuses demandes enregistrées par les Comités locaux de microcrédits (CLM) installés sur
    les sites de cogestion locale, traduisent une forte appropriation par les communautés de pêcheurs du
    programme de reconversion et d’entreprenariat féminin proposé par le projet GDRH à travers le
    FRAP. C’est aussi la preuve que les acteurs de la pêche (pêcheurs, femmes transformatrices,
    mareyeurs) sont prêts à se redéployer vers d’autres secteurs économiques et participer ainsi à la
    réduction de la surcapacité, si les opportunités et les moyens adéquats leur sont donnés.


•   L’enquête sur les créneaux porteurs réalisée par l’IAT dans les sites de cogestion locale et leur
    environnement immédiat, a montré que la pêche n’est pas le seul moyen d’existence des
    communautés de pêcheurs, et qu’elles regorgent beaucoup d’autres potentialités, sur lesquelles elles
    peuvent s’appuyer pour diversifier et élargir leurs bases économiques.


•   L’absence de mesures concrètes sur les sites n’est pas un échec pour un projet de cogestion locale
    comme le GDRH, s’il a permis aux communautés de pêcheurs ciblées de s’organiser pour identifier
    et mettre en œuvre des initiatives locales gestion durable des pêcheries, en s’appuyant sur des moyens
    et matériels locaux, ou sur d’autres partenaires.


•   L’approche de « participation communautaire » expérimentée dans le GDRH et s’appuyant sur des
    acteurs issus des communautés de pêcheurs ciblées, en l’occurrence les animateurs communautaires,
    a facilité l’appropriation de la cogestion locale et l’ancrage local du projet.


•   Les communautés, organisées en Comités Locaux de Pêcheurs (CLP), sont capables de s’investir
    pleinement dans la gestion responsable des ressources halieutiques si l’Etat leur fait confiance et met
    à disposition l’appui technique et financier nécessaire.



                                                    63
•   L’impact des initiatives de cogestion est optimal dans le cas d’application d’amende communautaire
    dissuasive, nonobstant leur non-conformité avec les dispositions des textes réglementaires.


•   La cogestion des pêcheries par concession de droits d’accès, inscrite dans la Lettre de Politique
    Sectorielle (LPS), est souhaitée par certaines communautés mais non encore prise en compte par les
    textes légaux en vigueur.


•   Les surveillants-pêcheurs issus du CLP (commission surveillance) semblent plus engagés et plus
    efficaces que les agents de l’administration dans la recherche de renseignements sur les infractions et
    dans la surveillance des aires de mise en œuvre de la cogestion.


•   L’identification des initiatives locales de cogestion met en évidence la très bonne connaissance que
    les communautés ont des pêcheries adjacentes à leurs terroirs tant du point de vue bioécologique que
    socioéconomique.


•   Dans un contexte de cogestion, l’organisation des communautés en CLP apparaît comme un facteur
    important de cohésion sociale.




                                                    64
Annexe 1.5. :

 LISTE DES ETUDES REALISEES DANS LE CADRE DU PROJET DE PDF BLOC B
               POUR LA PREPARATION DU PROJET GDRH

  1. Etude de faisabilité de la mise en place au sein de Direction des Pêches Maritimes d’une Unité de
     coordination des activités des donateurs dans le domaine de l’aménagement et de la gestion
     durable des pêcheries maritimes.

  2. Etude de Faisabilité d’un Fonds de Soutien à la Gestion des Pêcheries fondées sur les critères du
     développement durable

  3. Analyse des Coûts- Bénéfices et des impacts d’une réduction des subventions dans les pêcheries
     artisanales au Sénégal.

  4. Etude de base sur les méthodes, les technologies de capture et les pratiques en usage dans les
     pêcheries industrielles crevettières côtières et sur leurs problématiques d’exploitation,
     d’aménagement et de contrôle.

  5. Evaluation environnementale et sociale (EES) du projet complémentaire GIRMaC+

  6.   Cadre de Processus du projet complémentaire GIRMaC+

  7. Etude de la faisabilité de l’éco-labellisation dans les sites pilotes du GIRMaC Proposition d’un
     programme pilote pour les produits de la pêche artisanale au Sénégal.

  8. Faisabilité de la création d’un réseau national d’Aires Marines Protégées pour une gestion durable
     de la pêche. Proposition d’un programme de mise en place.

  9. Faisabilité de mise en place d’un Programme d’immersion de récifs artificiels pour une gestion
     durable de la pêche au Sénégal./-




                                                 65
         Annexe 2. - Coûts et Financement du Programme (30 septembre 2012)

   (a) Composante par Bailleur de Fonds (en Millions Francs CFA)
Gestion Durable des Ressources Halieutiques (GDRH)
                                   Document        Cumul
                                   d’évaluation    Décaissements à la Pourcentage de
Composantes
                                   Coût du projet clôture du Projet décaissement (%)
                                   (CFA millions) (CFA millions)
1. Cogestion des Pêcheries
                                          1.266,79           321,39                   7
   Côtières
2. Réhabilitation des Ecosystèmes
   Essentiels pour les Pêcheries          1.262,16           214,62                   4
   Côtières
3. Reconversion et Mesures
                                          1.812,30           380,82                   8
   d’Accompagnement
4. Appui Institutionnel, Gestion &
                                            461,87           360,65                   7
   Suivi Evaluation
Total Coût Composantes                    4.803,12         1.277,50                  26
Divers et imprévus physiques                  0.00
Divers et imprévus en monnaie                 0.00
Total Coût du Projet                       4.803,12            1.277,50                       26
Non Alloué FEM                               108,00
Total Financement demandé                  4.911,12            1.277,50                       26


Gestion Durable des Ressources Halieutiques (GDRH) Projet – P105881 CREDIT IDA 45450-SE
                                  Document            Cumul
                                  d’évaluation Coût Décaissements à la Pourcentage de
 Composantes
                                  du projet (CFA      clôture du Projet   décaissement (%)
                                  millions)           (CFA millions)
  3. Reconversion et Mesures
                                             1.575.00              380,82                24
 d’Accompagnement

Total Coût Composantes                      1.575.00              380,82                24
Divers et imprévus physiques                    0.00
Divers et imprévus en monnaie                   0.00
Total Coût du Projet                        1.575.00              380,82                24
Total Financement demandé                   1.575.00              380,82                24




                                             66
Gestion Durable des Ressources Halieutiques (GDRH) Projet – P092062 DON FEM 93654-SE
                                    Document            Cumul
                                    d’évaluation Coût Décaissements à la Pourcentage de
Components
                                    du projet (CFA      clôture du Projet   décaissement (%)
                                    millions)           (CFA millions)
1. Cogestion des Pêcheries Côtières            1.266,79              321,39              11.90
2. Réhabilitation des Ecosystèmes
   Essentiels pour les Pêcheries               1.262,16              214,62               7.95
   Côtières
3. Appui Institutionnel, Gestion &
                                                 461,87              360,65              13.36
   Suivi Evaluation
   Total Coût Composantes                      2.592,00              896,67              33.21
   Divers et imprévus physiques                    0.00
   Divers et imprévus en monnaie                   0.00
   Total Project Costs                        2.592,00               896,67               33.21
   PPF                                           0.00                  0.00                   0
   Non Alloué                                  108,00
   Total Financement demandé                  2700.00                896,67               33,21

   (b) Financement

 P105881 Gestion Durable des Ressources Halieutiques (GDRH) CREDIT IDA 45450-SE
                                                     Document      Cumul
                                                                                   Pourcentage
                                                     d’évaluation Décaissement
                                       Type de                                     de
  Source des fonds                                   Coût du       à la clôture du
                                       financement                                 décaissement
                                                     projet (CFA Projet (CFA
                                                                                   (%)
                                                     millions)     millions)
 Bailleur
 International Development Association
                                                          1.575,00         380,82             24
(IDA)
 P092062 Gestion Durable des Ressources Halieutiques (GDRH) DON FEM 93654-SE P058367 -
Programme de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et Côtières
                                                     Document      A Cumul
                                                                                   Pourcentage
                                                     d’évaluation Décaissement
                                       Type of                                     de
  Source des fonds                                   Coût du       à la clôture du
                                       Financing                                   décaissement
                                                     projet (CFA Projet (CFA
                                                                                   (%)
                                                     millions)     millions)
  Bailleur
  GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT -
                                                          2700.00          896,67          33,21
   Associated IDA Fund
  Global Environment Facility (GEF)                       2700.00          896,67          33,21




                                               67
Annexe 3. Résultats du projet ( KPIs)
Cadre des résultats (Projet et Composantes)
Objectif de développement /       Indicateurs de Performance        Commentaires à la fin du
Objectif global du projet                                           Projet
L’objectif double                 Indicateur de l’Objectif de
                                                                    Indicateur non réalisé étant
environnemental et de             développement : La taille
                                                                    donné que les sous projets de
développement du Projet est       moyenne de capture des
                                                                    cogestion ne sont pas encore
d’habiliter les communautés       espèces ciblées dans les sites
                                                                    validés par les acteurs centraux
de pêcheurs dans la réduction     mettant en œuvre des
                                                                    et locaux. Ils n’ont donc pu
de la pression de pêche sur les   initiatives de cogestion a
                                                                    être mis en œuvre par les
ressources halieutiques qui       augmenté.
                                                                    communautés.
supportent les pêcheries de la
                                  Indicateur de l’Objectif de
zone côtière centrale du                                            Indicateur non réalisé à la fin
                                  développement : Le niveau
Sénégal (de la presqu’île du                                        du projet étant donné que les
                                  de l’effort de pêche pour les
Cap vert au delta du Saloum).                                       sous projets de cogestion ne
                                  espèces ciblées dans les sites
                                                                    sont pas encore validés par les
                                  mettant en œuvre des
                                                                    acteurs centraux et locaux. Ils
                                  initiatives de cogestion a
                                                                    n’ont donc pu être mis en
                                  baissé.
                                                                    œuvre par les communautés.
                                  Indicateur de la cogestion        Indicateur non réalisé que très
                                  des pêcheries côtières: Huit      partiellement étant donné que
                                  (8) nouvelles propositions de     les sous projets de cogestion
                                  sous-projets de cogestion sont    en sont au stade de la
                                  approuvées sous forme             validation par les acteurs
                                  d’accords légaux avec le          centraux et locaux. Ils n’ont
                                  Gouvernement et sont mises        donc pu être mis en œuvre par
                                  en œuvre avec succès avant la     les communautés jusqu’à la
                                  fin du projet.                    clôture du projet.
                                  Indicateur de la                  Indicateur non réalisé à la fin
                                  réhabilitation des                du Projet. En raison de lourds
                                  écosystèmes : 70% des             procédures de passation des
                                  villages interrogés dans les      marchés, la firme ayant en
                                  communautés associées se          charge les activités de
                                  disent satisfaits des activités   réhabilitation des écosystèmes
                                  mises en œuvre par le projet      côtiers a été recrutée en mai
                                  pour reconstituer les stocks      2011 (signature et
                                  halieutiques côtiers (via les     enregistrement du contrat) pour
                                  ZPPs, les récifs artificiels et   30 mois environ, au lieu de mai
                                  l’éco-certification).             2010 comme initialement
                                                                    prévu. En fait, à la clôture du
                                                                    projet au 30 juin 2012, la firme
                                                                    n’a eu que 12 mois d’activité.
                                                                    Une prolongation de 18 mois
                                                                    du projet GDRH aurait permis
                                                                    à la firme de réaliser son
                                                                    contrat jusqu’à terme, réalisant
                                                                    ainsi les indicateurs fixés. Une
                                                                    prolongation du Projet de 3


                                                 68
                                mois seulement a été obtenue
                                par le Gouvernement, en raison
                                de la notation insatisfaisante du
                                Projet à la suite de la revue
                                fiduciaire réalisée en décembre
                                2011. Les activités de
                                réhabilitation des écosystèmes
                                côtiers seront ainsi poursuivies
                                dans le cadre du PRAO-SN
                                restructure.
Indicateur des moyens de        Indicateur non réalisé que
subsistance alternative à la    partiellement avec la signature
pêche: Chaque communauté        d’un Accord entre la Direction
cible a accès à un système de   des Pêches maritimes (DPM)
microcrédit et des mesures      et une agence nationale de
d’appui à la réduction de la    microfinance, le « Crédit
pauvreté sont mises en œuvre    Mutuel du Sénégal » (CMS).
au moins dans les 4 sites       L’objectif visé est de permettre
pilotes initiaux.               à chacune des communautés
                                ciblées, y compris celles des 4
                                sites pilotes initiaux, d’avoir
                                accès au microcrédit avec
                                l’assistance technique d’une
                                institution d’appui technique
                                qualifiée. Le recrutement de
                                cette firme, intervenue en mai
                                2011, a enregistré un long
                                retard. Des candidats à la
                                reconversion vers d’autres
                                activités alternatives ont été
                                identifiés dans les 4 sites
                                pilotes et les études de
                                faisabilité de sous projets
                                d’Activités Génératrices de
                                Revenus (AGRs) sont en cours
                                à la clôture. Toutefois, des
                                mesures de réduction de la
                                pauvreté, appuyées par le
                                projet , sont mises en œuvre
                                dans les les 4 sites pilotes
                                initiaux du GIRMaC à la
                                clôture du projet. Pour les 8
                                nouveaux sous projets de
                                cogestion 7 des 8 sous projets
                                d’AGRs des communautés ont
                                été approuvés par la Banque en
                                août 2011 mais n’ont pu être
                                mis en œuvre en raison des
                                retards et des
                                dysfonctionnements relevés
                                dans la gestion des fonds du

              69
                                                                   projet.
Résultats intermédiaires            Indicateurs de résultats       Commentaires
                                   intermédiaires
Composante 1: Cogestion            8 nouveaux CLP légalement       Indicateur réalisé de manière
des pêcheries côtières             établis dans la zone côtière    satisfaisante.
Un système de gouvernance          centrale, durant les 18
locale des pêcheries côtières,     premiers mois de mise en
basé sur la cogestion,             œuvre du projet.
cohérent, bien compris et
renforcé au plan institutionnel,   4 plans consolidés de gestion   Indicateur non réalisé à la fin
est mis en place. Un système       des pêcheries locales sont      du Projet. Trois (3) plans de
de gouvernance des pêcheries       approuvés par les CLPAs         gestion consolidés seront
locales basé sur la cogestion      concernés au cours des 24       approuvés et mis en œuvre
qui est cohérent, bien             mois de mise en œuvre et mis    autour des sites pilotes initiaux
assimilé, et renforcé              en œuvre avant la fin du        dans le cadre du PRAO-SN.
institutionnellement est établi.   Projet.

Composante 2:                      2 zones de pêche protégée        Indicateur non réalisé en raison
Réhabilitation des                 (ZPPs) sont créées et            des 12 mois de retard
écosystèmes côtiers                légalement établies.             enregistrés dans le recrutement
                                                                    de la firme qui ont induit un
                                                                    retard dans la mise en œuvre
                                                                    des activités jusqu’à la fin du
Les habitats critiques des                                          Projet. Ces activités ont été
espèces côtières clé sont                                           transférées dans le PRAO-SN
protégés de manière                                                 restructuré et seront prises en
participative, à travers                                            charge par la firme.
l’établissement de ZPPs,           Au  moins  2 récifs artificiels  Indicateur non réalisé en raison
l’immersion de récifs              sont agrandis, immergés     et   des 12 mois de retard
artificiels, l’introduction de     cogérés  avec les communautés    enregistrés dans le recrutement
droits d’accès aux pêcheries       locales avant la fin du  Projet. de la firme qui ont induit un
cibles, et les efforts vers l’éco-                                  retard dans la mise en œuvre
certification des produits                                          des activités jusqu’à la fin du
halieutiques.                                                       Projet. Ces activités ont été
                                                                    transférées dans le PRAO-SN
                                                                    restructuré et seront prises en
                                                                    charge par la firme.
                                   Les droits d’accès sont définis, Indicateur non réalisé en raison
                                   reconnus légalement et           du retard dans la mise en
                                   introduits dans 2 pêcheries      œuvre des activités liées à la
                                   sous régime de cogestion.        cogestion des pêcheries, aux
                                                                    ZPPs et aux récifs artificiels
                                                                    jusqu’à la fin du Projet. Ces
                                                                    activités relatives aux droits
                                                                    d’accès ont été transférées dans
                                                                    le PRAO-SN restructuré et
                                                                    seront prises en charge par la
                                                                    firme.



                                                 70
                                  Toutes les pirogues de pêche      Indicateur réalisé avec
                                  et de transport provenant de la   satisfaction à la fin du Projet
                                  région centrale sont              (même si des retards ont été
                                  immatriculées par le PNI          observés) et avec des
                                  durant les 6 premiers mois de     financements complémentaires
                                  mise en œuvre du Projet.          du PRAO-SN. A la fin du
                                                                    projet, plus de 17 500 pirogues
                                                                    ont été immatriculées, soit plus
                                                                    de 85% de taux
                                                                    d’immatriculation. Les 15%
                                                                    restant du parc piroguier sont
                                                                    constitués de pirogues basées
                                                                    pour l’essentiel dans les pays
                                                                    voisins ou y pêchant une bonne
                                                                    partie de l’année.
                                  Au moins une (1) pêcherie est     Indicateur non réalisé à la fin
                                  éligible à l’éco-certification    du Projet. Cette activité a été
                                  selon les critères du Marine      transférée dans le PRAO-SN
                                  Stewardship Council (MSC)         restructuré et sera prise en
                                  avant la fin du Projet            charge par la firme.
                                  Etude de faisabilité et           Indicateur non réalisé à la fin
                                  consensus sur un mécanisme        du Projet. Cette activité a été
                                  de financement durable pour       transférée dans le PRAO-SN
                                  les coûts récurrents des ZPPs     restructuré et sera prise en
                                  et des récifs artificiels.        charge par la firme.
Composante 3: Mesures             Pourcentage de femmes dans        Cet indicateur n’a pas été
d'atténuation de la pauvreté      les communautés cibles            satisfait. Selon le dernier
en faveur des communautés         bénéficiant d’un microcrédit      rapport trimestriel de l’IAT
de pêcheurs et moyens             pour développer des activités     (février à avril 2012), 1703
alternatifs de subsistance        en dehors du secteur de la        bénéficiaires éligibles ont été
pour les pêcheurs et              pêche.                            sélectionnés dont 1430
transformateurs des                                                 demandes de microcrédit
produits de la pêche.                                               d’entreprenariat féminin. 20
                                                                    femmes seulement disposaient
Des activités alternatives à la                                     de microprojets élaborés et
pêche et génératrices de                                            prêts à être financés par le
revenus sont développées par                                        CMS. Aucune femme n’a
les pêcheurs et leurs familles                                      bénéficié de financement à la
dans les zones ciblées par le                                       fin du Projet.
projet. Certaines sont toujours   Pourcentage des communautés       Des AGR (ferme avicole,
dans le secteur de la pêche, à    cibles qui reçoivent le soutien   quincailleries maritimes,
travers un meilleur accès aux     en micro-finance, et nombre       campement touristique,
marchés des produits à plus       de familles dans les              financements pour des
haute valeur, ou bien en          communautés cibles qui ont        groupements de femmes
dehors du secteur avec            accès à de nouveaux marchés       transformatrices) et des
formation et appui financier      commerciaux.                      mesures d’appui à la
(micro-finance) du projet,                                          commercialisation (fonds
pour compenser la réduction                                         d’appui à la commercialisation,
de l’effort de pêche et les                                         camion frigorifique, points de
                                                                    collecte de la crevette) ont été


                                                71
pertes de revenus, et pour                                        mises en oeuvre dans les 4
promouvoir les                                                    sites pilotes initiaux du
investissements dans des                                          GIRMaC.
moyens d’existence                                                Des sous-projets d’AGR
alternatifs.                                                      identifiés et élaborés en faveur
                                                                  des 8 sites du GDRH ont
                                                                  obtenu l’avis de non objection
                                                                  de la Banque Mondiale
                                                                  (Biomarine 379) depuis juillet
                                                                  2011, mais leur mise en œuvre
                                                                  était dépendante des progrès
                                                                  enregistrés par le processus de
                                                                  cogestion locale.
                                 Pourcentage de cas de            Cet indicateur n’a pas été
                                 reconversion entrepris par les   satisfait. Selon le rapport
                                 pêcheurs percevant un appui      trimestriel de l’IAT (février à
                                 financier et technique, qui sont avril 2012), 1703 bénéficiaires
                                 durables et rentables à la fin   éligibles ont été sélectionnés
                                 du Projet.                       dont 273 demandes de
                                                                  microcrédit de reconversion.
                                                                  22 acteurs seulement
                                                                  disposaient de microprojets
                                                                  élaborés et prêts à être financés
                                                                  par le CMS. Aucun projet de
                                                                  reconversion n’a été financé à
                                                                  la fin du Projet.
Composante 4:                    - Rapports annuels de suivi et
Renforcement institutionnel      évaluation avec toutes les
pour la gestion des              données sur les indicateurs de Indicateurs non réalisés en
pêcheries, gestion du projet     résultats et plan de S&E         l’absence d’un système de
et suivi et évaluation           complétés.                       suivi-évaluation conçu,
                                                                  approuvé et opérationnel.
                                 - Les communautés
                                 participantes reçoivent les
                                 informations concernant les
Gestion et suivi et évaluation   indicateurs clé en temps
efficaces du projet, et          voulu.
divulgation des résultats de
mise en œuvre du projet.         - Avis d’audits annuels non
                                 qualifiés.

                A. Commentaires généraux du cadre des résultats
    ?   Les activités clés devant être mesurées et appréciées n’ont pas démarrées de manière
        effective ;
    ?   Les documents des sous projets sur les initiatives de cogestion sont finalisés et
        attendent d’être validés par les CLP et les CLPA
    ?   Les activités d’appui à la reconversion et à l’entreprenariat ont démarré avec
        l’encadrement des promoteurs pour l’élaboration de plan d’affaires.
    ?   Aucun financement de promoteur n’a été enregistré./-



                                               72
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    73
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents


“Gestion du mérou blanc (epinephelus aenus) et ses espèces associées dans l’aire de
congestion de Bargny,? Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Bargny, Département de Dakar,
Bargny, Mars 2012.

“Gestion du mérou blanc (epinephelus aenus) et ses espèces associées dans l’aire de
congestion de Soumbédioune et Carrière,? Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Soumbédioune,
Département de Dakar, Soumbédioune, Mars 2012.

“Gestion du mérou blanc (epinephelus aenus) et ses espèces associées dans l’aire de
congestion de Yène-Dialaw,? Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Yène, Département de
Rufisque, Yène, Mars 2012.

“Gestion de la langouste (Panulirus regius) et ses espèces associées dans l’aire de
congestion de Mballing,? Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Mballing, Département de
Mbour, Mballing, Mars 2012.

“Gestion de la langouste (Panulirus regius) et ses espèces associées dans l’aire de
congestion de Mballing,? Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Mballing, Département de
Mbour, Mballing, Mars 2012.

“Gestion de la langouste (Panulirus regius) et ses espèces associées dans l’aire de
congestion de Nianing,? Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Nianing, Département de Mbour,
Nianing, Mars 2012.

“Gestion de la langouste (Panulirus regius) et ses espèces associées dans l’aire de
congestion de Pointe-Sarène,? Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Pointe-Sarène,
Département de Mbour, Pointe-Sarène, Mars 2012.

“Gestion des ressources démersales maritimes et lagunaires (Cyclidae) dans l’aire de
congestion de Mbodiène,? Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Mbodiène, Département de
Mbour, Mbodiène, Mars 2012.

“Gestion de la crevette côtière (Penaeus notialis), du mérou blanc (epinephelus aenus) et
des carpes (Cyclidae) dans l’aire de congestion de Fimela-Ndangane,? Comité Local des
Pêcheurs de Fimela-Ndangane, Département de Fatick, Fimela-Ndangane, Mars 2012.




                                            74
