 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14623

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 04/23/2015

               Country: Senegal
             Project ID: P105881                                                    Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Sustainable                   Project Costs (US$M):                      10.85               2.84
                         Management Of Fish
                         Resources
  L/C Number:            C4545                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                         3.5                .76
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural        Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                 12/16/2008
                                                                Closing Date:             03/31/2012          06/30/2012
          Sector(s):       General agriculture fishing and forestry sector (80%); Public administration- Agriculture
                           fishing and forestry (20%)
          Theme(s):        Other environment and natural resources management (100% - P)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
April Connelly             Christopher David       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                           Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  This is a fully blended GEF / IDA financed project. It had a combined development objective and global environment
objective.

As presented in the Grant Agreement (pg. 7) "(t)he objective of the Project is to empower the communities to reduce
fishing pressure on the fish stocks supporting the central coastal fisheries of Senegal (from the Cape Vert peninsula to
the Saloum River delta)."

A similar statement of objectives is presented in the project appraisal document (pg. 7) "The combined development
objective/global objective of the project is to empower communities to reduce fishing pressure on the fish stocks
supporting the central coastal fisheries of Senegal (from the Cap Vert Peninsula to the Saloum River Delta), by (i)
promoting co-management of the coastal fisheries, (ii) contributing to the rehabilitation of the essential ecosystems for
the coastal fisheries, and (iii) supporting alternative livelihoods and accompanying poverty reduction measures in
targeted poor fishing communities."

This review uses the statement of objectives from the loan agreement as the basis of its assessment as that is the
legally binding document.

The key performance indicators for the project were:
• An increase in the average size of fish caught for targeted species in co-management sites;
• A reduction in the level of fishing effort for targeted species in co-management sites;
• Eight new co-management sub-project proposals are approved as legal agreements with the Government and
successfully implemented by end-of-project (EOP);
• 70 percent of community members surveyed in participating communities are satisfied with project activities to
rehabilitate coastal fish stocks (Zone de Pêches Protégées (ZPPs), artificial reefs, ecolabelling);
• Each community targeted by the project has access to a system of micro-credit, and project-supported poverty
reduction measures are implemented in at least the four initial pilot sites, by EOP.
The project objective key performance indicators remained the same throughout the project timeframe.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
The project had the following four components and sub components:

Component 1: Co-management of Coastal Fisheries (appraisal estimate US$ 2.8 million, actual costs US$ 0.71
million).
・ Subcomponent 1 - Promotion of Local Co-Management Initiatives in the 4 initial Pilot Sites. This sub-component
would continue to support co-management in the four initial pilot sites to identify and formulate additional
management measures, local level monitoring control and surveillance to ensure compliance with measures included
in co-management agreements, and participatory monitoring of fish catches.
・ Subcomponent 2 - Consolidation and Strengthening of Coastal Fisheries Co-management. This sub-component
supports replication of co-management initiatives to neighboring communities. This includes confirmation of the
pre-selection of the eight project sites, and awareness-raising with their communities in order to replicate the
co-management model tested in the four initial Pilot Sites. This includes appointment of facilitators, establishment of
Local Fishers’ Committees (CLPs) and Local Artisanal Fishers’ Councils (CLPAs) and provision of support for the
identification, formulation, implementation and evaluation of CLP subprojects.
・ Subcomponent 3 - Institutional Support for a System of Local Fisheries Governance. This sub-component would
strengthen the capacity for consultation and decision-making mechanisms between different participatory
communities to move away from individual co-management plans to larger multi-community agreements around a
shared fishery.

Component 2: Rehabilitation of Ecosystems Essential for Coastal Fisheries (appraisal estimate US$ 2.8 million,
actual costs US$ 0.48 million). This component supported the rehabilitation of ecosystems essential to the coastal
fisheries. Including establishing Co-Managed Protected Fishing Zones (ZPPs) and artificial reefs to help regenerate
the natural resources; registering small-scale vessels and in pilot cases introducing access rights; and, by creating
market mechanisms to encourage sustainable management of the ecosystems. It included the following four
sub-components:
・ Subcomponent one – Protected Fishing Zones (ZPPs). This subcomponent supports the establishment of
Co-Managed Protected Fishing Zones (ZPPs) to protect critical habitats, nursery areas and spawning grounds for
coastal demersal species. This includes identification and designation of the ZPPs; carrying out awareness
campaigns on the management and benefits of ZPPs; building capacity of stakeholders for the co-management of the
ZPPs; and conducting baseline evaluations of sites and assessments of fish resources and fishing practices.
Preparation and implementation of management plans for ZPPs. Feasibility studies on sustainable financing
mechanisms for ZPPs. Capacity-building activities aimed at strengthening the capacity of stakeholders and decision
makers to replicate ZPPs. Development of standards and instruments for monitoring, evaluation and surveillance of
the ZPPs.
・Subcomponent two - Artificial Reefs. This sub-component supports the immersion of artificial reefs in targeted project
areas to help regenerate the fisheries resource.
Activities to be financed included feasibility studies for the selection of sites for immersion of artificial reefs and based
on the findings of such studies and their inclusion in the Co- Management Agreements of the ZPP Management
Plans, immersion and management of the artificial reefs in the ZPPs. Provision of technical assistance to the Ministry
in charge of fisheries for implementation of the national artificial reef immersion program. Conducting feasibility
studies on sustainable financing mechanisms for artificial reefs. Strengthening community-based management of
artificial reefs through the development and implementation of management and surveillance plans. Development and
implementation of protocols and instruments for participatory monitoring and evaluation of artificial reefs.
・ Subcomponent three - Introduction of Access Rights and Associated Management Instruments. This
sub-component would test the creation and allocation of access rights to areas and resources in appropriate sites
such as the ZPPs. At the larger scale the sub-component would provide continued support to the registration of small
scale fishing vessels as a necessary basis for management and development of access rights, through the
Government’s National Registration Program.
・ Subcomponent four - Market Incentives for Sustainable Management for Targeted Fisheries. This sub-component
would create the necessary conditions for eco-certification of one co-managed coastal fishery, according to the criteria
of the Marine Stewardship Council, the internationally recognized sustainable fisheries certification body. This
includes validation and pre-evaluation of selected fisheries; carrying out of a study on the prerequisites for access to
eco certification markets; implementation, monitoring and coordination of action plans for eco-certification of targeted
fisheries and restructuring of the sector; and certification and promotion of the targeted fisheries.

Component 3: Poverty Alleviation Measures for Fishing Communities and Alternative Livelihoods for Fishers , Fish
Processors, and Fish transporters (appraisal estimate US$ 4.03 million, actual costs US$ 0.85 million). This
component supported activities to offset negative socio-economic impacts for targeted fishing communities resulting
from co-management initiatives or management plans (including the introduction of instruments such as ZPPs,
artificial reefs, eco-labels, etc.). It included the following sub-components:
・ Subcomponent one - Poverty Alleviation Initiatives in Project-Targeted Communities. Piloting of initiatives designed
to alleviate and reduce poverty in targeted fishing communities and compensation for the negative impacts caused by
local co-management initiatives or initiatives for rehabilitation of ecosystems, through the provision of sub-grants to
targeted fishing communities to develop activities to increase revenues by improving the quality of fish products.
Sub-grants to members of the targeted fishing communities for development activities designed to expand alternative
income-generating activities. Provision of Micro-Credits to women, through the Micro-Finance Institution, aimed at
encouraging small business development and expanded local product development.
・ Subcomponent Two- Support for Alternative Livelihoods to Fishing for Fishers, Fish Processors and Fish
transporters. This included: (i) The provision of Micro-Credits through the Micro-Finance Institution, to develop
activities to support fishers, women fish processors and fish transporters in finding alternative income-generating
activities outside the fishing sector, including provision of training and technical support in identifying and
implementing such activities. (ii) Provision of technical assistance through the Technical Support Institution aimed at
developing basic skills and small business management training for the Micro-Credit Beneficiaries. (iii) Carrying out of
a program of activities through the Technical Support Institution aimed at providing on-going support to the
Micro-Credit Beneficiaries, including support on organization skills, life-management skills and conflict management
skills.

Component 4: Institutional Strengthening for Fisheries Management , Project Management and Monitoring and
Evaluation (appraisal estimate US$ 1.03 million, actual costs US$ 0.80 million). This component financed activities to
support the Ministry of Maritime Economy with project management and implementation and activities to monitor and
evaluate results. It included the following sub-components:
 Subcomponent one - Development of a marine fisheries code and support for implementation of the national fisheries
management plans. This includes support for technical assistance and consultations for Government to develop a
new Fisheries Code to be passed into Law by the end of the project.
 Subcomponent two - Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation. Provision of goods, technical assistance and
allocation for operating costs to the DPM, and carrying out of works, for Project coordination and management,
monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
Subcomponent three - Replication of Project Activities at the Sub-Regional and Regional Level. Provision of technical
assistance to support the replication at the regional and sub-regional level of Project activities.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Costs. Total project costs estimated at appraisal were US$10.85 million. At completion actual costs were
US$ 2.84 million, an underrun of 76 percent.

Financing. The project was expected to be financed by a US$3.5 million IDA credit, US$6.0 million GEF grant and
US$1.53 million counterpart contribution from the Government of Senegal. At closure US $ 0.76 million of the IDA
credit and US $ 2.07 million of the GEF grant disbursed. US$ .07 million of the counterpart commitment was
disbursed. US$ 2.79 million of the IDA credit and US$ 3.93 million of the GEF grant were cancelled. The unused
funds were canceled or reallocated to other projects within the portfolio.

Borrower Contribution . Only US$ .07 million of the counterpart commitment of US$1.53 million was disbursed. The
ICR does not report on the reason why the government's contribution was lower than anticipated. Financial
management staff in the implementing agency informed IEG that this was in part due delays in budget disbursement
in the initial years of project implementation, coupled with Government budget rules that do not allow for budget to be
allocated retroactively.

Dates. The original project closing date was extended by three months to June 31, 2012, to allow for completion of
ongoing contracts for community facilitators and the technical assistance firms implementing, whose contracts were
delayed by procurement problems. The extension was also used to ensure that adequate transition arrangements
were in place to transfer some of the activities that were not completed to the World Bank Financed West Africa
Regional Fisheries Program.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
The relevance of objectives is rated High.

Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.
b. Relevance of Design:
The relevance of design is rated Modest.
Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  Achievement of the project objectives is rated Negligible.

Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

5. Efficiency:
 Efficiency is rated Negligible.

Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                   Rate Available?                         Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                          No
    ICR estimate                       No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project outcome is rated highly unsatisfactory. This is based on high relevance of objectives but modest
relevance of design; negligible achievement of its objective and negligible efficiency. According to the OPCS/IEG
Harmonized rating criteria, the project outcome rating is highly unsatisfactory when there are severe shortcomings in
the achievement of its objectives, in its efficiency, or in its relevance.
  a. Outcome Rating: Highly Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                   Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :                 Moderately Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.
   Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
  Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

b. M&E Implementation:
  Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

c. M&E Utilization:
  Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The ICR does not mention safeguard compliance. Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in
parallel for more information.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                IEG Review                    Reason for
                                                                                   Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Unsatisfactory           Highly Unsatisfactory Please see the detailed PPAR
                                                                             evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel
                                                                             for more information.
          Risk to Development High                     High                  Please see the detailed PPAR
                     Outcome:                                                evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel
                                                                             for more information.
            Bank Performance: Moderately               Moderately            Please see the detailed PPAR
                              Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory        evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel
                                                                             for more information.
       Borrower Performance : Unsatisfactory           Unsatisfactory        Please see the detailed PPAR
                                                                             evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel
                                                                             for more information.
                Quality of ICR:                        Unsatisfactory
NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why? This ICRR reflects a Project Performance Assessment that was carried out for this project in June 2014 and
published in the report cited below:
IEG. 2015. Project Performance Assessment Report Senegal -Sustainable Management Of Fish Resources Project
Washington, DC ; World Bank Group Report No. 95315




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides a candid assessment of the project's implementation challenges but its outcome narrative is
unclear. In particular it is difficult to understand what was achieved under this project as opposed to the Integrated
Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project, which operated in parallel. The ICR refers to progress made
under both projects and the outcome data presented on the pilot sites is identical to that which was presented the ICR
for the Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project. The ICR does not analyze and rate each of
the individual dimensions of project performance that make up the outcome rating: relevance (of objectives and
design), efficacy and efficiency. Relevance of objectives is discussed but not rated, relevance of design is neither
discussed nor rated, and efficiency is discussed but is not rated. There is no discussion of compliance with safeguard
policies. There are inconsistencies in the project cost and financing amounts reported in different tables in annex 1
and the ICR does not explicitly explain why project costs and the government counterpart were lower than anticipated.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
