                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 36318

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-30140)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR51.4 MILLION (US$70.3 MILLION)

                                                 TO THE

                       DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                                 FOR A

                              SECOND GENERAL EDUCATION PROJECT




                                              June 16, 2006




Human Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective October 2005)

                                   Currency Unit = SL Rupees (LKR)
                                       LKR 1.00 = US$ 0.00986
                                        US$ 1.00 = LKR 101.42 (September 2005)

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1     -   December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ADB   Asian Development Bank                             NATE        National Authority for Teacher Education
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                        NBDC        National Book Development Council
CD    Curriculum Development                             NCCC        National Curriculum Consultative Committee
CPCU  Curriculum Process Coordination Unit               NCOE        National College of Education
CPPR  Country Portfolio Performance Review               NEC         National Education Commission
DfID  Department for International Development (UK)      NIE         National Institute of Education
EBMU  Education Budget and Monitoring Unit (FC)          NILIS       National Institute of Library and Information
                                                                     Science
EDCC  Education Development and Coordination             NLDSB       National Library and Documentation Services
      Committee                                                      Board
EMIS  Education Management Information System            NLSB        National Library Services Board
EPD   Education Publications Department (MEHE)           NPB         National Publications Board
ERD   External Resources Department                      PCU         Project Coordination Unit
FC    Finance Commission                                 PTA         Parent Teacher Association
FMS   Financial Management System                        PEA         Provincial Education Authority
GEP1  First General Education Project                    PIAC        Project Implementation Advisory Committee
GEP2  Second General Education Project                   PIP         Project Implementation Plan
GoSL  Government of Sri Lanka                            PPMC        Policy, Planning and Monitoring Committee
GTZ   Deutsche Gesellschaft für Technische               PPR         Policy, Planning and Research (MEHE)
      Zusammenarbeit (German Technical Assistance)
HEI   Higher Education Institutions                      PSC         Public Service Commission
ICTAD Institute for Construction Industry Training and   PTA         Parent Teacher Association
      Dev.
IDA   International Development Association              SDS         School Development Societies
ISA   In-Service Adviser                                 SIDA        Swedish International Development Agency
JICA  Japan International Cooperation Association        TC          Teacher Center
MEHE  (formerly) Ministry of Education and Higher        TETD        Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment
      Education                                                      Project
MOE   Ministry of Education                              UGC         University Grant Commission
MOFP  Ministry of Finance and Planning                   ZEA         Zonal Education Authority
MPPE  Master Plan for Primary Education Project (DfID)   ZEO         Zonal Education Office



                                 Vice President:      Praful C. Patel
                              Country Director:       Peter C. Harrold
                               Sector Manager:        Michelle Riboud
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Helen J. Craig

                                         SRI LANKA
                                GENERAL EDUCATION II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to ICR                                          39

Project ID: P010525                                                  Project Name: GENERAL EDUCATION II
Team Leader: Helen J. Craig                                          TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 16, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: GENERAL EDUCATION II                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-30140
   Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                                          Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (55%); Secondary education (26%); Tertiary education (8%); Central
                            government administration (7%); Sub-national government administration (4%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Improving labor markets (P); Public expenditure, financial management
                            and procurement (S); Social analysis and monitoring (S); Administrative and civil service
                            reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/10/1996                                     Effective: 03/16/1998                01/29/1998
     Appraisal: 06/23/1997                                         MTR: 04/01/1999                  06/29/2001
      Approval: 12/09/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 11/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Sri Lanka/Ministry of Education
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Peter C. Harrold                               Roberto Bentjerodt
Sector Director:                Julian F. Schweitzer                           Ralph W. Harbison
Team Leader at ICR:             Helen J. Craig                                 Albert E. Aime
ICR Primary Author:             Irajen Appasamy


Note: Initial Executive Project Summary date was 1/4/94, for an earlier project; GEP2 Identification date:
2/10/96.
2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

Note: Under "Key Dates," Initial Executive Project Summary date was 1/4/94, for an earlier version of the
project; GEP2 Identification date: 2/10/96.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to improve the quality, access, management and financing of
existing education programs, increase education's responsiveness to economic needs, and reduce poverty.
In particular, the project intended to improve the quality, equity and efficiency of the education system,
particularly for Grades 1-9 (the Junior Cycle).

This project was conceived in the framework of the Government of Sri Lanka's (GoSL's) national
educational reform as envisioned by the National Education Commission (NEC), with the focus on
improving the quality, equity, internal and external efficiency and financing of the education system. The
NEC's strategy for education, adopted by the Government in 1996, identified the following priorities: (i)
increase equitable access and the availability of trained teachers, particularly in the rural areas; (ii) upgrade
the quality of educational materials and increase their equitable supply to all schools; (iii) rationalize
teacher training, and employment and deployment practices; (iv) supply adequate educational facilities,
science laboratories, and libraries to much needed areas; (v) increase the system's efficiency through
strengthened management capacity and an equitable resource distribution mechanism; and (vi) increase the
responsiveness of technical and tertiary education to address skill shortages. The strong relationship that
existed between the Government and IDA, particularly the Ministry of Education (MOE, formerly,
Ministry of Education and Higher Education) through the first General Education Project (GEP1, Credit
2072-CE), made it possible to advance the dialogue on policy reforms. In 1995, the Government and IDA
agreed to proceed in two stages in pursuing the proposed reforms: first, to address teacher issues through
the Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment Project (TETD, Credit 2881-CE) supported by IDA, and
second to address, through this Project, issues related to improving education quality and equitable access
through an integrated system approach. Further, the Government planned to consolidate the education
system into two types of schools: Junior Schools, covering Grades 1-9, and Senior Schools, covering
Grades 10-13. Moreover, it also endeavored to carry out its objectives of compulsory education for ages
5-14 (to Grade 9), and to adjust the management and financing of the education system.

Thus, this investment, complemented by the TETD Project and other coordinated development partner
projects, represented a system-based approach to implementing the Government's education reforms and
addressing the issues faced by the Sri Lankan Education System. The project objective was appropriately
framed to deal with education quality issues, to ensure access to the disadvantaged, and to strengthen
educational management, as well as to bring in greater efficiency in resource use.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the Development Credit agreement went through four amendments (see Section 3.4 below), the
original objectives remained unchanged throughout the entire implementation period.

3.3 Original Components:
The project totaling US$83.4 million (IDA US$70.3 million) comprised the following components (see
detailed description in PAD, Annex 2, pp. 37-47). A summary of costs by component and breakdown of
IDA financing is shown in the table at the end of this Section.

Component 1 - Curriculum Development ­ US$14.2 million. This Component included: (a) the
implementation of a sequential framework for the design, development, assessment and revision of the
curriculum, syllabi and associated materials in all subject fields for the Junior Cycle (Grades 1-9); and (b)
the development of refined syllabi and their distribution for this cycle; and (c) the improvement of the
curriculum management process, through the implementation of a revised curriculum policy and plan.



                                                      - 2 -

Component 2 ­ Textbooks and Educational Publications ­ US$12.3 million. This Component, closely
linked with Component 1, included: (a) the improvement of the content, physical quality, range and
availability of textbooks for all subjects in Grades 1-9; and (b) the increase in life expectancy of textbooks
from one to three years, with the focus on increased competition and private sector participation, and
improved physical quality and content of textbooks.

Component 3 - School Facilities Rationalization ­ US$23.9 million. This Component aimed at ensuring
an equitable and cost-effective allocation of educational and sanitary facilities to match the new school
structure and the new curriculum. It focused on needy Junior Schools in light of the compulsory education
policy for 5-14 year olds, providing for: (a) supporting the application of the new government policy of
reorganizing the school structure into Junior and Senior Schools from 1998; (b) renovation of classrooms
and construction of new school libraries according to school rationalization criteria; and (c) maintenance of
furniture, equipment, and physical facilities.

Component 4 - Quality Inputs ­ US$18.3 million. The objective of this Component was to supply needed
quality inputs on time for the core subjects in Junior Schools, and a limited number of Senior Schools, on a
per capita basis, in line with the evolving sequential curriculum. Special attention was to be given to the
Junior Schools, where the greatest quality input resource gaps existed, with priority to science and
mathematics equipment, language and social/environmental studies teaching.

Component 5 - Libraries ­ US$5.9 million. This Component was intended to support an activity-based
curriculum and to encourage the reading habit in school and community through: (a) the implementation of
a national library policy, (b) the establishment of a National Institute of Library and Information Science
(NILIS); (c) the development of school libraries; and (d) staff development.

Component 6 - Education Management and Planning ­ US$6.4 million. This component was expected
to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of system-wide policy development, planning, decision-making,
implementation, monitoring and communications. Based on the Education Management Study (1996),
provision was made to: (a) strengthen the management capacity of the Ministry of Education (MOE), the
Provincial Education Authorities (PEAs), the National Institute of Education (NIE) and the University
Grants Commission (UGC); (b) strengthen quality assurance and financing mechanisms; and (c) develop
and implement an Education Management Information System (EMIS)/Financial Management System
(FMS).

Component 7 - Education Financing ­ US$0.8 million. The thrust of this component, which aimed at
improving resource allocation and strengthening the sustainability of quality inputs through implementing
an equitable norm-based unit cost financing formula, was to ensure: (a) the rational delivery of resources
to meet the teaching/learning requirements of the school curriculum; (b) the rationalization of capital and
recurrent expenditures; and (c) the attainment of equity in resource allocation between and within schools.

Component 8 - Studies ­ US$0.7 million. This Component was intended to focus on the analysis of
performance outcomes for selected areas of GEP1 and GEP2, and on emergent issues relevant to the
preparation of future projects in the sector, including impact studies and educational assessments.

Component 9 ­ Project Coordination Unit ­ US$1.0 million. This Component was intended mainly to
support the rehabilitation, furnishing, equipping of a Project Coordination Unit office, funds for site visits
and monitoring, and short-term staff training.




                                                      - 3 -

                                                       Indicative            Bank             % of Bank
            Component                                  Costs (US$    % of    Financing        financing
                                                       million)      Total   (US$ million)
            1. Curriculum Development                        14.2     17.0           9.3         65.5
            2. Textbooks/Educational Publications            12.3     14.7          18.2         91.1
            3. School Facilities Rationalization             23.9     28.6          11.5         77.4
            4. Quality Inputs                                18.3     21.9          17.5         95.6
            5. Libraries                                       5.9    7.1            5.7         96.6
            6. Education Management and Planning               6.4    7.7            6.2         96.9
            7. Education Financing                             0.8    1.0            0.8         100
            8. Studies                                         0.7    0.8            0.7         100
            9. Project Coordination Unit                       1.0    1.2            0.5          50
            Total Project Costs                              83.4    100%           70.4        84.3%

          Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding



All the components were based on the Government priority areas (as explained above), especially with
regard to improving education quality and equity. The strength of the project design was that it: (a)
adopted an exemplary intensive participatory preparation process; and (b) incorporated key lessons from
previous sector lending that indicated inter alia the need for ensuring: (i) strong borrower ownership at
national, provincial and lower levels; (ii) the engagement of all key stakeholders in preparation and
implementation; and (iii) adequate and timely government counterpart funding.

Two key design weaknesses were: (a) the component design could have been simplified by logically
organizing the nine components under three major components corresponding to the objectives of (1)
Improving Quality, (2) Improving Access and Equity, and (3) Strengthening Institutional Development
and Educational Management; and (b) the project design could have been strengthened by incorporating a
sub-component on monitoring and evaluation, which would have focused greater attention on this important
area during implementation (and thus, would have provided the required data on project outcomes).

3.4 Revised Components:

The Credit agreement underwent four amendments during the implementation cycle (January 1998 to
October 31, 2005), none of which affected the original objective of supporting educational reform. The
amendments were proposed by the MOE, and approved by IDA, demonstrating implementation flexibility
by allowing for: (a) better utilization of Credit proceeds based on progress, with due regard to the continued
conflict in the country; and (b) the ability to address key government priorities through three new
components: (i) Education Reconstruction in the Conflict-affected Areas of the North East Province
(estimated at US$5.7 million); (ii) the English Language Action Plan (estimated at US$6.5 million);
and (iii) Information Technology-based Education in Schools (estimated at US$6.6 million) (see details
in Section 4.2 below).


3.5 Quality at Entry:

"Quality at Entry" is rated satisfactory for the reasons given below. In September 1997, the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) also rated it satisfactory, primarily on the basis of a sector analysis and
sequencing of past projects, the project's merit in addressing underlying economic and social difficulties,



                                                       - 4 -

and its studious treatment of education issues. The project, which was consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy of 1996 (document 15633-CE, of May 21, 1996, paras. 38 and 54), was prepared by
national committees under MOE's leadership, following an intensive participatory and consultative
process, thus ensuring strong borrower ownership. The project design was closely articulated with the
Education and Training Strategy Review (June 1994), and the then ongoing TETD project. In addition,
project preparation incorporated relevant lessons from previous sector operations, particularly GEP1, and
other sector investments worldwide.

In addition, a thorough cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out during preparation. Measures for
minimizing identified risks and improving sustainability were adequate. While a formal social assessment
could not be done (a weakness indicated by QAG), given that quality at entry measures were just being
introduced then, the course adopted by the project team was appropriate since it emphasized provision of
access to quality education for the poor rural and urban slum children. Project readiness was satisfactory
in light of: (i) a complete engineering and architectural design for first-year activities; (ii) a draft
procurement plan for the first year's activities; (iii) a suitable Project Implementation Plan; and (iv) the
early engagement of Provincial Education Departments. Moreover, project documentation for preparation
was systematic (both process and content).

On the other hand, "quality at entry" could have been further enhanced by the following actions: (a) setting
up an effective monitoring, data collection and evaluation system, with greater focus on outcome indicators,
fewer output indicators, and a solid baseline; (b) as indicated by the QAG panel, the institutional
development strategy could have been geared more towards incentives provision at lower levels rather than
relying on the "bureaucratic model" of strengthening central institutions along classical lines; (c) a more
thorough assessment of economic and political project risks (which, according to the panel, was
understated), including risks associated with provincial participation (which nearly became a huge
bottleneck after only nine months of implementation); and (d) an in-depth assessment of financial
management would have helped minimize the financial management difficulties during the first two years of
implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory, with substantial achievement of quantitative targets and
qualitative objectives. Following is a summary of the project's significant achievements and remaining
challenges (see Section 4.2 for detailed assessments and ratings by component).




                                                        - 5 -

                                                              Key Achievements
       Area/Component                                Targets                                                   Achievements
     Policy Framework      7 key reforms (covering curriculum and textbook               All 7 key reforms implemented successfully
                           development, library development, access and equity in
                           education, efficiency in educational management, and
                           allocation of resources)

     Improving Education  · Improve learning achievement (Grades 1-9)                   · Learning achievement (mastery) in both literacy and
     Quality                significantly by 2003                                        numeracy improved (see below)
                          · Revamp outdated curriculum, and introduce new               · New curriculum in place, with child-centered
                            curriculum                                                   approaches
                          · Replace poor quality textbooks (Sinhala, Tamil and          · High quality textbooks produced (with improved
                            English) by high quality ones                                content and physical quality)
                          · Replace outdated library books and materials by             · Reading habits and cognitive skills improved through
                            updated materials, in line with new curriculum               the introduction of relevant books and materials
                          · Introduce English Language in Grade 4 (newly                · Grade 4 of students improved their skills in English
                            introduced)                                                  Language through interactive learning (Book-based
                                                                                         Learning of English Program and Oral English Program)
     Improving Access and · 100% enrollment in Grades 9 by 2002                         · Net primary school enrollment rate increased from 92%
     Equity to Education  · Schools resourced on a per capita basis by 2003              in 1996 to 96% in 2004
                          · Systematic allocation of physical facilities in all schools · All schools resourced based on per capita, as planned
                                                                                        · Physical facilities, including equipment and furniture
                                                                                         provided as per agreed funding formula
     Improving Efficiency · Increase efficiency and effectiveness of educational        · Educational institutions restructured, staff capacity
     in Educational         institutions, and staff capacity developed                   strengthened, learning assessment entity established
     Management and       · Improve resource allocation through formula-based           · Formula-based funding successfully implemented,
     Financing              funding                                                      through application of the norm-based unit cost
                                                                                         allocation mechanism




Policy Framework. Commendable achievements (Grades 1-9) were made on policy implementation, in
spite of frequent government changes during the eight-year implementation period: (a) a revised curriculum
policy framework; (b) an updated national book policy (including private sectors); (c) a rationalized school
structure reorganized into Junior (Grades 1-9) and Senior (Grades 10-13); (d) timely delivery of
educational quality equipment and materials to schools; (e) implementation of a national policy for school
libraries; (f) increased efficiency and cost effectiveness of the Ministry of Education, Provincial Education
Offices, National Institute of Education and University Grants Commission; and (g) increased efficiency,
equity and transparency in allocating educational financial resources.

Improving Education Quality. The objective of improving education quality was substantially achieved
in all key aspects described under the policy framework. The successful implementation of the reforms
provided the educational framework for improving student learning outcomes. For example, the
availability of improved textbooks and a wide array of learning materials in all schools reflecting the
revised curriculum, and library books in Sinhala, Tamil and English media improved their learning
achievement in literacy and numeracy.

Although time series data are unavailable for comparison, two significant studies cast some light on
learning achievement. First, in 2002, an independent national assessment of Grade 4 pupils in three
subjects (NEREC, July 2004 ­ with a 5% random sample of 16,383 students in 939 schools from all nine
provinces), found that, against an average target of 80% mastery (meaning that if a student attained marks
of 80%, then the student is said to have achieved complete mastery of the subject's competencies), the
average achievement rate of subject mastery was 36.5% in First Language, 37.9% in Mathematics; and
9.5% in English Language. This performance in subject mastery is relatively high compared with countries
with similar level of educational development (except for English Language, which was not accorded



                                                                 - 6 -

priority until December 2002, when the Government decided to implement its English Language action
plan). Moreover, average test scores were 62.3% in First Language, 60.8% in Mathematics and 41.9% in
English Language. The study's most significant finding was that pupil performance was comparable for
First Language and Mathematics, but was much lower in English Language. Further, the study indicated a
substantial improvement in pupil performance in Mathematics. Since MOE plans to undertake regular
national assessments, this study will serve as a sound baseline for future similar studies. Second, an NIE
study on learning achievement showed that mastery in literacy improved from 32% of students in 1997 to
37% in 2002 (NIE, 2003), with improvement in mastery of literacy higher in rural than in urban schools.

Qualitative assessments over the last few years indicated that improvements in the learning environment
and more child-centered approaches had led to increased student learning in general. Moreover, such
assessments also revealed substantial positive changes in reading habits and cognitive skills as a result of
the successful educational development, including that of the library component and the English Language
Program of GEP2, which are expected to have a significant positive impact on student learning outcomes in
the near future.

Improving Access and Equity. The objective of improving access and equity was substantially realized,
following the requisite changes in the education structure (Grades 1-9 and Grades 10-13), the rationalized
allocation of facilities according to demographics, and equitable and cost-effective allocation of education
facilities, with the focus on disadvantaged rural and urban schools in seven or all eight provinces. The net
primary school enrollment rate increased from 92% in 1996 to 96% in 2004 (with gender parity), while the
completion rate reached 95% for Grade 5 and 81% for Grade 9. The increase in net enrollment is
significant, given the fact that enrollment increase beyond the 95th percentile level is very difficult to
achieve because, generally, 4-5% of school-age children with various disabilities may be kept at home by
their parents. School rationalization has been successfully applied to about 75% of the targeted number of
schools. About 50,000 additional school places were created in Grades 6-9 cycle. With the consolidation
and amalgamation of uneconomical schools, the net effect has been an improvement in the cost efficiency of
the education system. A substantial contribution was made in improving physical infrastructure as planned
with the construction and renovation of schools and libraries, and the supply of furniture and equipment. In
addition, provision of water and sanitation facilities in needy schools has vastly enhanced the learning
environment in these schools. More importantly, the expansion and improvement in access to schools were
based on a critical needs assessment of zonal plans and resource distribution to schools on a per capita
basis, thereby advancing the goal of providing access to schooling with equity, in line with the
Government's compulsory education policy for children aged 5-14 years. In fact, the application of the
norm-based unit cost resource allocation mechanism has considerably enhanced equity, with schools in
"difficult areas" and "very difficult areas" receiving about 40-70% more resources than other schools.

Improving Efficiency in Educational Management and Financing. Considerable progress was made in
furthering the goal of improving management efficiency and educational financing. Education management
was strengthened through restructuring within the Ministry of Education, the Provincial Education Offices,
the National Institute of Education and University Grants Commission, and provision of intensive staff
training. Results of improved educational management effectiveness and efficiency include: (a) improved
coordination between curriculum planning and textbook production, through the joint process of developing
annual plans; (b) increased equity and efficiency of resource allocation and distribution in the education
system, through the successful nation-wide application of a norm-based unit cost allocation mechanism
piloted under the project; (c) development of new education plans for primary and secondary; (d)
development of Institutional plans in NIE and the University Grants Commission; and (e) the establishment
of NEREC, which has gained national recognition as an effective, independent learning assessment and
educational research entity.


                                                      - 7 -

Remaining Challenges. Over the last decade, the MOE has successfully overcome enormous challenges in
the education sector, as depicted by the above achievements. Nevertheless, some serious challenges still
remain. To sustain what has been achieved, MOE needs to continue to: (a) expand equitable access to
post-primary schooling beyond the participation rate of 81% to achieve universal completion; (b) improve
education quality to boost student learning achievement across the country; and (c) strengthen the education
system through policy reforms aimed at achieving economic and social goals by making the system more
attuned to labor market demands, and fostering social cohesion. The GoSL, fully cognizant of such
challenges, considers investment in people as an overarching objective in reducing poverty through
broad-based economic growth. Thus, the Government has effectively used GEP2 as a platform, together
with other programs, to embark recently on implementing its pivotal Education Sector Development
Framework and Program 2006-2010, with support from IDA of a US$60 million grant (Education Sector
Development Project ­ IDA Grant H-1960), and from other development partners.


4.2 Outputs by components:
The following is a summary of outputs by components (see Annex 1 for details). Immediately after this is
a brief description of project weaknesses.

Component 1: Curriculum Development ­ US$9.27 million (IDA US$4.52 million)

The objective of this component, which was to implement a sequential framework for curriculum
development and revision and strengthening technical capacity, was substantially achieved, and the
outcome was clearly satisfactory. A key outcome was that the previously existing outdated curriculum
was replaced with a new curriculum attuned to today's educational standards, applied across the board by
adequately trained staff. A study (NEREC, 2002) found that curriculum materials produced for Grades 1
and 2 were designed appropriately to meet the reform objective, were suitable for the age level of students
and addressed the desired competencies on knowledge, environment, communication, critical thinking,
analysis and reasoning, and self-learning and development of positive attitude for learning.

The main achievements are as follows: (a) a revised national curriculum policy was implemented; (b) a
new sequential and cyclical curriculum (Grades 1-9 and syllabi for all subjects) was developed and
implemented; (c) NIE was strengthened through the appointment of 30 new staff, and intensive training of
staff; (d) 7,000 subject teachers, school principals, and in-service advisors were trained in the use of the
revised curriculum; (e) an effective joint annual plan process of NIE and the Education Publications
Department (EPD) was implemented; and (f) technical capacity and curriculum management improved, as
evidenced by the data in NIE annual reports.

Component 2: Textbooks and Educational Publications ­ US$ 6.64 million (IDA US$6.05 million)

Achievement under this component is rated satisfactory, as the objectives of improving the content,
physical quality, range and availability of textbooks for all subjects for Grades 1-9 and increasing textbook
life expectancy from one year to three years were substantially achieved. Of significant importance, has
been the gradual move from a single textbook policy under state monopoly to a "Multiple Book Option
(MBO) policy allowing for greater private sector participation in textbook production, with focus on
inclusion, equity and diversity.

The main achievements are as follows: (a) an integrated textbook policy was formulated in 1998 and
disseminated in 1999-2000; (b) textbooks for Grades 1-9 were improved both in terms of content and



                                                      - 8 -

physical quality, with due regard to ethnicity and religion; (c) introduction in schools of textbooks and
guides for Science and Technology for Grade 9, and Sinhala and Tamil Languages for Grade 5; and (d)
under the MBO, production of books for Grades 6 and 7 in Sinhala, Tamil, English, Mathematics, Science
and Technology, and Environmental Studies, and a wide range of subjects and supplementary materials.

As a result, a large production (about 20 million) of reasonably high quality textbooks, the annual textbook
replacement rate has dropped from 70% to 50%, thus allowing for substantial savings in textbook
production over time if all schools adopt the three-year re-use policy. More important, with the acquisition
of modern, well-illustrated textbooks reflecting the revised curriculum, students were able to enhance their
learning capabilities, as evidenced by feedback from teachers, students and parents.

Component 3: School Facilities Rationalization ­ US$26.96 million (IDA US$20.96 million)

This Component is rated satisfactory as the objective of ensuring an equitable and cost-effective allocation
of educational and sanitary facilities under a new structure focusing on disadvantaged rural and urban
schools has been substantially met in seven out of eight provinces. There was slower progress in the North
East Province due to conflict. Based on school rationalization surveys and detailed rationalization and
zonal plans, the school rationalization program was implemented throughout the country in 1997/98.
However, this was suspended because it had the unintended effect of decreasing the enrollment rate in less
popular schools due to the outflow of children from poorer schools to upgraded ones, thereby affecting
mandatory distance arrangements. Nevertheless, school rationalization has been successfully applied to
about 75% of the targeted 1,520 schools, with greater success in non-conflict affected areas. Library
physical infrastructure, with exceeded targets, was also covered under this component (see Annex 1 ­
School Rationalization).

Component 4: Quality Inputs ­ US$10.65 million (IDA US$10.18 million)

Overall achievement was satisfactory, as the objective was fully met: supplying needed quality inputs on
time for the core subjects in Junior Schools (Grades 1-9), and to a limited number of Senior Schools
(Grades 10-13), on a per capita basis, in accordance with the evolving curriculum. Almost 9,700 schools
(97% of government schools) under Provincial schools benefited from the provision of resources for quality
inputs, as follows: (a) computers and associated Information, Communications and Technology (ICT)
equipment for 80 schools participating in the ICT pilot program; (b) laboratory equipment, plaster and
chemicals; (c) electrical and electronics equipment; (d) workshop tools; (e) audio-cassette recorders; (f)
mathematical equipment; (g) education maps; (h) social studies instruments; and (i agricultural equipment.
About US$5 million was invested in computers and accessories, US$0.5 million in audio visual equipment,
and US$2.3 million in science equipment, which made a huge difference in enhancing student learning,
compared with pre-project conditions.

Successful implementation strategies were developed based on an inventory of schools' needs (three-year
zonal plans), a unit cost formula for equipment and materials allocation was piloted in three districts, and a
costed list of quality inputs matching the evolving curriculum was prepared. Following the pilot phase,
provision of quality inputs was made using a combination of decentralized (school-based) and central
procurement methods, with the result that the decentralized school-based method is now firmly established
in all schools nation-wide. Originally, it was proposed that 6% of provincial recurrent education budgets
be dedicated to quality inputs, but this figure was appropriately adjusted to 2% with IDA's concurrence. A
key positive outcome was that by incorporating a line item for quality inputs, the Provincial Councils have
made it possible to institutionalize the provision of resources for quality inputs within the government
budget. Based on feedback from users and the ICR mission's observations, quality inputs, in a large


                                                      - 9 -

measure, have been put to good use.

Component 5: Libraries ­ US$ 5.23 million (IDA US$5.05 million)

The rating for this component is satisfactory, as all the targets were substantially achieved, and even
surpassed in some cases. Main achievements were: (a) the establishment in 1999 of a school library policy
clarifying inter alia staff roles and library use during and after school hours; (b) the establishment of a
National Institute of Library and Information Science (NILIS) at the University of Colombo to accredit and
set up standards of tertiary level training of teacher librarians and librarians, to offer short intensive
training courses, as well as certificate, degree and post-graduate courses on a fee basis for both the public
and private sectors; and (c) the development of school libraries. Apart from the achievement of the library
infrastructure targets (under Component 3 above), the component outputs were as follows: (i) books to
2,600 (100%) schools under the Book-Based Learning Enrichment Program (BOBLEP); (ii) library books
and materials were provided to schools, including 82 Navodya schools. In all, more than 1,500,000 library
books in 3,062 titles in Sinhala, Tamil and English were provided to existing school libraries, and 100,000
set of books were supplied to the newly established libraries.

Key accomplishments included: (a) a much stronger school library system with trained teacher-librarians,
linked to the National Library System; and (b) a substantial increase in reading habits boosted by the
innovative Book-based Learning Enrichment program; as evidenced by feedback from local communities,
teachers and school development groups, as well as a higher prevalence of book borrowing and book
circulation to classrooms.

Component 6: Education Management and Planning ­ US$8.79 million (IDA US$8.52 million)

Achievement under this component is rated moderately satisfactory, as the objective of improving
efficiency and effectiveness of the educational system was only partially achieved, through streamlining of
the three target agencies (MOE/Provincial Education Authorities, the National Institute of Education
(NIE), and the University Grants Commission. All three agencies were restructured to more appropriately
reflect their functions and, in the case of the MOE, to align functions and improve communications across
central, provincial and zonal levels. Planning capacity was increased such that educational plans were
prepared for both primary and secondary, though the system fell short of producing a comprehensive
education plan (including all national schools). Professional development training targets were mostly met
or exceeded (see details in Annex 1 Education Management).

Whilst it is extremely difficult to measure the direct impact of the training imparted to various staff at
different levels, feedback from trainees was highly positive. The fact that a large majority of the trained
staff remained in the educational system is a beneficial outcome. However, coordination of activities under
this component was ineffective throughout implementation due to both the complexity in design and
discontinuity in ownership and monitoring within the management structure. Thus, often top-level
management had to be depended upon to facilitate coordination and bolster implementation.

Component 7: Education Financing ­ US$0.88 million (IDA US$0.88 million)

Achievement under this component was highly satisfactory, as the objective of allocating resources
rationally and attaining equity in school resource allocation was fully achieved, mainly through the
application of a successfully piloted norm-based, unit cost resource allocation mechanism (NBUCRAM)
nation-wide. A systematic formula for the allocation of education resources was developed, orientation and
extensive training was given to stakeholders, and a manual was also prepared and distributed to all users.


                                                      - 10 -

Under this formula provinces allocated: (i) 25% of the education capital budget for durable quality inputs
such as science laboratories, equipment, computers, mathematical and science tools, and library books
especially for priority subjects; and (ii) 10 percent of the capital education budget for maintenance and
replacement activity; and (iii) two percent of the recurrent education budget for consumables and perishable
quality inputs. In addition, a specific monitoring system was put in place to monitor education resource
flows. Developments under this component have had a profound effect in increasing equity in educational
resource allocation, with increased substantial flows to poorer schools. Indeed, feedback from school
principals, teachers, zonal and provincial education staff, and MOE officials indicates that this new
resource distribution formula has substantially improved the equity of resource distribution across school
types. This also represents an important step towards implementation of the Government's long-term
policy of devolving school management to schools.

Component 8: Studies ­ US$ 0.65 million (IDA US$0.65 million)

This component is rated satisfactory, as the objective of analyzing performance outcomes in selected areas,
and on emergent issues was substantially achieved, with the target of seven studies by end-2002 well
exceeded. Thus, twelve evaluations were completed, three of which on impact: (i) school rationalization;
(ii) distribution and usage of quality inputs; and (iii) awareness campaign. In addition, following a review
of studies under both TETD and GEP2, these studies were rationalized and NEREC was given primary
responsibility for these with the required financial support (see Annexes 1 and 7 for details).

Component 9: Project Coordination Unit ­ US$1.12 million (IDA US$0.56 million)

Achievement under this component is satisfactory, given that the objectives of coordinating project funds
from different sources and coordinating monitoring and reporting aspects were largely met through the
establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Despite many challenges, including maintaining key
project staffing, the PCU managed to fulfill one of its main purported roles of a processing and monitoring
unit. The PCU's continued link with central agencies, and especially with Provincial Education Authorities
as several responsibilities were delegated to them, was crucial in ensuring smooth implementation, though
collaboration with the latter proved difficult at first. Monthly monitoring meeting with Provincial
Education Officers became a regular feature towards the latter part of implementation. Short-term staff
training took place as planned.

Restructuring Based on New Government Priorities

As described under Section 3.4 above, three components were added in December 2002, reflecting the
Government's new priorities in line with its initiatives on peace-building and social cohesion. Achievement
under these components is summarized below.

(1) Education Reconstruction for the Conflict-Affected Areas ­ US$7.39 million (IDA US$4.8 million)

This component is rated satisfactory, as the goals of improving access and quality education in the
conflict-affected areas through rehabilitation and reconstruction of school infrastructure and quality
improvement in targeted schools were largely met. Despite difficult implementation conditions (including
unavailability of building materials and shortage of qualified contractors) a commendable effort was made
in reaching a substantial portion of the targets: (a) 168 (85%) of school classrooms were completed (140
(91.5%) of 153 classrooms, and 28 (62%) of 45 library buildings), with one classroom building and one
library building abandoned due to the tsunami in December 2004; (b) 164 (100%) schools were supplied
with furniture; and (c) 60 (73%) of the planned 82 Navodya school library buildings were completed.



                                                       - 11 -

When compared with the original target of 199 buildings (for classroom and library), this target was
surpassed with the completion of 228 buildings (115%). Thus, the key outcome was that the project was
able to increase access and equity, as well improve quality, in much needed, disadvantaged areas.

(2) English Language Action Plan (ELAP) ­ US$4.19 million (IDA US$3.93 million)

Achievement was satisfactory, as the revised objective (with a considerably reduced scope) of improving
the teaching and learning of English was substantially achieved. The original objective was deemed too
ambitious, given a limited implementation period of two years. Whilst it is too early to determine the full
impact of the English Language program, the ICR mission observed that the programs of Book-based
Learning of English and the Activity-based program of Oral English were highly effective, mainly because
of their interactive nature, which fosters greater student learning. With regard to the broader objective of
supporting peace-building and social cohesion through investments in English-medium instruction and
education materials, the emphasis on promoting the English Language has reportedly fostered equity,
tolerance and understanding among Sinhalese and Tamil-speaking students. Key achievements included
provision of English-medium textbooks for Grades 6-9 in different subjects, supplementary readers, and
training of staff and teachers; and the establishment of 100 Lighthouse schools (model schools for the
English Language Program) (see Annex 1 ­ English Language Action Plan).

(3) Information Technology-Based Education ­ US$6.31 million (IDA US$5.63 million)

This component is rated satisfactory since all the targeted outputs were fully attained: (a) 6,400 (100%)
teachers trained in IT literacy; (b) 400 (100%) schools equipped with computer centers; and (c) a pool of
80 IT trainers established in the provinces. All 400 schools have commenced IT-based teaching and
learning in schools. In addition, an unexpected benefit of the IT-based education program under the project
was that it has enabled the Government to introduce a new technology stream into the GCE A-Level
curriculum from 2006. Whilst it is too early assess the objective of enhancing employment and labor
market opportunities for school completers, anecdotal evidence from some schools with IT centers suggests
that students' employment prospects improved, with possibilities of not only obtaining jobs faster, but also
better quality ones.

Project Weaknesses

Satisfactory, timely resolution of the following key project weaknesses would have enhanced component
output results:

    l Curriculum Development. Obstacles in coordination between NIE and EPD caused initial delays
         in curriculum and textbook development.

    l Textbooks Development. (a) Less than expected progress was made on implementing the multiple
         book option policy, due to initial delays of two years; (b) private sector participation was not as
         high as originally expected, especially in textbook distribution due to logistical constraints.

    l School Rationalization. While a majority of stakeholders think that rationalization has brought
         about more equitable distribution of educational resources, the ICR mission was informed that it
         was not evenly applied to all schools (including national schools).

    l Quality Inputs. (a) Procurement training under the decentralized procurement model should have
         been provided; and (b) Closer monitoring could have been done of quality inputs usage.


                                                      - 12 -

   l School Libraries. A greater impact could have been obtained had all the 92 public awareness on
         library development training workshops for principals and MOE officials been held (only 20 took
         place).

   l Education Management. (a) The development of a comprehensive Educational Management
         Information System/Financial Management Information System failed to materialize; despite
         numerous attempts to re-ignite this activity, it was finally aborted in June 2004 due to insufficient
         time available to complete it; (b) A key element that was envisaged at appraisal was building
         community awareness on education issues and related reforms. Early social and community
         awareness campaigns would have increased the potential for success with key reforms, such as the
         Multiple Textbook Option, school rationalization, and increasing efficiency of Provincial
         Education Authorities, all of which suffered from initial implementation delays due to insufficient
         public awareness.

   l Project Implementation. (a) The difficulty in recruiting procurement and financial management
         staff on time; (b) The ability of PCU to coordinate effectively across the board, especially as the
         Education Development and Coordination Committee did not function as envisaged at appraisal;
         and (c) A design omission of a comprehensive, effective monitoring system from the outset, which
         would have made it possible to monitor the impact on learning outcomes.

   l Information Technology-Based Education. Based on field observations, some schools are yet to
         develop robust IT programs, and many do not have fully competent and confident IT teachers,
         equipped fully with hardware, software, communications and appropriate maintenance facilities.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Sri Lanka's investment in general education (including GEP2) is beginning to impact the current graduates.
First, the internal efficiency of schooling (Grades 1-9) measured in terms of flow rates, is relatively high.
Repetition rates and drop out rates range from 2%-7% (with slightly higher repetition and drop out rates
for boys). The high student flow rates can be attributed to several policy measures: (i) the supply of
sufficient school places through the network of schools to meet the demand for education from parents and
students; (ii) incentive schemes, such as free textbooks, school uniforms and subsidized transport; and (iii)
automatic promotion from Grades 1-11. Second, the external efficiency of human capital investment is
substantial. Both compulsory schooling (primary and junior secondary) and senior secondary schooling,
yield generous economic benefits. For males, social rates of return are highest at the senior secondary level
(20%); those for compulsory schooling are 15%. Among females, social rates of return to education are
highest at the compulsory school level (20%), followed by senior secondary (18%). Private rates of return
to education are also considerable. Among males, the private rate of return is largest for senior secondary
(25%), with that for compulsory schooling at 19%. Among females, the private rate of return is highest at
the compulsory schooling level (25%), followed by senior secondary schooling (22%). This clearly
confirms the importance of continued support initiatives for increased education quality at the compulsory
school level, as well as supporting the senior secondary levels.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not Applicable.




                                                     - 13 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development impact was substantial. First, the school facilities rationalization contributed to
increased enrollment in the lower grades and higher transition rates to the upper grades. Feedback from
local education authorities indicates it also improved managerial efficiency in the school system. Second,
the successful implementation of key policies such as those relating to curriculum and textbook
development, school libraries and the national library, strengthened the institutional development impact.
This is reflected in MOE's completion of the curriculum revision for Grades 1-9, with the establishment of
a joint annual planning process of the National Institute of Education and the Education Publications
Department. Substantial progress was also made in establishing the new library system both centrally and
at the school level.

Third, the 200 light house (English) model schools, and of 400 ICT centers to develop IT-based education,
introduced after the Mid-Term Review (MTR), provided nation-wide enhancement of the English Language
teaching/learning activities and IT-based education, according to positive feedback from students and
educational authorities. Fourth, the independent research and evaluation center at Colombo University
(National Education Research Evaluation Center), now has the capability to undertake educational research
and evaluation to support national development. Finally, the successful institutionalization of the
norm-based unit cost resource allocation formula piloted under the project to address equity and efficiency
issues will have a positive impact on Sri Lanka's educational resource management.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Two external factors affected project implementation. First, continued uncertainty regarding security due
to conflict had a negative impact on project activities in and around the North East Province. However,
significant progress was made, especially in construction/renovation, in the last three years of
implementation when tensions diminished. Second, the period leading to parliamentary elections in 2000
became rather unstable, such that the rationalization and the multiple textbook option programs were
adversely affected, since they could not be implemented as per the agreed plan.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Factors subject to government control included: (a) government budgetary restrictions; (b) too frequent
changes in the position of Secretary to the MOE (five secretaries between 1998 and 2003); (c) TETD's
slow implementation progress (as a complement to GEP2); (d) wavering government commitment on
implementing the Multiple Book Option policy; and (e) suspension of the rationalization program.
However, two factors had a positive effect on the project: the leadership and guidance provided by the
President's Task Force on Education; and the strong commitment of provincial officials to project
implementation from the second year.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

These included the following: (a) In spite of lessons learned from GEP1, the inability to recruit on time key
staff such as procurement and financial management officers dragged the PCU's performance; (b) the
failure to establish outright a fully operational, monitoring and evaluation system, and the absence of a
comprehensive EMIS; (c) the absence of awareness-building from the outset on the proposed reforms



                                                     - 14 -

caused confusion and back-tracking on the Multiple Book Option policy; and (d) weak PCU coordination
until the administrative restructuring in 2002 resulted in heavy reliance on the MOE Secretary to galvanize
the responsible implementation units into action. One positive aspect, however, was that MOE made a
judicious decision in holding regular monthly monitoring meetings with provincial education authorities,
and involved them actively in wrap-up meetings with IDA supervision missions.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$83.4 million equivalent, of which US$70.3 million
was financed by the IDA Credit (84% of total), US$8.2 million by GoSL (10% of total) and US$4.9
million by DfID. As of February 28, 2006, the total project cost was US$88.1 million equivalent (105% of
original estimates). Financing was apportioned as follows: US$71.7 million from the IDA Credit (98% of
the total Credit in dollar terms), US$11.7 million equivalent from GoSL (143% of the appraisal estimate)
and US$4.7 million equivalent from DfID (96 % of the appraisal estimate). A cancellation of US$949,481
equivalent was made in September 2000, resulting from a misprocurement of microscopes. The total
undisbursed Credit, to be cancelled, was estimated at US$1.7 million equivalent (2% of the original Credit
amount).

The project expenditure by category of the IDA Credit was as follows (appraisal estimates in parenthesis,
for comparison): (i) US$21.1 million in civil works (US$13.4 million); (ii) US$20.9 million in equipment,
furniture and vehicles (US$25.9 million); (iii) US$9.6 million in library books and education materials
(US$12.9 million); (iv) US$1.9 million in consultants' services (US$4.4 million); (v) US$12.5 million in
training, fellowships and studies (US$12.8 million); and (vi) US$0.4 million on project management
(US$0.5 million). The overrun for civil works was due to the introduction of a new component to construct
school classrooms and library buildings in the conflict-affected areas. Savings in other categories of
expenditure resulted mainly from exchange rate depreciations and lower prices through competitive
bidding. The savings were applied towards the expenditure on the three new components on GoSL's new
priorities. Moreover, about US$3.9 million were transferred to the Tsunami Emergency Recovery
Program.

The financial management system put in place by the PCU was inadequate for the following reasons: (a)
late appointment of financial manager (as late as June 1999 ­ 18 months from effectiveness ­ a suitable
financial specialist had not been appointed); and (b) the quality of financial reports were less than
satisfactory. Audit reports for each fiscal year during the life of the project were submitted to IDA with an
average delay of about two months from the latest specified date of June 30 of each fiscal year (with delays
of 4-5 months occurring on three occasions). Eleven of the reports were "qualified with exception" by the
independent auditor. However, as these were considered to be minor issues they were acceptable to IDA.
While there were no serious findings from a Fiduciary Review of Accounts carried out in 2003 under the
guidance of INT, shortcomings in maintenance of supporting documentation were noted. It was only in the
final year of implementation that some efforts to expedite implementation, update the plans and keep track
of expenditures on contracts were observed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Project sustainability is rated as likely. The most important factor is GoSL's commitment, and the high
priority it assigns to implementing educational policy initiatives under its education sector development
framework and plan (2006-2010). This includes a strong commitment to raising the quality of education,



                                                     - 15 -

enhancing equitable access to schooling, increasing efficiency of resource allocation and distribution, and
improving management oversight in the education system. The Government has obtained IDA's support
for an Education Sector Development Project to achieve the above goals. The fact that foreign funding
accounts for only four percent of the Government's Education Program Budget for 2006 demonstrates
GoSL's determination to be financially self-reliant.

Sustainability is further supported by two key factors: (i) project implementation was carried out by the
MOE's established administrative units that were involved in project preparation; and (ii) the emphasis on
local ownership of the project through decentralizing certain functions to the Provincial and Zonal
Education Offices which are held accountable for post-implementation project operation. Reinforcing the
above strengthening of project ownership by the existing administrative units, the National Education
Research and Evaluation Center (NEREC) has, since its establishment in 1999 at the University of
Colombo, carried out comprehensive educational research and evaluation which will provide critical
support to sustaining the benefits of an improved education system flowing from the project. Additionally,
the successful implementation of the government's policies on a school and public library system through
the establishment of a National Institute of Library and Information Science and construction of new and
renovation of existing school libraries will sustain the Government's education sector plan. Two other
factors contributing to project sustainability are: (a) a norm-based unit cost resource allocation mechanism
developed under the project by the Finance Commission; and (b) a decentralized pilot model under the
project for delivering relevant educational materials and equipment. Finally, under-pinning all the above, is
the fact that the majority of staff trained under the project remained in the education system, including some
60 middle-level officers who undertook a one-year management-related training program.

Regarding fiscal sustainability, MOE has been allocating about 5% of the recurrent expenditure to schools
for physical infrastructure operations and maintenance. The revised education budget for 2006 included a
significant increase in allocations for both recurrent and capital expenditure reflecting the government's
commitment to meeting the accumulated sector needs of infrastructure, operations and maintenance, and
quality inputs. Government projections also show that the budget is expected to increase further by 12% in
2007 and 2008. Furthermore, education reform programs under GEP2 are included in the provincial and
central education plans recently prepared under GoSL's Education Sector Development Framework and
Program (ESDFP) (2006-2010). In addition, the ESDP recently approved by the government, provides
supplemental funds for these programs and institutionalizes the flow of resources to them. The
sustainability of the development plans will depend on the commitment and the ability of the government to
provide the budgetary allocations required by these plans and according to priority programs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

GEP2 was envisaged as a system-based project, to be implemented by MOE and its operational units at
both Central and Provincial levels, with assistance from the Ministry of Finance and Planning and the
Finance Commission. The project closure in November 2005 has enabled a smooth transition to the
implementation of the ESDFP, with support from an IDA grant for a sector-wide Education Sector
Development Project (ESDP). The same units/agencies involved in GEP2 will also implement ESDFP,
under the guidance of a Steering Committee chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Education, with the help
of a Consultative Group (with broad representation from the central government and provincial councils,
education academics, stakeholders such as parents, principals and teachers, and development partners). In
addition, ESDFP will place a strong focus on monitoring and evaluation mainly by government education
agencies, with evaluation activities generally to be contracted out to independent research agencies, such as
NEREC and private consulting firms. Additionally, research agencies such as universities, research centers
and research institutes will be entrusted with policy research.



                                                      - 16 -

Moreover, during ESDP's implementation, taking into account GoSL's continued focus on devolving
greater responsibilities to the provincial and zonal levels, provincial and zonal authorities have been
entrusted with increasing responsibilities for education management. Thus, it is envisaged that they would
play a key role in the development of school-based planning under ESDFP, with the needed support from
the central agencies such as the NIE, EPD, and the Finance Commission.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance was satisfactory. The team that provided assistance in preparation included members
involved in supervising GEP1, which provided for continuity of dialogue. The highly experienced team
comprised members with an appropriate skills-mix in all missions. The wide, intensive, consultative
preparation process was highly appreciated by senior government officials, which ensured strong borrower
ownership. The role played by key stakeholders during preparation proved to be of utmost benefit. The
team coordinated with development partners from the outset, through meetings chaired by the Secretary,
MOE, an outcome of which was the full endorsement by every partner of the system-based approach
adopted by MOE for GEP2.

The Bank team ensured the highest professional quality in preparation technical assistance. Preparation
was based on a sector review in June 1994 (the Education and Training Sector Strategy Review), and
technical assistance and feasibility studies funded by two Japan Policy and Human Resource Development
Grants (TF022592 andTF023471). This additional funding enabled the team to adopt an intensive
participatory approach involving substantial national expertise in diverse technical areas. Moreover, GEP1
implementation lessons were incorporated in the project design. These efforts resulted in a technically
sound project design, with adequate emphasis on key relevant issues, detailed preparation, and
implementation readiness factors. A testimony to the thorough and participative preparation process was
the fact that GoSL decided to implement recommendations of the National Education Commission using
Bank documentation. The Bank team also undertook a cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness study.

Three areas, however, needed greater emphasis. First, in order to ascertain that key educational and project
data are readily available, it was crucial to require the setting up of a system of monitoring, data collection
and evaluation from project start-up. Second, given the nature of several key reforms, it was important to
start the necessary awareness campaigns early in implementation. Third, particularly in view of the lesson
from GEP1, the availability of key staff from project start should have been ensured during preparation
itself (for instance, it took more than a year from project start-up to fill postings for procurement and
financial management appropriately).

7.2 Supervision:
Overall, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. With 150 officials from national and provincial levels
attending the successful project launch in April 1998, the project made a good start. The Bank team
carried out 17 supervision missions until project closure (including the MTR in June 2001 and an ICR
mission in October 2005), with regular intervals of six months. Over a decade, three task team leaders
were in charge of the entire GEP2 lending operation and supervision missions; thus needed supervision
continuity was largely achieved. Supervision teams, comprising a stable mix of appropriate skills, were
instrumental in identifying feasible solutions to address relevant implementation issues, with some level of
flexibility, especially during difficult periods of instability. In addition, MOE benefited from strong
ongoing, just-in-time support from staff in the World Bank Colombo Office.




                                                       - 17 -

As indicated in Annex 4, most supervision missions rated the project development objective (PDO) and
implementation progress (IP) as satisfactory. Only once the team justifiably rated the PDO unsatisfactory
in view of GoSL's slowness in implementing agreed reforms related mainly to curriculum revision and
provincial planning. Moreover, GEP2 was appropriately assessed as a problem project for one year (June
2003-June 2004) due to poor implementation progress resulting from protracted procurement delays, slow
disbursements and inadequate progress in two of the three new components. Each supervision mission
concluded with a well-documented Aide Memoire, which was thoroughly discussed and endorsed, and was
subsequently used as a monitoring and follow-up mechanism.

Areas of weakness relate to: (a) the need for the supervision team to have streamlined project indicators,
with focus on results/outcomes; (b) project documentation around 2000-2001 could have been improved for
completeness and accuracy. For instance, project status reports before the MTR seem to indicate that no
management attention was paid to the project. However, this was indeed not the case especially since
managers had often joined supervision teams; and (c) insufficient IDA support and guidance on
procurement at the outset.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above, the Bank's overall performance was satisfactory in view of the detailed preparation
with wide participation of key stakeholders, the well-balanced skills-mix of both preparation and
supervision teams, and the teams' continuous flexibility in helping GoSL resolve implementation issues and
accommodating new priority areas during the long implementation period.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation was highly satisfactory. This project was IDA's fifth
education sector operation in Sri Lanka. The experience acquired in the preparation and implementation of
GEP1 became a rich source of lessons for GoSL that concluded in a more effective preparation process. In
fact, negotiations took place just about one year after IDA's first preparation mission (in spite of the
additional time required for an intensive participatory approach), compared with 19 months for GEP1.
This significant improvement resulted from greater clarity and operational definition on the content and
strategy for education reforms. Clear objectives, goals and strong leadership, together with early
stakeholder involvement at all levels significantly reduced resistance to the introduction of major key
education policy reforms under GEP2. In addition, the strong government ownership was reflected in the
comprehensive Letter of Development Policy (October 1997, see Project Appraisal Document, Annex 13,
Appendix 1, p. 84) outlining GoSL's National Education System Reform Policy Initiatives. The high level
of government commitment, coupled with the work of project component preparation committees, was a
key factor in ascertaining smooth project preparation. The collaboration of GoSL's project preparation
team with the bank team was exemplary, especially in regard to the effective use of technical assistance,
and the intensive level of discussions with all key stakeholders during the whole preparation process.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Although GoSL's commitment during implementation (more particularly in the first year) was not
commensurate with its high level commitment during the preparation process, overall implementation
performance was satisfactory. Rapid staff turnover at the Secretary level and above meant that during the
early years of implementation, uncertainty grew as to GoSL's quest on agreed reforms. However, senior
officials took bold steps at times to stay the course in spurring the needed changes. For example, the MOE
made commendable efforts to propel core project activities such as curriculum renewal, textbook
development, and provincial planning. Nevertheless, unreasonably slow progress in the complementary
TETD project also adversely affected GEP2 implementation. Management letters made it clear that



                                                      - 18 -

insufficient TETD progress would lead to curtailment of disbursement in GEP2 activities. However, GoSL
was able to forestall this difficulty.

A key factor which needed greater government attention was the need to launch public awareness
campaigns for the reforms under GEP2 much earlier (this was not achieved until as late as September
1999). Had this been done early, it would have elicited greater public acceptance of the proposed reforms,
especially in regard to school rationalization and the Multiple Book Option (two areas where a great deal of
confusion cropped up).

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the concerned implementing units was satisfactory. Before missions, the PCU
prepared and delivered to the Bank on time, well-documented project implementation progress reports that
resulted in valuable documentation to accomplish the mission's objectives. The PCU was designed in such
a way that it would itself not be an implementing unit. Instead, it was only meant to perform the functions
of a coordinator of day-to-day project activities to be implemented by respective units within MOE, the
Provincial Education Authorities, and the Finance Commission. Its role was merely that of a processing
and monitoring unit, as opposed to a managing unit. National oversight was the responsibility of the
Education Development and Coordination Committee (EDCC) chaired by the Secretary of MOE. EDCC
was entrusted with the task of ensuring that the "implementation responsibilities are clearly communicated
to the various units and that effective decision-making and implementation takes place." Since the EDCC
could not meet as frequently as needed, a gap was created in coordinating overall project activities
effectively, which could not be filled readily by the PCU as it lacked the proper authority. Thus, the project
suffered initially from poor coordination. This was rectified later on as incoming Secretaries played a
greater role in project coordination than in the past, and the Additional Secretary was made responsible for
coordination of reforms. As a result, all implementing units, which initially showed lackluster
performance, improved over time in meeting their respective responsibilities. Moreover, as mentioned
earlier the project faced difficulties in both procurement and financial management, mainly due to delayed
appointments of appropriate staff or high staff turnover. Consequently, during much of the implementation
period, the PCU suffered from poor management and monitoring in these areas.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory, based on its strong commitment, ownership and
performance during project preparation and implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

Project Preparation:

1. Government ownership and continued political commitment are critical for the successful
    implementation of major policy reforms. This was demonstrated by the fact that political commitment
    enabled GoSL to stay the course with reforms despite difficult implementation challenges. The
    Government's strong ownership and political will may be attributed to the long-term partnership and
    on-going dialogue with the Bank since the early 1990s (para. 1 of Sections 3.1, 3.5 and 6.1).

2. Using existing administrative agencies (as opposed to a separate Project Implementation Unit),
    ensures smooth project implementation and long-term sustainability, provided the choice of
    agencies is accompanied by commensurate capacity-building, and an effective coordination
    mechanism. Design assumptions that there would be cooperation among different agencies, motivated
    by a common interest in efficiency, were misplaced. This was demonstrated by the need for
    higher-level interventions to persuade non-central agencies (e.g. NIE and UGC) to respond positively


                                                      - 19 -

    to, and to take advice and direction from, the central project coordination unit (Section 3.5, para. 1;
    Section 6.1, para. 2, and Section 7.6).

3. Full upfront commitment of key local agencies is paramount for effective decentralized education
    management and implementation. The fact that it took almost one year after implementation start-up
    to harness strong commitment from provincial authorities, points to the need to ensure sufficient
    upfront commitment from such agencies during project preparation itself (Section 6.1, para. 2 and
    Section 7.1 para. 1).

4. Establishing an effective monitoring and data collection system at project start is vital to the
    successful monitoring and evaluation of project achievements and outcomes. In retrospect, this
    project would have benefited greatly from the inclusion of an M&E sub-component, to give greater
    focus to M&E activities (Section 3.5, para. 1 and Section 7.1, para. 3).

5. Early awareness programs are critical to ensuring smooth implementation of a set of complex
    policy reforms. Greater awareness from project start both among key stakeholders and the public
    would have contributed to improved outcomes, for instance, in the implementation of the Multiple
    Book Option policy and the rationalization program (Section 4.2, Project Weaknesses).


Project Implementation:

1. The disruption to project implementation caused by the succession of four Ministers and five
    Secretaries, apart from staff changes at lower levels, during the life of the project highlighted the
    importance of keeping key decision-makers at their posts as long as possible, if not for the duration
    of the project, to sustain the project's vision and intended purpose through continuity of policy and
    management (Section 5.2, para. 1).

2. Recruitment from the outset of qualified staff for key positions is paramount for ensuring strong
    and consistent project implementation progress. The project was handicapped with the late
    appointment of a procurement officer and a financial management officer (Section 5.3, para. 1).

3. The dynamic linking of curriculum and textbook development that contributed towards achieving
    the desired goals illustrates the importance of ensuring that such cognate activities are carried out
    collaboratively, as was done between the National Institute of Education and the Education
    Publications Department, although this partnership took some time to mature (Section 3.5 para. 1 and
    Section 4.1, para. 6 ­ Education Efficiency in Education Management and Financing).

4. A well-designed and efficiently-implemented component for decentralized provision of quality
    inputs or library development can contribute significantly to improving student learning outcomes,
    as was demonstrated by the successful use under GEP2 of a decentralized model for delivering quality
    inputs and the development of a comprehensive school library system, linked to the National Library
    System (Section 4.1 para. 4, and Section 4.2, Components 4 and 5).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

MOE informed IDA on June 15, 2006 that it had reviewed the Draft Implementation Completion Report,



                                                      - 20 -

and agreed with the content. Below are MOE's comments and a brief summary of its contribution to the
ICR (a full assessment is in Annex 8).

The Ministry of Education is satisfied and agreeable about the comments written in the IDA-prepared ICR
on GEP2. The project was linked to the Government's National Education Reforms aiming at modernizing
the sector through improvements in quality, equity, internal and external efficiency in general education in
Sri Lanka. The total project cost was SDR 60.98 million (SDR 51.4 million from IDA, SDR 3.58 from
DfID, and SDR 6 million from GOSL). The project supported key reforms which have proved successful,
such as those related to curriculum, textbooks, and quality inputs. An important factor was the
introduction of the Norm Based Unit Cost Resource Allocation Mechanism (NBUCARM), a formula
which has been applied successfully to increase equity in basic education. Important results were obtained
in school library development, physical infrastructure, and newly introduced components: (i) physical
infrastructure in conflict-affected areas; (ii) Information, Communication and Technology; and (iii)
promotion of the English Language. In sum, the project was successfully implemented with virtually all
planned activities completed, and with a financial performance of almost 97%.


(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information


N/A




                                                      - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

  Outcome/Impact Indicators:
             Indicator                       SAR/MTR Targets                 Actual/Latest Estimate

  Project Development
  Objective:
  The quality, equity and         · Student achievement rates in Grades 1-   · Only one national assessment undertaken of Grade
  efficiency of the education       9 increased significantly by 2003          4 pupils in 2003: Against an average target of 80%,
  system improved, particularly                                                average achievement rates were: (a) 36.5% in First
  for Grades 1-9, referred to by                                               Language; (b) 37.9% in Mathematics; and (c) 9.5%
  the GoSL as the Junior Cycle                                                 in English Language

                                                                             · NEREC, an independent body for educational
                                                                               assessments and research, is now carrying regular
                                                                               assessments

                                                                             · Findings of a study by NIE (2003) indicate: (i)
                                                                               Mastery in literacy ­ 37% of students in 2002
                                                                               compared with 32% in 1997; (ii) Mastery in
                                                                               Numeracy ­ 23% of students in 2002 compared
                                                                               with 22% in 1997

                                                                             · Key qualitative assessments - improvement in: (i)
                                                                               learning environment, (ii) reading habits, and (iii)
                                                                               the English Language Program
                                  · Revamp outdated curriculum, and          · New curriculum in place, with child-centered
                                    introduce new curriculum                   approaches
                                  · Replace poor quality textbooks           · High quality textbooks produced (with improved
                                    (Sinhala, Tamil and English) by high       content and physical quality)
                                    quality ones
                                  · Replace outdated library books and       · Reading habits and cognitive skills improved
                                    materials by updated materials, in line    through the introduction of relevant books and
                                    with new curriculum                        materials
                                 · Introduce English Language in Grade 4    · Grade 4 students improved their skills in English
                                   (newly introduced)                         Language through interactive learning (Book-based
                                                                              Learning of English Program and Oral English
                                                                              Program)
                                  · Systematic allocation of physical        · Allocation of physical facilities, furniture and
                                    facilities, furniture and equipment in     equipment was based on agreed funding formula,
                                    all schools by 2003                        and on a per capita basis in 2003
                                  · All schools resourced on a per capita    · All schools resourced based on per capita, as
                                    basis by 2003                              planned. The norm-based unit cost resource
                                                                               allocation mechanism (NBUCRAM) developed
                                                                               under the project, was implemented successfully
                                                                               nation-wide since 2003
                                  Policy of compulsory education for 5-14    · Compulsory education for 5-14 is in force. Net
                                  year olds in force by 1998, with 100%        enrolment of Primary (1-5) reached to 96% by
                                  enrolment and retention in Grades 1-9 by     2004. Retention in Grade 1-9 increased from
                                  2003                                         96.8% in 1997 to 97.8% in 2004

                                 · Increase efficiency and effectiveness of · Educational institutions restructured, staff capacity
                                   educational institutions, and staff        strengthened, learning assessment entity established
                                   capacity developed
                                 · Improve resource allocation through      · Formula-based funding successfully implemented,
                                   formula-based funding                      through application of the norm-based unit cost
                                                                              allocation mechanism




                                                         - 22 -

Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator                           SAR/MTR Targets                              Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) Curriculum Development. (i)     Policy developed by June 1998 and            · Policy prepared in July 1997 and completed
Prepare a national strategy to      disseminated by December 1999                  in June 1999; and disseminated during
implement a sequential and                                                         1998/99-2002/03
cyclical curriculum in all subjects Percentage of subject/grade syllabi          Percentage of subject/grade syllabi completed:
for junior cycle (Grades 1-9); (ii) completed as follows: 15% in 1998; 30% in    15% in 1998; 35% in 1999; 65% in 2000; 100%
improve management of the           1999; 60% in 2000; 100% in 2001              thereafter
curriculum process; and (iii) train
teachers in the use of the new                                                   · Grades 1-2 completed by 2002
curriculum                                                                       · Grades 3-5 completed by 2003
                                                                                 · Grades 6-9 completed by 2004 (Grade 9
                                                                                   commenced in 1999)
                                    Annual plan prepared by NIE and EPD by       Annual plan prepared jointly by NIE and EPD
                                    December 1998 and upgrade annually           by 1998 and upgraded annually
                                    No. of new staff recruited to NIE in         Staff recruited to NIE as planned; difficulties
                                    curriculum: 10 in 1998; 10 in 1999 and 10    encountered in recruiting Tamil-medium
                                    in 2000                                      specialists
                                    No. of curriculum staff trained:             Curriculum staff trained during 1998-2004: 41
                                    · New recruits: 10 in 1998; 10 in 1999 and   Master courses, 50 short-term training and 30
                                      10 in 2000                                 study visits
                                    · Staff: 50 during 1998-2000
                                    No. of field and school staff trained in     All teachers, principals, in-service advisors
                                    curriculum:                                  were trained in the use of revised curriculum
                                    · Teachers (subjects): 1,400 per year 1998-
                                      2002
                                    · Trainers/teachers/principals
                                      (mathematics): 40 trainers in 1998 with
                                      annual update; 5,000 teachers and 1,875
                                      junior principals per year from 1999
(b) Textbooks/Educational           Policy prepared in September 1998,           Policy approved and disseminated in 1999-2000
Publications. (i) Increase the      reviewed in November 1998 and
Education Publication               disseminated in January 1999
Department's (EPD) contracting      Pilot multiple book option in 1999 and       A single book option was piloted. The Multiple
thresholds, allowing it to operate  make it fully operational by 2002            Book Option became fully operational by 2004,
more as a semi-autonomous body                                                   with greater private sector participation. MBO
and in partnership with the private                                              implemented for Grades 6, 7 and 8; it will be
sector; (ii) Improve the content                                                 extended to Grade 9 in 2007
and physical condition of           Use 80 gsm quality paper for textbooks       Introduced since 1999
textbooks to increase their life    Determine most durable and suitable book     · 220 gsm laminated paper used for book
expectancy and allow the            covers, binding and paper size for Junior      covers, and thread sewn and glued binding
introduction of a re-use policy     and Senior schools by end of 2000, based       used (inner paper ­ 80 gsm)
and multiple book option; (iii)     on monitoring 1998-2000
Train teachers in the use of the                                                 · Book size ­ crown quarter for secondary level
new textbooks; and (iv) increase    125 editors/subject specialists, 60 writers  Two 5-day workshops held to train writers and
private sector participation in     and 10 EPD quality control and contracting   editors in textbook production (80 writers from
printing from about 40 percent to   staff trained by June 2000                   private sector participated)
about 70% and continue 100          Involvement of:                              Private sector involvement increased.
percent private sector delivery.    Writers: 100% in 1998-2002                   However, private sector delivery not
                                    Publishers: 50% in 1998 to 80% in 2002       implemented due to government policy change
                                    Printers: 40% in 1998 to 70% in 2002         in view of logistics difficulties. Government
                                    Transport to distribution centers: 90% in    plans to use contractors gradually for textbooks
                                    1998-2000                                    distribution based on economic and
                                                                                 geographical considerations
                                    Revise 5 existing and produce 2 new          At least 12 textbooks (Grades 5, 6, 7 and 9)
                                    textbooks per year, 1998-2000                were revised during 1999-2005
                                                                                 EPD staff trained as follows: 1 Master course,
                                                                                 17 short-term training and 15 study visits




                                                        - 23 -

Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator                           SAR/MTR Targets                               Actual/Latest Estimate
(c) School Facilities               Zonal plans prepared for each province by     Each province provided zonal plans starting from
Rationalization. Increase           June 1998 and updated annually for funding    1999, as a basis to obtain required funding
equitable and cost-effective        Annual target for classrooms to be            · 1,140 schools rationalized (75% of original
allocation of education facilities  determined following completion of              target); proportion of targeted schools outside
and libraries to match the          comprehensive survey of 10,100 schools          North-East Province was over 80%
proposed NEC's new education        · Construct libraries: 160 in 1999; 160 in    · 100% of revised target of 501 new libraries
system structure of junior (Grades    2000; 160 in 2001                             reached (104% of original target)
1-9) and senior schools (Grades
10-13). Project inputs will be      · Renovate libraries: 120 in 1998; 500 in     · 98% of revised target of 1,520 renovated
based on updated facility norms       1999; 500 in 2000; 500 in 2001                libraries reached (1,485)
and existing architectural designs
for both Junior and Senior
Schools.

(d) Quality Inputs. Supply          Plan for four core subjects completed by      Plans were prepared since 1999, and updated as
sufficient quantities of            September 1998 and updated annually June      necessary
educational materials and           (or more frequently, if necessary to coincide
equipment matching curriculum       with syllabi revisions)
and syllabi needs on a per capita   Formula agreed in March 1998 and              Formula was developed in first half of 1999 and
basis annually. Project inputs will reviewed and applied annually thereafter      applied in quality inputs provision
be focused on core subjects in      3% increasing to 6% by 2001 of provincial     Initially Provinces set aside 4% by mid-1999, but
junior schools aiming to arrive at  block grant recurrent budget earmarked for    after agreement with IDA, this was appropriately
the supply of essential quality     quality inputs                                adjusted to 2% afterwards; quality inputs consisted
inputs required by teachers,                                                      of audio visual equipment, electrical/electronic
students and schools to teach the                                                 equipment, laboratory, mathematical, agricultural
curriculum effectively.                                                           and social studies equipment, workshop tools,
                                                                                  computers/accessories, and consumables
(e) Libraries. Develop school       180,000 books provided to 2,000 existing      More than 1,500,000 copies of library books
libraries (according to school      school libraries by 2001 and 460,000 books    (3,062 titles) were supplied to school libraries, by
size) and provide them with         distributed to 2,000 new school libraries by  far exceeding the original target
adequate books, shelves, resource   2002
materials, furniture and trained    Annual increase of at least 15% increase in   Despite delays, nine courses for teacher librarians
staff in library management. The    NILIS participation rates in degree, diploma  were implemented in 2003: one for Master's
project will also being to          and short courses from year 2000              Degree, two each for post-graduate diploma and
implement a national library                                                      diploma, and four for Certificate in Librarianship
policy and establish a National     Library staffed trained:                      3,086 teachers were trained in library
Institute of Library and            NLDSB staff: 16 by 2001                       management; 834 Library Management (Project
Information Service (NILIS)         Teacher/Librarians: 3,000 by 2002             school principals);
                                    Principals (lib mgt) 2,000 by 2002            25 National, Provincial and Zonal Co-ordinators
                                    Teachers (certified lib.): 1,000 by 2002      were trained to assist the BOBLEP program; and
                                                                                  3,010 teachers were trained in BOBLEP
                                                                                  methodologies
                                    15 NILIS staff trained internationally and    14 officers followed Master's Courses; 52
                                    12 nationally by 2001                         Certificate courses
                                    Provision of funds to primary and             Primary and secondary schools were provided
                                    secondary schools for English medium          with funding to procure English medium library
                                    library materials                             materials




                                                         - 24 -

(f) Education Management and       · Management structures adjusted by June      · MOE/PEAs, NIE and UGC restructured in 2000
Planning. Strengthen: (i)            1998                                        · Staff appraisal system in place in 2003
education management through       · Cadres adjusted by December 1998
rationalization of roles and       · No. of management and administrative        By project-end:
functions exercised by the           staff trained                               · 1,375 senior/middle level officers trained in
MEHE, PEAs, NIE and UGC.                                                            management (including 2 PhD, 139 Masters, 6
Planning capacity will be          · Management: 350 in 1998, 600 in 1999,          Diploma, 217 Certificate)
upgraded and national, provincial    and 485 in 2000                             · 60 associate middle level officers trained in
and institutional plans developed; · Administration: 400 in 1998, 500 in            administration and management
(ii) quality assurance and           1999, and 380 in 2000                       · 8,737 (87%) principals trained in management in-
financing mechanisms, with         · Associates: 20 in 1998, 20 in 1999, and        country (8,382 Certificate); 495 (110%) study visits
clearly defined policies and lines   20 in 2000                                  · 370 Tamil medium principals trained
of authorities for the planning    · Principals: 1,000 in 1998, 2000 in 1999,

divisions.                           3,000 in 2000, 2000 in 2001, and 2,000 in
                                     2002
                                   · Complete draft national, provincial and     · Educational plans for primary and secondary
                                     institutional plans by June 1998               education prepared; UGC and NIE prepared
                                   · Complete cycle with final plans by             separate institutional plans
                                     December 1999                               · Six-year provincial plans developed; five-year
                                                                                    national plan developed
                                   · Train staff in Planning: 175 in 1998-       · 6 officers followed Advanced Diploma courses in
                                     1999                                           Education Planning and Management at IIEP
                                   · Train staff in EMIS: 75 in 1998 and 75      · Limited training took place in EMIS, as a
                                     in 1999                                        comprehensive EMIS did not materialize
                                   · Train staff in FMS: 50 in 1998, 150 in      Limited training took place
                                     1999, and 100 in 2000
                                   · Train staff in supervisory skills: 200 in   Included in Management training above
                                     1998 and 1,800 in 1999
                                   · Train staff in use of community             · Only 20 out of 92 targeted public awareness
                                     awareness program materials: 500 in            training workshops for principals and MOE
                                     1998 and 900 by April 1999                     officials held
                                                                                 · Limited community awareness undertaken (beyond
                                                                                    materials production)
(g) Education Financing.           · Education Budget and Monitoring Unit        · EBMU set up by Finance Commission to monitor
Implement an equitable norm-         (EBMU) to train staff of MEHE, MOP,            norm-based unit cost resource allocation
based unit cost financing formula    FC, PEA AND ZEO in application of              mechanism (NBUCRAM)
agreed with the provinces to         norm-based unit cost formula: in 1998       · Budgetary formats revised in light of NBUCRAM
improve resource allocation,         and further training in 1999-2000           · Skills of finance staff in MOE, MOFP, FC, PEAs,
assist with the sustainability of                                                   and ZEO strengthened through training in
quality inputs, and improve                                                         NBUCRAM
accountability.                    · Apply norm-based unit cost funding: (i)     · NBUCRAM piloted and applied successfully since
                                     complete field test in January 1999; and       its approval, with provision of necessary
                                     (ii) apply annually thereafter, with yearly    equipment, supplies and training (including
                                     updates                                        manual); and specific monitoring system




                                                        - 25 -

Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator                         SAR/MTR Targets                    Actual/Latest Estimate
(h) Studies. Support impact       · Commence 2 studies in 1998, 2 in Original targets surpassed as follows:
analysis studies of inputs from     1999, 2 in 2000, 1 in 2001; and  · 3 impact studies undertaken on: (i) school
the First General Education         complete all by end-2002            rationalization (May 23, 2002); (ii)
project (GEP1), to assess the                                           distribution and usage of quality inputs
impact of GEP1 and GEP2 and                                             (May 23, 2002); and (iii) awareness
identify future investment                                              campaign (September 23, 2002)
needs in the education sector                                        · Other evaluation studies undertaken on: (i)
and to monitor project inputs.                                          pilot model of decentralized quality input
                                                                        purchase (May 23, 2002); (ii) curriculum
                                                                        development at primary level (January 15,
                                                                        2002); (iii) curriculum development at
                                                                        secondary level (January 15, 2002); (iv) use
                                                                        of encyclopedias, library books, and
                                                                        provision of library books to schools in
                                                                        difficult areas (July 1, 2002); (v)
                                                                        distribution, availability and re-usability of
                                                                        textbooks (May 23, 2002); (vi) consultancy
                                                                        on strategic planning (June 25, 2002); (vii)
                                                                        establishment of the norm-based unit cost
                                                                        resource allocation mechanism (May 2002);
                                                                        (viii) quality assurance for school education
                                                                        (May 13, 2002); and (ix) design and
                                                                        supervision of Meepe Centre buildings
                                                                     · Intersectoral study was conducted on health
                                                                        and education
                                                                     · Other main studies by NEREC: (i) NEREC
                                                                        study of Grade 4 learning outcomes; (ii)
                                                                        impact of multiple textbook option;(iii)
                                                                        impact of enrollment in conflict-afflicted
                                                                        areas; (iv) evaluation of the effectiveness of
                                                                        primary education reforms research
                                                                        proposal; and (v) construction and
                                                                        validation of a General Ability Test
(i) Project Coordination Unit     Maintain a PCU during the whole    PCU maintained (with accommodation,
(PCU). Support for                project implementation period      equipment and facilities); staffing difficulties
rehabilitation, furnishing,                                          relate to appointment of qualified procurement
equipping of PCU office, funds                                       and financial officers
for site visits, and monitoring   Provide training to staff          All staff trained in relevant areas
and short-term training of staff.




                                                        - 26 -

New Components
School Reconstruction in       · Reconstruct and rehabilitate     · About 183 schools reconstructed/rehabilitated by
Conflict-Affected Areas          157 school buildings               project-end (revised target 197); remainder
Provide adequate school        · Renovate/construct 45 libraries    planned to be completed soon using funds
buildings with learning        · Provide furniture to 164           allocated to provinces
resources in conflict-affected   schools                          · 37 libraries completed; and abut 7 more to be
areas                                                               completed soon (1 library was affected by
                                                                    tsunami)
                                                                  · Furniture provided as per target
English Language Action        English materials upgraded for     · Grades 3 and 4 completed by December 2002
Plan                           Grades 3-6                         · Grade 5 completed by December 2004
· Improve competence in                                           · Grade 6 completed by September 2005
  English through upgrading    English-medium textbooks Grade     Completed for selected subjects as planned
  of English curricula         6-9 (Science and technology,
  materials for targeted       Mathematics, Social Studies, and
  grades in primary and        Health/PE) translated and
  secondary schools            published
· Improve English language     Provision of funds to primary and  Supplementary reading materials were purchased
  competency                   secondary schools for English-     for Grades 1 and 2 and 4,000 English-medium
· Establish light house        medium library materials           library books were supplied to schools
  schools to promote the       100 light house schools            100 light house schools were established by 2004;
  study of English through     established by December 2004       an additional 100 schools by project-end
  an "Activity-Based Oral      with a resource room to develop
  English" program             English language activities
· Strengthen staff capacity    Train staff in English and Foreign 35 DDEs trained in UK; awareness workshops held
  in English Language          Languages Unit, coordinators,      for DDEs, ISAs and principals. Planned study
  Program management           and principals in management       abroad for 25 ISAs cancelled
IT-based Education             Establish 400 ICT centers (80      All 400 centers established and equipped
Develop IT-based education     pilot; then 320)                   appropriately
through the establishment of   Set up a pool of 80 IT trainers,   100% of target reached
ICT centers                    and train 6,400 teachers in IT




                                                       - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                             (US$ million equivalent)



                                                                       Actual/Latest
                                                        Estimate        Estimate        Percentage

Original Components

Component 1: Curriculum Development                            14.2            9.27              65%

Component 2: Textbooks/Educational Publications                12.3            6.64              54%

Component 3: School Facilities Rationalization                 23.9           26.96             113%

Component 4: Quality Inputs                                    18.3           10.65              58%

Component 5: Libraries                                          5.9            5.23              89%

Component 6: Education Management & Planning                    6.4            8.79             137%


Component 7: Education Financing                                0.8            0.88             110%

Component 8: Studies                                            0.7            0.65              93%

Component 9: Project Coordination Unit                          1.0            1.12             112%

New Components (Mid Term Review)

Component 10: English Education a\                                             4.19

Component 11: IT - Education a\                                                6.31

Component 12: Conflict Affected Areas a\                                       7.39

                 Total Project Costs                          83.50            88.08            105%


              Total Financing Required                        83.50            88.08




a/ Note
                                                       Estimate
English Education                                         6.5
IT Education                                              6.63
Conflict Affected Areas                                   5.73




                                                  - 28 -

              Project Costs by Procurement arrangements (Appraisal Estimates)
                                        US$ million

     Expenditure Category         ICB          NCB      Other    N.B.F.      Total Cost

1. Works                                3.6       14.6     0.0        0.0             18.2
                                       (2.7)    (10.8)    (0.0)      (0.0)           13.5

2. Goods                               12.1       23.5     6.5        0.6             42.7
                                      (11.6)    (21.5)    (6.1)      (0.0)           39.2

3. Services                             2.3        2.1     0.0        2.7              7.1
                                       (2.1)      (2.1)   (0.0)      (0.0)             4.2

4. Miscellaneous                        0.0        0.0    13.8        1.7             15.5
                                       (0.0)      (0.0)  (13.4)      (0.0)           13.4



            Total                      18.0       40.2    20.3        5.0             83.5
                                      (16.5)    (34.4)   (19.5)      (0.0)           (70.4)




            Project Costs by Procurement arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
                                        US$ million


     Expenditure Category         ICB          NCB      Other    N.B.F.      Total Cost


1. Works                                0.0       32.5     0.0        0.0             32.5
                                       (0.0)    (21.1)    (0.0)      (0.0)           (21.1)

2. Goods                               25.2       11.8     0.0        0.0             37.0
                                      (23.9)    (10.4)    (0.0)      (0.0)           (34.3)

3. Services                             0.8        1.3     0.0        0.0              2.1
                                       (0.8)      (1.3)   (0.0)      (0.0)            (2.1)

4. Miscellaneous                        7.5        9.0     0.0        0.0             16.5
                                       (7.5)      (6.7)   (0.0)      (0.0)           (14.2)



            Total                      33.5       54.6     0.0        0.0             88.1
                                      (32.2)    (39.5)    (0.0)      (0.0)           (71.7)




                                             - 29 -

                                        Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                             Appraisal Estimate                    Actual/Latest              Percentage of Appraisal
           Component              IDA  GOSL     DfID            Total      IDA    GOSL     DfID    Total  IDA    GOSL       DfID     Total


Original Components
Curriculum Development             9.3    0.1        4.9              14.3   4.52  0.05       4.70  9.27    49%    49%       96%      65%
Textbooks/Educ. Publications      11.2    1.1        -                12.3   6.05  0.59             6.64    54%    54%                54%
School Facilities Rationalization 18.5    5.3        -                23.8  20.96  6.00            26.96   113%   113%               113%
Quality Inputs                    17.5    0.8        -                18.3  10.18  0.47            10.65    58%    58%                58%
Libraries                          5.7    0.2        -                 5.9   5.05  0.18             5.23    89%    89%                89%
Education Mgt. & Training          6.2    0.2        -                 6.4   8.52  0.27             8.79   137%   137%               137%
Education Financing                0.8    -          -                 0.8   0.88                   0.88   110%                      110%
Studies                            0.7    -          -                 0.7   0.65                   0.65    93%                       93%
Project Coordination Unit          0.5    0.5        -                 1.0   0.56  0.56             1.12   112%   112%               112%


New Components (MTR)
English Education                                                     -      3.93  0.26             4.19
IT - Education                                                        -      5.63  0.68             6.31
Conflict Affected Areas                                               -      4.80  2.59             7.39

            TOTAL                 70.4    8.2        4.9              83.5  71.73 11.65       4.70 88.08   102%   142%       96%     105%




a\ Foot Note
                                        Estimate
                                 IDA   GOSL     Total
English Education                   6.1    0.4        6.5
IT - Education                     5.92  0.71       6.63
Conflict Affected Areas            3.72  2.01       5.73




                                                                - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Enhanced basic education is strongly correlated with poverty reduction, economic development and
productivity growth. GEP2 aimed to provide quality primary and junior school education to the children of
Sri Lanka to put them on the road towards better employment and income-earning possibilities. Its
investment in general education in revising the curriculum, improved textbooks and libraries, and
improving quality of education, along with the Government policy of restructuring the system into junior
and senior schools, is beginning to impact the type of graduates now being produced in the system.
Curricular revision has been based on social and economic needs and so has in turn become more
responsive to labor market needs. This in turn is helping to produce graduates that are more prepared for
the post-secondary education and with better employable skills.

The internal efficiency of primary schooling (Grades 1-5) and junior secondary schooling (Grades 6-9)
measured in terms of flow rates, are high. Repetition rates and drop out rates range from 2% - 7% with
slightly higher repetition and drop out among boys than girls. The high student flow rates can be
                                                                1


attributed to several policy measures: (i) the supply of sufficient school places through the network of
primary and secondary schools to meet the demand for education from parents and students; (ii) incentive
schemes such as the free textbooks, school uniforms and subsidized transport; and (iii) automatic
promotion from Grades 1-11, with no formal mechanisms to fail pupils, unless students voluntarily repeat
grades.

The external efficiency of human capital investment is substantial. Both compulsory schooling (primary
and junior secondary), and senior secondary schooling yield generous economic benefits. For males, social
rates of return are highest at the senior secondary level (20%), while those for compulsory schooling stand
at 15%. Among females, social rates of return to education are highest at the compulsory school level
(20%), followed by senior secondary (18%). Private rates of return to education are also considerable.
Among males, the private rate of return is largest for senior secondary (25%) and then compulsory
schooling (19%). Among females, the private rate of return is highest at the compulsory schooling level
(25%), followed by senior secondary schooling (22%). This clearly confirms the importance of continuing
to support initiatives for increased quality of education at the compulsory school level, as well as
supporting the senior secondary levels.

Fiscal sustainability: The recently released education budget for 2006 included a significant increase in
allocations for both recurrent and capital expenditure reflecting the government's commitment to meet the
accumulated sector needs of infrastructure, operations and maintenance (O&M), and quality inputs. The
central budget has shown a substantial increase of more than one third in both recurrent and capital
allocations between 2005 and 2006 and the total budget is expected to increase from Rs 26 to 35billion in
these two years. The recently released budget also includes estimates for 2007 and 2008 that show an
increase in allocations of about 12 percent and the budget is expected to reach approximately Rs 45billion
by 2008. If the operations and maintenance budget continue to be around 5 percent of the total recurrent
expenditure, the share of operations and maintenance will increase from Rs 0.81 to 1.4 billion between
2005 and 2008. This is important because school surveys of MOE have shown consistently that school
needs for ongoing maintenance is much greater than the resources they get from the budget. As a result,
large numbers of school buildings and equipment have suffered heavy depreciation. In addition, historical
budgeting and the absence of a public expenditure tracking system have led to inequities in the allocation of
resources, as the small proportion of schools that received generous resources in the past have continued to
be well funded, while other institutions which were under-resourced in the past have continued to be
disadvantaged. Furthermore, the decreasing demand for new school buildings as a result of the declining


                                                     - 31 -

entrants to the school system, is expected to free-up more resources for the maintenance of the existing
physical infrastructure and enhance the chances of their sustainability at an adequate level.

The education reform programs started under GEP2 in curriculum development, textbooks production,
school rationalization, and education financing are now reflected in the provincial and central education
plans recently prepared under the Education Sector Development Framework and Program (ESDFP). The
sustainability of the central and provincial development plans will depend on the commitment and the
ability of the government to provide the budgetary allocations required by these plans and according to
priority programs. The ability of the government to provide the funds is tied to the macroeconomic growth
of the public budget. As a result of the constrained public budget during the last decade, the allocations to
the education sector were cut down and expenditure in real terms declined. The tight fiscal conditions
affected the education budget growth especially quality programs as salaries and administrative costs were
given top priority.

To assess the sustainability of the current education budget growth, elaborate budget projections for the
period 2005-2014 were prepared on the basis of enrollment and teacher projections. The projections show
that the number of teachers and their salaries have revealed a steady decline of about 1.6 percent reflecting
the on-going and projected demographic decrease in the number of primary and secondary students.
However, this decline is offset by the increase in the non-salary expenditure that is expected to increase at
3.5 percent. Recurrent expenditure in the central budget is projected to increase by 3.3 percent and in the
provincial budget by 1.6 percent. The slower growth rate of the provincial budget is mainly due to the
relatively high proportion of teachers' salaries to the recurrent expenditure (97%) of the provinces,
whereas, the proportion of teachers' salaries to the recurrent budget of the center is 58 percent. Capital
expenditure within both the central and provincial budgets is estimated to increase by about 3 percent per
annum reflecting mainly the investment trend in the past few years.

The recently released budget for 2006 included a significant increase in allocations for both recurrent and
capital expenditure reflecting the government's commitment to meet the accumulated sector needs of
infrastructure and quality inputs. The central budget that consists of MOE, Department of Examination,
Department of Publications, have shown a substantial increase of more than one third in both recurrent and
capital allocations between 2005 and 2006 and the total budget is expected to increase from Rs26 to 35
billion in these two years. Within the recurrent budget, MOE will have the largest increase (41%) and
within the capital budget the Department of Publications will have the biggest increase (40%). When the
provincial budget is added to the central, the sector budget reaches LKR 75 billion. and its proportion to
the government budget increases from 9 to 12 percent in 2006. Government estimates also show that the
central education budget will continue its increase by 12 percent in 2007 and 2008 and reach
approximately LKR 45 billion by 2008 and as a result, the sector budget would rise from LKR. 75 billion
in 2006 to 93 billion in 2008.

1Reference: Treasures of the Education System in Sri I Lanka, World Bank, 2005




                                                      - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                         (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year      Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/1996                       3    Education Specialist (1);
                                                 Education Planner (1); Sector
                                                 Manager (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/23/1997                    7    Education Planner (1);
                                                 Economist (1); Operations
                                                 Assistant (1); Education
                                                 Specialists (3)
              10/1997                       4    Legal Counsel (1); Education
                                                 Planner (1); Economist (1);
                                                 Operations Assistant (1)

 Supervision
              04/08/1998                    7    Education Specialists (2);             S               S
                                                 Education Planner (1);
                                                 Economists (2); Procurement
                                                 Officer (1); Sector Manager
                                                 (1)
              09/17/1998                    8    Education Spec. (3); Prin.             S               U
                                                 Operations Off. (1); Economists
                                                 (2); Fin. Mgt. Spec. (1);
                                                 Procurement Off. (1)
              05/14/1999                    7    Educ. Spec. (2); Imple. Spec. (1);     S               S
                                                 Eval. & Research Spec. (1);
                                                 Economists (2); Fin. Mgt. Spec.
                                                 (1); Procurement Officer (1)
              11/30/1999                   11    Educ. Spec. (3); Educ. Tech.           S               S
                                                 Spec. (Worldlinks) (2);
                                                 Economists (2); Eval. &
                                                 Research Spec. (1); Oper.
                                                 Analyst (1); Fin. Mgt. Analst.
                                                 (1); Fin. Mgt. Spec. (1); Proc.
                                                 Off. (1)
              07/03/2000                    7    Educ. Spec. (3); Economist (1);        S               S
                                                 Oper. Analyst (1); Fin. Mgt.
                                                 Spec. (1); Procurement Off. (1)
              02/06/2001                   11    Educ. Spec. (3); Economist (1);        S               S
              (Mid-term) - Initial               Eval. & Research Spec. (1);
                                                 Oper. Adv. (1); Oper. Analyst
                                                 (1); Proc. Spec. (2); Fin. Mgt.
                                                 Spec. (1)
              06/29/2001                   10    Educ. Spec. (3); Economist (1);        S               S
              (Mid-term) -                       Operations Adv. (1); Eval. &
              Completion                         Research Spec. (1); Imple. Spec.



                                                  - 33 -

                            (1); GIS Spec. (1); Oper. Analyst
                            (1); Proc. Spec. (1); Fin. Mgt.
                            Spec. (1)
      02/12/2002         10 Educ. Spec. (3); Economist (1);      S    S
                            Eval. & Research Spec. (1);
                            Imple. Spec. (1); GIS Spec. (1);
                            Opr. Analyst (1); Proc. Spec. (1);
                            Fin. Mgt. Spec. (1);
      07/06/2002         9  Edu. Spec. (3); Economist (1);       S    S
      (Restructuring)       Eval. & Research Spec. (1);
                            Impl. Spec. (1); Oper. Analyst
                            (1); Proc. Spec. (1); Fin. Mgt.
                            Spec. (1)
      12/03/2003         6  Educ. Spec. (2); Economist (1);      S    S
                            Oper. Analyst (1); Proc. Spec.
                            (1); Fin. Mgt. Spec. (1)
      06/13/2004         7  Educ. Spec. (2); Economist (1);      U    S
                            Construction Mgt. Spec. (1);
                            Opera. Off. (1); Proc. Spec. (1);
                            Fin. Mgt. Spec. (1)
      12/16/2004         7  Educ. Spec. (2); Economist (1);      U    S
                            Constr. Mgt. (1); Oper. Off. (1);
                            Proc. Spec. (1); Fin. Mgt. Spec.
                            (1)
      06/08/2004         7  Educ. Spec. (2); Economist (1);      S    S
                            Constr. Mgt. (1); Oper. Off. (1);
                            Proc. Spec. (1); Fin. Mgt. Spec.
                            (1)
      12/14/2004         8  Educ. Spec. (2); Economist (1);      S    S
                            Constr. Mgt. (1); Oper. Off. (1);
                            Proc. Spec. (2); Fin. Mgt. Spec.
                            (1)
      06/03/2005         8  Educ. Spec. (2); Economist (1);      S    S
                            Constr. Mgt. (1); Oper. Off. (2);
                            Proc. Spec. (1); Fin. Mgt. Spec.
                            (1)

ICR
      10/11/2005         9  Educ. Spec. (2); Economists          S    S
                            (2); Oper. Off. (2); Const.
                            Mgt. Spec. (1); Fin. Mgt.
                            Spec. (1); Proc. Spec. (1)




                            - 34 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    85                        230.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         42                        113.6
  Supervision                                 175                         526.1
  ICR                                            8                          30.0
  Total                                       310                         925.3
a/ Excluding PHRD TF funding of about US$410,000 (TF022592 & TF029417)




                                                 - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Bank preparation documents

Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, The World Bank.
Identification Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
January 1996.
Executive Project Summary. The World Bank. February 1996.
Preparation Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
March 1996.
Appraisal Mission Terms of Reference, Aide-Memoire, and Back-to-Office Report. The World Bank.
June-July, 1997.
Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No. 17056-CE. The World Bank. November 13, 1997.
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. The World Bank. October 1997.


Bank project implementation documents

Credit Agreement 3014-CE. The World Bank. December 15, 1997.
Amendments to the Loan Agreements including Memorandum to the Country Director (various dates).
Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Management Letters and
Project Status Reports, and Implementation Status and Results Reports of all the Supervision Missions.
The World Bank. April 1998-November 2005.


Other Bank documents

Treasures of the Education System in Sri Lanka: Restoring Performance, Expanding Opportunities and
Enhancing Prospects. The World Bank, February 2005.
Education Sector Development Project (Project Appraisal Document), Report No. 33481-LK. The World
Bank, November 15, 2005.

Borrower project implementation documents

Second General Education Project (GEP2)(Credit 3014-CE) - Mid-Term Review. Ministry of Education,
January 19, 2001.
Performance of Grade 3 Students in Literacy and Numeracy ­ After three years of implementing
educational reforms (from 1999). National Institute of Education, Ministry of Education, 2002.
A Study to Investigate the Effectiveness of Implementation of Reforms at Key Stage I of Primary Cycle in
Sri Lanka. National Education Research and Evaluation Centre, Faculty of Education, University of
Colombo, Colombo, December 2002.
Achievement After Four Years of Schooling (National Report) ­ National Assessment of Achievement of
Grade Four Pupils in Sri Lanka.       National Education Research and Evaluation Centre, Faculty of
Education, University of Colombo, Colombo, July 2004.




                                                  - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Implementation Completion Report ­ Borrower Portion

A)    Background

  The Second General Education Project was launched in February 1998 with a total capital investment
  of US $ 83.4 Millions. The principal provider of finances was IBRD/IDA whose contribution was US
  $ 70.3 million. The Sri Lanka Government's contribution was US $8.2 million while DFID provided
  US$ 4.9 million. The project was designed to support the Sri Lanka government's education reform
  programme based upon the proposals of the National Education Commission aiming to improve the
  quality, equity, internal and external efficiency and financing of the education system. Thus the project
  objectives were:
      i.       improving quality
      ii.      improving access and equity and
      iii.     strengthening management and promoting sustainability in education.

  To achieve the above objectives, the project planned to implement Seven main components. They were:
      i.       Curriculum Development,
      ii.      Textbooks / Educational Publications,
      iii.     School Facilities Rationalization,
      iv.      Quality Inputs,
      v.       Libraries
      vi.      Education Management and Planning and
      vii.     Education Financing

  In addition, there was an eighth component to undertake studies to assess the impact of GEP 1 and
  GEP 2. The activities that made up of these components and their performance are given in details in
  the forthcoming Section (C).

B)    Project Performance

  The performance of the Project was rather slow from its inception and the expected financial targets
  could not be achieved. Only in 2002, the final year, the expected target could be exceeded.

  Table a ­ Target and Actual expenditure of the Project by Year (in US $ mns).


    Year             1998       1999      2000      2001     2002     2003   2004   2005      Total

    Planned           12.2      17.6      20.8      19.2     13.6       -      -      -       83.4
    Expenditure

    Actual           0.385     2.735     16.275     16.35   17.892    12.739 15.797 10.456  88.579*
    Expenditure

   * The difference between the planned expenditure and actual expenditure (US$ 5.179 million) is due to the
       difference gained by the depreciation of the US$ against the SDR.




  By the end of this intended Project life only 64% of the project funds had been disbursed.



                                                         - 39 -

    Hence in June 2002, the MOE agreed to prepare a case for restructuring the project. The restructured
    phase of the project was to include three new components, viz.
         i.       Promotion of English Language teaching and learning.
         ii.      Support for IT Education and
         iii.     Rehabilitation of schools in conflict affected areas.

    In order to support the peace process of the government along with assisting the modernization of the
    education system in Sri Lanka, the project was restructured giving priority to the above areas.

    Thus the project life was extended up to June 30th 2003. All project components of GEP 2 were
    expected to be completed by that date. Again in June 2003 the project period was extended up to
    October 31, 2005 as implementation was on-going and uncompleted. A further extension, up to
    November 30th 2005 was also granted.

    The performance of the eight components of the project is reviewed in retrospect in the foregoing part
    of this document.

C)       Performance of Components:

1.       Curriculum Development-

The objective of this component are to develop and produce a sequential framework for the design
development, assessment and revision of the curriculum, syllabi and associated materials in all subject
fields for the Junior Schools (Grade 6-9) according to a ten year consolidated plan; to refine, develop and
distribute syllabi for this cycle, and to improve the management of the curriculum process.

    1.1.Update national curriculum policy and stimulate public awareness:
    1.2.Improve curriculum management at NIE:
    1.3 Develop and implement a curriculum development plan:
    1.4. Prepare, pilot and conduct surveys and diagnostic tests of the relevance and effectiveness of the
            revised curriculum for student learning:
    1.5     Develop and implement a staffing policy at NIE which matches the curriculum needs:
    1.6 Prepare and conduct curriculum staff development plan:

       Table 1 ­ Curriculum Staff Development 1998-2004
                                                    Number of Participants
   Type of Training           1998      1999    2000       2001     2002    2003      2004      Total
  Masters Courses                          10         4       16       11                          41
  Short-term                       2                17        31                                   50
  Training
  Study Tours                               6                                    3        21       30
  Total                            2       16       21        47       11        3        21      121


    1.7 Train teachers, principals, ISAs and teacher educators in the use of the new curriculum:

2.       Textbooks and Education Publications:



                                                      - 40 -

The objectives of this component, within an integrated textbook and publications policy and through the
strengthening of the private sector participation, are to improve the content, physical quality, range and
availability of textbooks catering for all subjects in grades 1-9 and increase the life expectancy to of
textbooks from one to three years. This component closely linked with the Curriculum Development
Component contributes towards improving the quality of education.

    2.1 Update the integrated text book and publication policy incorporating a multiple textbook policy.
    2.2 Cooperation between EPD and curriculum teams in NIE equipping EPD and training staff.

       Table 2 ­ EPD Staff Development 1998-2004
                                                     Number of Participants
     Type of Training      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002     2003       2004    Total
    Masters Courses                                           1                                     1

    Short-term                  2         2         2         5                            6       17

    Training

    Study Tours                           6                                      9                 15

    Total                       2         8         2         6                  9         6       33




    2.3 Improve the content and physical quality of text books.
    2.4 Upgrade skills of EPD staff and contracted writers and editors
    2.5 Strengthen private sector participation covering all stages of text book writing, publishing, printing
    and distribution.
    2.6 Print and distribute text books and teacher guides.

3.       School Rationalization

The objective of this component is to ensure an equitable and cost effective allocation of educational
facilities for schools to match the new school structure of Junior Schools (Grades 1-9) Senior Schools
(Grades 10-13), school libraries and the new curriculum. The focus will be upon Junior Schools where
there is an agreed need for new classrooms, renovation and furniture to facilitate the policy of compulsory
education for 5-14 years old.

    3.1 Support application of the new government policy to restructure schools in to junior and senior
    schools.
    3.2 Conduct comprehensive school rationalization survey based upon the survey in Sabaragamuwa and
    Western Provinces.
    3.3 Construct, renovate and refurbish classrooms, multi-purpose rooms and staff rooms




                                                      - 41 -

                 Table 3 ­ Construction/Refurbishment of Classrooms and Special Spaces and
Provision of Equipment.

            Type of facility           Constructed        Refurbished        Equipped
            Classrooms                 574                139                126
            Multipurpose               -                  29                 3838
            Rooms/ Libraries
            Staff Rooms                -                  -                  -
            Total                      574                168                164


    3.4 Construct, rehabilitate, furnish and equip school libraries on the basis of enrollment numbers
        Table 4 ­ Provision of Library Facilities
         Type of provision                                       Number
        New constructions                                        501
        Conversion of existing rooms as libraries                1499
        Renovation of existing libraries                         2000
        Provision of Library furniture                           1942
        Provision of library books                               1,500,00

    3.5 Develop school physical facilities maintenance records and plans of school at Zonal Level.
    3.6 Train Junior School principals in buildings, services and furniture maintenance.

4.      Quality Inputs

The objective of this component is to supply in a timely manner to all junior secondary (6-9) grades,
selected senior secondary (10-13) grades, on a per capita basis, a sufficient quantity of essential
educational equipment and materials which match the requirements of an evolving and sequential
curriculum.

    4.1 Draw up and regularly update costed lists of quality inputs matching the current and revised
    curriculum.
    4.2 Complete inventory of school needs, identify resource gaps and develop three year revolving zone
    and provincial plans.
    4.3 Develop and implement strategies and a unit cost formula for equipment and materials allocation.
    4.4 Procure and distribute equipment and materials to schools in response to actual needs, train
    teachers in the use of equipment and replenish consumable materials and damaged equipment.




                                                    - 42 -

         Table 5 ­ Equipment and Materials Purchased and Distributed.
           Item                                       Year of Purchase        Total Cost US$ M
            Audio Visual Equipment                    2001                    0.48688
            Electrical and Electronic Equipment       2000, 2001              0.69726
            Labortary Equipment and Consumables       2000, 2001,             0.97702
            Mathematical Equipment                    2002                    0.18632
            Agricultural Equipment                    2001                    0.07778
            Equipment for Science, Mathematics        2001                    0.37539
            and Social Studies
            Workshop Tools                            2001, 2003              0.78499
            Computers and Accessories for Schools     2000, 2001              4.38901
            Computers and Accessories for ICT         2001, 2003              0.50898
            Centers.                                  2005




    4.5 Conduct monitoring and research activities on resource utilization and consequent impact on
    student learning.

5.       Libraries

The objectives of this component are to support and stimulate an activity-based curriculum and to
encourage the reading habit in school and the community by expanding, professionalizing and strengthening
the management of the school library sector. The progress of the five activities included in this component
is as follows:

    5.1 Strengthen School Library Services: A service minute for libraries has been prepared and
    submitted for approval to the Cabinet of Ministers and has been accepted.
    5.2 Provide library books and reading materials. (The total number of libraries taken under the project
    was 4000).

         Table 6 ­ Library Development
         Category                                                     Number
        New Library Buildings                                         501
        Existing buildings converted as libraries.                  1499
        Improvements to existing libraries                          2000

            Total                                                   4000

         Table 7 ­ Library Books Distributed to schools
         Year                           Number of Titles
        1999                            1351
        2000                            1302
        2001                            96
        2002                            313
        Total                           3062

    5.3 Expand the reading habit promotion program in schools.



                                                   - 43 -

    5.4 Improve library management skills of school and public sector library staff.

                 Table 8 - Number of school Librarians trained
                 Year            Number Trained
                2003             2576
                2004             510
                Total            3086

                 Table 9 ­ Numbers Trained in Library Management
               Type of Training                               Number Trained
             Masters Courses (Officers)                      14
             Certificate Courses( Officers)                  52
             Library Management (Project school              834
             principals)

    5.5 Support the development of the National Institute of Library and Information Science (NILIS)

         Table 10 ­ Courses Conducted by NILIS
         Name of Course                                               Number of
                                                                      Courses
        Masters in teacher librarianship                             1
        Post-graduate diploma in teacher librarianship.              2
        Diploma in teacher librarianship                             2
        Certificate in Librarianship                                 4
        Total                                                        9

6.       Education Management

The objective of this component is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of system-wide policy
development, planning, decision making, implementation, monitoring and communications by strengthening
the management capacity of the Ministry of Education, the Provincial Education Authorities, the National
Institute of Education and the University Grants Commission.

    6.1 Support the application of revised organizational structures and staff cadres and for procurement
    of equipment.
    6.2 Upgrade management and technical skills for existing and designated staff.




                                                   - 44 -

        Table 11 - Management Skills Development Programme- Numbers Trained
                                                                  Level of Training/ Courses Followed



                     Officer category
                                                               PhD                                  Courses
                                                       Mphill/       Masters  Diploma                                                   Study Tours   Total
                                                                                        Certificate
                                                                                                           Sport   Workshops/ Seminars


      Management and Administrative staff as         1             23        6        102                        6                     239         377
         ZEOs MOE and PEAs.
         NIE                                         1             42                 43                         5                     30          121
         EPD                                                       1                  17                                               18          36
         UGC                                                                          4                          2                     5           11
      Management Associates                                        72                                                                              72
      Procurement and Disbursement Officers.                       1                  48                                                           49
      Civil Work officers                                                             3                                                            3
      Principals                                                                      8378                                                         8378
      Deputy Principals/ Sectional Heads                                              4
        Total                                        2             139       6        8595                       13                    292         9047



    6.3 Assist in developing national, provincial, zonal and institutional plans for MEHE, PEAs, ZEOs,
    NIE and UGC.
    6.4 Strengthen MEHE/PEA/ZEO planning capability and financial management with an integrated
    EMIS, in cooperation with the DFID MPPE.
    6.5 Strengthen Supervisory and reporting tools.
    6.6 Support community awareness programme.

7.      Education Financing

The objective of this component is to improve efficiency, equity and transparency in the distribution of
educational resources.

    7.1 Support GOSL policy to implement a norm-based unit cost resource allocation mechanism for the
    education sector.
    7.2 Strengthen the skills of finance staff in MEHE, MOFP, FC, PEAs and ZEOs to use the allocation
    mechanism.
    7.3 Provide equipment and supplies needed to use the resource allocation mechanism.
    7.4 Field test the allocation mechanism in selected provinces.
    7.5 Refine and implement the allocation mechanism nation-wide.
    7.6 Conduct monitoring and research activities to evaluate the impact of applying the allocation
    formula on financing education and resource distribution.

8       Studies

The objective of this component is to support impact analysis studies which will focus on performance
outcomes of the previous and current projects, to assess emergent issues for the future investment needs of
the education sector and to monitor current GEP 2 project inputs. Altogether fourteen studies on Impact
analysis of performance outcomes and ongoing project monitoring were conducted through consulting



                                                    - 45 -

companies.

D)      Re-structured Phase of the Project (July 2003 to November 2005)

1.      Promotion of English Language Teaching and Learning.

The following activities were undertaken under this sub-component.
        i.       Light House School Programme.
        ii.      Supply of supplementary reading materials to grades 1 and 2.
        iii.     School based English Activities.
        iv.      Supply of library materials for Secondary Classes to 4000 schools.
        v.       Implementation of Reading Camps to Popularize English.
        vi.      Strengthening the English Units at MOE and NIE.

2.      Support for IT Education.

Under this sub-component, 320 ICT Centers were established bringing the total numbers of ICT Centers
established by the project to 400. In addition 1200 teachers from these schools were provided with
operational training. One Computer each, amounting to 400 Computers, were supplied for use of the
principals of schools where ICT Centers have been set up. Further, IT related books were supplied to
schools with ICT Center.

3.      Rehabilitation of schools in Conflict Affected Areas.

Three main activities were undertaken under this sub-component.
        i.       Construction of damaged buildings.
        ii.      Construction/rehabilitation of libraries.
        iii.     Provision of furniture.

In addition to the districts in the North and East provinces, areas in North Western, North Central and Uva
Provinces boarding the North and Eastern provinces which were affected by the conflict were taken under
this component.

E)      Lessons Learned
   l Time limits cannot be drawn especially in conflict affected areas when it comes to construction and
        rehabilitation work.
   l State ownership and continued political commitment are essential for the successful
        implementation of major policy reforms.
   l Using existing agencies ensures smooth project implementation and long-term sustainability since
        those agencies have the ownership of the project.
   l Early and broad awareness programs are critical in ensuring smooth implementation of complex
        policy reforms.

F)      IDA Performance
During the period of implementation of the GEP2 project the IDA was very cooperative and they were
more flexible to suit the situations that came up during the implementation.




                                                     - 46 -

- 47 -

