Report No. PIC4071
Project Name              Sri Lanka-Second General Education Project
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Education
Project ID                LKPA10525
Implementing Agency       Ministry of Education and Higher Education
(MEHE)
Address:             Isrupaya, Sri Jayawardhanapura Kotte
Battaramulla, Colombo, Sri Lanka
Contact Name:       Mr. M. A. Ariyadasa
Project Coordinator, MEHE
Phone:               (94-1) 865803
Fax:                 (94-1) 865803 or 865182
Date Prepared             June, 26 1996
Projected Board Date      July 1997
1.   Project Objectives:   The aim of the proposed project is to
improve the quality and efficiency of the education system at all
level while maintaining both affordability of primary and secondary
education. In specific, it would: (i) improve the quality of
education by standardizing the structure of primary and secondary
education system throughout the country by increasing equitable access
and availability of suitable facilities, equipment and education
materials; (ii) standardize management procedures and upgrade the
principals and administrators at all the levels of the system in these
skills; (iii) develop a unit cost financing of education to increase
equity, rationalize expenditures and increase the sustainabilitiy of
education programs; and (iv) for all the above develop appropriate
policies to facilitate management of the system through appropriate
studies, analysis and monitoring activities.
2.   Project Description:   Specific project support is likely to include:
the supply of priority classrooms science laboratories, multi-
purpose rooms, libraries and educational facilities. To
standardize the structure of primary and secondary education based
on the school mapping exercise. These facilities would be
furnished and equipped based on civil works, curriculum and
pedagogical norms;
updating of the content, curriculum links of textbooks and
improvement of the book development, production, and distribution
with the participation of the private sector, based on the book
development study. Also, it would strengthen the supply and
quality of library books and educational resources needed to
effectively teach the curriculum (based on policies updated during
project preparation).
strengthening of the education management through the
rationalization of services between the center and the provinces
and upgrading the management skills of staff at all levels (based



on updated managerial policies);
strengthening of the education sector financing mechanisms by
implementing a unit cost financial mechanism that would increase
the responsiveness of education programs;( based on a unit cost
policy being developed and to be piloted);
assess merit of the higher education programs to make it more
responsive to labor needs and to assist with the strengthening of
curriculum, management and financing of post-secondary education
programs; and
fellowships and studies to complement the above identified
priorities.
3.   Project Implementation:    The lead agency will be the MEHE in close
cooperation with the provincial Ministries of Education and the Ministry of
Finance and Planning and the National Steering Committee established for the
first General Education Project. Implementation will be shared by the
national and provincial Ministries of Education. There will be a need to
ensure sufficient national and international technical assistance for
procurement and management activities. The ongoing project has demonstrated
MEHE's capacity to implement nationally based and large projects in the
sector.   The project will implement new policies which rationalize the
school structure, supply of educational material policies and address
management and financial policies.
4.   Project Costs:   At this preliminary stage the project costs are
estimated at about US$50.0 million. Discussions have being initiated to
attract other bilateral and multi-lateral participation in the project.
Costs estimates and donor participation is expected to be determined during
the October/November 1996 pre-appraisal mission.
5.   Environmental Aspects:   The project is classified under the C Category.
The project through the inclusion of curriculum support for environmental
studies is expected to increase environmental knowledge in the country.
6.   Processing Schedule:   The processing schedule is: preparation,
July/August 1996; pre-appraisal, October/November 1996; appraisal, February
1997; negotiations, about May 1997; and Board presentation, July 1997.
International consultants will be recruited between August 1996 and February
1997.
7.   Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. , 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458-5454
Fax No.    (202) 522-1500
Task Managers:      A. Aime and M. Allak, SAlPH at 458-24 and 458-2019
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 19, 1996.
- 3 -



