Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3014 CE
Development Credit Agreement
(Second General Education Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 15, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 3014 CE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 1997, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI 
LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated October 15, 1997, from 
the Borrower on the National Education System Reform Policy Initiatives, describing a 
program of actions, objectives and policies designed for the further development of 
its education sector; 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
Page  2
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will  not be required to finance the 
Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any 
time, the Association determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during 
the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the 
Development Credit Agreement 
and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect 
of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit 
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to 
the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to  make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be 
canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“FC” means the Borrower’s Finance Commission; 
(b)
“FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31; 
(c)
“GEP” means the General Education Project (Cr. 2072-CE) financed under a 
Development Credit Agreement dated February 14, 1990 between Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association; 
(d)
“MEHE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Higher Education; 
(e)
“NEC” means the Borrower’s National Education Commission; 
(f)
“NIE” means the Borrower’s National Institute of Education responsible 
for curriculum development; 
(g)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established within MEHE for the 
purpose of implementation of the Project; 
(h)
“PEA” means the Provincial Education Authority responsible for 
administration and education in each of the eight provinces of the Borrower;
Page  3
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(j)
“UGC” means the Borrower’s University Grants Commission responsible for 
defining policies and administering funds for higher education. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifty-one million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 51,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May  1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 2008 and ending November 1, 2037.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2017 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
Page  4
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph 
(b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MEHE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative financial and education practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain until completion of the Project the 
PCU with adequate staffing and resources and in accordance with terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall be responsible for the overall 
implementation of the Project.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Page  5
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely, that a Memorandum of Understanding, 
satisfactory to the Association, has been entered into between the Borrower and each 
of the Borrower’s eight provinces for the implementation of the Project in each 
province. 
Section 5.02 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Page  6
Section 6.01. The Secretary, or the Director General, External Resources 
Department, Ministry and Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Cable address:
Telex:
SECMINFIN
FINMIN 21409
              Colombo
FORAID 21232
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By  /s/  Warnasena Rasaputram 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  /s/  Robert Drysdale 
Acting Regional Vice President 
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
    % of
Page  7
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
  8,920,000
100% of foreign
expenditures;
65% of local
expenditures
(2)
Equipment,
 18,060,000
100% of foreign
furniture and
expenditures;
vehicles
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Library books, 
  9,140,000
100% of foreign
educational materials/ 
expenditures;
textbooks (printing and
100% of local
       production), and
expenditures (ex-
surveys/plans 
factory cost);
(preparation)
90% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(4)
Consultants’ services  3,070,000
100%
(5)
Training, fellowships  8,850,000
100%
and studies
(6)
Project management
     370,000
50%
(7)
Unallocated
   2,990,000
   _________
TOTAL
  51,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “Project Management” means expenditures incurred by PCU in 
respect of the Project and by MEHE in respect of Project activities, such as survey 
analysis and studies, but not including salaries. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for training and project management and under 
contracts for:
(a)
goods not exceeding $100,000 equivalent;
(b)
works not exceeding $300,000 equivalent;
(c)
consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and
(d)
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  8
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality, access, management and 
financing of education programs of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Curriculum Development
Preparing a national strategy for and implementing a sequential and cyclical 
curriculum in all subjects for junior cycle (grades 1-9) and improving management of 
the curriculum process, through the provision of technical assistance and training.
Part B:
Textbooks/Education Publications
Improving the quality and content of textbooks to match the curriculum needs by 
upgrading their physical condition (paper, cover and binding), increasing their life 
expectancy and allowing the introduction of a re-use policy and multiple textbook 
option.
Part C:
School Facilities Rationalization
Increasing equitable and cost-effective allocation of education facilities and 
libraries through the development of zonal and provincial plans to match the proposed 
National Education Commission’s (NEC) new education system structure of junior (grades 
1-9) and senior schools (grades 10-13).
Part D:
Quality Inputs
Supplying sufficient quantities of educational materials and equipment matching 
the curriculum and syllabi needs on a per capita basis annually.
Part E:
Libraries 
1.
Developing three types of libraries (according to school sizes) and providing 
them with adequate books, shelves, furniture and trained staff in library management. 
2.
Establishing the National Institute of Library and Information Science at the 
Colombo University through the carrying out of civil works and provision of equipment.
Part F:
Education Management and Planning
Strengthening education management through rationalization of roles and 
functions exercised by the central and provincial authorities, National Institute of 
Education and University Grants Commission, and the training of staff in these new 
roles.
Part G:
Education Financing
Implementing an equitable norm-based unit cost formula to improve resource 
allocation and assist with the sustainability of quality inputs and school 
maintenance, through the provision of technical assistance and staff training.
Part H:
Studies
Carrying out studies for impact analysis of GEP inputs and to assess the future 
investment needs in the education sector and monitoring of Project inputs.
*       *       * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for works under Parts C and E of the Project shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) (i) Civil works for the rehabilitation and refurbishing of junior and senior 
schools estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $13,600,000 equivalent; (ii) civil works and goods for 
the establishment of the National Institute of Library and Information Science at the 
University of Colombo; (iii) vehicles estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less 
per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000; (iv) furniture for 
schools estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,600,000 in the aggregate; (v) equipment 
estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $8,500,000; (vi) contracts for writing, publishing, printing and 
distribution of textbooks; and (vii) contracts for printing and producing education 
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 in the aggregate, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works for the 
rehabilitation and refurbishing of junior and senior schools shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
2.
International and National Shopping
(a)
Computers and other items of equipment estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
(b)
Furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 in the aggregate 
and contracts for the printing and production of education materials estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded 
Page  10
on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
(a)
Reference and library books and educational materials which are 
obtainable only from one source and costing $3,700,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.  In cases where two or more similar 
items exist, such items may be procured on the basis of comparative bids from at least 
two suppliers.
(b)
Contracts for surveys and plan formulation costing $400,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Force Account
Surveys and plans for quality inputs for curriculum and facilities which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, and costing $400,000 equivalent 
or less in the aggregate, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be carried out 
by force account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to all contracts procured through international competitive bidding 
and procurement through national competitive bidding of the first two contracts for 
goods and the first two contracts for civil works for each province, and thereafter 
each contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, 
and for each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Page  11
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services under the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. 
The Borrower shall carry out the technical assistance and training programs 
under the Project in accordance with terms of reference and time schedules 
satisfactory to the Association.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
by September 30, 1998, carry out a survey of all education physical 
facilities and resources in the Borrower’s territory to determine the adequacy of such 
Page  12
facilities in relation to the new education structure and demographic needs; 
(b)
by December 1, 1998, develop and furnish zonal facilities plans based on 
such survey results to the Association for comments; and
(c)
by January 1, 1999, commence implementation of such zonal facilities 
plans, taking into account the Association’s comments thereon. 
3.
By June 1, 1998, the Borrower shall implement the 1997 updated management 
organizational structures of MEHE, PEAs, NIE and UGC agreed with the Association and 
shall sustain such structures until completion of the project.
4.
The Borrower shall:  
(a) 
commencing on January 1, 1998, apply on a pilot basis the agreed 
norm-based unit cost mechanism in the Borrower’s Northwestern, Central and Southern 
provinces in accordance with terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; and 
(b)
commencing on January 1, 1999, apply such mechanism to all the Borrower’s 
provincial education authorities.
5.
The Borrower shall promptly prepare and furnish to the Association for its 
review, and thereafter implement, commencing on the following dates and taking into 
account the Association’s comments: 
(a) 
by January 1, 1999, the national plan for the application of the NEC and 
sector reforms; 
(b)
by June 1, 1999, provincial (PEA) plans; and 
(c)
by March 1, 2000, zonal plans and institutional/school plans. 
6.
By June 1, 1998, the Borrower shall implement, or cause to be implemented, its 
updated national curriculum policy, which shall include cyclical and sequential plans, 
satisfactory to the Association. 
7.
By June 1, 1998, the Borrower shall finalize its national and school library 
strategies, satisfactory to the Association, and thereafter beginning January 1, 1999, 
shall implement, or cause to be implemented, such strategies in accordance with a 
timetable satisfactory to the Association.
8.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain the budget of MEHE’s Education Publications Department, at the 
minimum, at the current level; and 
(b)
increase such Department’s contracting threshold by January 1, 1999, and 
thereafter maintain such threshold, to enable such Department to contract with private 
sector writers, publishers, printers and distributors in accordance with contracting 
procedures and thresholds satisfactory to the Association.
9.
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a)
all textbook publishing and printing contracts will match the book cycle 
(of about five years); and
(b)
the quality of the paper of all books financed under the Project shall 
have a minimum grade of 80 grams per square meter. 
10.
The Borrower shall ensure that the administration of, and budget allocations 
for, junior (grades 1-9) schools are separately maintained from senior (grades 10-13) 
schools throughout the Project period.
11.
The Borrower shall, starting June 1, 1998: 
(a)
organize a middle management training program, satisfactory to the 
Association, for 60 future managers at MEHE and PEA levels; and 
Page  13
(b)
recruit and assign managers at the national and provincial levels on the 
basis of merit, satisfactory to the Association.
12.  
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 1, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by April 1, 1999, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
13.
The Borrower shall, beginning October 1, 1998, prepare and submit annually to 
the Association a status report covering: (i)  the use of the input allocations in the 
prior year; and (ii) the following year’s fund or budget plan for quality input from 
block grants (given to PEAs by FC) and school maintenance inputs from the capital 
grant (given to PEAs by MEHE).
14.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
by January 1, 1999, prepare and furnish to the Association a budget 
monitoring and evaluation system designed to ensure the application of norm-based unit 
cost budgeting; and
(b)
by June 1, 1999, assign, or caused to be assigned, staff with MEHE to 
apply monitoring procedures, satisfactory to the Association, for the allocation, use 
and reporting of: (i) MEHE capital grants; and (ii) FC’s provincial recurrent block 
grant budget.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 6 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$5,000,000, to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 15,000,000.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  14
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to  
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
Page  15
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
