                                                                                                    92817
                                                                                                    June 26, 2007

                                                               Links:
                                                               - What is IDA?
                                                               - Our Work in Sri Lanka


                                                               More on Sri Lanka:
                                                               - Borrowing History
                                                               - Data & Statistics
                                                               - Research
                                                               - Contact Us




Prior to the project, Sri Lanka policy makers had concentrated mainly, although not exclusively,
on promoting universal access to primary education. However, by the middle 1990s, policy
makers had also become concerned about expanding access to secondary education (less than
50 percent of students completed secondary school at that time), and improving the quality of
both primary and secondary schooling.




- To improve the quality, access, management and financing of the primary (grades 1-5) and
secondary (grades 6-13) education system.
- To support a new education reform program under the leadership of the National Education
Commission (NEC).
- The key areas of the reform program were the provision of education for all children aged 6-14
years (grades 1-9); the reduction of inequalities in the distribution of resources to public
schools; the introduction of a new, child-centred curriculum for the primary cycle (grades 1-5);
and the rationalization of facilities and expansion of learning resources to improve education
quality.




Primary school completion rates increased from 90 percent to 95 percent - which mean
that 100,000 more students completed primary school each year, using a modernized
curriculum with child-friendly learning. 200,000 more students completed grade 9 each
year (up from 59 percent in 1996 to 78 percent in 2004), with gender parity.


Highlights:
- Assisted the government to introduce a modernized primary school curriculum with child-friendly
learning.
- GEP2 supported the creation of a National Education Research and Evaluation Center
(NEREC) that specializes in the measurement of learning outcomes. NEREC conducted the first
national assessment of learning outcomes in 2003. In addition, NEREC has undertaken a series
of research studies and evaluations on a variety of topics, including teacher education and
training, education management, civic education and school based management, that have been
useful to policy makers and development partners.
- The first national assessment of learning outcomes, focusing on first language (Sinhalese and
Tamil), English and Mathematics in the primary education cycle, was conducted in 2003. Prior to
this national assessment, Sri Lanka did not have objective information on cognitive achievement
to measure education quality. The national assessment of learning outcomes showed that about
37 percent of primary school children attained mastery (a score of over 80 percent) in first
language (Sinhalese or Tamil) and mathematics, but only 10 percent of children attained mastery
of English.
- The project has enabled the government to introduce a resource distribution formula that has
reduced the ratio of public resources distributed for quality inputs between the richest and
poorest schools from 300:1 to 15:1.
- Before the project the distribution of resources for education investment to provinces was done
through the central Ministry of Education. The project assisted in the strengthening of provincial
Departments of Education to formulate and implement investment budgets for education, so that
the Ministry of Finance is now able to transfer resources directly to the provinces. This has
strengthened decentralization in Sri Lanka, which is one of the key strategies that the
government is seeking to adopt to improve service delivery.
- The government introduced a new policy to promote the teaching and learning of English from
grade 1 upwards, in 2001, to improve the capability of the future Sri Lankan labor force to work
effectively in a global economy. About 1,000,000 primary school children have benefited from
English language teaching to date , although it is too early to observe the final impact on the
labor market yet as these children are still in the school system. In addition, English was
intended to act as a link language between the Sinhalese and Tamil communities, to promote
communication and understanding among the two communities. The main source of support for
this key policy was provided by GEP2.




- IDA helped the government to design and implement the project with a focus on creating the
capacity to measure learning outcomes.
- Use the information from outcomes for policy making, strengthening decentralization,
establishing a systematic method of distributing resources to schools to improve equity, and
promoting social harmony between different ethnic groups.
- These key reforms are all now a regular part of the education system, which ensures the
sustainability of the project’s support.




- The government has designed a new Education Sector Development Framework and Program
(ESDFP) for general education, based on a five year rolling plan. The ESDFP has a range of
policy initiatives to: (a) increase equitable access to basic and secondary education; (b) promote
education quality; (c) enhance the economic efficiency and equity of resource allocation and
distribution; and (d) strengthen education governance and service delivery. The Bank is
supporting the ESDFP through the SDR41.5 million (US$60 million) Education Sector
Development Project (ESDP), which adopts a sector-wide approach (SWAp). The ESDP became
effective in February 2006, and has made satisfactory progress.




General Education II (1997-2005)
Project documents
