 IEG
                                                                                            Report Number: ICRR14863

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                     Date Posted: 11/09/2015

              Country: Ukraine
            Project ID: P090389                                                 Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Public Finance              Project Costs (US$M):                      65                3.8
                        Modernization Project
  L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                       50                3.8
      Sector Board:       Public Sector             Cofinancing (US$M):
                          Governance
          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                             01/08/2008
                                                             Closing Date:           06/30/2013         12/31/2014
         Sector(s):       Sub-national government administration (65%); Central government administration (35%)
         Theme(s):        Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (100%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:          ICR Review                 Group:
                                                Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            Judyth L. Twigg       Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. ii) and the Loan Agreement of March 25, 2008 (p. 5), the
    objective of the project was “to strengthen public financial management in terms of operational efficiency and
    transparency."

    During the project restructuring in April 2012, some key outcome indicators and targets were revised. However,
    since the indicator changes were refinements and the targets were revised upward to reflect the project
    extension, a split rating is not warranted.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 04/24/2012

c. Components:

    The project included three components:

    Component 1: Strengthening institutional capacity and operational effectiveness (appraisal estimate US $2.58
    million, actual US$2.65 million, 103% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to provide technical
    assistance to the Ministry of Finance (MoF) in different areas such as selected institutional capacity building
    activities for Public Financial Management (PFM) reforms, functional review of the MoF, business process
    re-engineering, and design of ICT solutions. Activities included the improvement of budget planning and mid-term
    budgeting, methodological support for performance based budgeting capability, development of a monitoring and
    evaluation (M&E) system for performance based budgeting, support to local budget reforms and for the
    implementation of accounting reform, creation of a single registry of spending units, development of a unified
    chart of accounts, improvement of the debt management system, participation in improvement of international
   financial assistance management, improvement of coordination for internal financial control, and support for
   change management, including workshops, study tours, and training.

   Component 2: Development of an integrated public financial management system (appraisal estimate US $44.2
   million, actual US$0.18 million, 0.4% of appraisal estimate ): This component was to finance the development of
   an integrated public financial management system (PFMS) software and installation of central servers, as well as
   installation of PFMS field hardware and network equipment. Change management training and related technical
   assistance activities to ensure sustainability of implemented solutions were included as well.

   Component 3: Project management (appraisal estimate US $1.22 million, actual US$0.82 million, 67% of
   appraisal estimate): This component was to ensure timely and efficient allocation of resources to carry out
   project procurement, financial management and audits, M&E, and interaction with all local and international
   entities involved in project execution.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: The project was estimated to cost US$65 million. Actual cost was US$3.8 million, 5.9% of the
   project appraisal estimate.

   Financing: The project was planned to be financed by a US$50 million IBRD loan, of which US$3.8 million was
   disbursed (7.6% of appraisal estimate). The remaining amount was cancelled as requested by the borrower.

   Borrower Contribut ion: The borrower was to contribute US$15 million. The actual contribution was US$0.023
   million, 0.2% of the appraisal estimate.

   Dates: The project was restructured three times:

    1. On April 24, 2012 the project was restructured to: i) extend the closing date from June 30, 2013 to June 30,
       2015 to support the priorities and reform needs of the MoF; ii) adapt activities under component 2 to
       enhance PFMS’ functional and technical requirements; iii) include new PFMS modules to support additional
       needs that were identified during the previous two years; iv) ) revise the procurement plan; v) strengthen the
       qualification requirements to ensure the participation of only experienced and well qualified suppliers during
       rebidding of the ICB package; and vi) modify key indicators and targets.
    2. On April 1, 2013 the project was restructured to: i) revise the procurement plan; ii) reallocate US$0.85 million
       from expenditure category 1 to category 2; and iii) add new covenants to the Loan Agreement.
    3. On October 16, 2014 the project was restructured to: i) accommodate the government's request of a partial
       loan cancellation of US$46.06 million. The project first experienced delays in the implementation of the
       PFMS due to the cancellation of thee procurement processes (see Section 11b). In addition, by mid-2014 t
       he political and economic situation in the country had created severe fiscal pressure, causing the
       government to review its priorities and decide not to pursue the option of a customized PFMS. Instead, it
       was decided to upgrade the hardware and add to the functionality of the already existing Treasury system;
       and ii) to change the project closing date from June 30, 2015 to December 31, 2014.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial: Ukraine has implemented an agenda of institutional modernization since the beginning of the
   decade. However, gaps remained, such as the lack of an automated commitment control system, inconsistent
   integration of pension financial reports into consolidated reports, and a weak governance and oversight
   framework for state-owned enterprises. The development and implementation of an integrated PFMS was seen
   as key to overcoming these remaining challenges.

   At the time of project preparation, the objectives of the project were in line with the government’s commitment to
   increase transparency, accountability, and efficiency by introducing performance-based budgeting, pubic
   financial controls and accounting reforms. The objectives were also in line with the Bank’s Country Assistance
   Strategy (2004-2007), as well as the 2004 Country Economic Memorandum and the 2005 Country Assistance
   Strategy progress report, which all identified the need to strengthen fiscal discipline, improve public financial
   management, and integrate fiscal management. The objectives remain in line with the current Bank Country
   Partnership Strategy (2012-2016), which contains a first pillar focusing on the sustainability and efficiency of
   public finances and a more transparent and accountable use of public resources.
b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest: The project included activities that were relevant for achieving the project's objective to improve the
   operational efficiency of public financial management, including providing technical assistance to build capacity
   within the MoF, developing a PFMS, and strengthening several public financial management functions in areas
   such as budgeting, accounting, and M&E. However, the project's design did not include activities specifically
   linked to achievement of the transparency objective.

   The project's design took relevant risks such as loss of the government commitment to public financial
   management reform, delays in the establishment of a country-wide network by the MoF, and institutional
   resistance into account, and mitigation measures were planned. These measures included monitoring
   government commitment and continuing to maintain dialogue with the MoF on key PFM issues, including network
   establishment as a covenant implementation, and implementing a change management component to inform all
   stakeholders about the reform. However, these mitigation efforts were not sufficient. Also, the project's design
   did not take into account the possibility that the Treasury might hold onto and develop its e-Treasury system
   rather than support the development and implementation of the new PFMS.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To strengthen public financial management in terms of operational efficiency : Modest

   Outputs:

        The PFMS was not installed and is not operational due to three unsuccessful procurement attempts, and
         therefore the target was not achieved. The first procurement process was cancelled by the Bank due to an
         anonymous complaint about the technical compliance of bids. The second procurement process (a single
         stage bidding process to recover time lost) failed when all of the technical bids were rejected as
         unresponsive. The third procurement process was cancelled by the government due to changing priorities.
         Due to fiscal pressure, the government decided to upgrade the hardware and add to the functionality of the
         existing Treasury system instead of pursuing the implementation of a customized PFMS system.
        A methodology for the program-target method of local budgeting was prepared, but its implementation was
         postponed from 2015 to 2017 due to the lack of the PFMS. Therefore, this target was not achieved.
        2,456 staff of the Ministry of Finance, the State Treasury, and the State Financial Inspection Unit were
         trained on the new methodology and features of the PFMS, achieving the target.
        Since the PFMS was not installed, staff was not trained in the operational use of it, not achieving the target.
         Also, budgetary program passports could not be managed by the new PFMS, not achieving the target of
         budget preparation of all 692 local budgets being based on the program-target method supported by PFMS.
        Timely and comprehensive fiscal management reports were not produced through the PFMS data
         warehouse, since the PFMS system it was not installed. Therefore, this target was not achieved.
        A risk-based planning methodology was developed and adapted by the State Financial Inspection’s
         Methodology Council in 2012.
        19 new public sector accounting standards were developed and adopted based on the International Public
         Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) accrual standards. On January 2, 2015, public sector accounting
         regulations became effective. However, the ICR (p. 15) states that full accrual accounting will not be
         completely adopted in 2015 due to the ongoing challenges with the accounting system.
        The budget department developed new budget preparation instructions including a mid-term budget
         framework, linking the budget to the economic and social development program and introducing
         budget-performance indicators.

   Outcomes:

        Since no baseline study was conducted at the start of the project, it is not possible to determine whether a
         reduction of 20% in time required to get necessary information from managerial decisions through the use of
         an integrated management and information platform was achieved. In 2012 and 2013, the Project
         Implementation Unit (PIU) conducted surveys on four business processes to determine whether there has
         been a decrease in time required to take managerial decisions.
                   1. The amount required to provide services to spending units and make other payments by the
                       departments of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine marginally decreased from 3.34 hours in
                       2012 to 3.25 hours in 2013.
                   2. The amount of time required to prepare a report on the execution of the state budget was 1.07
                       hours in 2012 and remained the same in 2013.
                   3. The amount of time required to prepare consolidated reports on the execution of the state
                  budget was 4.33 hours in 2012 and remained the same in 2013.
               4. The amount of time required to prepare reports on the execution of the state budget for
                  specific areas was 8.16 hours in 2012 and remained the same in 2013.
               5. The amount of time spent on the formulation of revenue forecasts in preparing the budget by
                  the Ministry of Finance was 190 days in 2012 and remained the same in 2013.
               6. The amount of time required for the planning of control and auditing measures by the state
                  financial inspectorate of Ukraine was 2,937 days in 2012 and increased to 2,991 days in 2013.

     These data suggest that there has not been a reduction in time between 2012 and 2013, largely because the
     PFMS was not implemented and is not operational. Therefore, this target was not achieved.

    The ICR (p. 13) provides alternative measures of results, not measured by the project, of the Public
     Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) assessments of 2005 and 2010, including 20 relevant
     PEFA dimensions. The results show improvements in the linkages between investment budgets and forward
     expenditure estimates, the extent to which cash flows are being forecasted and monitored, the scope of
     reports in terms of coverage and compatibility with budget estimates, the quality of information in budget
     reports, and the completeness of financial statements between 2005 and 2010. Even though these
     indicators are not related to operational efficiency, measured as reductions in time taken for business
     processes, they indicate improvements in integration and operational efficiency regarding delivering the
     desired outcomes of the project. However, along most dimensions the scores did not improve. Also, given
     the timing of the PEFA assessments, it is questionable to what extent any improvements could be attributed
     to the project.
    The risk-based planning methodology supported the State Financial Inspection Directorate to increase
     efficiency, and the number of violations detected increased as a percentage of the number of inspections. In
     2012, the State Financial Inspection Directorate conducted approximately 8,000 inspections and detected
     7,500 financial violations, resulting in a detection rate of 94%. In 2014, the Directorate only conducted 3,500
     “high risk” inspections, detecting 3,400 financial violations, resulting in a detection rate of 98%. Being able to
     decrease the number of inspections through the risk-based planning methodology by 56% had a positive
     impact on lowering pressure on staff and resources.
    The State Financial Inspections Department applied the risk-based planning methodology to improve
     efficiency of their inspections.


To strengthen public financial management in terms of transparency : Negligible

Outputs:

    The Ministry of Finance published information on state budget execution on its website on a monthly basis.
     Information included indices of general and special funds on revenues, expenditures, loans and credits; draft
     laws published after their presentation to the Parliament; and a book on budget execution report for FY
     2013. Also, the State Treasury published on its website state and region budget execution reports by
     functional, economic, and program classifications on a monthly and quarterly basis. However, the ICR (p.
     29) states that the quality of all this information only slightly improved across the time period of the project
     because the PFMS was not implemented.
    19 new public sector accounting standards were developed and adopted based on the International Public
     Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) accrual standards. On January 2, 2015, public sector accounting
     regulations became effective. However, the ICR (p. 15) states that full accrual accounting will not be
     completely adopted in 2015 due to the ongoing challenges with the accounting system.
    Timely and comprehensive fiscal management reports were not produced through the PFMS data
     warehouse, as the PFMS system it was not installed. This target was therefore not achieved.
    The accounting system was made compliant with IPSAS and partially compliant with Government Finance
     Statistics (GFS).


Outcomes:

    The Open Budget Index (OBI), which measures the amount, level of detail, and timeliness of budget
     information published, was made publicly available as an independent assessment of Public Financial
     Management transparency. Ukraine's score was 55 (out of 100) in 2008, 62 in 2010, indicating that budget
     transparency did not improve consistently over that period of time.
    The 2005 and 2010 PEFA assessments for indicator “public access to key fiscal information” remained the
     same for both years, suggesting that budget transparency has not improved.
5. Efficiency:

    Modest: Neither the PAD nor the ICR conducted a traditional economic analysis.

    The PAD (p. 12) states that the major benefits of the project are difficult to measure and assign a monetary value.
    The PAD cites several benefits that would result from successful project implementation, including full
    implementation of performance/program based budgeting, raising efficiency of budget programs audits and using
    audit results to establish priorities for public expenditure, and improving and increasing transparency, including
    the mechanism to grant transfers to local budgets to level their financial capacity.

    The ICR (p. 17) analyzes time and cost overruns and operating costs to determine the efficiency of the project.
    This review finds that the project disbursed only 5.6% of planned financing over an implementation period that
    took 2.5 years longer than expected. This was due to prolonged procurement delays that eventually led to the
    cancellation of the component output that accounted for 95% of the original cost and the cancellation of project
    funds associated with the PFMS system. On balance, efficiency was Modest.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                       No
    ICR estimate                    No
                                       * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Relevance of objectives is rated Substantial, given the government’s agenda to reform public financial
    management. Relevance of design is rated Modest, as it is not clear that the project's planned activities
    addressed the transparency objective. Achievement of the objective to strengthen public financial management
    in terms of operational efficiency was Modest. Achievement of the objective to strengthen public financial
    management in terms of transparency was Negligible. Efficiency is rated Modest. These ratings are indicative of
    major shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating of
    Unsatisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Negligible to Low: The Risk to Development Outcome rating is Negligible to Low since the project generated only
    a few outcomes. The project established a a committed Project Implementation Unit that has the necessary
    capacity for future public financial management reforms. The ICR (p. 21) states that achievements were made in
    regards to PFM business processes that are well integrated into regulatory frameworks and internal operating
    and budget procedures. However, continued reform processes will depend on building capacity within the
    Ministry of Finance, which currently depends on external technical assistance. Also, discussing next steps of the
    reform process and bringing the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance on board and in synch will be critical to
    moving the agenda forward successfully.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    The project built on the Bank’s Treasury System project that closed in December 2004 and was well aligned
    with the strategic priorities of the government. The project design was informed by an organizational review of
    the Ministry of Finance, a Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Assessment, and a White Paper on
    Internal Audit and Control of 2005.
   The Bank identified relevant risks as substantial during project preparation, including lack of government
   commitment to public financial management reform, delays in the establishment of a country-wide network by
   the Ministry of Finance, and institutional resistance. Mitigation efforts were not sufficient, particularly that of
   declining government commitment. The public financial management reform shifted power from the State
   Treasury to the Ministry of Finance, resulting in resentment and institutional resistance to reform.

   The Bank’s Quality Assurance Group authored a report in 2009 that questioned the integration of the
   Treasury into the Ministry of Finance and speculated that this action would put additional burden on Ukraine’s
   volatile political situation, at a time when attention might have been better solely focused on improving the
   data system. This point was particularly relevant because resistance by civil servants and changes in
   government had been identified as potential risks to project implementation. Yet project preparation did not
   plan adequately for this possibility.

   The design of the Results Framework had significant shortcomings (see Section 10a).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team conducted 13 supervision missions and held 40 video conferences during the project period.
   A team member in the Kiev country office provided ongoing guidance to the project implementation unit and
   the Ministry of Finance. The Bank team took appropriate action in referring an anonymous complaint
   regarding the bidding process for two ICB software and hardware packages to INT.

   However, the Results Framework was not sufficiently used to monitor progress toward achievement of the
   project's objectives. During the project restructuring in 2012, the Results Framework was modified. However,
   the modification had a strong focus on the implementation of the PFMS system, which ultimately did not
   materialize.

   The Bank team did not address sufficiently the resistance by the Treasury to the reforms. Even though the
   Treasury used its own resources to modernize its own e-treasury system and displayed little interest in the
   successful implementation of the PFMS, the Bank did not address this issue. Instead, the Bank eventually
   supported neither the e-treasury system, whose development had originally been supported by the Bank in
   under previous project, nor implementation of the PFMS.

   The project's performance rating in Implementation Status Reports was downgraded only to Moderately
   Unsatisfactory for progress towards the development objectives in March 2013, despite only US$3.42 million
   having been disbursed. This might indicate that the Bank was unrealistic about achieving the project's
   development objectives, or about reporting on shortcomings, despite significant implementation challenges.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Unsatisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government had requested the Bank’s assistance to implement a follow on project to the first Treasury
   project. Several political changes, however, impacted preparation and implementation. In 2005, the Treasury
   was integrated into the Ministry of Finance, which asked the Bank for support in its reorganization. The
   Treasury was actively engaged in the design process of the project but that it is not clear if all stakeholders
   were committed to the institutional integration process of the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance and the
   decision to implement an integrated PFMS instead of the e-Treasury system. The Treasury continued the
   development of the e-Treasury system while the Ministry of Finance tried to develop the PFMS. Both entities
   had a different vision for the e-Treasury and the PFMS. While the Treasury saw the e-Treasury system as an
    instrument that met most of its needs, the Ministry of Finance believed that it would be unable to deliver
    functional integration as the PFMS could do.

    The project also faced several procurement issues that made project implementation challenging (see
    Section 11b). Due to the severe fiscal pressure Ukraine faced in 2014, a new two-stage procurement process
    was cancelled, and the government requested the Bank to cancel the undisbursed portion of the loan.

    The Ministry of Finance did not ensure strong leadership of the project, appointing a deputy minister as
    project director only in 2013. Also, the project experienced delays at the start of the project period; the
    Ministry of Finance wanted to complete improvements in PFMS business processes before starting the
    procurement process for PFMS, which led to an eight-month delay.


  Government Performance Rating                                Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) lacked strong leadership and management. The deputy minister, who
    was appointed as project director in 2013, did not have sufficient time to manage the project. There was
    therefore a lack of management continuity and understanding among different project component managers,
    which led to delays in project implementation. The project had eight different managers within a five-year
    period due to changes in the political environment.

    Periodic progress reports were prepared and submitted on a regular basis, but there were delays in tracking
    key performance indicators. Also, baseline data for key performance indicators was never collected,
    negatively impacting measurement of progress. There is little evidence that M&E results were used to inform
    decision making.

    Financial Management was rated Satisfactory throughout project implementation, but procurement faced
    several challenges (see Section 11b).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The Results Framework in the PAD included three PDO and 16 intermediate outcome indicators. The objectives
   were clearly specified; however, the PDO indicators did not reflect those objectives or measure progress towards
   those objectives well. Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability assessments done in 2005, 2011, and
   2015 could have supplied the project with baseline, mid-term, and end of project data by an objective third party.
   Similarly, a more effective measure of transparency would have been indicators of the Open Budget Index that
   assesses whether the government makes key budget documents available to the public.

b. M&E Implementation:

   The Results Framework was modified during the April 2012 restructuring. Several PDO and intermediate
   outcome indicators were revised, and some intermediate indicators were dropped. However, a baseline study for
   the indicator on operational efficiency did not take place until 2012, close to the original closing date, and a
   repeat survey was done just a year later, substantially earlier than the revised closing date. It was therefore not
   possible to measure effectively the project's impact on operational efficiency.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The Results Framework was of limited use due to its design shortcomings. There is little evidence that it was
   used to inform decision making.
M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:


   The project did not trigger any safeguards policy.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

   Financial Management

   According to the ICR, Financial Management was consistently rated “Satisfactory” throughout project
   implementation, and there were no major operational issues. Unqualified reports were issued by auditors, and no
   internal control or accountability issues were raised.

   Procurement

   According to the ICR, the project faced significant procurement challenges that hindered successful project
   implementation. Procurement was continuously rated “Moderately Unsatisfactory” during project implementation.
   The two-stage procurement process for two ICB software and hardware packages was cancelled due to
   allegations of fraud and corruption. An INT investigation found that one of the companies that bid the lowest cost
   option was found guilty of corruption in another Bank project and therefore could not be granted a Bank contract
   during its suspension. After the cancellation of this procurement process, a single-stage process was adopted.
   However, not enough bids were submitted and this procurement process had to be cancelled, resulting in another
   significant delay for the procurement of the PFMS. A new two-stage procurement process was relaunched in
   2013; however, in 2014 the political situation and government priorities changed, and the government decided to
   cancel the procurement process and requested the cancellation of the undisbursed portion of the loan.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

   None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                            ICR                  IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                  Disagreement/Comments
                   Outcome: Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
        Risk to Development Negligible to Low           Negligible to Low
                   Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                Unsatisfactory      Mitigation efforts for risks were not
                              Unsatisfactory                                sufficient, there were shortcomings in
                                                                            the Results Framework, and Bank
                                                                            supervision was unrealistically
                                                                            optimistic with regards to progress
                                                                            towards development objectives.
      Borrower Performance : Moderately                 Unsatisfactory      There was lack of commitment by key
                             Unsatisfactory                                 stakeholders including the Treasury,
                                                                            and lack of strong leadership in the PIU.
                Quality of ICR:                         Exemplary
NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR (p. 24) presents several valuable lessons, including the following:

         Change management and political/institutional analysis is critical for the successful implementation of a
          reform project. The integration of the Treasury with the Ministry of Finance was not sufficiently addressed
          during project preparation and implementation. A strategy for change management would have been
          required to mitigate the related risks and create an open dialogue between different stakeholders.
         Agreeing on the implementation order of project activities during project preparation can avoid
          disagreements and delays during project implementation. In this project, the Ministry of Finance
          postponed the procurement of the PFMS until changes in PFM business processes were completed,
          leading to an eight-month delay.
         Leaving other IT options open during the implementation of a complex integrated financial management
          system can help to mitigate the risk of an unsuccessful implementation. If this project had also supported
          the implementation of the e-Treasury system, the country would have been left with a functioning partial IT
          system until the PFMS was rolled out. This could have also had a positive impact on reducing the
          Treasury's resistance to the implementation of the PFMS.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides a strong and comprehensive overview of project preparation and implementation. Its evidence
    is robust and of very high quality, drawing from a variety of sources of data. It is appropriately critical and
    contains all necessary data and analysis. It is results oriented, is internally consistent, and provides lessons that
    are based on evidence and analysis. Its executive summary provides an extremely useful and concise road map
    for reading the main body of the ICR, with the project's implementation experience and lessons well summarized.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Exemplary
