Documelnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16628
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
(Credit 1847-GH)
MAY 30, 1997
Private Sector & Finance
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Cedi
US$1.00 = Cedis  (October 1987)
US$1.00 = Cedis  (June 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DIC          Divestiture Implementation Committee
ERP          Economic Recovery Program
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
MFEP         Ministry of Finance and Economic lPlanning
ODA          Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PNDC         Privisional National Defense Council
PSAC         Private Sector Adjustment Credit
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR          Standard Drawing Rights
SEC          State Enterprises Commission
SOE          State-Owned Enterprise
Vice President            J.L. Sarbib
Director                  S. Michailof
Division Chief/Manager    T. W. Allen
Staff Member              P. BerminghamlO. Campbell-White



GHANA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CREDIT 1847-GH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page Number
PREFACE                                                                    1
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                         2
Introduction                                                         2
Project Objectives and Components                                   2
Implementation Experience and Results                               2
Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned                  4
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                          5
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                                    5
B.  Achievement of Objectives                                             7
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project                                   9
D.  Project Sustainability                                              13
E.  Bank Performance                                                     13
F.  Borrower Performance                                                 14
G.  Assessment of Outcomes                                               15
H.  Future Operations                                                    16
I.  Key Lessons Learned                                                 16
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES                                              18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                     19
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                                20
Table 3: Project Timetable                                         21
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements             22
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation                 23
Table 6: Studies Included in Project                               24
Table 7: Project Costs                                             25
Table 8: Project Financing                                         26
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants                                 27
Table 10: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs                            28
Table 11: Bank Resources - Missions                                29
APPENDICES
A.        Completion Mission Aide-Memoire
B.        Borrower Contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CREDIT 1847-GH
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprise
Project, for which Credit 1847-GH in the amount of SDR 8.3 million was approved on
October 13, 1987, signed on October 30, 1987, and declared effective on March 8, 1988.
The credit, which was for technical assistance, was extended from the original date of
June 30, 1994, firstly to June 30, 1995 and then to June 30, 1996, when it was closed.
The extensions were to assist the Government launch its accelerated divestiture program
and to keep on track with its SOE reform and PSAC programs. The final disbursement
took place on October 21, 1996, at which time the balance of SDR 569,631.88 was
canceled.
2.    The period of the credit is 40 years, including 10 years grace, with an annual
service charge of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) on the principal amount of the
credit withdrawn and outstanding. The credit also carried an annual commitment charge
of one-half of one percent (1 of 1%) on undisbursed balances.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Oliver Campbell White of the Private Sector Finance
group of the Africa Region and reviewed by Serge Michailof, Paul Bermingham, Jeffrey
Katz, Kazi Matin, Asad Alam and Anil Chandramani.
4.    Preparation of the ICR was started during the Bank's supervision/implementation
completion mission in July 1996. It is based on material in the project files. The
Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation report.



I



GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CREDIT 1847-GH
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction (Section A)
1.    The Public Enterprise Credit was made available to the Government of Ghana to
provide critical technical assistance needed to implement a series of state-owned
enterprise sector reforns agreed under a series of operations (SAC I, approved in April
1987; SAC II, approved in April 1989; and PSAC, approved in May 1995) to support the
Government's economic reform program.
Project Objectives and Components (Section B)
2.    The objectives of the project were to: (1) strengthen the State Enterprises
Commission (SEC) as Government's SOE oversight agency, particularly its capacity to
monitor and evaluate SOE performance and to advise on major SOE issues; (2) assist
priority SOEs in developing restructuring programs (including possible divestiture) in
order to achieve financial self-sufficiency and in implementing immediate operational
and managerial improvements; (3) assist with the implementation of the first phase of the
divestiture program; and (4) assist with the longer-term reforms through: (i) providing
training to SOE managers/employees; (ii) assessing the impact of Government policies on
SOE performance and the need for policy changes; and (iii) revising the legal and
institutional arrangements to ensure SOE autonomy and to clarify the responsibilities of
various agencies vis-a-vis the SOE sector.
3.    The project comprised three main components: (1) strengthening the SEC to
enable it to manage the SOE reform program; (2) implementing the first phase of the
divestiture program; and (3) developing restructuring programs and implementing
immediate managerial and operational improvements in selected SOEs.
Implementation Experience and Results (Section C)
4.    The project substantially achieved its objectives. However, it took longer than
originally envisaged because of the time needed to achieve political readiness, to develop
consensus, and to deal with the numerous constraints which arose.
2



5.    Training and advisory services were provided to SEC but only limited progress
was made in developing SEC's capacity due to the difficulty in attracting and retaining
sufficient professional staff.
6.    Lasting benefits have accrued from the training of SOE personnel which has
helped introduce more professionalism in the management of SOEs, particularly in the
areas of accounting, finance, personnel and planning. SEC's work in introducing
corporate planning and performance agreements into SOEs and in monitoring and
reporting on SOE performance has contributed to pressure on the SOEs to improve
performance. While there are variations, overall there has been a significant
improvement in the reported results and financial self-sufficiency of SOEs.
7.    SEC developed a database of all known SOEs and prepared profiles of 64 large
SOEs. This work formed the basis for selecting SOEs for divestiture and for preparating
and introducing performance agreements for 47 SOEs. However, a number of factors
have severely limited the effectiveness of the performance contract mechanism. First,
among the interested parties there was not a conensus in favor of the concept of
performance contracts so that interest and commitment were slow to develop. Coupled
with this, there was insufficient capacity for adequate consultation, preparation,
implementation, monitoring, evaluation and dissemination. Second, the institutional
arrangements were - and in some respects still are - inappropriate.
8.    SEC has had to deal with serious accounting backlogs in the SOE sector. In order
to avoid a recurrence of backlogs, SEC has, under the project, introduced computers and
accounting software into selected SOEs. Also, as part of the process of dealing with
accounting backlogs, SEC made the first concerted attempt to determine the debt position
of the SOE sector including: (i) an assessment of Government's exposure, both in terms
of outstanding debts and guarantees; and (ii) the extent of SOE cross-indebtedness. SEC
also set up a mechanism to identify SOE cross-indebtedness and a method for offsetting
debts which subsequently contributed to preventing a further build-up of mutual
indebtedness.
9.    Substantial progress has been made towards streamlining the institutional
framework governing the SOE sector, including the enactment of legislation to convert
statutory corporations to limited liability companies. Under the Statutory Corporations
(Conversion to Companies) Act 461 of 1993, some 27 statutory corporations have already
been converted into successor companies. Each successor company has a board of
directors, whose responsibilities are defined under Company Law, appointed by the
Minister of Finance instead of being nominated by interested institutions.
10.   Up to the close of the project, some 153 divestiture transactions were successfully
completed by DIC. There were, in addition, 10 public flotations which DIC was not
involved in, as DIC has concentrated on the smaller divestiture transactions including
many asset sales and liquidations. The completed divestiture transactions resulted in
3



some 77 SOEs being privatized, and a further 40 SOEs were wound up or put into
liquidation.
11.   Due principally to the time it has taken to build consensus, privatization has been
slower and more difficult than envisaged. The main impediment to building consensus
has been, until recently, the lack of information about transactions and the lack of
transparent procedures. With greater involvement of the private sector and the
introduction of new divestiture procedures, these weaknesses are being corrected. Major
impediments which have slowed the pace of divestiture have been: a lack of consensus,
land title difficulties, the high level of contingent liabilities for end of service benefits in
SOEs, the role and authority of DIC, capacity constraints, over-emphasis on SOE
valuations, and the absence of government policy direction on what to sell, broadening of
ownership and sales on credit. Though land title remains a problem, considerable
progress has been made on dealing with the other issues. Despite the long elapsed time,
the most significant achievement has been the development of a consensus in favor of
privatization.
12.   Under the project, a wide range of studies of issues affecting SOEs and divestiture
was carried out and detailed restructuring plans prepared for major SOEs. These have
laid the foundation for implementing ongoing reforms and privatization.
Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned (Sections D, E, F, G, H, I)
13.   The experience of this project has laid a solid foundation for its successor project -
the Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance Project (Cr 2877-GH) -
which will help sustain the achievements recorded to date. The Government is
committed to further accelerate the pace of SOE reform and divestiture, which picked up
noticeably in the last few years of the project. The successor project, which became
effective on September 25, 1996, has been designed to continue technical assistance
support for this work. Its design has taken account of the lessons learned from this
project, though there is till no breakthrough in establishing sufficient incentives to ensure
that SEC and DIC are able to retain the requisite internal professional resources.
14.   This project offers many lessons but there are two which are key. First, reform of
the SOE sector must address the strategic framework for corporate governance. Second,
because a technical assistance project is a complementary operation, design of this type of
project needs to be sufficiently flexible so as to adapt to changes over time in the program
it supports. That, in turn, has implications for the level of supervision needed to ensure
that the project remains relevant and on track.
4






GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CREDIT 1847-GH
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    When Ghana embarked on its economic recovery program (ERP) in 1983 state-
owned enterprises (SOEs) dominated the economy. SOEs played a major role in most
sectors of the economy: power generation and supply, water, transport,
telecommunications, mining, agriculture, manufacturing, forestry, trade, oil refining and
distribution, construction and tourism. Ghana's major exports, notably cocoa and mining,
were produced and marketed by SOEs. In aggregate, the SOEs were incurring losses and,
during the mid-1980s, were becoming an increasing financial burden for Government.
Not only were SOEs receiving increased direct financial support, they were also a
significant burden in terms of indirect support through tax and loan arrears, absence of
dividends and, in some cases, inability to repay Government-guaranteed foreign loans. In
developing its ERP in 1983, the Government had recognized the need to undertake a
comprehensive reform of SOEs in Ghana. A diagnostic study was therefore undertaken
of the SOE sector in 1983/84. The findings of that study formed the basis for the
comprehensive SOE reform program formulated in 1985. The program was translated
into a two-year action plan agreed with IDA under the structural adjustment program,
which was supported by a Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1777-GH) approved in April
1987. The key features of the action plan were: (a) actions to improve the performance of
14 priority SOEs which collectively employed over half the number of employees in the
SOE sector; (b) divestiture of 30 SOEs in the first phase of a rationalization program; (c)
sector-wide staff reductions (with a target of 5 percent annually over the two years; (d)
preparation of up-to-date audited financial statements, medium-term corporate plans, and
performance agreements with Government (based on the corporate plans) for the 14
priority SOEs; (e) design and implementation of a performance monitoring and
evaluation system to be administered by the SEC; (f) clearance of cross-debts for the 14
priority SOEs; (g) establishment of guidelines on Government-SOE financial relations
and agreed levels of financial support; and (h) a review of the legal and institutional
arrangements with a view to increasing SOE autonomy and clarifying the respective roles
of the SEC, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP), sector ministries,
sector commissions and SOE boards of directors vis-a-vis the SOE sector.
2.    The Public Enterprise Project was intended to provide critical technical assistance
needed to implement the agreed action plan and to lay the groundwork for longer-term
5



reforms by strengthening the key institutions and assessing and developing further SOE
reform and restructuring measures. The objectives of the project were therefore to:
(a)  strengthen the State Enterprises Commission (SEC) as Government's SOE
oversight agency, particularly its capacity to monitor and evaluate SOE
performance and to advise on major SOE issues;
(b)  assist priority SOEs in developing restructuring programs (including
possible divestiture) in order to achieve financial self-sufficiency and in
implementing immediate operational and managerial improvements;
(c)  assist with the implementation of the first phase of the divestiture program;
and
(d)  assist with the longer-term reforms through: (i) providing training to SOE
managers/employees; (ii) assessing the impact of Government policies on
SOE performance and the need for policy changes; and (iii) revising the
legal and institutional arrangements to ensure SOE autonomy and to clarify
the responsibilities of various agencies vis-a-vis the SOE sector.
3.    The project comprised three main components: (1) strengthening the SEC to
enable it to manage the SOE reform program; (2) implementing the first phase of the
divestiture program; and (3) developing restructuring programs and implementing
immediate managerial and operational improvements in selected SOEs.
4.    The first component of the project was designed to support: (i) the strengthening
of SEC's capability to manage the SOE reform program, monitor and evaluate SOE
performance and advise on major SOE issues and policies; (ii) the streamlining of the
institutional framework governing the SOE sector, through clarification of the roles and
responsibilities of SEC; (iii) an assessment and adjustment of the legal and policy
framework governing SOEs, in order to inter alia increase SOE autonomy and
accountability and improve SOE performance; (iv) the negotiation, signing and
implementation of performance agreements between the Borrower and selected SOEs;
and (v) training of SEC staff, rental and construction of SEC office and acquisition of
office equipment and vehicles for SEC.
5.    The second component was designed to include advisory services and logistical
support to the Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC) and the technical team
located in the divestiture office within SEC in order to assist in: (i) divestiture of at least
30 SOEs, including preliminary studies and audits, preparation of prospectuses, valuation
of assets, information campaign, search for investors, review of bids and negotiation of
sales arrangements; (ii) strengthening of the DIC and its technical team, including
advisory services, training, vehicles and equipment; and (iii) establishment and operation
of the Divestiture Account.
6.    The third component was provision of a SOE Restructuring Fund in SEC to assist
selected SOEs (including Black Star Line, Ghana Airways, State Transport Corporation,
Omnibus Service Authority and City Express Services) in preparing and implementing
6



restructuring programs and corporate plans with a view to achieving financial viability
and implementing operational and managerial improvements through inter alia: viability
studies, market forecasts, financial and management audits, staff inventories and
manpower redeployment plans, management contracts or twinning arrangements, training
of SOE managers and staff, and office equipment to improve management information,
accounting and budgeting systems.
7.    The project was expected to be completed by June 30, 1994. It was extended
firstly to June 30, 1995 and then to June 30, 1996 when it was closed. Due to the many
actions which the project was designed to support, it was both ambitious and complex.
While the project's objectives were attainable in the long-term, they were unrealistic in
the timeframe that was originally envisaged.
B. Achievement of Objectives
8.    Despite the initial problems and longer timeframe, positive results have been
achieved under the project. SEC has contributed to improvement in the performance of
the SOE sector and facilitated selection of enterprises for divestiture by:
(a) introducing corporate planning and performance agreements into SOEs and
in monitoring and reporting on SOE performance. This has contributed to
pressure on the SOEs to improve performance. While there are variations,
overall there has been a significant improvement in the reported results and
financial self-sufficiency of SOEs and there is a higher level of
professionalism in the management of SOEs, particularly in the areas of
accounting, finance, personnel and planning;
(b) compiling data on all known SOEs which formed the basis for selecting
SOEs for divestiture or performance agreements;
(c) preparing profiles for 64 SOEs;
(d) dealing with the serious accounting backlogs in the SOE sector. Also, in
order to avoid a recurrence of backlogs, SEC has, under the project,
introduced computers and accounting software into selected SOEs;
(e) as part of the (d), making the first concerted attempt to determine the debt
position of the SOE sector including: (i) an assessment of Government's
exposure, both in terms of outstanding debts and guarantees; and (ii) the
extent of SOE cross-indebtedness;
(f) following (e), setting up a mechanism to identify SOE cross-indebtedness
and a method for offsetting debts which subsequently contributed to
preventing a further build-up of mutual indebtedness;
(g) studying labor issues in the SOE sector which constrained reform and
providing Government with a paper on SOEs' potential liability for end of
service benefits and
(h) identifying and alerting policy makers to important issues (such as land
ownership and title problems) to be addressed.
7



9.    Substantial progress was made towards streamlining the institutional framework
governing the SOE sector. First, SEC's role and responsibilities have been clarified,
while the National Trust Holding Company, which had formerly looked after
Government participation in joint ventures, no longer plays any role in SOE supervision.
Second, there has been a clearer delineation of Government's and SOE boards'
responsibilities, including specification of the nature of policies which are the concern of
the sector ministry and business policies which are the concern of SOE boards, while the
Ministry of Finance has become custodian of all state-owned investments. Third, SEC
has introduced a new and formal contractual relationship between Government and
enterprises. Fourth, legislation - the Statutory Corporations (Conversion to Companies)
Act 461 of 1993 - was passed to streamline the legal and institutional framework for
governing and managing SOEs.
10.   Considerable progress was made in assessing and adjusting the legal and policy
framework governing SOEs. SEC played an important role in the initiation and drafting
of the legislation under which 27 statutory corporations were converted into limited
liability companies (successor companies). Each successor company has a board of
directors, whose responsibilities are defined under Company Law, appointed by the
Minister of Finance instead of being nominated by interested institutions. It is intended
that more statutory corporations will be converted in due course.
11.   With training support under the project, significant progress was made in
developing SOE corporate planning capability and information for monitoring and
evaluating performance. By 1996, performance agreements had been developed and
signed in respect of 47 SOEs, a much greater number than originally envisaged in 1987
12.   The project has put in place the accommodation, facilities and equipment that
SEC needs to be able to ftmction. While only limited training of SEC staff has been
possible, SEC has trained many outside Ghanaian consultants under the project, notably
in corporate planning.
13.   Over the project period, problems in managing divestiture transactions have been
identified and addressed. Most notably, detailed divestiture procedures have been
developed and introduced, including procedures for contracting out privatization
activities. These have already significantly enhanced DIC's capacity to process
divestitures transactions.
14.   Some 163 divestiture transactions were successfully completed during the life of
the project. DIC has concentrated on the smaller divestiture transactions including many
asset sales and liquidations. These transactions resulted in some 77 SOEs being privatized
and a further 40 dissolved/liquidated in the period up to June 30, 1996, while additional
SOEs were in the process of privatization at that date.
8



C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
15.   The project extended over a long period during which many changes occurred in
Ghana. A noteworthy example is the original objective of SOE reform, as visualized in
1987, which was overtaken by the change in emphasis towards a wider scope for
privatization to encourage private sector development. Changes called for policies to be
revisited and this, in turn, gave rise to delays. Nevertheless, the project was successfully
adapted to meet the changing circumstances.
16.   Strengthening of SEC's capability to manage the SOE reform program, monitor
and evaluate SOE performance and advise on major SOE issues and policies proved to be
more difficult and required more time to achieve than originally envisaged. Progress was
initially very slow due principally to a combination of three factors: (i) program
management problems arising from difficulties with the consultants who had been
appointed; (ii) serious accounting backlogs throughout the SOE sector; and (iii) difficulty
in SEC re-establishing its role, authority and influence over the SOE sector as prescribed
in its enabling legislation.
17.   Despite the short term expansion in SEC's capacity and training efforts
undertaken, SEC has suffered from a persistent shortage of resources and has thus largely
failed to be effective in monitoring and evaluating SOE performance. As noted in the
SEC's own contribution to this report, SEC's capability was constrained by difficulty in
recruiting and retaining core professional staff due to remuneration and incentive
inadequacies. At the commencement of the project, SEC had 20 professional staff but at
its close on June 30, 1996 there were only 10 professional staff at post. There has been a
wide gap between the remuneration paid to SEC professional staff compared with what
they could eam in the private sector (reflected, for example, in the remuneration of local
consultants) and this has been a disincentive to SEC staff. Unless this problem is
addressed, SEC's internal capability will continue to be eroded.
18.   While progress in streamlining the institutional framework has been achieved, it
has been slow. A lack of consensus among the Government ministries and other
stakeholders delayed clarification of SEC's role. Indeed, the lack of consensus was at the
root of delays in dealing with the range of issues confronting SOE reform and divestiture.
19.   There remain three areas of concern with the institutional arrangements which
will be addressed under the successor project. First, there has been a tendency for
Government to take a passive role in the preparation of performance contracts. As a
consequence of Government not actively participating in the process, SEC has, of
necessity, had to act as proxy for Government. This has meant that SEC has not been
able to act effectively as a facilitator and mediator. Under the new project there will be a
review of SEC's role and what Government expects from the SOE sector. This review
will address the issue of how boards of directors of SOEs can act on Government's
behalf. Second, the role of the SEC Board remains unclear. The Board has not met
during the past five years; it has therefore been both inactive and ineffective in providing
9



guidance to the chairman. Third, SEC still does not have the legal power to obtain
information from some enterprises in which the Government holds an equity interest.
This issue will be addressed in a forthcoming study of portfolio management.
20.   Early in the project, SEC was faced with widespread apathy towards the
introduction of performance agreements. During the project period, the concept gained
greater acceptance but there is still a need to introduce appropriate incentives for
enterprise managers and staff. For several years, progress in preparing performance
agreements was held back because SOEs did not have the capacity to produce sound
corporate plans which were needed to underpin the agreements. As noted above, training
was provided under the project to resolve this problem. However, a number of factors
have severely limited the effectiveness of the performance contract mechanism. First,
performance contracts were largely imposed on the government and the SOEs so that
interest and commitment were slow to develop. Coupled with this, there was insufficient
capacity for adequate consultation, preparation, implementation, monitoring, evaluation
and dissemination. Performance contracts were initially entered into hurriedly and with
little negotiation. It has therefore taken time for the parties involved to understand the
issues and implications and for commitment to making the concept work in practice to
develop. Performance contract targets have generally been met but these have not been
meaningful in terms of achieving change and improved corporate governance. Further
work is needed to refine targets so that they are a challenge but achievable and to ensure
that they are supported by sufficient incentives. Whilst progress, both in terms of
acceptance of the concept and of improved SOE performance, has been achieved, interest
in performance contracts is waning as privatization extends across all sectors and SOEs.
Second, some institutional arrangements were - and in many respects still are -
inappropriate. For example, two key issues remain unresolved even today: (i) the roles of
the Government as owner (and how ownership is represented), the boards of directors,
and SEC need to be redefined; and (ii) there is no clear working arrangement for
monitoring and reporting on contract compliance.
21.   Training of SEC staff has been very limited and has had little impact. The
principal factor for this has been SEC's difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient
capable people. As a result, there has been too little time available for SEC staff to
receive the extent of training that was envisaged for them. SEC's key training
requirements, which will be addressed under the successor project, are in performance
monitoring (including inter-sectoral comparisons), financial analysis and interpretation of
financial reports, and negotiating skills.
22.   The project was designed to tackle the problem of capacity constraints, but one
year after implementation began, SEC reported suffering from serious staffing shortages.
And that problem has persisted. On several occasions SEC put forward to Government
the case for improving the conditions of service (including salaries) of SEC staff in order
for it to be able to attract and retain personnel with appropriate qualifications and
experience. The risk that SEC and DIC would not be able to recruit and maintain
10



sufficient staff of the right caliber was not identified at appraisal, and, when it later
emerged as a clear issue, it was never satisfactorily addressed.
23.   A small SOE restructuring fund was established, which was intended to operate as
a revolving fund. However, the fund revolved slowly and, as a result, fewer than
anticipated SOEs benefited from it.
24.   The first phase of the divestiture program was slow. Preparatory work on
divestiture began in 1985. In December 1986, the Bank preparation mission recorded
that Government had approved a list of 30 SOEs for divestiture. Yet work did not
commence on the divestiture of these SOEs for several years. It took almost two years
for a revised list of 32 SOEs for divestiture to be approved and published. These SOEs
were to be divested at the rate of ten each year; but each and every divestiture, for a
variety of reasons, took longer than expected. Political constraints and the inherent
problem of capacity were the most common factors contributing to delays. By the last
quarter of 1989 the only completed divestiture transactions had been three liquidations,
and the divestiture program had clearly lost momentum. Although negotiations for the
sale of seven enterprises had been completed and approved by DIC, the Government
withheld its approval for these deals. The Government's concerns centered on the
public's potential perception that public assets were being sold at give-away prices. In
March 1991 a Bank supervision mission recorded the same constraints to progress as had
been identified at the time of appraisal.
25.   A contributory factor was that insufficient attention had been given in design to
the need to involve the private sector. Divestiture was originally designed to be managed
by civil servants. Half-way through the project, with encouragement from a range of
constituents, the Government began to involve the private sector in the process. Hence,
there was a gradual increase in private sector participation through round table meetings,
representation on DIC and, more recently, through outsourcing divestiture work.
26.   Bank supervision missions consistently experienced difficulty in establishing the
status of divestiture transactions. Early on in the program, in January 1989, the Bank
supervision mission registered its concern with the progress of the project, especially on
divestiture. Thereafter for several years, progress was reported as very slow.
27.   The major impediments which were not adequately researched during project
preparation and appraisal were: the lack of consensus, land title difficulties, the high level
of contingent liabilities for end of service benefits in SOEs, the role and authority of DIC,
capacity constraints, valuation, and the absence of government policy direction on: (i)
what to sell; (ii) broadening of ownership; and (iii) sales on credit.
28.   Difficulties arose during project preparation, notably regarding the role and
leadership of SEC (which, at the beginning of the project, was the umbrella organization
for DIC). It is therefore surprising that commitment to the planned reforms was not
identified as a risk. Yet the project was launched at a time when there was not a
11



consensus in favor of the reforms. Though there was a desire for change and
improvement, concerns about social impact, the realizable value of SOEs, SOE debts, and
ownership led to differing views about the nature and timing of reform actions. It took
time for consensus to develop; only in the past few years has privatization become
accepted throughout Government and the public. Hence, despite the apparent slow
process, very real progress has been made.
29.   Because of the lack of consensus during the early years of the project, many deals
negotiated or recommended by SEC/DIC were not approved by Government. Also,
efforts by SEC and DIC on SOE reform and privatization met with resistance from SOE
managers, who withheld information from SEC/DIC and were lukewarm to potential
investors. Asset stripping was rumored to be occurring but neither SEC or DIC had the
requisite authority or resources to combat it.
30.   Land title has been an unresolved issue for many years. As long ago as 1988 this
issue was reported as a major constraint and recommendations for its resolution were put
forward. Eight years later, progress in resolving this issue has not gone beyond an
examination of the problem.
31.   End of service benefits posed problems because of the high levels of contingent
end of service benefits payable, unfunded provident fund obligations and large arrears to
the social security system. A review of the extent of the problem and preparation of a
plan for dealing with it was to be completed by June 1988. Even as SEC was reviewing
this subject, SOE managers were in some cases negotiating collective agreements which
included wages and benefits at levels above which the SOE were able to fund from their
own resources. This is an example of the lack of coordination between Government
ministries, other oversight agencies and SEC and weak corporate governance in the SOE
sector.
32.   The contingent cost of redundancies and the accumulated retirement benefits of
employees, the liability for which was not - and still is not - recorded in the balance sheet
of enterprises, was a major constraint during the first four years of the project. In early
1989 SEC estimated that the cost of meeting redundancies arising from divestiture in the
first phase of the program would be in the order of 30 billion cedis while the total
contingent liability in the SOE sector was some 140-174 billion cedis at that time. Many
SOEs also had liabilities in respect of unpaid salaries and allowances.
33.   Early on in the project, too much emphasis was been placed on enterprise and
asset valuation using the depreciated replacement cost method which restricted the
Government team's scope for negotiation with potential investors. Today, valuers are
asked to base their work on current market values.
34.   A feature of divestiture has been the lack of transparency regarding some
transactions. This was tackled in the latter phase of the project with: (i) the drawing up
and introduction of new and detailed divestiture procedures; and (ii) the adoption of
12



outsourcing which has introduced wider private sector participation in the process as well
as broadening DIC's transaction handling capacity.
35.   Progress in strengthening the Divestiture Implementation Committee and its
technical team was slow in the early stages due to problems with consultants, the
difficulty of recruiting capable people, and the delay in establishing DIC's role and status.
In the latter part of the project DIC was able to recruit more personnel and its full-time
team of advisors, funded by the UK's Overseas Development Administration. was
expanded to four. The project has provided some training but more staff training is now
required and will be provided under the successor project. Office equipment for DIC was
provided under the project.
36.   A Divestiture Account was opened but there were - and continue to be - problems
with its operation and with the quality and timeliness of the audit. These problems are
now being addressed.
D. Project Sustainability
37.   The project has made a lasting contribution to private sector development by
freeing up opportunities for private investment and by development of professional
resources.
38.   The experience of the project has laid a solid foundation for its successor project
which will help sustain the achievements recorded to date. In the light of the expanded
privatization program, it is recognized that SEC's role needs to be redefined. This will be
carried out under the new project.
39.   DIC's capacity has been greatly expanded by the use of contractors to undertake
divestiture activities while the new detailed divestiture procedures are already improving
the quality of the work and records.
40.   The performance contract mechanism will continue to be used in the immediate
future for all major SOEs. Although performance contracts will be phased out as these
SOEs enter the divestiture program, their use is expected to be an important tool for
further improving financial performance and operational efficiency of key SOEs.
41.   The outstanding project sustainability issue which remains is the ability of SEC
and DIC to attract and retain professional staff. This issue is still to be addressed.
E. Bank Performance
42.   Bank performance has been satisfactory overall. Throughout the project, Bank
personnel maintained close consultation with the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, SEC and DIC and contributed to the formulation of policies, priorities and
development of action plans. Over the eight and a half years it was inevitable that
13



changes in priorities would occur to meet changing circumstances. The Bank responded
quickly and positively to the use of project funds to support new initiatives which were
consistent with the overall aims of SOE reform and divestiture.
43.   More detailed work during identification, preparation and appraisal might have
led to earlier results and greater impact, but a key feature of the project was the proactive
role which the Bank took in promoting SOE reform and divestiture.
44.   Prior to and during the project, the Bank's dialogue was principally with SEC,
DIC and the Ministry of Finance. More consultation with the other major stakeholders in
the reform and divestiture programs would have revealed the lack of consensus and the
difficulty in resolving the major issues which were to cause delays in implementation.
For example, not only were sector ministries ambivalent about performance contracts and
dubious about divestiture, it was discovered soon after the credit became effective that
there were inconsistencies between the institutional arrangements for reform agreed under
this project and those agreed under two other Bank funded projects.
45.   The project supported a wide range of activities which, in the event, turned out to
be more complex and time consuming than envisaged at design and preparation. Project
files covering the last two years of the project have been well maintained, but records of
supervision for earlier years are incomplete. It is therefore difficult to establish precisely
how much Bank staff and consultants' time was involved in supervision in the earlier
years. This project was closely linked with the two structural adjustment credits and the
private sector adjustment credit. Because of this, supervision, which was in most cases
undertaken jointly, often focusing more on the immediate actions required under those
operations than the objectives and progress of this project. Hence the number and periods
of missions listed in Table 8 may overstate the extent of supervision specifically on this
project. Total supervision time of Bank staff was recorded as 121 person-weeks over the
81/2 years of the project, of which 32 person-weeks was in the last two years, when
supervision was increased.
46.   Since 1994, the pace of divestiture has quickened. In this context, it should be
noted that the Bank played a key role in advising and assisting the Government in the
design of the accelerated divestiture program.
F. Borrower Performance
47.   Disbursements were slower than had been projected in 1987 for several reasons:
(i) provision by ODA of grants, totaling about $850,000 equivalent, to finance full-time
divestiture advisory services which had been envisaged under this project; (ii) reluctance
on the part of SEC to support SOE reforms proposed by other agencies; (iii) greater than
expected use of local rather than foreign consultants; (iv) a much slower pace of
privatization than envisaged due in large part to the equivocal commitment of the
government to the divestiture program.
14



48.   Perhaps because of insufficient consultation, Government ministries and SOEs
did not react as positively as they could have in support of SEC and DIC's efforts.
Noticeably in the early part of the project, ownership of the reform and divestiture
programs was weak. Though formal responsibility for overseeing the programs was
vested in SEC and DIC respectively, these institutions did not possess the authority
necessary to take effective steps to implement reforms. Indeed, it was not until the
Divestiture of State Interests (Implementation) Law, 1993 (PNDC Law 326) that DIC had
legal recognition of its role.
49.   In terms of action to alleviate SEC and DIC's limited capacity for
implementation, the borrower did not perform well. Difficulty in recruiting and retaining
staff for these institutions has been a recurrent unresolved issue. This, in part, contributed
to the weakness in documentation to demonstrate progress. As a result, the Bank had to
spend additional time researching into the nature and outcomes of divestiture
transactions.
50.   Despite their capacity constraints, the implementing agencies, SEC and DIC, did
well to gradually bring together the many institutions involved in SOE reform and
divestiture and to respond to their concerns. Though it has taken longer than may have
been expected, SEC and DIC have helped to achieve the consensus that was earlier
lacking.
51.   The borrower has responded to the need for greater dissemination of information
on SOE performance and privatization. The new divestiture procedures which have been
introduced will also assure greater consistency and transparency as well as simplifying
reporting.
G. Assessment of Outcomes
52.   Although over a longer period than expected, the project has supported significant
progress and satisfactory outcomes. On SOE reform, the project has supported a large
number of assessments of individual enterprises, which have provided the basis for
developing detailed restructuring plans, and a number of studies related to SOE sector
restructuring issues. These studies, some of which are listed in the borrowers' evaluation
summary, formed the basis of recommendations made to Government on policy, legal
and institutional reforms. Most of the recommendations from the enterprise assessments
have been accepted by Government and are now being implemented. The central
objective of improving the performance of SOEs is gradually being achieved, with
consequent improvements in fiscal flows for Government.
53.   For the reasons outlined above, privatization has been slow and difficult; but it
has taken off. Because privatization objectives were not expressed in quantitative terms
and there has, to date, been no monitoring and evaluation of post privatization
performance and effects, it is not possible to objectively assess the outcome of divestiture
transactions under the project. Studies undertaken outside this project indicate that the
15



financial and operational performance of privatized enterprises has improved but that
SOE reform and divestiture have inevitably had some adverse effect on labor.
54.   Divestiture was, until recently, characterized by low transparency, with little
information available to the public about transactions (for examples, the bidding process,
the identities of bidders, the terms of offers, and selection criteria). With greater
involvement of the private sector and the introduction of new divestiture procedures, this
weakness is being corrected.
55.   Much experience has been gained, but capacity in SEC and DIC remains limited.
On the positive side, greater use is being made of private sector consultants to undertake
tasks on behalf of these institutions, so that training and experience is of lasting benefit to
Ghana.
H. Future Operations
56.   The Government is committed to further accelerate the pace of SOE reform and
divestiture, which picked up noticeably in the last few years of the project. A successor
project, - the Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical Assistance Project (Cr 2877-
GH) - has been designed to continue technical assistance support for this work. The
successor project became effective on September 25, 1996. Its design has taken account
of most of the lessons noted above. For example, there is a major public information
component in the new project which will help keep the public informed about the
progress and impact of the privatization program.
1. Key Lessons Learned
57.   Better information is required before launching SOE reform or privatization.
Some preparatory work had been undertaken, notably diagnostic studies of selected
enterprises, but it proved to be insufficient for the expected rate of progress at the outset
of the project. For countries embarking on similar programs, comprehensive information
is needed on the size of the SOE sector, its performance (accounting and operational
performance, and economic contribution), condition (especially as regards debt and
investment requirements) and prospects.
58.   There is need to better articulate expected outcomes in terms of recorded,
monitorable results. The project was based on expected actions (e.g. the introduction of
performance contracts and the divestiture of certain number of SOEs) which were
expected to improve economic efficiency. There was no indication of the expected
results compared with the counterfactual; hence it is difficult to judge the impact of the
actual results which the reforms have achieved.
59.   Programs involving profound changes require consensus and, if that is not yet in
place, resources must first be devoted to ascertaining and disseminating the facts, tabling
and discussing the issues to be addressed, and involving all the major stakeholders. Only
16



in this way can reform and privatization secure general public support which, in turn, will
ensure full Government commitment and support.
60.   A project like this requires appropriate local resources. Technical assistance can
only help develop capacity if the right resources are made available. This requires that
the implementing agencies be able to offer employment terms which are competitive so
as to be able to recruit and maintain staff of sufficient caliber.
61.   Underlying issues must be identified and dealt with up front. In the case of
Ghana, the question of contingent employee end of service benefits significantly delayed
progress on divestiture, while land title continues to be a problem in many instances.
62.   More attention should be given to monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of
information concerning progress. Reporting requirements, either for government and
public dissemination or for Bank supervision purposes were, until very recently, not
clearly defined. Better and timely information would not only have facilitated
Government and Bank supervision, it would also have encouraged and demonstrated
greater transparency.
63.   Monitoring and evaluation should also place less emphasis on listed activities and
more emphasis on outcomes. For example, supervision missions devoted a high
proportion of their time to ascertaining how many and which enterprises had prepared
corporate plans, had signed performance contracts or had been divested (when, to whom,
for how much etc), but little attention paid to what impact the corporate plans,
performance contracts or privatization had made.
64.   For performance contracts, too much emphasis was placed on the documents
instead of the institutional framework necessary for the incentives and checks and
balances to work.
65.   A technical assistance project which is expected to undertake a wide range of
activities, tackle major issues and bring about fundamental change will necessarily
require significant Bank supervision.
17



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
18



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessments
A. ACHIEVEMENT OF                Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
OBJECTIVES
Macroeconomic policies               I
Sector policies                                      /
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                                                   1
Gender concerns
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives                                                            i
Public sector management                            V
Private sector development                          V
Others (specify)
B. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY          Likely        Unilikely      Uncertain
C. BANK PERFORMANCE                Highly      Satisfactory     Deficient
Ia=ubIcto'
Identification
Preparation assistance
Appraisal                                           /
Supervision                                         I
D. BORROWER                   j   Highly       Satisfa cefiient
PERFORMANCE                   I Salisfactory             t                  .
Preparation
Implementation                                      J
Covenant Compliance
Operation                                           V
E. ASSESSMENT OF                   Highly      Satisfactory j Unsatisfactory      Highly
OUTCOME                       I Satisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
19



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
1. GHANA: Private Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 271 8-GH)
2. GHANA: Public Enterprises and Privatization
Technical Assistance Project
(Cr. 2877-GH)
20



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 3: Project Timetable
...*          *. ...........          .
Steps In Project Cycle                       Date Planned        j         Actual Dale
Identification                                                                  6/12/86
Preparation                                                                    10122196
Appraisal                                                                       3/10/87
Negotiations                                    12/11/86                        8/10/87
Board Presentation                              10/13/87                       10/13/87
Signing                                         10/30/87                       10/30/87
Effectiveness                                     2/1188                         3/8)88
Project Completion                               6/30/94                        6/30/96
Loan Closing                                     6/30/94                        6/30/96
21



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
r   Fiscal Year             Appraisal Estimate               Actual                Actual as % of
I   i                         i                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Appraisal Estimate
FY 1988                     .90                          .94                  104.4%
FY 1989                     4.30                        1.69                    39.3%
FY 1990                     5.90                        2.75                   46.6%
FY1991                      7.40                        3.11                   42.0%
FY 1992                     8.40                        4.55                    54.2 %
FY 1993                     9.40                        6.33                   67.3 %
FY 1994                    10.50                        7.29                   69.4 %
FY 1995                                                 8.34                   79.5%
FY 1996                                                 9.78                   93.1%
22



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Prepared Corporate Plan
Performance Contract Prepared
Performance Contract Signed
Prepared Restructuring Plan
Prepared Enterprises Profiles                        64
Restructured
Divestiture Preparation (DIC only)
Divestiture Completed (DIC only)
23



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 6: Studies Included in Project
The studies include:
-     Cross-debts study 1988;
-     Review and recommendations for Reform of Accounting Standards and
practices in the SOE Sector 1992;
-     Reform of Legal and Institutional Framework for Governing SOEs 1992
and 1994;
-     Reform of pricing and procurement policy affecting SOE operations in
1991;
-     Assessment of Training Needs in the SOE Sector;
-     Review and recommendations for reform of SOE Governance structures
1994;
-     Review and recommendations for reform of Labor Legislation 1994;
-     Formulation of alternatives to direct employer Financing of Credit
Schemes and Advances to employees;
-     Classification of State-owned Enterprises. The Classification enabled the
ordering of SOE restructuring priorities.
24



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 7: Project Costs (US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate         T            Actual            J
Item                  Local   Foreign                    Local   Foreign I
Costs      Costs  j  Total        Costs    Costs    Total
1. Works for Part A                            1.189                                        1.005
2. (a) Equipment, furniture and                 .506                                        1.118
vehicles for Parts A and B
(b) Office equipment (including              .759                                         1.015
computer hardware and
software) for Part C
3. Consultants' services and
training for:
(a) Parts A and B                            1.898                                        2.292
(b) Part C                                   4.744                                        3.483
4. Operating costs                              .139                                          .600
5. Refunding of project                         .417                                         .222
preparation advance
6. Unallocated                                  .848                                          .044
PROJECT TOTAL                     1.100     10.500     11.600                             9.779
25



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 8: Project Financing (US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate               Actual
Source              Local  1Foreign-  Total    Local  Foreign
Cost,              Total  I Costs   Costs   T Total
World Bank                              10.5                         9.8
Government                      1.1
TOTAL                           1.1     10.5      11.6               9.8
26



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Section                   Description                   Type   Status    Original Date     Revised Date         Comments
3.01(b)    GoG to furnish progress of SOE               Mgmt   OK        Credit
Reform program in such detail as IDA shall                    Effectiveness
request
3.03(i)    GoG to submit detailed report on process achieved  Mgmt   OK  Ongoing                  -             Not Received
no later than Oct. 31 st each year
3.03(ii)    GoG to submit SEC's detailed work program for    Mgmt   OK   Ongoing                                  Received
the ff. Fiscal year no later than Oct. 31st each year
3.03(iii)   GoG to submit DIC's detailed work program for    Mgmt   OK   Ongoing                                  Received
the ff. fiscal year, and a list of SOEs to be divested
no later than Oct. 31 st each year
3.03(iv)   GoG to submit list of SOEs for which performance  Mgmt   OK   Ongoing                  -             Received late
agreement are to be negotiated with for the ff
fiscal year no later than Oct. 31st each year
3.04(a)    GoG to include adequate amounts in its budget  Mgmt   OK      Ongoing
each fiscal year to cover SEC's recurrent
expenditures
3.04(b)    GoG to include adequate amounts in its budget  Mgmt   OK      Ongoing                  -
each fiscal year to cover its established net
liabilities from the divestiture of SOEs



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 10: Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
.       ~~~. .                    _:-_Wwd_ 
State ProjectfCycle   Weeks . |US$WOs |Weeks   US    .  Weeks   US$004s
Through                                                    28       43
Appraisal
Appraisal - Board                                          77      141
Board-                                                      5        9
Effectiveness
Supervision                                               121      246
Completion                                                  6       15
TOTAL                                                237       454
28



GHANA
Public Enterprise Project
CREDIT 1847-GH
TABLE 11: Bank Resources
Missions
State of     Month I   Number   Days       Specialist Staff    Implement-    Develop-    Type of
Project Cycle   Year        of       in    Skills Represented     ation        ment       Problems
Persons   Field                         Status     Objectives
Through           10/86     4        18
Appraisal         11/86      3       10
3/87     4       21    PE Specialist
Appraisal -
Board
Board -
Effectiveness
Supervision       2/88
1/89      1      10    PSM officer
8/89      1       7    PSM officer
11/89
4/90      2       12    PSM officer
10/90     2       14    PSM officer
Economist
3/91      5       14    PSD specialist
PSM officer
10/91     3       14    PSM specialist
4/92      1       14    Privatization spec.
9/92
3/93     2        12    Financial
economist
11/93     2        12    Senior PSM officer
Financial
economist
12/94     2              Financial
economist
2/95      2       15    Financial analyst
11/95     5        15    PE specialist
Economist
7/96      6       14    PE spec, accountant
PSD specialist, PE
reform and
privatization
specialist
Completion
TOTAL
29






APPENDIX A
GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CREDIT 1847-GH
Completion Mission Aide-Memoire






GHANA
Aide-Memoire
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT NUMBER 1847-GH
Implementation Completion Report Mission
July 1996
1.    An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) review of the above project was
conducted jointly between the concerned Government Agencies - Ministry of Finance,
State Enterprises Commission (SEC) and the Secretariat of the Divestiture
Implementation Committee (DIC) - and the World Bank's mission to Ghana between
July 15-26 1996. The World Bank team consisted of Paul Bermingham (Senior Private
Sector Development Specialist,Task Manager), Jeffrey Katz (Principal Economist),
Oliver Campbell White (Senior Public Enterprise Specialist), Russell Muir (Senior
Private Sector Development Specialist), Kofi-Boateng Agyen (Resident Mission, Project
Officer - Industry and Energy) and Mohammad Chowdhury (Consultant). The review
meeting focused on: (i) the arrangements for the preparation and submission of the
Implementation Completion Report, including the Borrower's Evaluation; (ii) project
costs; (iii) audit reports; and (iv) the extent to which the project had and had not achieved
its objectives as set forth in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement dated
October 30, 1987.
2.    The mission wishes to thank all the personnel from the Ministry of Finance, SEC
and DIC who participated in the implementation review meeting. The findings of the
team, which are subject to confirmation upon its return to Washington. are summarized
below.
3.    The team also undertook a project launch mission for the Public Enterprise and
Privatization Technical Assistance Project (Cr, 2877-GH) and a supervision mission on
the Private Sector Adjustment Credit I (Cr.2817-GH). Separate aide-memoires have been
prepared in respect of those missions.
Implementation Completion Report
3.    The mission provided the Ministry of Finance. SEC and DIC with a copy of the
Bank's written policy and procedures for implementation completion reporting so that
they are fully conversant with the process and the Government's contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR).



4. .   The project closed on June 30,1996. The Final date for disbursements under the
project is October 31, 1996. The final date for submission of the ICR to the Board of the
World Bank is December 31. 1996. To meet the latter deadline, it was agreed that the
final draft of the ICR must be completed by November 30. 1996.
5.    The ICR will be drafted by the Bank and submitted to the Government of Ghana
no later than September 30, 1996 for review and comments.
6.    The Government of Ghana will prepare an Evaluation Report of the project and
this will be included as an annex to the ICR. The Govemrnent will send a draft of its
evaluation report to the Bank no later than September 30, 1996.
Project Costs
7.    Annex I sets out the estimated total cost of the project, converted to SDR
equivalent as at July 22, 1996. compared with the total credit available under the Loan
Agreement. The total amount of disbursements and commitments is about
SDR7.982,000 and about SDR318.000 remains available. The Government has
identified additional expenditures that may qualify for financing under the project and
will advise IDA of details shortly. Some work, begun under this project will continue in
the period after June 30, 1996. The cost of goods and services provided after that date
will be met under the newly launched Public Enterprise and Privatization Technical
Assistance Project (where eligible under Development Credit Agreement for that project).
Audit Reports
8.    The mission recorded that the World Bank had, in accordance with Article IV of
the Development Credit Agreement, received the external audit report on project costs up
to December 31, 1995. The report confirms, without qualification, that proceeds of the
credit withdrawn have been utilized for authorized purposes and in compliance with the
Loan Agreement.
9.    An audit of the project costs up to June 30. I 096 wvill be carried out after the
closing date for disbursements. The audit report mUwt be submitted to the Bank by April
30, 1997.
Project Objectives and Achievements'
Strengthening of Management of SOE Reform Program
10.   Strengthening of SEC s capability to manage the SOE Reform Program. monitor
and evaluate SOEperformance and advise on major SOE issues and policies. This has
Text in italics are extracts from Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement.



been achieved. Progress was initially very slox due principally to three factors: (i)
program management problems arising from ditficulties with consultants; (ii) serious
accounting backlogs in the SOE sector: and i ii) the need for SEC to re-establish its role.
authority and influence over the SOE sector. Among the achievements recorded under
the project are:
(a)  SEC staffing was expanded and, although further strengthening is required,
SEC has contributed to improvement in the performance of the SOE sector;
(b)  SEC developed a database of all known SOEs which had formed the basis
for selecting SOEs for divestiture and for performance agreements. The
database now needs updating and this exercise is an early component of the
new PE and Privatization Technical Assistance Project;
(c)  profiles were prepared for 64 SOEs. Preparation of the profiles contributed
substantially to the development of the SOE database, highlighted gaps in
information (which will be addressed under the successor project), and
contributed towards preparation for divestiture;
(d)  SEC dealt with the serious accounting backlogs in selected SOEs. Also, in
order to avoid a recurrence of backlogs, SEC had, under the project,
introduced computers and accounting software into SOEs;
(e)  as part of the process of dealing with accounting backlogs, SEC was able to
make the first concerted attempt to determine the debt position of the SOE
sector including: (i) an assessment of Government's exposure, both in terns
of outstanding debts and guarantees; and (ai) the extent of SOE cross-
indebtedness;
(f)  following (e) (ii), SEC set up a mechanism  to identify SOE cross-
indebtedness and a method for offsetting debts which subsequently
contributed to preventing a further build-up of mutual indebtedness;
(g)  SEC had identified labor issues in the SOE sector and had provided
Government with a paper on SOEs' potential liability for end of service
benefits; and
(h)  SEC identified land ownership and title problems which alerted policy
makers to the issue which are to be addressed. and facilitated selection of
enterprises for divestiture;
11.   Despite some expansion in SEC's capacity, it has suffered from a persistent
shortage of resources and has thus largely failed to be effective in monitoring SOEs. This
will be elaborated in the ICR.



12.   To help facilitate production of the draft ICR, SEC will provide the Bank with
further details on (a), (c)-(h).
13.   Streamlining of the instititionalframework governing the SOE sector.
Substantial progress has been made towards this objective:
(a)  SEC's role and responsibilities has been clarified, while the National Trust
Holding Company, which had formerly looked after Government
participation in joint ventures, no longer plays any role in SOE supervision
but is instead in real estate management and brokerage;
(b) there has been a clear delineation of Government's and SOE boards'
responsibilities, including specification of the nature of policies which are
the concern of the sector ministry and business policies which are the
concern of SOE boards, while the Ministry of Finance has become custodian
of all state-owned assets; and
(c) SEC has introduced a new contractual relationship between Government and
enterprises (see paragraph 20).
14.   There remain three areas of concern which will be addressed under the new
project. First, it was noted that there has been a tendency for Goverrnment to take a
passive role in the preparation of performance contracts . As a consequence of
Government not actively participating in the process, SEC has, of necessity, had to act as
proxy for Government. This has meant that SEC has not been able to act effectively as a
facilitator and mediator. Under the new project there will be a review of SEC's role and
what Government expects from the SOE sector. This review will address the issue of
how boards of directors of SOEs can act on Government's behalf.
15.   Second. the role of the SEC Board remains unclear. It was noted that the Board
has not met during the past five years and that it has therefore been both inactive and
ineffective.
16.   Third, SEC still does not have the legal power to obtain information from some
enterprises in which the Government holds an equity interest. This issue will be
addressed in the forthcoming study of portfolio management.
17. Assessment and adjustment of the legal and policy frameiwork governing SOEs, in
order to inter alia increase SOE azutonomy and accountabilirv and improve SOE
performance. Considerable progress has been made in this context, the most noteworthy
step being the conversion of many state corporations to limited liability companies, each
with a board of directors whose responsibilities are defined under Company Law. The
boards of directors are now appointed by the Minister of Finance instead of being
nominated by interested institutions. SEC prepared a list of 35 SOE s, together with draft
supporting legislation, which were recommended for conversion to limited liability



companies. The list was later revised to an agreed list of 27 SOEs. SEC undertook to
provide the Bank with a list of the names of the SOEs that have been converted to limited
liability companies, and a list and the current status regarding the remaining SOEs.
18.   It was noted that Government continues to provide guarantees in support of SOE
borrowing, including SOEs subsequently privatized.
19.   Not all SEC's recommendations streamlining institutional arrangements for the
SOE sector and for increasing autonomy and accountability of enterprise managers have
been adopted by Government. SEC undertook to report on the present position of its
recommendations.
20.   Negotiation, signing and implementation of performance agreements between the
Borrower and selected SOEs. Performance agreements have been developed and signed
in respect of 47 SOEs. SEC's limited ability to monitor enterprise performnance has
constrained effective implementation of the performance agreement mechanism.
21.   Training of SEC staff, rental and construction of SEC offices and acquisition of
office equipment and vehicles for SEC. Training of SEC staff has been very limited and
had little impact. The principal factor for this has been SEC's difficulty in attracting
sufficient capable people (largely because SEC is unable to offer attractive terms and
conditions) so that available resources have not been allowed time for the training that
was envisaged for them. SEC's key training requirements, which will be addressed
under the new project, are in performance monitoring (including inter-sectoral
comparisons), financial analysis and interpretation of financial reports, and negotiating
skills. On the positive side, SEC has trained many outside Ghanaian consultants under
the project, in corporate planning for example.
22.   The project has been very useful in putting in place the facilities and equipment
that SEC needs to be able to function. SEC now has much better office accommodation,
but it remains constrained by insufficient human resources of the right caliber.
Divestiture of SOEs
23.   Divestiture of at least 30 SOEs. Some 97 enterprises were divested in the period
up to June 30, 1996. The target has thus been exceeded despite upstream problems
relating to land ownership, title to assets and a range of labor issues (including concerns
over redundancy, the existence and terms of collective agreements and the potential
liability for severance payments).
24.   Strengthening of the Divestiture Implementation Committee and its technical
team, including advisory services, training, vehicles and equipment. Progress was very
slow in the early stages bdue to problems with consultants, the difficulty of recruiting
capable people, and the delay in establishing DIC's role and status. Over the project
period problems in procedures have been identified and addressed. Procedures for



contracting out have been developed and adopted, these will significantly enhance DICs
capacity to manage divestitures. In the latter part of the project DIC was able to recruit
more personnel and its full-time team of advisors, funded by the UK's Overseas
Development Administration. was expanded to four. The project has provided some
training but more staff training is now required and will be provided under the successor
project. Office equipment for DIC was provided under the project.
25.   Establishment and operation of the Divestiture Account. A Divestiture Account
was opened but there are problems with its operation and with the quality and timeliness
of the audit. These problems are now being addressed.
SOE Restructuring Programs
26.   Establishment of an SOE Restructuring Fund. A restructuring fund was
established, which was intended to operate as a revolving fund. However, credit
management has been weak and the fund has become depleted. SEC provided the
mission with additional information on the record and position of this fund.
Conclusion
27.   Annex 2 is a draft overview of what the project has achieved and where further
action is required. The annex will be reviewed - and amended/expanded as necessary -
by both the Government and the Bank and will serve, together with this aide-memoire -
as the basis for preparing the draft ICR.
28.   Annex 3 is a draft schedule which sets out the status of the project with regard to
the legal covenants under the Development Credit Agreement.



Appendix B
GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT 1847-GH
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
A. The Project and its Objectives
1.    Public Enterprise sector reforms have been an integral part of the Ghana
Government's Economic Recovery Program from its inception in 1983. To assess the
problems of the sector and prepare a reform program, Government and IDA agreed to a
comprehensive diagnostic survey of the public enterprise sector. The study was
conducted by a Dutch Consulting firm Berenschot-Moret-Bosboon and completed in
1985. The diagnostic study was financed by the UNDP and IDA provided a PPF of
US$400,000 in August 1984 for related project preparation activities. Government
subsequently appointed a Task Force to assess the Consultant's report and its
recommendations. The report of the Task Force formed the basis of negotiations with
IDA leading to this project. The public enterprise reform project developed out of the
study which is closely related to the Economic Reform Program (ERP) and to
conditionalities incorporated in the three IDA financed structural adjustments, (SAC 1, 1
987; SAC 11 1989 and SAC 111, 1 991). The Cost of the project was estimated at SDR
equivalent of 8.3 million.
B. Project Objectives
2.    The project objectives as per schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement were:
Part A      Strengthening of Management of SOE Reform Program
1. Strengthening of SEC's capability to manage the SOE Reform Program.
monitor and evaluate SOE performance and advise on major issues and
policies.
2. Streamlining of the institutional framework governing the SOE sector through
clarification of the roles and responsibilities of SEC, the National Trust
Holding Company, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the
Sector Ministries overseeing the sector.



3. Assessment and adjustment of the legal and policy framework goveming
SOEs in order to inter alia increase SOE autonomy and accountabilitv and
improve performance.
4. Negotiating, signing and implementation of performance agreements between
the Borrower and selected SOEs.
5. Training of SEC's staff, rental and construction of SEC offices and acquisition
of office equipment and vehicles.
Part B       Divestiture of SOEs
1. Divestiture of at least 30 SOEs;
2. Strengthening of the Divestiture Implementation Committee;
Part C       SOE Restructuring Program
1. Establishment of an SOE Restructuring Fund in SEC to assist selected SOEs
in preparing and implementing restructuring programs and Corporate Plans.
C. Implementation Experience And Achievements
3.    (i) Strengthening SEC's Capability
SEC's capability was largely strengthened by engaging the services of external and local
consultants in the implementation of the program. Some initial difficulties with
Consultants and lack of relevant data contributed to a slow start of the program. Besides,
the limited role defined for SEC by the State Enterprises Commission Law, 1987 initially
hampered its development of a more supportive role in implementation of the project.
SEC's capability was also constrained by difficulty in recruiting and retaining core
professional staff due to remuneration and incentive inadequacies. At the commencement
of the project SEC had professional staff of 20 but at its close on 30th June, 1996, there
were only I0 professional staff at post. The wide gap between the remuneration of local
consultants and SEC staff was a disincentive to SEC staff and unless this problem is
addressed, SEC's internal capability will be completely eroded.
IDA regulations preclude the use of project funds to subsidize the remuneration of public
officers engaged on such projects but it is our view that a modification of this policy (to
allow some incentive payments to staff assigned project job) would not only reduce
consultancy costs of the project but enhance the capability of the staff of SEC.
- ii -



(ii) Streamlining of the Institutional Framework Governing the SOE
Sector
This objective has been achieved. At the inception of the project. the institutional
framework for governing the SOE sector was characterized by a multiplicity of agencies
(i.e. SEC, Ministry of Finance, Sector Ministries, National Trust Holding Corporation
(NTHC) with over-lapping responsibilities and entrenched practices of ad-hoc
intervention in operational decision making.
Streamlining of the institutional framework was given a high priority. By 1994, NTHC
had withdrawn from all responsibilities relating to SOEs. The performance contract
system has evolved as the mechanism to streamline the relationships of the Sector with
Ministry of Finance, Sector Ministries and SEC.
Besides, the Statutory Corporations (Conversion to Companies Act (Act 461 ) of 1993
was the first step towards a major restructuring of the legal and institutional framework
for governing SOEs. This has replaced the diffused and over-lapping responsibilities
which existed before the project with a more transparent structure. The Company
regulations of the successor companies has clearly defined the role of the Minister of
Finance as the custodian of Government shares. Similarly the function of Sector
Ministries, Board of Directors, and SEC are clearly defined. This process will need to be
reinforced and concretized in the next phase of the reform program.
(iii) Assessment and Adjustment of the Legal and Policy Framework
Governing SOE
This has largely been achieved with the Statutory Conversion Law (Act 461) converting
some 27 statutory corporations into limited liability companies concentrating
accountability for enterprise direction and performance on its Board of Directors as
defined by the Companies Code.
It is intended to convert other SOEs in due course. The Conversion of statutory
Corporations to companies is a measure contributing to three principal objectives of the
SOE reform program.
to increase efficiency of commercial SOE operations and management
through the creation of a more transparent structure of management
responsibility and accountability;
to facilitate restructuring of public enterprises through consolidation or
separation as required to improve performance and operating etficiency
and effectiveness; and
- iii -



to open up alternatives to Government financing. including the sale to
private investors of equity or debt instruments, to meet the enterprises
needs for investment and operating funds.
Act 461 was drafted on the initiative of SEC as part of the on-going program for the
reform of legal and institutional framework governing the SOEs.
(iv) Negotiation, Signing and Implementation of Performance
Contracts between the Borrower and SOEs
At the beginning of the project no SOE had a relevant corporate plan but by the close of
the project performance contracts had been signed with some 47 SOEs although it was
originally intended to COVER 14 or so Core SOEs which were by the agreement between
the World Bank and Government to remain within the public sector.
The system has succeeded in introducing systematic Corporate Planning into the culture
of State-owned enterprises management. A central objective of the programn has been to
improve the financial viability and performance of the major SOEs. Reform objectives
have also aimed at reducing the financial burdens imposed on the budget by subventions
and subsidies to commercial SOEs and to increase the flow of tax and dividend payments
from the profitable SOEs to Government.
Subvention to the State commercial enterprises have declined over the project period and
there has been a perceptible improvement in the flow of tax and dividend payments to
Government. Details of the improvements in economic and financial performance that
have been realized by the SOE sector are captured in the annual reports prepared by SEC
for Government.
The system has succeeded in evolving a mechanism for formalizing interactions between
* SOE management and Government as a shareholder thus limiting ministerial
interventions in day to day operations and improving management autonomy.
However, there are a few areas in which the system needs to be strengthened for the next
stage of the reform program and these include the need to introduce performance
indicators for workforce management practices, organizational restructuring and capacity
utilization. Besides, as the svstem is related to payment of incentive bonus there is need
to refine target setting to make it more realistic. Initial steps towards this end has already
been taken by SEC.
- iv -



(v) Training of SEC Staff. Rental and Construction of SEC Office
and Acquisition of Office Equipment
There was only a limited training of SEC staff due to staffing constraints and internal
difficulties. These constraints and difficulties will be addressed in the next phase of the
reform program.
However, the capacity of SEC to provide SOEs with training and professional support for
implementing reform measures was augmented by contracting local consultants to carry
out a broad range of assignments. SEC trained some of these local consultants and its
staff in Corporate Planning and they provide support to the SOEs with their Corporate
Plans.
SEC would need to attract, retain and train its personnel in order to be able to sustain
SOE reforms in the future and carry out its role effectively. It is our view therefore that
the IDA regulation which precludes the use of project funds to subsidize remuneration of
public officers assigned to IDA funded projects need to be reviewed to allow SEC give
some incentives to staff assigned reform program work. This will reduce the costs of
using local consultants who invariably are paid four times the remuneration of SEC staff
but whose background is in most cases not superior to SEC staff.
SEC office building was completed at a cost of SDR 794,164. Equipment acquired
included computers. Fax machines, photo copiers etc. The project has provided SEC with
good office accommodation facilities and the much needed office equipment and
accessories.
Part B
(vi) Divestiture of SOEs
"Divestiture of at least 30 SOEs, including preliminary studies and audits, preparation of
prospectuses, valuation of assets, information campaign, search for investors, review of
bids and negotiation of sales arrangements".
1. A total of 97 SOEs have been divested during the period of the Credit
Agreement. The actual number of completed transactions during that period is
considerably higher, as some SOEs have been fragmented for the purposes of
divestiture.
2. The process and procedures followed by DIC in the divestiture of SOEs have
developed substantially over the period of the Credit Agreement.
The current process and procedures, which have been designed to ensure
transparency and integrity in connection with the divestiture of SOEs, are set
out in detail in a procedures manual. The manual is a living document, and
-v -



changes will be made to it from time to time as DIC's body of experience
grows.
3. The manual covers. among other things, preliminary matters (including due
diligence, etc.) preparation of valuation reports and information memoranda.
advertising, bidding (including evaluation) and negotiations and approvals.
4. A number of problems have been encountered in the divestiture program;
these have significantly slowed the rate of divestiture which could otherwise
have been achieved. The problems include:
* the condition of the SOEs listed for divestiture (excess assets, onerous
liabilities, inadequate management, over-manning, lack of land title,
etc.);
* the identification of Government's interest (where Governnent has
indirect shareholdings, mergers have taken place without minority
shareholder consultation, pre-emption rights exist, etc.);
D  the lack of information on SOEs (up-to-date accounts, etc.);
inadequate resource of the DIC Secretariat;
*   low participation of Ghanaian investors in the purchase of divested
SOEs (due to, among other things, the lack of capital in the formal
financial sector to finance such ventures); and
*   the lack of funds to meet end-of-service benefits and severance
payments for employees of divested SOEs.
4.    Notwithstanding the matters raised in 4 above, the divestiture program has clearly
succeeded in reducing significantly the size of the public sector. The financial and
managerial burden on Government has declined accordingly. In many cases, divested
enterprises have been modemized and, where applicable, brought back into production.
(vii) Strengthening of the Divestiture Implementation Committee and its
Technical Team, including Advisory Services. Training, Vehicles and
Equipment.
I. At the start of the Credit Agreement. the divestiture of SOEs was carried out
by SEC. In (1990), due to the need to speed up privatization and to deal more
effectively with the reform of enterprises not listed for divestiture,
privatization was hived off into a new unit, DIC.
- vi -



2. The number of Ghanaian staff at the DIC Secretariat has. since that time.
remained relatively static, although the team has been strengthened with the
appointment of a public relations officer (in l 1994 ~) and two qualified
accountants (in 1996). The low level of remuneration has not assisted the
recruitment of professional staff.
3. The UK Overseas Development Administration provides technical support to
the Secretariat on legal, financial and other aspects of divestiture. This is
achieved through the placement of advisers with the Secretariat. The number
of advisers has increased from one financial adviser (in [1991]) to the current
team of two financial advisers, a legal adviser and a contracts manager.
4. Each ODA adviser is allocated a Ghanaian staff member as his or her
counterpart. The adviser carries out much of his or her work alongside that
counterpart, with a view to transferring his or her own skills and know how.
Most staff members of the Secretariat have attended at least one international
course, although work pressures have restricted the opportunities which would
otherwise have been available.
5. DIC is relying increasingly on outside advisory services. Valuation reports
and information memoranda have, since the start of the program, been
prepared by outside consultants; similarly, outside consultants have always
assisted DIC with stock verification and other cut-off procedures upon
divestiture completion. However, DIC now outsources a majority of
divestitures to the private sector: merchant banks, management consultants,
accounting firms and the like are appointed by DIC to provide advice in
connection with, and ultimately to implement. the divestiture of specific
SOEs.
By the end of the Credit Agreement, DIC had appointed consultants to
undertake the divestiture of State Transport Company Limited, Bonsa Tyre
Company Limited, GIHOC Fibre Products Company Limited, State
Construction Corporation and Ghana Sugar Estates Limited.
6. Outsourcing will allow DIC to achieve greater numbers of divestitures by
drawing on the private sector to take responsibility for much of the transaction
process. Further, the outsourcing program will foster development of the
private services sector in Ghana through the direct use of local Consultants
and also through the transfer of skills flowing from associations between local
and international firms.
7. DIC has procured additional vehicles and equipment. as necessary, over the
period of the Credit Agreement.
- vii -



Part C
(vii) SOE Restructuring Program.
The project established a fund to support restructuring of some selected state enterprises
(specifically 5 transport sector enterprises) including diagnostic planning studies.
management training and financing the costs of office equipment (including computer
hardware and software) for the improvement of manpower systems.
A number of studies related to sector restructuring issues or problems have been
completed by the State Enterprises Commission. These studies have formed the basis for
a number of recommendations made to Government for policy, legal and institutional
framework reforms and the identification of the training needs of the SOEs.
The studies include:
-     Cross-debts study 1 988;
-   Review and recommendations for Reform of Accounting Standards and
practices in the SOE Sector 1992;
-    Reform of Legal and Institutional Framework for Governing SOEs
1992 and 1994;
-     Reform of pricing and procurement policy affecting SOE operations in
1991;
-     Assessment of Training Needs in the SOE Sector;
-     Review and recommendations for reform of SOE Governance
structures 1994;
-     Review and recommendations for reform of Labor Legislation 1994;
-     Formulation of alternatives to direct employer Financing of Credit
Schemes and Advances to employees.
-     Classification of State-owned Enterprises. The Classification
enabled the ordering of SOE restructuring priorities.
Management information systems have been improved with the provisions of computer
hardware and software and the training of SOE staff in the use of Computers.
- viii -



The Commission has also completed a large number of restructuring assessment of
individual SOEs to provide a basis for detailed restructuring plans. MVlost of these
recommendations have been accepted by Government and are now being implemented.
A number of difficulties experienced in the implementation of the SOE Reform Program
can be traced to policy framework assumptions captured in the Task Force Report. For
instance, the Task Force anticipated that Government would continue to provide financial
assistance with the capitalization requirements of the SOEs critical to the economic
recovery program. Fiscal constraints and conditionalities attached to the IDA Structural
Adjustment Credits limited the flow of funds for capital restructuring of SOEs. However,
the restructuring requirements of some major SOEs including, Ghana Water & Sewerage
Corporation, Ghana Ports and Harbors Authority, Posts & Telecommunications
Corporation. Mining sector rehabilitation, Energy Sector rehabilitation, Financial sector
institutions have been met through alternative funding arrangements and have enhanced
the performance of SOEs in these sectors.
D. Factors Contributing To Achievements Of Objectives
i)  The capability of the implementing agencies to adjust their work programs
to satisfy SAC (Structural Adjustment Credit) imposed conditionalities. The
importance of Structural Adjustment Credits to the Economic Recovery
Program assured this ordering of priorities in the SOE Reform Program
implementation;
ii)  The broad support given by Government to the program;
iii) The gaining of political support for divestiture and the acceptance of
reduced role for the state in the ownership of commercial enterprises;
iv) Development of capacity within the implementing agencies and
SOEs;
E. Project Outcome
5.    The project outcome is quite satisfactory. The central objective of improving the
performance of major SOEs; reducing the financial burdens imposed on Government
budget by subventions and subsidies to commercial SOEs and to increasing the flow of
tax and dividend payment from the profitable SOEs are progressively being achieved. A
favorable environment has also been created for private sector development and
participation in the state enterprise sector.
- ix -



F. Summary Of Findings Future Operations And Key Lessons Learned
i)  It is difficult to plan with any specificity the work program for such a
complex project. While the policy objectives were clear from the beginning.
the means to achieve the objectives were limited to what appeared politically
acceptable at the time. Specific actions entered the program only by way of
conditionalities attached to Structural Adjustment Credits.
ii) Lack of adequate infortnation particularly financial data made it difficult to
plan realistically in a number of areas. It will be easier now to plan the future
course of the program because of the improvement of the data base.
iii) Full government support is absolutely essential for the success of such a
project.
iv) Public support particularly in the area of divestiture and the resultant
redeployment of staff is essential and it is therefore necessary to maintain a
vigorous public relation strategy to retain public support and investor
goodwill.
v)  Planning for the program has been a continuous process of adjustment to the
realities of institutional capacity and of SOE capabilities and difficulties.
While the objectives remained constant the search for effective ways and
means to realize the objectives was characterized by trial and error. The Bank
and the Borrower in the circumstance showed some flexibility in the
execution of the project.
vi) There is the need to strengthen the capacity of the implementing agencies to
ensure the continuity of effective SOE reforn program management.
G. Project Sustainability
6.    The Ghana Government has adopted a policy of private sector led growth to
revitalize the economy and accelerate the enhancement of development and standard of
living.
7.    Consistent with the policy of encouraging the private sector is the need to
streamline the public sector and make it more responsive to its role as a facilitator of
growth.
8.    The project has achieved its main objective of reducing the financial and
administrative burdens of a large portfolio of under-performing state enterprises. The
divestiture program has succeeded in not only reducing the size of state enterprises,
generating some cash inflow for Government but has provided an incentive for private



sector development. It is in the interest of the economy that the project is sustained and its
s6cial effects assessed.
- xi -









IMAGING
Report No.:            16628
Type-       ICR



