Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICI,P L USE ONLY
C{7   I,          X6,r 1-4
Report No. 6881-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
August 26, 1987
Africa Region
Country Department IV
Industry and Energy Operations
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  Cedi (¢)
US$1            =  0157  1/
¢1 million      =  US$6369
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
COCOBOD   : Cocoa Marketing Board
DIC       : Divestiture Implementation Committee
ECG       : Electricity Corporation of Ghana
ERP       : Economic Recovery Programme
Ghaip     : Ghana Italian Oil Refinery
GNPC      : Ghana National Petroleum Company
GOIL      : Ghana Oil Company
GPHA      * Ghana Ports and Harbours Authority
GPT       : Ghana Post and Telecommunications
GRC       : Ghana Railway Corporation
GSC       : Ghana Supply Commission
GWSC      : Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
ICB       : International Competitive Bidding
LCB       : Local Competitive Bidding
MFEP      : Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MIS       : Management Information Systems
NTHC      : National Trust Holding Company
PIP       : Public Investment Program
SEC       : State Enterprises Commission
SGMC      : State Gold Mining Corporation
SOE       : State-owned Enterprise
TUC       : Trade Union Congress
VRA       : Volta River Authority
1/ The average of the marginal rates at the weekly foreign exchange
auction for the month of Mc.y 1987.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC EUTERPRISE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............. ***. *    *       ... *-ii
I.   THE STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A.  The Economic Context                 1..... 
B.  Site and Performance of the SOE Sector ...............      1
C.  Government/SOE Fiscal Relations ....................   .. 2
D.  Institutional and Legal Arrangementsa................    3
E.  Reasons for Povr Performance        ........................   4
IIi  SOE REFORM PROGRAM
A. Objectives .........................................   5
B. Agreed Action Program *...............................   5
C. Policy Reforms                .........................   6
D. Institutional Reoo                        n     m     s      7
F. Financial Discipline and Government-SOE
Finncial Relations ......................... e**** 10
G. SOB Redeployment ................ ....................  11
H. IDAts Role and Strategy for the SOE Sector tor,.......      11
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives ....................          .......  12
B. Project Description                                         13
C. Project Costs and Financing.......................s...   16
D. Procurement  ........................................  18
S. Disbursements ..................    19
F. Accounts and Audits .....................* ..... .. ...       20
G. Reporting and Monitoring .............................  20
H. Project Implementation                                      20
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits                                                    21
B*                 ik                                          21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pe?formance
of their officil duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authordtion.



V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A* Agreements  ..        .      .     .     .      .     . 22
B. Recommendation ...........  ..    23
ANNEXES
1-1 Aggregate SOE Financial Data
1-2 Government - SOE Financial Transfers
2-1 Agreed Action Program Under SAL
2-2 List of Priority SOEs
2-3 List of SOEs for First Phase of Divestiture Program
2-4  Guidelines for Government - SOE Financial Transfers
2-5 IDA Credits with SOE Component
3-1 Project Costs and Financing
3-2 Project Implementation Schedule
3-3 SEC 1987 Work Program
3-4 Key Documents and Data Available in the Project File



THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Republic of Ghana
Implementing Agencv:    State Enterprises Commission
Credit Amount:          SDR 8.3 million  (US$10.5 million equivalent)
Termst                  Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlendinx Termst        Not applicable
Project Description:    The project will provide the institutional support
to implement the state-owned enterprise (SOE)
reforms under the Government's structural adjustment
program. The main objectives of the project are to:
strengthen the State Enterprises Commission (SEC)
(Government's SOE oversight agency) to manage the
SOE reform program and monitor and evaluate SOE
performance; improve management and performance in
priority SOEs through advisory services, training
and the introduction of performance agreements; and
reduce the burden of the sector on Government
through divestiture. The project will provide
sector-wide assistance for: (i) strengthening the
SEC to manage the reform program, design and
implementation of a performance monitoring system
including performance agreements (based on corporate
plans) for 14 priority SOEs, and for further
assessment and development of SOE policy,
institutional and legal reforms; and (ii)
advisory/consulting services for implementing the
first phase of the divestiture program. In addition,
the project will finance a SOE Restructuring Fund to
provide assistance to selected SOEs for audits and
corporate plans to identify restructuring measures
required to achieve financial viability, and to
implement operational and managerial improvements.
Prolect Benefits
and Risks:              The proj-ct is expected to achieve a more
streamlined, efficient and commercially-
oriented SOE sector with a reduced financial and
administrative burden on Government. In terms of
risks, the effectiveness of the project's support
for divestiture will depend on broader program
considerations (investor confidence, the
attractiveness of SOEs offered for sale, and credit
availability) which are being addressed under the



- ii -
SAL and other policy-based operations. Progress In
project implementation will depend upon the capacity
of the restructured SEC to manage the reform program
and utilize effectively the services provided under
the project. Steps are being taken to strengthen
the SEC and ensure that adequate mechanisms are in
place to administer the project.
Estimated  Costst                   Local      Foreign    Total
-------US$ million--------
A. Strengthening SEC                  1.55      2.31      3.86
B. Divestiture                       0.65       0.52      1.17
C. Restructuring Fund
Advisory Services                0.65       1.35      2.00
Management Contracts             0.15       1.35      1.50
Training                         0.25       1.00      1.25
Equipment                        0.00       0.75      0.75
Base Cost:                    3.25       7.28     10.53
Physical Contingencias               0.13       0.10      0.23
Price Contingencies                  0.73       0.10      0.83
Total Project Cost                4.11       7.48      11.59
Financing Plant
Local    Foreign      Totsl
…____ US$ million -------
IDA                             3.0       7.5         10.5
Government                      1.1       0.0          1.1
Total                           4.1        7.5        11.6
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
------------------US$ million----------------
Annual           0.9      3.4     1.9      1.5     1.0      1.0     0.8
Cumulative       0.9      4.3     6.2      7.7     8.7     9.7    10.5
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable



THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC EM9RPRISE PROJECT
I. THE STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A.   The Economic Context
1.        Ghana, situated on the Gulf of Guinea on the west coast of Africa,
is comparatively well-endowed with natutal resources. Although Ghana
enjoyed a relatively high standard of living in the early 1960s, a
combination of unsound economic policies, drought and oil price increases
caused a prolonged economic decline in the 1970. and early 19809. To
addrese the country's economic problems, the Government, in consultation
with IDA, initiated the Economic Recovery Programme (ERP) in April 1983 with
the objectives of realigning relative prices in favor of exports and the
productive sectors through devaluation and producer price increases,
improving the fiscal position, and encouraging the private sector. The ERP
was supported by the IMF and IDA, the latter through an Export
Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. 1435-GH) and two Reconstruction Import Credits
(Cr. 1393-GH and Cr. 1573-GH). Since 1983, there has b,een a substantial
increase in output, a sharp decrease in inflation and an improvement in the
Government's fiscal position.
2.        To broaden the policy reforms, the Government, in consultation
with IDA, developed a comprehensive structural adjustment program supported
by a Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1777-GH approved April 14, 1987). In
addition to public expenditure policy, public sector management, trade
liberalization, and cocoa sector reforms, a major component of the
Government's structural adjustment program is the reform of the state-owned
enterprise (SOE) sector.
B.   Size and Performance of the SOE Sector
3.          The present dominant position of SOEs in the economy has its
roots in the period following independence when it was felt that the state
should pl^y a major role in economic development. It was during this period
(2961-66) that many of Ghana's major SOEs were created. The subsequent
Government (1966-72) placed greater emphasis on the role of the private
sector; some SOEs were privatized during this period. In 1972, a new
Government signalled a return to the state-oriented development strategy and
policies. In that year, the Government took a majority interest in all large
mining and timber companies which, after cocoa, were the principal source of
export earnings. This was followed in 1975 by the Investment Policy Decree
which required all foreign enterprises to become joint ventures with either
private Ghanaians or Government. Finally, a large number of relatively
small private manufacturing firms, accused of financial malpractices, were
confiscated in 1979 and subsequent years.
4.        Against this background, SOEs continue to play a major role in
virtually all sectors of economy: electricity, water, power generation,
transport, mining, agriculture, manufacturing, forestry, trade, oil refining



and distribution, construction and tourism. Virtually all of Ghana's major
exports (particularly cocoa and minerals) are produced and/or marketed by
SOEs. The Government currently has a majority interest in 181 enterprises,
either through direct ownership (93) or indirectly through wholly-owned
banks or as subsidiaries of other SOEs (88). In addition, the Government
has a minority interest (direct or indirect) in a further 54 enterprises.
Total employment in SOEs is estimated to be roughly 160,000. The SOE sector
is dominated by the Cocoa Marketing Board (COCOBOD) and its subsidiaries,
with currently about 50,000 employees following recent major staff
reductions.
5.         A diagnostic survey of 100 SOEs in 1985 (para 12) indicated that
aggregate performance has been characterized by large operating losses, low
productivity and increasing illiquidity (Annex 1-1 presents the major
financial indicators). As aggregate operating losses increased sharply in
the early 1980s, illiquidity has been a serious problem for SOEs with many
building up arrears to the Government, other creditors and suppliers. A
cross-debts survey undertaken in early 1987 reported cross-debts between
SOEs totalling 05.2 billion (US$33 million at the June 1987 exchange rate).
Outstanding domestic bank credit to the SOE sector increased tenfold from
0590 million in 1981 to 06.1 billion in 1985. However, given the extent of
devaluation since 1983, this actually represents a decline in dollar terms
from US$214 million in 1981 (exchange rate of US$1=02.75) to US$101 million
in 1985 (exchange rate of US$1=060 at year-end 1985). Moreover, outstanding
debt to SOEs represents only 10 percent of outstanding domestic credit.
C. GovernmentlSOE Fiscal Relations
6.        Prior to 1983, difficult financial and economic circumstances
limited the amount of direct financial support the Government was able to
provide to SOEs. Over the last five years, support to SOEs has increased
from ¢1.1 billion in 1982 (10 percent of Government expenditures) to 07.35
billion in 1986 (8 percent of Government expenditures), as set out in Annex
1-2. The sector has been a significant burden on Government in terms of
indirect support through tax and loan arrears, absence of dividends and, in
some cases, inability to repay Government-guaranteed foreign loans. SOE tax
arrears doubled from ¢1.27 billion in 1984 to ¢2.5 billion in 1985. In
addition, outstanding Government loans to SOEs increased from ¢500 million
in 1980 to ¢1.9 billion in 1985. Virtually no interest or principal
repayment is being made on these loans. Over the five-year period 1979-84,
SOEs repaid only 045 million in principal and ¢7.3 million in interest on
their outstanding loans for an effective interest rate of less than one
percent.
7.        Given that Government was generally not able to finance directly
substantial capital investment by SOEs (through loans and equity), some SOEs
have financed their expansion from foreign loans guaranteed by the
Government. The level of outstanding loan guarantees is difficult to
estimate as data from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning are
incomplete. The two major cases involve State Fishing Corporation and Black
Star Line (the state shipping company). Neither SOE is able to repay its
guaranteed foreign loans (estimated at US$30 million and US$14 million



-3-
respectively) and the Government has assumed the responsibility for
repayment.
D. Institutional and Legal Arrangements
8.        SOEs are established as either limited liability companies (under
the Companies Act) or as statutory corporations (under a constituent act or
the Statutory Corporations Act). SOEs incorporated under the Companies Act
tend to have greater autonomy, in principle, from Government in matters of
staffing, procurement and pricing. However, in practice, Government has
placed a number of controls on both public and private enterprises in the
areas of pricing, incomes, labor, allocation of foreign exchange, and
imports through such general laws as the Industrial Relations Act, Prices
and Income Board Decrees, and the Exchange Control Act. In 1981, the new
Provisional National Defense Council (PNDC) Government passed a decree under
which all boards of directors ware replaced by Interim Management
Committees (IMC) composed entirely of management and workers under the
chairmanship of the managing director. These IMCs were subsequently
replaced by similarly-composed Joint Consultative Committees.  However, more
recently, boards of directors have been re-established in some SOEs in an
effort to introduce a more commercIal approach to SOE operations.
9.        With respect to the institutional arrangements, there are a number
of Government agencies with responsibilities vis-a-vis the SOE sector,
including: (i) the State Enterprises Commission (SEC) with responsibility to
review and analyze SOE plans, operations, staffing, financial structures and
overall viability, and to make recommendations to Government on these
matters; (ii) the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) which
reviews and approves the annual SOE requests for Government financial
support (loans, equity, subventions, loan guarantees), based on
recommendations from SEC and the sector ministries; (iii) sector ministries
which issue policy directives to the SOEs, initially review and approve SOE
requests for financial support, and appoint SOE Board members and senior
management; each SOE is responsible to Government through a designated
sector minister, i.e., member of the PNDC; (iv) sector commissions or boards
established for forestry, mining and energy to advise Government on sector
policy and development; (v) National Trust Holding Company (NTHC) which
holds the Government's interest in 18 joint ventures that were taken over by
the Government in the 1970s; and (vi) the Auditor-General which approves the
appointment of external auditors by the SOEs and provides annual reports to
Government on the SOE audited statements.
10.       The focal point for SOE policy is the State Enterprises Commission
(SEC). The SEC was originally establishad in 1965 as the State Enterprises
Secretariat, but was dissolved the following year. It was re-established in
1976 and subsequently reorganized under new legislation in 1981. Under the
1981 legislation, SEC was given broad oversight powers over the SOE sector
with responsibility for advising Government on, inter alia, SOE plans,
budgets, operations, staffing, financial structures, investments and the
appointment of managing directors ane board members. Despite its broad
legislative powers, the SEC has so far been ineffective in terms of
monitoring SOEs or advising Government on key SOE issues due to several



- 4 -
factorst lack of qualified staff; insufficient data provided by SOEs to
enable effective analysis of budgets or monitoring of performance; lack of
clear lines of authority regarding review of innual budgets; and absence of
a process for establishing SOE objectives and targets as a basis for
monitoring SOE performance.
E. Reasons for Poor Performance
11.       The inadequate performance of most SOEs over the last decade can
be attributed to inadequate policies and institutional weaknesses at the
government level, as well as weak management within the SOEs. Major factors
contributing to poor performance include:
(a) until recently, the poor policy framework (including the
overvalued codi, extensive price controls, labor laws restricting
layoffs, and imnpirt licensing restrictions) prevented or
discouraged SOEs from operating in a commercial manner;
(b) the management of most SOEs has been inadequate due to b3th a lack
of competent managers (low pay, delays in appointments and lack of
clear objectives and targets have been contributing factors) and a
virtual total absence of management information due to poor
accounting and budgeting systems; as well, superior pay in the
private sector has made it difficult to recruit and retain SOE
managers;
(c) the ineffectiveness of government agencies (SEC, MFEP and sector
ministries) to play their respective roles vis-a-vis SOEs,
together with the lack of a process for setting clear objectives
and performance targets and for monitoring and evaluating
performance have resulted in a lack of managerial accountability
for SOE performance;
(d) the large size of the SOE sector and its dispersed nature has made
it difficult for Government to monitor and manage the sector with
the limited resources available to it; and
(e) many SOE capital projects were undertaken without adequate
feasibility studies demonstrating economic justification and
financial viability. The most common problems have been
overestimates of the size of the domestic market, overly
sophisticated capital-intensive technology, wrong location, no
assured supply of local raw materials and an exoessive reliance on
imports.



- 5 -
II. SOE REFORM PROGRAM
A. Objectives
12.       In developing its ERP in 1983, Government recognized the need to
undertake a comprehensive reform of SOEs in Ghana. To properly assess the
problems of the sector and prepare a reform program, Government and IDA
agreed that a comprebensive diagnostic survey of the SOE sector should be
undertaken. UNDP provided the financing needed for the study and, in
parallel, IDA approved a PPF (US$400,000) in August 1984 for related project
preparation activities. The diagnostic study (available in the Pro1ect
File) included an overview of the SOE sector, studies of ten SOEs and an
outline of a comprehensive reform program with emphasis on rationalization
(through mergers, divestitures and liquidations) to reduce the number of
SOEs, restructuring the SEC to strengthen its ability to evaluuce SOE
performance and advise Government on key SOE issues, and strengthening the
overall management of SOEs through training programs, management contracts,
salary increases and improvements to enterprite management information and
accounting and budgeting systems.
13.       Using the study as a base and reflecting discussions with IDA, a
Task Force established by Government formulated a comprehensive SOE reform
program whose major thrusts includeds (a) policy reforms to ensure SOEs
operate in a conmercihl manner, including decontrol of prices, increased
competition, new polic;es and procedures on government financial support for
SOEs, and strict limits on the creation of new SOEs; (b) institutional and
legal reforms to ensure SOE managers have autonomy In day-to-day operations
while also strengthening their accountability to Government through
restructuring the SEC; (c) rationalization of the SOE sector through
divestitures (sale or liquidation) and mergers to reduce the financial and
managerial burden upon Government; (d) rehabilitation of selected priority
SOEs which have the potential to be financially viable and are deemed
critical to the success of ERP; (e) improvements to SOE management and
efficiency through staffing reductions, training programs for managers and
accountants, installation of MIS, and preparation of corporate plans and
financial audits; and (f) restoring financial solvency and discipline by
clearing cross-debts and arrears and by establishing clear guidelines and
procedures for Government-SOE financial relations. The SOE Task Force
report is available in the Proiect File.
B. Agreed Action Program
14.       This program has been translated into a detailed two-year action
plan agreed with IDA in 1987 under the SAL (Annex 2-1). In developing the
action program, it was clear that, with over 180 enterprises in which the
Government has a majority holding, it would not be poksible to address the
problems in all SOEs in this time frame. Accordingly, the medium-term
strategy formulated involved establishing the appropriate policy framework
for all SOEs and targeting specific actions to a core group of 14 priority
SOEs (Annex 2-2), selected on the basis of their financial and budgetary
importance, which would be the focus of Government's primary attention to



- 6 -
improve performance.  These 14 SOEs account for approximately 100,000
employees (60 percent of the total SOE sector).
15.       The major actions under the SAL includes strengthening the SEC as
Government's SOE oversight agency; divestiture of 30 SOEs in the first phase
of a rationalization program; sector-wide staff reductions (target of 5
percent annually over two years); preparation of up-to-date audited
financial statements, medium-term corporate plans, and performance
agreements with Government (based on the corporate plans) for the 14
priority SOEs; design and implementation of a performance monitoring and
evaluation system to be administered by the SEC; clearance of cross-debts
for the 14 priority SOEs; establishment of guidelines on Government-SOE
financial relations and agreed levels of financial support; and a review of
the legal and institutional arrangements with a view to increasing SOE
autonomy and clarifying the respective roles of the SEC, MFEP, sector
ministries and sector commissions and boards vis-a-vis the SOE sector.
16.       Following approval of the SAL in April 1987, this program is now
well under implementation. By end-July 1987, Government had: approved new
SEC legislation; inaugurated the new SEC Board; appointed the new SEC
Executive Chairman and senior management; approv d 30 SOEs to be divested in
the first phase of the divestiture program (Annex 2-3); established a
Divestiture Implementation Committee to manage the divestiture program
(para 25); compiled preliminary cross-debts data for the priority SOE;
prepared draft corporate plans for 9 of the 14 priority SOEs; and identified
possible staff reductions in 11 priority SOEs. Prior to second tranche
release of the SAL, Government is to have: (i) initiated divestiture actions
for at least ten SOEs including State Fishing Corooration; (ii) completed
corporate plans for at least ten priority SOEs (approved by the SOE Board of
Directors and the sector minister); and (iii) completed draft performance
agreements (on the basis of the corporate plans) for four priority SOEs and
a signed performance agreement for the Cocoa Marketing Board (COCOBOD).
C.   Policy Reforms
17.       The structural adjustment program provides the framework for
introducing a number of macroeconomic policy reforms to liberalize the
economy, particularly in the areas of pricing, the exchange rate and trade.
These reforms will, inter alia, provide incentives for private sector
development and increased competition, and also ensure that SOEs operate on
a commercial basis. Price controls have been progressively eliminated and
remain for only eight essential items (imported rice, sugar, baby food,
cement, textiles, drugs, matches and soap) involving flexible price ceilings
which allow the full cost plus a profit margin to be passed on to the
consumer. For the ucilities, price increases must be approved by the
responsible PNDC secretary. Government has agreed to undertake a review of
SOE pricing autonomy and market competition, and submit to IDA an tction
plan by October 31, 1988, for review and implementation.
18.       The introduction of a foreign exchange auction in September 1986
has accelerated progress towards a more realistic exchange rate. As well,
import licensing for use of official foreign exchange for nonconsumer goods



and some consumer goods has effectively been eliminated as well as for
virtually all goods for importers with their own foreign exchange. The
introduction of the auction will be supplemented with other tariff and tax
measures to ensure trade liberalization. These measures will increase
private sector investment and competition. The impact upon the performance
and competitive position of SOEs will be substantial, as SOEs will no longer
have preferential access to undervalued foreign exchange, but rather will
have to bid for foreign exchange at the market rate. Similarly, the trade
liberalization measures will expose SOEs to much greater competition from
imports.
D. Institutional Reforms
19.       A major objective of the SOE reform program will be to increase
SOE autonomy in day-to-day operations, while also ensuring accountability
through strengthening Government's ability to monitor performance and
provide performance-related rewards and penalties to management.
Establishing adequate autonomy for management requires having in place
appropriate legal instruments (specifying the powers and responsibilities of
management, the board of directors, etc.) and institutional arrangements
(specifying the respective responsibilities of the SEC, the SOE, the sector
ministry and other concerned agencies). Under the SAL, boards of directors
will be re-established in at least 10 priority SOEs by December 31, 1987. As
well, Government has agreed to review the SOE legal instruments and submit a
report to IDA by October 31, 1988, with recommendations on changes to be
made to the legal instruments to increase SOE autonomy (for example, by
transferring commercially-oriented SOEs from the Statutory Corporations Act
to the Companies Code). The recommended changes will be reviewed by IDA and
subsequently implemented by Government.
20.       The SEC has been restructured to strengthen Government's ability
to monitor SOE performance. New legislation revising the SEC's mandate was
approved by Government in March 1987. The restructured SEC hat been
broadened to include eleven commissioners, including the Executive Chairman,
four executive directors and six external commissioners (part-time) from key
government ministries and the private sector. Four divisions have beer.
created to address various SOE matters, including Planning, Monitoring, and
Evaluation; Operations; Finance and Accounting; and Human Resource
Development. An additional "troub.e-shooting" division will be established
to address crises in specific SOEs. With these changes, SEC's overall
effectiveness as Goverment's oversight agency for the SOE sector is
expected to improve as a result of the fact that now: (a) the new Executive
Chairman has cabinet rank; (b) the new legislation calls for a stronger
oversight mandate in advising Government on SOE matters; (c) an expanded SEC
Board with external members will enable broader input; and (d) new
instruments will be introduced for performance target-setting and
performance-based incentives for SOS managers. Moreover, the SEC will
receive assistaace through the proposed project to help it implement these
changes.
21.       The institutional arrangements vis-a-vis the SOE sector will
involve a collaborative approach in negotiating performance targets,



- 8 -
performance incentives and levels of government support. A government team
is to negotiate the performance agreements with selected SOEs. The team
will have representatives from the SEC (as coordinator), MFEP (responsible
for advising on government fiscal targets, guidelines and possible financial
support) and sector ministries (responsible for setting sectoral policy and
advising on sectoral targets). The performance agreements will be signed by
MFEP and the sector ministry on behalf of Government with SEC monitoring SOE
performance, evaluating actual performance against agreed targets, and
recommending to the Committee of Secretaries appropriate rewards and
sanctions. Government expects to undertake an annual review of the
performance agreement exercise and submit to IDA, starting on October 31,
1968, for review and comment a list of the SOEs for which performance
agreements are to be negotiated for the following fiscal year.
22.        Initially, SEC is focussing on 14 priority SOEs, which will
prepare corporate plans as the first step in negotiating performance
agreements. It is expected that SEC's monitoring will extend over time to
all SOEs. However, given the size of the sector and SEC's limited base,
that will not be feasible in the short term. Government has agreed to
submit a report to IDA by December 31, 1988, on tne progress made by SEC in
implementing the performance monitoring system, including recommendations on
any changes to the system and the institutional arrangements vis-&-vis the
SOE sector, for review and implementation. In the interim, those SOEs not
initially monitored by the SEC are expected to submit annual audited
financial statements to the SEC, in accordance with the existing
legislation, and continue to have any requests for government financial
support reviewed by the sector ministry and SEC, with approval by MFEP.
SOEs with major problems will be targeted for more detailed attention by the
SEC.
E.   Divestiture
23.       To initiate the divestiture process, the Government approved a
list of 30 SOEs for the first phase of the divestiture program (Annex 2-3).
These include: (i) several smaller industrial SOEs that will likely be sold
on a private placement basis to existing management or Ghanaian private
investors; (ii) five inactive SOEs to be liquidated; (iii) a major
loss-making SOE - State Fishing Corporation; (iv) five major agricultural
SOEs; and (v) some profitable (or potentially profitable) SOEs which may be
attractive to investors and thereby provide some momentum to the program.
The initial 30 SOEs have total employment of roughly 12,000 out of a total
of 160,000 in the SOE sector.  Under the SAL, Government is committed to
initiate divestiture action on ten SOEs (including State Fishing
Corporation), out of the preliminary list of 30 SOEs, prior to second
tranche release. Completion of company dossiers for the first five SOEs to
be divested is a condition of credit effectiveness, with dossiers for five
additional SOEs (including State Fishing Corporation) to be completed by
December 31, 1987. The dossiers should include, inter alia: viability
assessments, preliminary valuations, recommended divest;ulre modality,
satisfactory analysis of any legal issues, and proposed financing strategy
(including handling of possible liabilities).



24.       Under the SAL, it was agreed that the Government would have
flexibility to add SOEs to the first phase of the divestiture program
depending upon economic and financial circumstances. In this context,
Government will undertake an annual progress review of the divestiture
program and submit to IDA, starting in October 1988, for its review and
comments a detailed -york program for the following years including the list
of SOEs to be divested. IDA will review the work program to ensure that the
overall program is satisfactory for continued IDA financing. The Government
has adopted a flexible approach to the divestiture program, not only in
terms of considering which SOEs to divest, buzt also in terms of the
modality, degree of government ownership to be retained (if any) and the
degree of foreign investment. Rather than adopting specific criteria in
these areas, the Government will review SOEs being divested on a
case-by-case basis to assess their circumstances, requirements and various
options. Nevertheless, the Government has set out broad guidelines for the
program, endorsed by IDA, as follows: (i) valuation would be based on market
value rather than book value; (ii) where an SOE is not viable and all
options for selling or leasing the SOB as a going concern have been
exhausted, the Government will liquidate the SOE and sell the remaining
assets; (ii$) in SOEs to be converted to joint ventures, private sector
partners acquiring a majority interest will have management control without
government interference; (iv) the Government will consider foreign
investment where there is a need for external equity, management and/or
technology; (v) all legal issues will be addressed before putting an SOE up
for sale; and (vi) no undue advantage or protection will be offered to
investors.
25.       To implement the divestiture program, Government established a
Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC) reporting to the Committee of
Secretaries. The Committee is chaired by the SEC Chairman (a member of the
Committee of Secretaries) and will include senior officials from the Ghana
Investment Centre, the Bank of Ghana, MPEP, the National Trust Holding
Company, the Attorney-General's Office, and sector ministries (Agriculture,
Industry and others on a rotating basis as required). There .411 also be
representatives from the Committees for the Defense of the Revolution (CDR),
the Trade Union Congress (TUC) and the private sector. The DIC will be
supported by a technical team with appropriate professional skills
(financial, legal, accounting, etc.) to undertake the tasks required to
prepare the SOEs for divestiture (viability analysis, valuation, modalities,
etc.) and to execute the actual divestiture (sale or liquidation).
Establishment of a full-time technical team, including at least an
accountant, a lawyer and a financial analyst, is a condition of credit
effectiveness. A core group of SEC staff will also be included on the team
to develop in-house expertise in divestiture. The technical team and
support staff will be located in a divestiture office at SEC.
26.       The DIC will be responsible for managing the Government's
divestiture program, including the 30 SOEs already selected for divestiture
and others as decided by Government. Its terms of reference will include:
reviewing all divestiture proposals (those initiated by the SEC as well as
those initiated by sector ministers); presenting divestiture options and
recommendations to PNDC for consideration; and handling all negotiations



- 10 -
with investors. There will be a review of the administrative arrangements
for the divestiture program after the first year of the program. In this
context, Government has agreed to submit a report to IDA by August 31, 1988,
outlining any recommended changes in the administration of the program and
to implement any agreed changes.
27.       The divestiture program could involve potential financia.  net
liabilities to the Government on such matters as severance pay, debt
settlement, pension liabilities, etc. A Divestiture Account will be
established to handle all the proceeds and claims relating to the sale of
assets. Opening of the Divestiture Account is a condition of credit
effectiveness. In cases where proceeds exceed liabilities, the surplus
could be used to cover other SOEs where there are net liabilities to the
Government. While the final liabilities will have to be worked out on a
case-by-case basis, for fiscal planning purposes, Government will estimate
the net liabilities for the divestiture program for the following year and
include an appropriate amount in its annual budget if required. Payment of
the liabilities could be phased over a long-term period to ease the possible
fiscal burden. As well, depending upon the requirements, the Government
could use a portion of its counterpart funds from the SAL (or other program
loans) to finance residual liabilities.
28.       The effectiveness of the divestiture program in attracting
investors will depend upon the overall investment climate as well as the
attractiveness of the particular SOEs being divested. The program will be
initiated at a time when the investment climate remains uncertain due to
past government actions and the major economic adjustments taking place. To
improve the investment climate, the Government has introduced a more liberal
investment code and is strengthening the Ghana Investment Centre to
administer the code and promote foreign investment in Ghana. Policy reforms
to promote investment and improve the investment climate (tax reforms,
repatriation of past dividends) are being addressed through the SAL, other
policy-based operations and the IMF program. A preliminary canvassing of
investors indicates that there would be investor interest in divested SOEs,
provided the SOEs selected for divestiture are attractive investments (good
profit potential) and the new owners would have autonomy to manage the
operation on fully commercial lines. Similarly, commercial banks have
expressed preliminary interest in providing credit for the purchase and/or
rehabilitation of SOEs to be divested, again provided the divested SOEs have
sound management and forecast profitability.
F. Financial Discipline and Government-SOE Financial Relations
29.       A major component of the SOE reform program will be to restore the
financial solvency of key SOEs and ensure financial discipline in all
transactions. As a first step, the Government has initiated a cross-debts
study for 18 SOEs (14 priority plus four others) to identify arrears,
including those with other SOEs, Government and commercial banks. Under the
SAL, a settlement plan with a timetable for clearing arrears is to be agreed
with IDA by October 31, 1987.



- 11 -
30.       At present, there are no clear guidelines concerning government
financial support to SOEs. During negotiations, agreement was reached on
guidelines for Government-SOE financial transfers (Annex 2-4). Under these
proposals, all commercially-oriented SOEs would be expected to become
financially self-sufficient, operating without Government subventions and
financing their operations and investments from internally-generated funds
and commercial bank credit. The guidelines call for the phased removal of
operating subsidies. Direct Government support (equity contributions and
loans) would be provided only within the context of approved corporate 2lans
and the Public Investment Program (PIP) for major investment projects, and
only to supplement internal funds and commercial loans. Loan guarantees
would also be subject to inclusion in approved corporate plans and the PIP.
Given that many SOEs require assistance in the preparation of corporate
plans, these guidelines would bi applied with flexibility pending completion
of the corporate plans.
G. SOE Redeployment
31.       To improve efficiency and productivity, the Government is
initiating major staff reductions across the SOE sector. During 1984/85,
COCOBOD (the largest SOE) reduced its labor force by 16,000 employees to
approximately 60,000. Under the SAL, the Government has agreed to reduce
aggregate employment in the SOE sector by approximately 5 percent annually
in 1987 and 1988 (9,000 per year, or 18,000 over two years). To meet this
target, COCOBOD has already laid off a further 10,000 employees in February
1987 and expects to lay off 3,000 more employees in 1987. A preliminary
survey of 11 other major SOEs indicates planned 1987 staff reductions
totalling 4,000, with other staff reductions expected to result from the
corporate planning exercise. Under the SAL, the Government is expected to
identify the cost and possible method of financing for the SOE redeployment
by September 30, 1987. As with potential divestiture liabilities,
Government has agreed to include in its annual budget the estimated net
government liabilities arising from the redeployment program. The
Government could use, inter alia, its counterpart funds from the SAL (or
other program loans) to finance a portion of these liabilities.
H. IDA's Role and Strategy for the SOE Sector
32.       IDA's strategy for the sector involves: establishing the
appropriate macroeconomic and fiscal framework through the SAL and other
policy-based credits to ensure that SOEs operate on a fully-commercial
basis; restructuring and streamlining the sector through divestiture; and
rehabilitating priority SOEs whose sound performance is deemed critical to
the success of the ERP. Implementation of this strategy requires a
combination of macroeconomic and sectoral policy-based operations to support
the broad policy measures, sectoral rehabilitation credits to strengthen
many of the core SOEs through new capital investment and institutional
strengthenings and assistance in developing and implementing sector-wide SOE
reforms. In this context, the Public Enterprise Project will play a key
role, not only in providing essential technical assistance for implementing
sector-wide measures, but also in coordinating and strengthening the
enterprise-related measures being undertaken through the various sector



- 12 -
adjustment and rehabilitation credits. The project will also assist
Government in identifying further measures to restructure and improve the
performance of the sector. Financing of the restructuring measures
developed under the project could be addressed through a follow-up project
involving rehabilitation and/or program funding, depending upon the
requirements. A summary of current IDA credits with major SOE components is
set out in Annex 2-5. IDA is furthermore assisting Government to implement
major public sector management reforms agreed under the SAL through the
Structural Adjustment Institutional Support Credit (Cr. 1778-GH).
III.   THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives
33.       Since the initiation of the ERP in 1983, the Bank has worked
closely with the Government in the formulation of a comprehensive SOE zeform
program, which has been incorporated as a key part of the SAL. The Public
Enterprise project has been developed concurrently and, hence, its design
reflects the priority SOE reform measures agreed under the SAL. It has been
processed separately from the SAL and the Structural Adjustment
Institutional Support Credit to allow Government time to adequately
restructure the SEC to enable it to manage the SOE reform program.
34.       The project is intended to provide critical technical assistance
needed to implement the agreed reforms and also lay the groundwork for
longer-term reforms by strengthening the key institutions and assessing and
developing further SOE reform and restructuring measures. Its major
objectives are to:
-    strengthen the SEC as Government's SOE oversight agency,
particularly its capacity to monitor and evaluate SOE performance
and to advise on major SOE issues;
-    assist priority SOEs in developing restructuring programs
(including possible divestiture) in order to achieve financial
self-sufficiency and in implementing immediate opeeational and
managerial improvements;
-    assist with the implementation of the first phase of the
divestiture program; and
-    assist with longer-term reforms through: (i) providing  training
to SOE managers/employees; (ii) assessing the impact of Government
policies on SOE performance and the need for policy changes; and
(iii) revising the legal and institutional arrangements to ensure
SOE autonomy and to clarify the responsibilities of various
agencies vis-a-vis the SOE sector.



- 13 -
B.   Proiect Description
35.       The project comprises three main components for: (i) strengthening
the SEC to manage the SOE reform program; (ii) implementing the first phaso
of the divestiture program; and (iii) developing restructuring programs and
implementing immediate managerial and operational improvements in selected
SOEs. Each of these components is described below.
1. Support to SEC for Management of Reform Prozram (US$3.9 million)
36.        To strengthen the SEC, the project will finance:
-    a SOE reform program advisor (36 person-months) experienced in
public enterprise reform programs, to advise the SEC on overall
SOE reforms and policies, to assist the SEC with preparing work
programs, and to coordinate the activities under the project.
Selection of the program advisor is a condition of credit
effectiveness;
-    training for SEC staff (US$200,000) includings seminars on public
enterprise and management issues, short-term professional courses
at local management institutes, overseas courses, seminars and
visits to other countries to review SOE reform programs, and
overseas attachments (up to 3 months) with SOE oversight agencies
or holding companies;
-    logistical support to SEC, including construction of an office
building to accommodate the restructured SEC (US$1,400,000) and
the acquisition of office equipment and vehicles (US$430,000);
-    consultants to assist with SOE reform pt4gram (102 person-months
of local and international consultants) including: (a) advising on
SOE redeployment costs, financing and compensation policy; (b)
identifying cross-debts for priority SOEs and preparing a
settlement plan; (c) designing the performance
monitoring/evaluation system (PMES) and advising on SOE
performance targets and performance agreements; (d) reviewing SOE
corporate plans and restructuring proposals; (e) assessing the
impact of Government policies on SOE performance and advising on
policy revisions (pricing, salaries, procurement, financing,
borrowing, dividends, etc); (f) reviewing and clarifying the roles
and responsibilities of the relevant agencies (sectog ministries
and commissions, SEC, NTHC, MFEP, vis-a-vis SOEs; and (g)
reviewing legislation governing individual SOEs for possible
revisions; and
-    incremental operating expenses for SEC (US$520,000) including
the increase in expenses such as travel allowances, vehicle
maintenance, etc., through the project cycle in order to manage
the SOE reform program.



- 14 -
2. Divestiture (US$ 1.2 million)
37.        This component includes advisory services and logistical support
to the DIC and the technical team located in the divestiture office within
SEC to implkment the divestit-.re of 30 SOEs over a three-year period. The
proposed ass.stance includes:
-    a divestiture advisor (24 person-months) to assist with the
or;erall implementation of the program, specifically to: coordinate
the work of the technical team; assist in reviewing bids and
negotiating deals; and identify potential overseas financing for
the divested SOEs. The divestiture advisor would be full-time for
the first 12-18 months and part-time for the remainder of the
three-year period. Selection of the divestiture advisor is a
condition of credit effectiveness;
-    technical team of local consultants to support the DIC,
including: (i) local auditors (72 person-months) to update
financial statements, assist with preparation of prospectuses and
assist with liquidation where necessary; (ii) a financial
analyst (36 person-months) to assist with valuations and
financing strategies; (iii) property valuators (48 person-months)
to inventory physical assets; (iv) a lawyer (36 person-months) to
advise on all legal issues pertaining to divestiture; and (v)
management consultants/technical specialists (36 person-months)
to advise on divestiture options, valuations, etc;
industry and sectoral experts (8 person-months) to review market
potential and viability, recommend preferred divestiture
modality and assist with finding potential investors for selected
enterprises;
-    logistical support (US$90,000) for the acquisition of office
equipment and vehicles to support the DIC and technical team; and
-    operating expenses (US$144,000) including support to the DIC and
technical team (US$4,000 per month) for transportation, printing,
drivers, secretaries, etc. (excluding salaries of government
staff).
3. SOE Restructuring Fund (US$5.5 million)
38.       In addition to the need for assistance in implementing sector-wide
reforms, individual SOEs will require assistance in initiating restructuring
measures (including possible divestiture) in order to achieve financial
self-sufficiency. To address these needs, the project will include a SOE
Restructuring Fund to finance the following:
-    advisory services to assist with preparing corporate plans,
restructuring program and viability studies in order to determine
the overall viability of the SOE and the restructuring measures
required to achieve financial self-sufficiency; the assistance may



- 15 -
include related activities such as financial and management
audits, staff inventory and manpower redeployment plans, pricing
studies, financial forecasts and related studies; and
assistance in implementing priority operational and management
improvements for SOEs with forecast viability and approved
corporate plans; this assistance would include: (i) management
assistance, such as contracts with private sector firms or
individuals to manage the SOE during the transitional period; (ii)
training for SOE managers and technical staff; (iii) assistance
(advisory services, office equipment, hardware/software) in
improving WIS, accounting and budgeting systems; and (iv) twinning
arrangements.
Management contracts financed under the Restructuring Fund should include
performance incentives and, to the extent possible, be financed from the
enterprise's operating income, with the Restructuring Fund only covering a
portion of the management contract costs. The Government has also indicated
that it would expect these contracts to include an equity participation by
the managing firm.
39.       A preliminary survey of 14 SOEs indicated demand for assistance
under the Restructuring Fund in excess of US$8.5 million. However, actual
allocations will depend upon a detailed review and prioritization of
requirements. A fixed amount of US$5.5 million will be available for
allocation to SOEs for the eligible uses set out above. Notional
allocations for various activities under the Restructuring Fund (for example
advisory services, training, management contracts, office/computing
equipment) are set out in Table 3.1 on page 17. These allocations may be
revised depending upon the actual needs that arise. Assistance will be
limited to a maximum of US$1 million per enterprise. In allocating the
funds, there will be flexibility to address the needs identified by SOE
management as well as needs identified by the SEC and sector ministries. On
a semi-annual basis, the SEC will review applications from SOEs for
assistance and will also identify other needs from their reviews of
particular SOEs, and in consultation with IDA. All proposals/requests will
be reviewed by the SEC Board which will forward its recommendations to IDA
for approval. IDA will review the recommendations and inform the SEC of the
approved allocations for the following six-month period.
40.       The SEC has appointed a Fund manager who will have the following
responsibilities: (i) distributing information to all SOEs on the Fu.d's
eligibility criteria and administrative procedures; (ii) compiling SOE
requests for review by SEC management; (iii) compiling semi-annual
requests/proposals for review by the SEC Board; (iv) preparing all
correspondence with consultants and suppliers; (v) maintaining appropriate
accounts; (vi) praparing the necessary documentation for disbursements; and
(vii) ensuring that all contracting, disbursements and procurement are in
accordance with IDA guidelines.
41.       Although beneficiary SOEs will not be directly financing any of
the cost of the Restructuring Fund assistance provided under the project,



- 16 -
the SOEs will be charged a cost-recovery fee by SEC which will vary
deponding upon the type of assistance and the SOE's ability to pay.
Agreement was reached on the following broad guidelines for cost recovery:
(a) assistance for diagnostic assessments (viability assessments, staff
inventory and manpower redeployment plans, pricing studies, financial
forecasts and related studies) will be provided on a fee basis; and (b)
other assistance (corporate plans, audits, training, management assistance,
MIS) will be provided on a loan basis with full cost recovery; terms and
conditions are to be determined by the SEC on the basis of the SOE's
financial situation.   It was agreed that the proceeds from cost recovery
would be deposited in a Revolving Account to be used for further similar
restructuring measures.
42.       Initially, the Fund will be used to address immediate problems in
five transport SOEs - Black Star Line (the state shipping line), Ghana
Airways and the three state-owned bus transportation companies (State
iransport Corporation, Omnibus Service Authority and Citv Express Service) -
as e& complement to the Transport Sector Rehabilitation Project which is
currently being prepared. The Restructuring Fund will be used to prepare
corporate plans/restructuring programs, outlining the financial situation
and medium-term prospects, alternatives and strategies for these
enterprises. Draft proposals for the assistance to these companies have
been agreed with Government.
C. Project Costs and Financing
43.       The total cost of the PE Project is estimated at US$11.6 million
equivalent including taxes and duties of US$400,000. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$7.5 million (65 percent of total costs).
Considerable use of local consultants and advisory service has been
incorporated in the project design. Cost estimates are based on consultant
preparation reports and staff estimates as of May 31, 1987, using an
exchange rate of US$1 = ¢157. Physical contingencies, amounting to 2
percent of base costs or US$230,8C0, have been included for civil works,
equipment and operating expenses. Price contingencies for the sector-wide
components (strengthening SEC, divestiture) are estimated at US$830,000,
based on the following assumed inflation rates:
Assumed Inflation Rates
1987     1988     1989     1990      1991    1992    1993
-(percent per annum)-------------------
Local            18.0      12.5      7.5      7.5       7.5     7.5     7.5
International     3.0       1.0      1.0      1.0       3.5     3.5     3.5
No price or physical contingencies have been included for the Restructuring
Fund.
44,       The disbursement schedule is in accordance with the standard
seven-year profile for technical assistance projects in the Africa Region.



- 17 -
The overall project i- expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
However, it is expected that there will be differences in the implementation
schedule for various components, with the major SOE reiorms and the first
phase of the divestiture program completed by end 1990, and assistance under
the Restructuring Fund extending until year-end 1993. A oummary of project
costs is set out in Table 3.1 below. Project cost and fin.ncing tables are
provided in Annex 3-1.
Table B.1
PE Project Costs by Component
X Foreign    % Total
Local         Foreign        Total    Exchane    Base Costs
---------------(USS'000) -------------
A. Strengthening SEC
1. Advisory Services                 287           1,063       1,290        82            12
2. Training                           40             160         200        80             2
S. Equlpment/Vohicles                 a              3894        430        92             4
4. Civil Works/Rental                720             700        1420        s0            14
S. Incremental Oporating Expensos    620              0          620         0             6
Total                             1563           2307         88B0       0o            37
B. Divestiture
1. Advisory Servlces/Technical Team  604            432          936        48             9
2. Equlpmont/Vehlcle                  0              90          90       100             1
S. Oporating-Divestiture Office      144              0          144         0             I
Total                             648             522         1170       46            11
r. SOE Restructuring Fund
1. Advisory Services                 650            1360        2000        68            19
2. Managemont Assistance             150            1360        1500        90            14
3. Training                          260            1000        1250        Be            12
4. Equipment                           0             760         760       100             7
Total                           1050            4450         6600       81            62
Baseline Costs                         8261           7279        10630        69           100
Physical Contingencies                  128            102          230        44
Price Contingencies                     727            103          830        14
Total Project Costs                    4106           7484        11590       6a
45.        The proposed IDA credit of US$10.5 million equivalent (SDR 8.3
million) would finance 90 percent of total project costs, including US$7.5
million of foreign costs and US$3.0 million of local costs. The Government's
share of US$1.1 million (102 of total project costs) would finance all
incremental operating expenses of the SEC (estimated at US$740,000) plus
project-related taxes and duties (estimated at US$400,000). Government has
agreed to include an adequate provision in the Government budget (minimum of
30 million cedis, to be adjusted for inflation) for the SEC's expenses for



- 18 -
FY88 and successive years. The proposed financing plan is set out In Table
3.2 belows
Tablo 8.2
Proposed Project Financina
(USe' 0me)
IDA      C,vernment   Total    --X Flnanced by---
Amount     Amount               IDA   Government
Advisory Services (Int'l)   4,781              4,761    1e
Advisory Services (local)   1,289              1,269      100
Training                 1,483                  1,48a     100
Equlpment and Vohicloe   1 289       89 pj     1,808      9?        a
Civil Works              1,458      267 p/     1,718      es        16
Operating Expense2                  842 e8     1. O4      20        80
Totel                10,448    1,142       11,tW       go       10
__m       am          am.         umm
Taxce and duties
I/ Includes US8105,000 In taxes and dutios
46.       A PPF advance of US$400,000 was approved in August, 1984, for
project preparation activities. The expiration date has been extended until
January 31, 1988. The PPF is being used for local and international
consultants (US$265,000) and for logistical support (US$135,000). To date,
approximately US$140,000 has been expended on: local consultants and
logistical support for the 1985 diagnostic survey; consultants to assist
with the preparation of the SOE reform program; and local auditors for the
cross-debts study. The cost of these elements has been included in the
total estimated project costs. It is expected that a portion of the
remaining funds will be used for consultants for the preparation of the
divestiture program and the design of the performance monitoring and
evaluation system, and further logistical support prior to credit
effectiveness. The amounts withdrawn under the PPF and charges thereon will
be refinanced out of the proposed credit upon effectiveness. The remaining
PPF balance will be cancelled upon effectiveness.
D. Procurement
47.       The goods, services and civil works to be financed und'.r the
project would be procured in accordance with proced.-res acceptable to IDA.
Training, technical assistance and consultancy services would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Civil works will be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA,
with prior IDA review and approval of the bidding documents. Equipment and
vehicles valued at more than US$150,000 would be procured through



- 19 -
international competitive bidding (ICB) according to IDA guidelines. All
ICB packages would be subject to prior IDA review. Items or packages worth
less than US$150,000 would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA, with
items or packages less than US$50,000 procured through international
shopping, the latter not exceeding US$300,000 in aggregate. Proprietary
computer equipment may be purchased by direct negotiated purchase from one
manufacturer or supplier ift (a) suitable computer equipment, compatible
with computer equipment already in place, cannot be obtained from another
source; and (b) the cost of such equipment or spare parts is reasonable.
The arounts and methods of procurement are set out in Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
Project Element             ICB      LCB      Other       N.A.     Total Cost
---(US$ million) -----------
Advisory Services                              6.0                       6.0
(6.0) a/                 (6.0)
Training                                       1.5                       1.5
(1.5) a/                  (1.5)
Civil Works                         1.7                                  1.7
(1.5)                               (1.5)
Operating Costs                                           1.1            1.1
(0.2)         (0.2)
Vehicles, Furniture         0.5     0.5         0.3 b/                   1.3
and Equipment            (0.5)   (0.5)       (0.3)                    (1.3)
Total                    0.5     2.2        7.8        1.1          11.6
(0.5)   (2.0)      (7.8)      (0.2)        (10.5)
==m=t    =:S===-==-_2S=::
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
a/ Training and advisory services will be procured in accordance
with IDA guidelines.
bl International shopp:ng.
E. Disbursements
48.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against 100 percent
of the cost of consultant services (international and local); 100 percent of
training costs; 852 of the cost of civil works; 100 percent of foreign
expendl.tares for the acquisition of office equipment and vehicles; and 100



- 20 -
percent of the operating costs of the divestiture office excluding salaries
of government employees. The Government will establish a Special Account of
up to US$700,000 in US dollars in a local commercial bank as a revoAving
fund for IDA's contribution to the project. These funds would be used by
SEC to cover project expenditures and would be replenished on the basis of
eligible aggregated withdrawal requests submitted at monthly intervals. The
PPF advance will be refinanced upon credit effectiveness.
49.       Disbursements would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure for local training programs, operating expenses of the DIC and
payments against contracts of less than US$25,000 equivalent each.
Supporting documents for these items would be retained in a central file for
review by visiting IDA missions. All other disbursements would be made
against full supporting documentation. Based on physical completion of the
project by December 31, 1993, the credit closing date will be June 30, 1994.
F. Accounts and Audits
50.       The SEC will establish separate accounts to record all project
expenditures and keep a record of all commitments, disbursements, withdrawal
requests and the status of project funds. These accounts, including
statements of expenditure, would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles and in
such detail as IDA may reasonably request. Audit reports will be due six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
G. Reporting and Monitoring
51.       The Government will submit to IDA for its review and comment an
annual report by October 31 of each year outlining: the progress achieved in
executing the project; SEC's detailed work program for the following year;
DIC's detailed work program for the following year including the list of
SOEs to be divested (para 24); and the list of SOEs for which performance
agreements will be negotiated during the following fiscal year (para 21).
Consultants hired under the project will be required to submit quarterly
status reports and/or other reports as agreed in the particular contracts.
H. Prolect Implementation
52.       Within Government, a Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) Project
Team, headed by the Chairman of the Committee of Secretaries, has been
established to monitor progress and coordinate activities under the
adjustment program, including coordination of the Structural Adjustment
Institutional Support Project (Cr. 1778-GH) and the PE Project. The SEC
Chairman will report to the SAP Chairman on SOE reform measures.
53.       The SEC will be responsible for management of the SOE reform
program and execution of the project. The Divestiture Implementation
Committee, chaired by the SEC Executive Chairman, will manage the
divestiture program. A project implementation schedule is attached as



- 21 -
Annex 3-2. A detailed work program for the restructured SEC's first year of
operation has been agreed with Government (Annex 3-3), setting out the
program and project responsibilities of the various divisions.
54.       With respect to the status of project implementation, the
Government has already taken a number of important initiatives, including:
approval of new legislation for the SEC; appointment of a new SEC Board and
senior management; completion of a preliminary cross-debts study;
preparation of preliminary corporate plans for several priority SOEs;
establishment of the DIC; and approval of a list of 30 SOEs for the first
phase of the divestiture program. The restructured SEC is now in place to
manage the SOE reform program. As well, agreement has been reached on the
terms of reference (available in the Project File) and letter of invitation
for key consulting tasks, including the SE reform program advisor and the
divestiture advisor.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
55.       The project is expected to result in a more streamlined, efficient
and commercially-oriented state enterprise sector with a reduced financial
and managerial burden on Government. Institutional strengthening of SEC and
the introduction of performance agreements should improve government's
ability to monitor the SOE sector and enhance managerial accountability. In
addition to benefits to Government, the SOEs themselves should benefit from
the project. SOEs will be expected to operate on a more commercial basis
without direct or indirect subsidies. While these teforms will put more
pressure on SOEs, management will have greater autonomy (particularly in key
areas of pricing and staffing) to improve the performance of their
enterprises and will be rewarded for performance gains. As well, the
project will assist SOEs with the initial restructuring measures to improve
performance and management. Divested SOEs should benefit from the infusion
of private capital, technology and management in the divestiture process.
B. Risks
56.       There is a risk that the SEC, which had been ineffective
prior to the recent restructuring, will not gain sufficient administrative
capacity and influence to manage the complex SOE reform program. While
steps have been taken to strengthen the SEC through managerial and
legislative changes, its effectiveness will depend upon a number of factors,
particularly the influence of the new Chairman on his cabinet colleagues
concerning key SOE issues, the ability of SEC staff to handle the new tasks
under the reform program, and the effective use of consultants in
undertaking technical tasks and training SEC counterparts. The Government is
strongly committed to strengthening SEC and, where consultants are deemed
necessary, to using local consultants as much as possible. The overall
effectiveness of the SEC will be carefully monitored through the annual
review of progrers on project implementation and agreement with IDA on the



- 22 -
work program for the following year. The pace of the reform program may be
adjusted to reflect progress in SEC's institutional strengthening.
57.       The second risk is that the divestiture program will not be
successful in reducing the size of the SOE sector. The effectiveness of the
project's support for divestiture will depend upon broader program
considerations, particularly the overall investment climate (investment
code, tax rates, etc) and the attractiveness of the SOEs being divested.
Measures have been initiated to improve the investment code. The need for
further steps will be assessed and discussed with Government in the context
of the Bank's general policy dialogue under the SAL. With respect to the
attractiveness of the SOEs being divested, the Government will be flexible
in adding new candidates depending upon circumstances and will review the
divestiture program annually with IDA. Success in divesting SOEs will also
depend on the availability of financing for investment in SOEs to be
divested. Both local and international investors have already expressed
interest in the divestiture program, provided the SOEs have good profit
potential and the new management has sufficient autonomy in operating the
enterprise. Much will therefore depend on the choice of the enterprises for
divestiture as well as the efforts by Government to promote investor
interest and generally improve the investment climate.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMEPDATION
A. Agreements
58.       Government has agreed to:
(a) undertake a review of SOE pricing autonomy and market competition,
and submit to IDA by October 31, 1988, an action plan for review
and implementation (para 17);
(b) undertake a review of SOE legal instruments to assess whether
changes are necessary to increase SOE autonomy, and submit
recommendations to IDA by October 31, 1988, for review and
implementation (para 19);
(c) submit a report to IDA by December 31, 1988, on progress in
implementing SEC's performance monitoring system, including
recommendations on any changes to the institutional arrangements
vis-a-vis the SOE sector, for review and implementation (para 22);
(d) prepare dossiers for SOEs to be divested, setting out inter alia
preliminary viability assessments and valuations, recommended
divestiture mechanism, outstanding liabilities and satisfactory
analysis of any legal issues; dossiers for five SOEs to be
divested (including State Fishing Corporation) will be completed
by December 31, 1987 (para 23);
(e) submit to IDA by August 31, 1988, a review of the administrative
arrangements for the divestiture program and implement any agreed
changes (para 26);



- 23 -
(f)  guidelines for Government-SOE financial transfers (para 30);
(g) guidelines for cost recovery under the SOE Restructuring Fund and
deposit of proceeds in a Revolving Account to be used for further
restructuring measures (para 41);
(h) include an adequate provision in the Government's annual budget,
starting in FY88, to cover: (i) SEC's annual recurrent expenses
(para 45); and (ii) Government's net liabilities for the following
year related to divestiture (para 27) and redeployment (para 31);
and
(1) submit to IDA for review and comments by October 31 of each year,
commencing in 1988, an annual progress review, including: (i)
SEC's work program for the following year (para 51); (ii) DIC's
work program for the following year, including SOEs to be divested
(para 24); and (iii) SOEs to negotiate performance agreements in
the following year (para 21).
59.       Conditions of Credit Effectiveness are:
(a) completion of dossiers for five SOEs to be divested, in addition
to those listed in para 58 (d) above (para 23);
(b) establishment of a full-time technical team including at least an
accountant, a lawyer and a financial analyst to support the
DIC (para 25);
(c) opening of a Divestiture Account to handle all proceeds and
liabilities related to the divestiture program (para 27); and
(d) selection of a SOE reform program advisor (para 36) and
divestiture advisor (para 37).
B.    Recommendation
60.       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a credit of SDR 8.3 million (US$10.5 million equivalent) to the Republic
of Ghana on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
AF4IE
August 1987



- 24 -
ANNEX 1-1
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Aggregate SOE Financial Date
(million cedis)
1979      1980      1981       1982      19S8      1984
Operating
Profit (lose)         (91.8)    (88.3)   (831.6)  (2898.8)   (650.9)      n.a.
Government
Subsidies             288.4     871.8     881.6      728.9    1129.2      n.a.
Now Fixed
Investment           446.8      884.6     878.9     837.1    1202.2       n.a.
Debt to
Government             495.4     $60.9     716.2      988.4    1B88.9    1882.2
Debt to
Domestic Banks         878.8     482.4     590.7      707.6    1088.8    1898.1
Guaranteed
Debt                   n.a.      n.e.      n.o.       n.a.      n.e.     1803.8
Source: BMB Report, November 1985



- 25 -
ANNEX 1-2
THE RIUC  0F1: 
PIJUC D4TRWRISE POJECT
Qovernant - SOE Financial Traonsfo
(million endi)
10se     1901      082      I0       1904      1986     190
(ot)
To SOEs:
Subventions                        $72        10      i2n      1120      488       852      96
Equlty Contributions                148      211     1i8         92       100     1175     2650
Loman                              187      i1?       271       809      576       052     8842
Total                              0S5       007     1188       971     1100      2070     7355
% of Govoernmnt Expenditure        14.6 5   1.8      18.5       0.4      4.4       6.2      8.8
From SOEu:
Dividends                            84       87       20         8       S1        so     18
Interest                             8         5        5         8        5        1S        2
Principal Ropaymnts                 11        16        6        12       s8        16        7
Taxes                               109      18       118       247       nt/a     n/       n/a
Total                               157      205      152       202       n/a      n/a      n/a
Soures:
- BUB Report 1985
- Consultant's Reports 1908



THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Agreed Action Program Under SAL
AMCUOS TAM   Y   CT 3OV 33             ESUn  TAMI OR 20 8E Ut                   NZAS  TOM
OBjEC7ZYS         ,       e       10R TO VARC  194                    %WoUDW p- lUN=A               tRIO    0   *   153537*710               "=Tom=  AIIOUS
STAIM-OUED   DPRISES RW
Establtsh policy framework.           Consultant Study cetgisaioe                                              Aared with IDA an statement         No nAw SO  to be created
oe  501S setor.  SON Task Force                                          of policy on SOBs.                  1996-89 encapt wader areeo
established which drw og study                                                                              conittos. D"eelo  poliioLc
ead prepared draft poliey                                                                                    an SOB  1n,etosnts,
stateexL t.                                                                                                 borrois      dvidxk.
Agre with bDA on actic  plan
for pricLng _otmop *ed
price review process for
replAted S02b. Idetify
503. to be imcerporsted vnudr
C     _aie  Law.
slimnlte, arre4rs  Ad restore                                            lDW to monitor acces to bank          Auditors hired to help              Identify arear  and
financLil disecipline                                                     credit of solocted SOEs,             identify arrear- and cros-          cross-debts for 14 priority
debts for 14 priority SOs.          SOs sad agree with IDA an
plan for  etttl _ t (October
1967). 
Cleer _ of arrears of 14 -
priority SOZ..
Agree with IDA an guiDelnJs
for acces by l6. to budoot
for current  4 espital
transfers with a wiew to
reducing level of subsdies
(April-Usy).  Iopl Leotatue
of Vudelikea dur&in 1967-89.
flatLenslt  the SOS Dector            SOS Took Force prepared a                                                Agreed with eDA en lit of 30        Offor for Dale S SOIS
thrqouh *crsers, divestiture.         preliminary categorLsation of                                            SOEs to be dlvested In first        mneluding State Fishins
cad liquidations.                     SOs to remain wholly-ewned                                               pha2o prepared di,estituro          Corporations Lnitiate
(53). te remain as Joint                                                prerao uidelinesD                   Liquidation of 5  OSsE.
ventures (38), to be                                                     establisbed Divestiture             Progres rtview by year end
cesverted to joint ventures                                              lmple_entatien Coamttee to          1987.
(40), to ba totally divested                                            Menso prorgres.
(34) *nd o tt- liquidated (5) .
x
Strengthen  ewernont 'a               GOS SeJh T Vere prepared a                                               sotablteh   new sec  appointed      Design performac                        -
ability to cenitor SOEB.                 r        ad restrecturime                                             PeOn t full-tano Cairmn             meoetoringlevoluatlon system           o  
the State Mat*rprise                                                    *nd other anoeutiaves 0*eO4          (June 1987).                           th -
Cissaeon (IRC) as                                                       with SDA co first year 5tC
Gwveaont' at oersit a _                                                week pragro.



THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Agreed Action Program Under SAL
ACTIOUS TAK= Sy GOVE MT           UEASU3 AU K      TO 1                     I8 3EASUIS TAM
O3CTIES                       PrXa TO n       196                 U2ED Da PROCUM                 MM TO WA=  ISEATIOU                  iWITM4IL  ACTIoAS
STATZ-OWD SMUPSES UEMN (Cent d)
St rcnthen Cov    nat'a ability                                                                           Initiated preparation of          Audited 193 fti.l
to mnitogr M.  (Ceotinead)                                                                                adited financial ata     t          tat 1tDm            toga
(19") MA oozpato Plana 1eopoato plan  to be
fog S puiogLty Sao. ABCo"         copletad fog at leat 10 ot
with IDA on list of fourteen      14 priority SOR. Draft
priority SOM. to bo cleosly       peror mane noromt
oiteo,ds Cosee_bed, CSC,          psparep  for * of tbes
C, II:, 3X. ;WC. ORAIE             tDce:r 1967). Pogernina
COIL, 73,  WA, C_                 inesot to be elOmd with
A Jtm, Bloch Stw ULI.              ,coied D _ber 1967.
C_ n Supply C_niaain.
Inggow  an _sment MA                Free en hiring ( If_                                                  Cocobed cdweeod staff by          Identif  eoet of  rdncay
effinily.                           profoesilL) a off2ect for                                             10.000 tFebruar 196?7).           mA deuelo  flna          plan
ea.                                                                                                     (September 1987). Desig an
boem  roemtl_mm
assistance peegran.
Identify tedmant stff in
prlority tm (Including
Cocobed) mA take atpep
to *"uct au."at. sz $
*taff reduction in 1967 mA
(D(a
0I



- 28 -
ANE  2-2
TMHE REPUBLIC aF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Priority S9Eo
State-Owned Enterprise                                    Major Activities                     Est. Employee
(12/81/9U)
1. Ghana Water and Sewerago                -swerage pystm and supply/sole of water              72W8
Corporetion (MWSC)
2.  ElectrIecty Corp of Ghana (ECO)        -sale of electricity                                 W052
S. Volta River Authority (VRA)             -generation and sale of electricity                  2408
4. COCOSOD                                 -marketing of cocoa                                 son
6. State Gold Mining Corp (SGMC)           -mining and oxport of gold                           9898
S.  Ghana Pot a Tolecomunications          -postal and tolecomaunleations osricev               7627
(OP&T)
7.  Ghana Rellwaye Corp (ORC)              -rail transport -pessoaoers and cargo                7622
S. Ghana Porte & Harboure Authority        -mnagment of ports and harbour faeclities            2S81
0.  Ghana Airways                          -doesotte and linternstlonal air transport           1096
1,. Bleek Star Line                        -martime transport of cargo                           400
21. Ghana Oil Coaony (GOIL)                -distributlon of petroleum products                   49_
12. Ohenalan Italian Petroleum Co.         -crude oil rofIning and sale of by-products           6S0
(hailp)
18. Ghana National Petroleum Company       -bulk purchase of crude oil end bulk sale of          ass
(GNPC)                                  of products to oll marketing companies
14. Ghana Supply Coemisseon (GSC)          -importing for public sactor                          we6



- 29 -
Annex 2-3
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
List of SOEs for First Phase of Divestiture Program
1.   State Fishing Corporation
2.   Ghasel
3.   State Farms Corporation
4.   Bast Fibre Development Board
5.   Food Production Corp.
6.   State Hotels Corporation
7,   Tema Shipyard and Drydock
8.   Two Worlds Manufacturing Company
9.   Neoplan (Ghana) Limited
10. Willowbrook (Ghana) Ltd.
11. Victory Industries
12. Ghamot Enterprises
13. NIC Soaps and Detergents Factory
14. NIC Metal Fabrication
15. NIC Farms
16. GEA Packaging
17. Kwahu Dairy Farms
18. Ghamot Textiles
19. Gava Farms
20. Motor Engineering (Ghamot)
21. GEA and Associates
22.  GIHOC Mosquito Coil
23. GIHOC Vegetable Oil Mills
24. GIHOC Esiama Oil Mills
25. GIHOC A and B Industries
26. GIHOC Lift Paper Bag
27. Overseas Knitwear Fabrics Limited
28. Fanekwa Trading
29. Metalico
30. D.L. Steel (Ghana) Ltd.



- 30 -
Annex 2-4
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Guidelines for Government - SOE Financial Transfers
1.        Operating Subsidies (current transfers):  No operating subsidies
shall be granted to SOEs, except for selected SOEs already receiving
subsidies in the 1986 fiscal year. For such SOEs, performance agreements
based on corporate plans shall incorporate the phased removal of such
subsidies.
2.        Equity:  The Government shall not ma'%e any equity contributions
to SOEs unless such contributions are: (i) included in the Public
Investment Program (PIP); or (ii) incorporated in an agreed corporate or
divestiture plan. SOEs with arrears in taxes and debt service due to the
Government shall not be eligible for equity contributions unless
elimination of arrears is incorporated in an agreed corporate plan.
3.        Loans:  Loans may be granted by the Government to SOEs, subject
to inclusion in the PIP and an agreed corporate plan, provided that the SOE
has demonstrated its inability to raise local finance from commercial
sources. SOEs with arrears in taxes and debt service due to Government
shall not be eligible for loans from the budget unless elimination of
arrears is incorporated in an agreed corporate plan.
4.        Debt Service:  All SOEs not current on their debt service
payments to Government shall present a financing plan providing for phased
clearance of all arrears of debt service obligations to the Government.
5.        Taxes and Social Security Contributions:  All SOEs not current on
their tax obligations to the Government (including corporate, customs,
excise and sales taxes) and on their Social Security contributions, shall
present a proposal for phased clearance of such arrears to the National
Revenue Secretariat, the Social Security and National Insurance Trust, and
SEC.
6.        Loan Guarantees:  The Government shall not grant any loan
guarantee (domestic or external) to SOEs, unless such guarantee is included
in an agreed corporate plan and the PIP.
7.        Dividends and Retained Earnings:  All profitable SOEs shall be
required to pay annual dividends, unless the agreed corporate plan calls
for reinvestment of profits.
8.        Foreign Exchange Risk:  SOEs shall bear the foreign exchange risk
for all external loans on-lent by the Government to the SOE.
AF4IE
August 1987



THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
IDA Credits With SOE Component
Credit                                  IDA Amount         Status                                                 Cowmsrt
(US$ M)
Structural Adjustment                     11.0        approved April/87          establishes policy framemork and action program for SOE reforms
under structural adjustment program
Industrial Sector Adjustment               63.6        approved 1986              includes component for restructuring studios for industrial SOeE
Railway Rehabilitation                     29.0        approved 1981              rohabilitation/technical assistance for Chana Railways Corp (GRC)
Ports Rehabilitation                       24.6        approved 1986              rohabilitationft.chnical assistance  for Ghana Ports Authority
Power System Rehabilitation                28.0        approved 1985              rehabilitation of ECO and VRA; TA to strengthen ECO
Potroleum Refinory Rehabilitation           6.9        approved 1984              improving sectorol agencies and policy/legal framework
and Tochnical Assistance
Pe.roleum Refinery and DIctribution        15.0        approved June/87           rehabilitation/technical assistance for GHAIP (oil refinory) and
COIL (oil distribution)
Water Supply                               18.0        approved 1983              rehabilitatlon/technieal acaistanco for 0OSC
Agricultural Services Rehabilitation       17.0        approved May/87.           includes assistance for rationalizing agricultural SOEs
Export Rehabilitation and                  93.1        approved 1984              two credits (export rehabilitation and export rehabilitation
and Technical Assistance                                                          technical assistance) to assist key oxport sectors, including SQEs in
forestry and mining
x



- 32 -                                         Annex 3-1
GNaw.
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJIECt
PROJECT COST SUNNARY
ltIC    itlton")             fuss   00ol                        total
_ __ ..............  ........ --.---51Fosr...............         Ba8ss
Local Foreign Total       Local  foreign  total    Eachfngo    Costs
3233s 11a2s$* 1a3ss2s  Bananas  *2t**#* 3a3s3s3s  *32023113  *23s8s3
A. STRENGTHENING SEC             243.8   362.2   506.0  I.553. 02.30. 9  3.859.9              60        37
S. OIVESTITURE                   101. 7    62.0   183.?    648.0   S22.0  1. 10.0           45        11
C. RESTRUCTURING FIND            184.9   ge8.7   883.5  1.050. 0 4. 450O  5. 00.0             8t        52
................  ..................... _.............. ............................ .........  ............ ...
Total BASELINE COSTS               810.4 1 142.8 1. 853.2  3.251.0 t.278.9 10 529.9             69       tOO
Physical Contingonces            20.2    16.0    36.2    128.6   102.2    230.8              44         2
Price Contingemcie              114. 1    16.1   130.2    726.9   102. 7    829.6            12         a
Total PROJECT COSTS                  4.? 1. 74.9 1.819.7  4.106.5 7.483.? tl 590.2              65       110
2300033331133   28333  1232  82120   1*32,*02    122331*. ................
Augut 14. 198? t09SS
289*0 ~  ~     ¢44
GHANA
PUULIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Financing Plan by Sumuary Accounts
(USS I ool
leA         Govarnm4rt         Total
.......__;;;; -------                   tocal l.el.  Duties 8
Amnt    2    liout   S              unt          f for. Exch.    taxesi       Taxos
1. INVESTRENT COSTS
..... ......._.__ _ 
IL  IlNTERNATIONALLY RECRUITED CONSULTANTS    4.760.7 100.0                  -   4.760.7  41. 1      4.244.1          515.6 
S. LOCAttY RECRUITED CONSULTANTS                1.269. I100.0                - 1.269. I  11.0                       1.269. 1
C. TRAlIING                                     1.482.8 100.0                -   1. 42.8  12.8       1. 175. 8        307. 1
0. VtItCtES AND ECQIIPMENT                      1.269.0  97.0       39.0  3.0   1.308. 0  11.3       1. 269.0          -0. 0      39.0
E. CIVIL NORKS                                  1.458.0  85.0    25t.3 15.0   1. t5.3  14.8            794.8          663.2      257.3
-----   ._.....*--.-..-...-  .......... _...............  ......... ........... ........... ................. ........
lotal  INEslHElNI COSTS                            10.239. 7  97.2    296.3  2.8  10.53S. 0  90. 9      7.483. 7       2, t75.9     29. 3
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. ItCRENENTAL OPERGTIN1 EXPENSES               208. 1  19.t    846.2 80.3   1 054.3   9. I                         948 9      105.4
Total RECURRENtT COSTS                                208.1  19.7 *    848.2 80.3   1. 054. 3   9. 1           -         948.9      105. 4
Total Dlsbu _sesnt                                  10.447.8  90.1  I.142.5  9.9  11590.2 100.0         7.483.7        3,704.8      401.?
,_._......_.__._............___.__. ................_ ..........................................
Augut 14. 198?  01: 55
GHANI
PUtLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECI
Financing Plan by Projcqt Cwonts
IUSS '@000) t
__rrAm                   toa                         L   ocal
. IDA .....    .........   ..........                        lExel.   Duties A
Amount    7    Amount            amount    *    for. Exch.  Taxeas       taxes
*stg$wt *gtg    ..... . I.S  ,.....s as5    :tSSl882 *xzss s 8*822  *sttSt58
A. STRENGThENING SEC       3t;53t0  7595      I19. 4 24.t1   4,650.4  40.1      2,488.1 1t783.?        376
IL  DIVESTITURE            1,4MS6.8  98.4      23.)1  1. 6   1.432.9  12.4        545.?    871.1        23.1
C. RtStRUCtURRfu  FUND    S.S00.0 100. 0                    5.500.0  47.5       4.4500  1.050 t 0
total Disbursw nt            10.441.8  90. I1. 142. ;.   I 1. S;0. 2100.0         1.483.?  3,704.8       401.7 
,__,________ _,,,,,,,,,,,_,......................................................................
Aubust 14. 1987 as:5S
GHANA
PUtLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
financing Plan by foreign Exchaget    total / TIaxs
WSS '000)
;DA    Goverent  Total
........ .......... ........
Amount      Amount A1ount
I  orgn                 1,483.?                .8.
MI   Local liEld. Taxes)   2,964.0         740.8  3,704.8
MI. Tes401.7    401.7
Total Project                 10,447.8     1,12S 11502
30300032 228020003  2310:
August 14, 1987 09:51



THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIUC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
IWLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Activity                           :   1987          19            1999          19        :   1991      :   1992      :   199       :
aTok                          1234:1234:1 2 4:1 2     4:1 2 8  4:1 2  4: 1 2 3 4:
:A. Strengtheing SEC                             :             :              :             :             :
:1. Hire SOE progrm advisor         :        xxxx:
:2. Logistical Support              :   xxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxx:
:3. SOE Rotors Progrm                            : :                                                                    :
:    (a)  cross-debts
-   hire auditors              :  x         :             :              :
:   -   Identify/verity data        :  xxxx      :             :             :
-   prpare sattleomnt plan    :        xxxxx:             :
-   phased implmentation       :            :xxxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxaxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxix:
:                                   I            :             :             :::::
(b) Performance Monitoring      :            :             :             :             :
-   design system                         xx:xxxx         :                     :             :
-   review corporate plan      :         xxx: xxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxixxxxx:
-   preliminary targete               *   x: xxxxx               :              :                    :             : 
:   -   phasd negotiation/          :            :             :             :             :                            :
:        impl.msntatlon for         :                   :             :             :
priority for SEs:                                     :xxxxxx:xxx:x: xxxxxxxxxxxxx: xxxxxxxxxxx : xixxxxxxzx  x: 
: () SOE redeployment           :
:  -   preliminary ldentification  :             :
:      of cost/financing            :      xxxxxx:
:  -   hire consultants             :          xx:             :              :
-   develop redeployment/       :                   :                     :             :             :
:   compensation policy                    xx: xxxxxxx                   :                            :             :             :
-   ongoing asesamot of             :            :             :
redeploy met noeds/flnnncIn:               xxxxxxxxxxx *xxxxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxx:
:   (d)  SWE policy rewiew          :            :             :             :             :
:  -  to pricig                                  :      xxxx   :             :             :
:  -  salary/componestton                                 xxx :
-  Other                        :                          :xxxxxxxaxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxx:
:   (o) SOE l.gal/institutional     :
review                                    a  xxxxxxxxxx:                            :
:                                   :            :             :             :             :             :              S     
a (f) review of restructured SEC  :xxa                                     a 
:4. Review progress/prepare         :                    xxx  :         xxx  :         xxx:          xxx:          xxx:               :              -
:    work program                                                                                                                                    _ ::
I-                                              ___ 



THE REPUBLIC OF GFUNA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
IMPLEWENTATION SCHEDULE
:    Activity                            1987          1988           1989          199            1991          1992      :    193
Task                           124: 1 2  4:1234:123  4:1 2 3  4:1 2 3 4:
-: -                             ---     ------------- --- - --- - -----   --- ---…---------
:B.  Divestiture                    :             :
:1.  Establish technical team                xxx  :                            :
:2.  Hire divestiture advisor                  xxx:
:3.  Prepare implementation plan
:   - guidelin./procedur.s          :      xxx   :              :
:   - cospany dossiers for first 10:       xxxxxx:              :              :
:    - timeotable        -           :     xxx   :              :
:4.  Initiate divestiture           :             :                            :
:    actions for first group                  xxxx:xxxxxxxx     :
:6.  Roview administrative          :             :                                           :
:   arrangments                     :             :       xx    :
:6.  Annual progress review         :                       xxx :         xxx  :          xxx
:7.  Phased implementation           :            : xxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxx:                             :             :
:C.  SOE Restructuring Fund          :            :             :              :
:1. Establish use, eligibility    :
criteria, and administrative   :             :             :              :
:    arrangemnts                    :      xxx                  :
:2.  Inform SOEs of above            :         xxx:             :
:3.  Review/approve Initial          :                          :
a pplications                       :           xx:             :              :
:4.  Consultants hired as required  :             :xxxxxxxxxxxxx:
:6. Semi-annual roview/approval of :              :             :
SCE applications                :            :      x     x:      x      x:       x     x:      x     x:      x      x:      x     x:
:6. Phased assistance                             :xxxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxxxxx: xxxxxxxxxxxxx:
: ------------------------------------_--------                                                              --_------------ -
x
0 '



- 35 -
ANNEX s-a
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
SEC 1987 WORK PROGRAM
Actions                                Jan  Fob  Mar Apr May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct  Nov  Doe
Finance A Accounts Dep.
Ad.) lnstrati on
staff Tnxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
-1091o iCal                                                    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
-budgeting                           xxxxxxxxxg
-buildins                                                                xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Audited Financial Statements (14 SOEs)
- monitor updating of accounts                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
- prepare consolidated SOE statement                                     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Croon debts Study
- hire auditora                      xxxxx
- collect/verify cross-debts data         xxxxxxxxxx
- reconciliation of differences                    xxxx xxxxx
- prepare settlement plan                                       xxxxxxxxxxxx
PME Department (Planning, Monitoring A Evaluation Dsp.)
PMES
- hire consultant.                                                                  xxxxxx
- deslgn system                                                                          xxxxxxxxx
- purcase hardware/software                                                             xxxxxxxxx
Corporate Plans IS
- htIre conou I nto                                                                 xxxxxx
- develop guidelines and process                                                    xxxxxx
- review corporate plane %or                                                        xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
prtorlty SFEB
Performanco Trgets/Agreements
- develop timeabloeprocess for                                           xxxxxxxx
prformance are.mnts
- OE* prepare draft SOE PA/targets                                                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
jont roview of proposed draft PAs                                                       xxxxxxxxx
Solicitor General
Legal/Institutional
- re-etablish SOE boards             xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
- clarify roles of SEC/MFEP/sector                                                  xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
mnl i stries/comisalsons/SOE boards
Operations Dpartment
Estiblish SOE Restructuring Fund:
criteri a/u /admi nstratitivo procedure.                                 xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Review Initial allocations                                                                 xxxxxxxxx
Human Resource Development Department
Staff redeployment
- reviw SCE redeployment plans                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxx
- Identify cost slid SOE financing                                  xxxxxxxxxxxx
- develop redloyment/compensation                                                     xxxxxxxxxx
plan for Govt review
Managemnt Training/Dovel opment
- orientation seminar re: SCE reform                                           xxxxxxxxx
- asoss core mgt training needs                                                        xxxxxxxxxxx
- devolop rostr of MD/Board candidatos                                                 xxxxxxxxxxx
Divestiture Socroeriat
- ostablish technical team                                                xxxxxxxxxx
- hire divestituro advisor                                                                xxxxxxxx
- proporo program guidellnes/company                                        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
do"slors/implementatilon timetble
- Initiate divoestiture for 10 SOCE                                                        xxxxxxx



- 36 -
Annex 3-4
THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Key Documents and Data Available in the Prolect File
1.  Study of the SOE Sector in Ghana - Berenschot-Moret-Bosboom
(November 1985)
2.  Report on Categorization of State Enterprises and Procedures for
Divestiture - National Trust Holding Company (January 1986)
3.  SOE Task Force Report on State Enterprise Reform (June 1986)
4.  Report of Committee on Indebtedness Among Public Institutions and
Organizations (July 1986)
5. Report on the Relationship between Public Enterprises and the
Government Budget - A. Thillaianathan (August 1986)
6.  Interim Guidelines for Implementing Divestiture Options Proposed By SOE
Task Force - Divestiture Modalities Committee (October 1986)
7.  Review of First Phase of Divestiture Program - Denconsult
(November 1986)
8. Review of Possible Investment Vehicles for Divestiture Program -
Tamara J. Duggleby and Associates (November 1986)
9.  State Enterprises Law, 1987 (March 10, 1987)
10. Draft Terms of Reference for Public Enterprise Project Technical
Assistance Team (PEPTAT) (July 1987)



IBRD 18112R1
;  U R K I N A OO               FA S O F ASO
-'1 -=,               ;       ;        '--.
U               AP P E Rol TGATA
UPPER                  <   tR E A  I U   T
>7<<    }WEST                     r                         
5  {t       ~~R E G I O N    51d                                                      
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ end.)sSA ,4.C. !o 
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e N<  R TO~du H E,  1RE G.,N
So.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
\  h  \   A      \           /        \~~~~~~~.  Vic           J    . s10b\ ;lO Do'
N>                 W,os                                                     Kb \        -Kt°4  \    ot se
a~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ rOOO    I - k                                                          og s8,AkoF RI 
A,.m  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- IAKORAOI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~      f V xwmaofV
UJ  j \  j  .      tnsh   /  lt                   vA*ev_5                           |d t IVWAc5V                       F. J
wo W   * bwdI 0400'
-Jg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ro<c s  t tt w                                       do n       GO #I*   \ / o 
]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W pArN0 to ;bow cO )
l , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  S-                                       I- a   w   X  aO
^-~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                     OW16t a somww C0S    7 s   eJ
Y HCii_ \_\ $-1 - '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F                                                 20 I 0   A°
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L SKN
Asim        . e chRD
$   _'^t                              -                             O'~~~~~~~~~~~~



