CREDIT NUMBER 1847 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Public Enterprise Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                    3, 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1847 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      D       yf I    c:      , 1987, between
the REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated May 10, 1984 and August 6, 1984
between the Borrower and the Association;
(c)  "DIC" means the Divestiture Implementation Committee,
referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)  "Divestiture" means the sale of an SOE or of its assets,
in whole or in part, to the private sector and includes privatiza-
tion and liquidation;


﻿- 2 -
(e) "Divestiture Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.09 (c) of this Agreement;
(f) "PNDC" means the Provisional National Defence Council of
the Borrower;
(g) "SEC" means the Borrower's State Enterprises Commission,
operating pursuant to the State Enterprises Commission Law, 1987
(PNDCL 170) of March 10, 1987;
(h) "SOE" means State-owned enterprise and includes statu-
tory boards, statutory corporations and limited liability
companies of which the Borrower is directly or indirectly a majo-
rity shareholder;
(i) "SOE Reform Program" means the Borrower's SOE reform
program whose initial phase is part of the Borrower's Structural
Adjustment Program;
(j) "SOE Restructuring Fund" means the fund referred to in
Section 3.12 of this Agreement; and
(k) "Structural Adjustment Program" means the program
referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement,
dated May 19, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association for
the Structural Adjustment Credit.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit,
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
npen and maintain in dollars a special account in a commercial


﻿-3-
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw "io- rhe Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to Iepay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Ada           a withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all c:   d harges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the auLhorized amt of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be can
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be u    30, 1994 or such
later date as the Association shall establish     The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay  O the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of o,w porcent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Gredit not withdrawn
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August 1
commencing February 1. 1098 and ending August 1, 2027. Each


﻿-4-
installment to and including the installment payable on August 1,
2007 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and C of the
Project through SEC and Part B through DIC with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, technical and management practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the pro-
gress achieved in carrying out the SOE Reform Program; prior to
each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on such progress
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31
of each year starting October 31, 1988, submit to the Association
for its review and comment:
(i) a detailed report on progress achieved in the exe-
cution of the Project;
(ii) SEC's detailed work program for the following
fiscal year;
(iii) DIC's detailed work program for the following
fiscal year, including a list of SOEs to be
divested during such year; and
(iv) the list of SOEs for which a performance agreement
shall be negotiated during the following fiscal
year.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall include adequate amounts in
its budget for each fiscal year in order to cover:
(a) SEC's recurrent expenditures;
(b) the Borrower's estimated net liabilities resulting from
the divestiture of SOEs; and
(c) the Borrower's estimated net liabilities resulting from
the SOE staff redeployment program.
Section 3.05. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
at all times follow, and cause its SOEs to follow, Guidelines for
Government-SOE Financial Transfers, satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the
Project, the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1988,
submit to the Association for its review and comments a report
on the progress made by SEC in the implementation of the SOE
performance monitoring system, including recommendations on
improvements to be made in such system and in the administrative
arrangements and institutional framework governing SOEs; and
promptly thereafter, implement such recommendations as shall have
been satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. For the purpose of Part A.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than October 31, 1988, submit to the
Association for its review and comments, a report including recom-
mendations on changes to be made to the legal instruments
governing SOEs in order to increase said SOEs' autonomy and,
promptly thereafter, implement such recommendations as shall have
been satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. For the purpose of Part A.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall undertake a review of the effects of price controls
on SOE performance and, not later than October 31, 1988, submit to
the Association for its comments an action plan (including a time-
table) on SOE pricing autonomy and market competition and the
mechanism for the review and adjustment of price levels, and,
promptly thereafter, implement such action plan and mechanism as
shall have been satisfactory to the Association and the Borrower.
Section 3.09. For the purpose of Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall maintain: (a) its DIC, which shall be respon-
sible for carrying out the divestiture of the SOEs whose divesti-
ture has been decided. by the PNDC and for preparing and/or
reviewing divestiture proposals for PNDC's consideration;
(b) the DIC technical team staffed with qualified and
experienced professionals in adequate numbers, including at least
one accountant, a financial analyst and a lawyer; and
(c) the Divestiture Account, in which all proceeds from the
divestiture shall be deposited to be used exclusively to pay the
Borrower's net liabilities arising in connection with such dives-
titure.
Section 3.10. For the purpose of Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall: (a) prepare detailed company dossiers for each SOE
to be divested; such dossiers to include preliminary viability
assessments and valuations, the recommended divestiture mechanism,


﻿-7-
the amount of outstanding liabilities and an analysis of legal
issues presented by such divestiture; and
(b) not later than December 31, 1987, submit to the Associa-
tion for its com .ants nt less than five such dossiers (including
one for the State Fishing Corporation) in addition to those
referred to in Section b.01 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 3.11. For the purpose of Part B of the Project, the
Borrower shall, not later than August 31, 1988, submit to the
Association for its comments the recommendations resulting from
a review of the administrative arrangements for managing the
divestiture program described in Part B.1 of the Project and,
promptly thereafter, implement such recommendations as shall have
been satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall: (a) charge a fee to the
SOEs receiving assistance from the SOE Restructuring Fund,
according to a fee schedule based on principles satisfactory to
the Association; and
(b) establish a revolving account into which all such fees
shall be deposited for use exclusively for the purposes of Part C
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments,
agencies or SOEs of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the


﻿-8-
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) after any of the exchanges of views referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, the Association shall have


﻿-9-
determined that the progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying
out the initial phase of the SOE Reform Program is not satisfac-
tory; and
(b) any instrument establishing SEC or DIC shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of SEC or DIC, as the case
may be, to perform any of the Borrower's obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has prepared company dossiers, as described
in. Section 3.10 of this Agreement, for the divestiture of at
least five SOEs;
(b) the Borrower has appointed full-time staff to the DIC
technical team referred to in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement,
including an accountant, a financial analyst and a lawyer;
(c) the Borrower has selected a SOE Reform Program advisor
and a divestiture advisor who shall have qualifications,    expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association; and
(d) the Divestiture Account has been opened.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Section 4.01 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on the date


﻿- 10 -
ten (10) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                      Telex:
ECONOMICON                      2205 MIFAEP GH
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By        15'/          ot0%
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Works for Part A          940,000           85%
(2)  (a) Equipment,          400,000            100% of foreign
furniture and                         expenditures
vehicles for
Parts A and B
(b) Office equip-        600,000           100% of foreign
ment (including                        expenditures
computer hard-
ware and soft-
ware) for Part C
(3) Consultants'
services and
training
(a) for Parts A        1,500,000           100%
and B
(b) for Part C         3,750,000           100%
(4) Operating Costs          110,000            100%


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Refunding of             330,000           Amount due pur-
Project Preparation                        suant to Section
Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated              670,000
TOTAL              8,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "operating costs" means: (i) the salaries of
two secretaries and a driver, operating and maintenance costs for
four vehicles, travel expenses for DIC members and staff, postal
and telecommunications expenses, stationery, printing and
advertising, but excluding civil servants' salaries, for Part B;
and (ii) rental fees for office space for consultants; and
(c) the term "Part" refers to a part of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) in the short term,
to facilitate the implementation of the Borrower's SOE Reform
Program; and (ii) in the longer term, to streamline the Borrower's
SOE Sector and improve its efficiency.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of management of SOE Reform Program
1.   Strengthening of SEC's capability to manage the SOE Reform
Program, monitor and evaluate SOE performance and advise on major
SOE issues and policies.
2.   Streamlining of the institutional framework governing the SOE
Sector, through clarification of the roles and responsibilities of
SEC, the National Trust Holding Company, the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning and the sector ministries and commissions in
the oversight of the SOE Sector,
3.   Assessment and adjustment of the legal and policy framework
governing SOEs, in order to inter alia increase SOE autonomy and
accountability and improve SOE performance.
4.   Negotiation, signing and implementation of performance agree-
ments between the Borrower and selected SOEs.
5.   Training of SEC staff, rental and construction of SEC offices
and acquisition of office equipment and vehicles for SEC,
Part B:   Divestiture of SOEs
1.   Divestiture of at least 30 SOEs, including preliminary
studies and audits, preparation of prospectuses, valuation of
assets, information campaign, search for investors, review of bids
and negotiation of sales arrangements.
2.   Strengthening of the Divestiture Implementation Committee and
of its technical team, including advisory services, training,
vehicles and equipment.
3.   Establishment and operation of the Divestiture Account.


﻿Part C:   SOE Restructuring Programs
1.   Establishment of an SOE Restructuring Fund in SEC to assist
selected SOEs (including Black Star Line, Ghana Airways, State
Transport Corporation, Omnibus Service Authority and City Express
Service) in preparing and implementing restructuring programs and
corporate plans with a view to achieving financial viability and
implementing operational and managerial improvements through
inter alia: viability studies, market forecasts, financial and
management audits, staff inventories and manpower redeployment
plans, management contracts or twinning arrangements, training of
SOE managers and staff, and office equipment to improve management
information, accounting and budgeting systems.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost more than the equivalent
of $150,000 each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or less
per contract and civil works may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equiva-
lent of $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Proprietary computer equipment and spare parts for vehicles
and computer equipment may be purchased by direct negotiated
purchase from one manufacturer or supplier if in the opinion of
the Association: (a) suitable computer equipment or spare parts,
compatible with computer equipment or vehicles already in place,
cannot be obtained from another source; and (b) the cost of such
equipment or spare parts is reasonable.


﻿- 17 -
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of $150,000 and to each contract for
civil works the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such proce-
dures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of
the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant
to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
pr-cedures shall be rodified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contra.ct together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a)
and (L) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Asso-
ciation has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II,   Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ financial, management, legal and other
consultants (including an SOE Reform Program advisor and a
divestiture advisor) whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with


﻿- 18 -
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $700,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pLsuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Assoc ia aee, payments out
of the Special Account shi                    oly for Eligible
Expenditures in accordance with                  this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has   e              .. satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has 7 d         ,l -d, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdr0-awals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requosts by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for Eligible
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respective Eligible


﻿- 20 -
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for Eligible Expendi-
tures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credic Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, minus the
amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Associa-
tion shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Asso-
ciation shall have been satisfied that ail such amounts remaining
on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furniched pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower


﻿- 21 -
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Brrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


