Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 18027
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENTVINVESTMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 2163-ML)
June 18, 1998
Agriculture Technical Unit 3
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
CAF per US$
1990   -  272.56
1991   -  282.18
1992   -  264.45
1993   -  283.00
1994   -  546.721
1995   -  499.64
1996   -  511.27
1997   -  582.96
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AV             Village Association (Association Villageoise)
CFAF           Franc issued by the Central Bank of West African Countries
CMDT           Malian Company for the Development of Textiles (Compagnie Malienne pour le
Developpement des Textiles)
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FF             French Franc
FPSF           Floor Price Support Fund
OHVN           Upper Niger Valley Rural Development Agency (Operation Haute- Vallee du Niger)
ODIK           Kaarta Integrated Rural Development Agency (Operation de Developpement Integree cdu
Kaarta)
ODIPAC         Grain and Groundnut Integrated Development Agency (Op&ration de Developpement
Integr&e des Produits Arachide et CJrealier)
ODR            Rural Development Agency (Operation de Developpement Rural)
OPAM           Malian Agency for Agricultural Products (Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali)
OPSS           Improved Seed Development Agency (Operation Production de Semences Selectionn&es)
ORS            Segou Rice Agency (Operation Riz Segou)
WUA            Water Users' Association
SYCOV          Cotton and Food Crop Growers Union (Syndicat des Producteurs de Coton et Cie
Cultures Vivrieres)
Vice-Pr6sident:           Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director:         Hasan Tuluy, AFC 15
Sector Manager:           Jean-Paul Chausse, AFTA3
Task Team Leader:         Eustacius Betubiza, AFTA3
1 In January 1994, the CFAF parity with the French franc (FF) was realigned from 50 CFAF per FF to
100 CFAF per FF.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2163-ML)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE .................................................                                                                         iv
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................................................i
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                                 .          ...................................1
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ..................................................1
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ..................................................3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................................9
D. Project Sustainability .................................................                                                   10
E. Bank Performance .................................................    .11
F. Borrower and Implementing Agency Performance .................................................                             11
G. Assessment of Outcome .................................................                                                    12
H. Future Operation .................................................   .                                                     12
l. Key Lessons Learned .................................................                                                      13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES .................................................                                                     15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .................................................                                             15
Table 2: Related IDA  Credits .................................................                                               16
Table 3: Project Timetable .................................................                                                  17
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................................................    17
Table 5.A: Adjustment Program .................................................                                               18
Table 5.B: Crop Production Data .................................................                                             22
Table 5.C: Cotton  Sector Indicators .................................................                                        23
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .................................................                               24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .................................................                                        24
Table 8.A: Project Costs .................................................. 25
Table 8.B: Project Financing .................................................                                                25
Table 8.C: Program  Financing for Mali-Sud .................................................                                  25
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .................................................                                        26
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .................................................                                         27
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .................................................                     32
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .................................................                                      32
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .................................................                                          32
APPENDICES
Mission's aide-memoire
Government's Implementation Completion Report
MAPS - IBRD 22265-22266
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2163-ML)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment/Investment Project, for which credit 21630-MLI in the amount of SDR 40.7 million
(US$53 million equivalent) was approved on June 21, 1990 and made effective on September 14,
1990.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997. The project supported by the credit was a hybrid
adjustment/investment operation. The first tranche for the-adjustment component was released
upon credit effectiveness; a very small amount of US$ 95,000 was not disbursed and canceled;
subsequent tranches were released on December 5, 1991 and December 17, 1992, and were fully
disbursed. The investment component of the credit was fully disbursed on April 1998. The
Governments of the Netherlands and Switzerland provided co-financing for the project.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Eustacius Betubiza2, Western Africa Agriculture
Technical Unit of the Africa Region and reviewed by Jean-Paul Chausse (Sector Manager) and
Hasan Tuluy (Country Director). The borrower and co-financiers were requested to provide
comments. Only the borrower's comments were received which were fully integrated in the final
version.
This ICR is based on findings of a completion mission undertaken in February 1998, which
included field visits and interviews with farmers' representatives and staff of the executing
agencies, and on materials in project files. In addition to providing comments to this ICR, the
borrower made its own evaluation of the project's execution which is annexed to this ICR.
2   The team was composed of Eustacius Betubiza (Task Team Leader), Agadiou Dama (Ag. Services),
Abdelghani Inal (Rural Roads), Yao Badjo (Rural Water Supply), Youssouf Thiam (Macro-economic
Enviromnent), Alexandra Goffm (Data Collection), and Dirk Prevoo (Economic Analysis).



IMPLEMENTAI'ION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2163-ML)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    In 1982, the Government of Mali launched a macro-economic adjustment program to
reduce budgetary deficits, public enterprise operating losses and public sector arrears. This
program was reinforced in 1988 by further measures that included the elimination of export taxes
and quantitative restrictions on imports and exports, 'simplification of import taxation, reduction
in the relative size of the wage bill in Government budget, and the strengthening of budgetary
control and programming. The purpose of the current operation, designed in 1989-90, was to
support the government's macro-economic program by reforms in the crucial agricultural sector,
in particular in the cotton and cereal sub-sectors, and by restructuring the Rural Development
Agencies (ODRs). IDA had been previously involved in the cotton sub-sector through the First
Mali-Sud Project (Cr. 669-MLI) and the Second Mali Rural Development Project (Cr. 1415-
MLI) which aimed at increased agricultural production and providing rural water supply in
Southern Mali. Both these operations were satisfactorily implemented.
Project Objectives
2.    The project was a hybrid adjustment/investment operation supporting (i) agricultural
sector reforms, and (ii) sectoral investments in the agriculturally rich region of Southern Mali for
generating a strong supply response to sector reforms. The objectives of the sector adjustment
program were to: (i) improve cotton sector competitiveness in international markets; (ii)
consolidate cereal market liberalization; (iii) support ODR reforms for improving agricultural
service delivery and cost effectiveness;  and (iv) increase efficiency and transparency in
agricultural sector investment planning. The investment program, part of the Southern Mali rural
development program (Mali-Sud III) supported by several donors, aimed at: (i) increasing
agricultural production (especially cotton and cereals) by opening up new land and improving
access to markets through the provision of basic infrastructure (roads), improving farming
techniques and land management practices through strengthened extension programs, and
promoting agricultural diversification; and (ii) improving efficiency and transparency in priority
setting for investment planning and coordination for rural development activities in the region.
3.    Evaluation of Objectives. Both the adjustment and investment objectives were clear,
realistic, important, responsive to needs, and within the borrower's reach. The adjustment
component was needed to complete the price and market liberalization program and improve
investment planning. The investment program was well targeted in support of the adjustment
program. The choice of Southern Mali was justified since virtually all cotton production, which
accounts for almost half of the country's total export earnings, and most of the marketed cereal
surplus comes from this region.



ii
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    Project's success in achieving its objectives, and sustainability. The above objectives
were substantially achieved: cotton competitiveness was increased; cereal marketing was fully
liberalized, institutional reforms of ODRs were successfully completed, and sector investment
planning improved; cotton and cereal production in southern Mali grew by 128 percent and 94
percent respectively during the project period, land management and farming practices improved,
and transparency in priority setting for investment planning and coordination of rural
development activities in Southern Mali improved with the introduction of an annually updated
5-year rolling program.
5.    Project Sustainability is likely because of: (i) high borrower commitment to the cotton
sector reforms undertaken under the project and the strengthened management effectiveness of
the Malian Company for Textile Development (Compagnie Malienne pour le DIveloppement des
Textiles, CMDT);  (ii) a policy environment now  fully anchored on complete market
liberalization; (iii) the irreversibility of some of the reforms themselves (privatizing, winding up,
downsizing and streamlining ODRs has led to budgetary savings and increased focus on the
delivery of core agricultural services); (iv) a sustainable road maintenance mechanism through
levies on cotton sales; (v) strong local participation and incentives for participants to sustain
rural water supply activities through the Water Users' Associations (WUAs) set up under the
project; and (vi) a follow-on project that will expand rural road and rural water supply activities
in Mali.
6.    Costs and financing.  The agricultural sector adjustment component was to be
implemented over 3 years, while the investment component was to be implemented over six
years. At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$71.3 million, of which US$27.9
million for the adjustment component, US$34.5 million for the investment component, and
US$8.9 million for other activities (studies fund and the Floor Price Support Fund). Actual costs
are estimated at US$98.1 million, with IDA contributing US$56.4 million. Total costs for the
overall multi-donor Mali-Sud III program, of which this operation was a sub-set, were estimated
at about US$185.0 million at appraisal. At completion, actual program costs were re-estimated at
US$261.9 million (see Table 8.A, B, and C for details). Actual program costs were used for
estimating the Economic Rate of Return (ERR).
7.    Key factors. The impact on production incentives and farmers' income of a 30 percent
decline in the international cotton prices from 1990-1993, compounded with a sharp decline in
the value of the US Dollar, was mitigated by the price support fund set up under the project. The
devaluation of the CFAF in January 1994 substantially improved the competitiveness of Malian
cotton on the world market. Poorly prepared bid documents for the rural road program and slow
progress in establishing WUAs delayed the start up of these investment activities.
8.    Bank/Borrower Performance.  Although in general the Bank's performance at
preparation was satisfactory, appraisal was somewhat deficient: overly optimistic crop yield
projections, inadequate indicators for the adjustment component, and poor project documentation.
The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory. Borrower performance in
preparing and executing the project satisfactory because of its commitment in (i) preparing and
carrying out socially difficult reforms, like winding up or downsizing ODRs; (ii) successfully
implementing performance contracts for the remaining ODRs (CMDT, OPAM, and Office Riz



iii
Segou); and (iii) making regular counterpart funding payments for the investment component.
However, the borrower could have done more to ensure a better pass-through of the international
price to cotton producers, and expediting the opening up of CMDT's capital to producers as
stipulated under the project. The performance of CMDT as the main implementing agency, was
generally satisfactory, despite some delays in preparing bidding documents for the investment
program and in setting up WUAs; offering less than optimal extension services to women groups;
failure to pay as a good a price as was possible to cotton producers; and a weak financial
management and accounting system. In one instance, CMDT's failure to respect the Bank's
procurement guidelines led the Bank to reject financing the purchase of 400 water pumps; the
financing was then provided by CMDT's rural development budget and beneficiary
contributions.
9.    Assessment of Outcome. The overall outcome of the project is satisfactory. The project
largely achieved its major objectives of transforming the cotton sector into a highly productive
sector; completing the liberalization of the cereal sector, which has contributed to Mali's virtual
self-sufficiency in cereal production; and raising incomes of farmers in Southern Mali. However,
more poverty reduction could have been achieved through better remuneration to cotton farmers.
At project completion, the ERR was re-estimated at 31 percent, compared to 28 percent at
appraisal.
Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   Future Operation. Current and future dialogue with government will focus on deepening
cotton sector reform by increasing CMDT's operational efficiency, ensuring a better pass-
through of the international cotton prices to cotton farmers, strengthening farmers' organizations,
and assessing ways of introducing competition in the cotton sector. Under the fourth Southern
Mali Rural Development Program (Mali-Sud IV), that the government is currently drawing up
and that CMDT will continue to coordinate in collaboration with local communities, CMDT's
extension service will focus on the crucial issue of soil and natural resource management and
diversification, including women activities (e.g. bottomland rice production). The Mali-Sud IV
program will be supported by IDA through the proposed National Rural Infrastructure program
that would finance investments in roads, drinking water, and irrigation.
11.   Key Lessons Learned (i) sectoral reforms should be accompanied by adequate
complementary sectoral investments in order to have a major impact; (ii) a well-coordinated,
multi-donor effort is essential for greater impact of sector investments because of the resulting
synergy and complementarity as the experience of Mali-Sud III attests; (iii) sector reforms and
investments should be carefully placed within an agreed overall macro framework and long-term
sector development program as exemplified by the positive impact that devaluation and the low
inflationary environment had on agricultural production, particularly cotton.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2163-ML)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction
1.    In 1982, the Government of Mali launched a macro-economic adjustment program to
reduce budgetary deficits, public enterprise operating losses and public sector arrears. This
program was reinforced in 1998 by further measures that included the elimination of export taxes
and quantitative restrictions on imports and exports, simplification of import taxation, reduction
in the relative size of the wage bill in Government budget and the strengthening of budgetary
control and programming, as defined in the first Policy Framework Paper (PFP) for 1988-1990
and further elaborated in the second PFP for 1990-1992.
2.    Reforms in the agricultural sector, which contributes 45 percent of GDP, were key to the
adjustment program. Domestic and external trade as well as consumer and producer prices for
coarse grains (millet, sorghum and corn) were fully liberalized in 1988, and export taxes on all
agricultural products were suspended and remain so to date. However, further sector reforms
were necessary, in particular in the cereals and cotton sub-sectors, and the Rural Development
Agencies (ODRs) needed urgent restructuring. The public investment program was at the same
time refocused in support of the adjustment program. The purpose of the current operation,
designed in 1989-90, was to support government's macro-economic program through reforms in
the crucial agricultural sector, in particular in the cotton and cereal sub-sectors, restructuring the
Rural Development Agencies (ODRs) and supporting investments in the highly productive Mali-
Sud area. IDA had had a previous involvement in the cotton sub-sector through the First Mali-
Sud Project (Cr. 669-MLI) and the Second Mali Rural Development Project (Cr. 1415-MLI),
both aimed at increased agricultural production and providing rural water supply in Southern
Mali. Both these operations were satisfactorily implemented.
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
A.1 Program Objectives
3.    The program was a hybrid adjustment/investment operation whose broad objective was
to ensure agricultural growth while diversifying production and ensuring the sustainability of the
production system. The agricultural sector adjustment component was to be implemented over
three years, while the investment component was to be implemented over six years.
4.    The specific objectives of the sector adjustment component were to: (i) improve the
country's incentive system for cotton production and strengthen its competitiveness in
international markets; (ii) consolidate the cereal market liberalization program to ensure
adequate and efficient supply of cereals in all areas of Mali; (iii) support the Government's
program of institutional reforms for ODRs to provide better public services in rural areas and



2
reduce the drain on the public budget; and (iv) to increase transparency in the planning and
priority setting of agricultural investments and ensure efficiency in the Public Investment
Program (PIP) for the agricultural sector. Conditions for the adjustment component are presented
in Table 5.A in the annex.
5.    The investment component was part of a wider program for the development of Southern
Mali, called Mali-Sud III, whose purpose was to generate a supply response to the adjustment
program. Its specific objectives were to: (i) increase agricultural production (especially cotton
and cereals) in Southern Mali through the development of a new area, the Bougouni region, and
the promotion of improved farming techniques in the already developed Mali-Sud region; (ii)
ensure sustainability of agricultural production through improved land management practices;
(iii) diversify agricultural production, with particular attention to maize; and (iv) improve
transparency and priority setting of the Malian Company for Textile Development (Compagnie
Malienne pour le Developpement des Textiles, CMDT) in its investment planning and the
coordination of its rural development activities with national programs. To achieve these
objectives, the program was to finance rural roads, land management, extension, rural
mechanization, livestock development, crop diversification activities, and applied research. In
addition, the program was to finance the development of rural water supply.
6.    The overall objective of the operation can, therefore, be summarized as (i) reducing
poverty, particularly in the Mali Sud region, through improving the efficiency of CMDT and
increasing its transparency and the pass-through of international cotton prices to cotton farmers;
(ii) improving market signals; (iii) providing strong incentives for increased agricultural
production; and (iv) reducing the drain on the government budget through better investment
planning and by reforming public agencies.
A.2. Evaluation of Program Objectives
7.    The adjustment objectives were realistic, important to the sector, in line with the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and within the Government's implementation capacity. It
was important to complete price and market liberalization to stimulate cereal production. Cotton
sector reforms were needed to enhance international competitivity of Mali's foremost foreign
exchange earner and stimulate its production. It was also important to introduce investment
prioritization measures as a way of rationalizing the use of scarce investment resources and for
greater impact. However, two of the adjustment component's five objectives (efficiency of
investment programming and planning or agricultural investments) were neither very clearly
defined nor financially supported by the project. Instead, financial support for them was
provided by the United Nations Development Program.
8.    The investment objectives were also clear, realistic, relevant to the sector, and part of the
Bank's CAS, and within the implementation capacity of CMDT. The choice of Southern Mali
for complementary investments to the adjustment program was very appropriate since almost all
cotton production, which accounts for half of all export earmings, and most of the marketed grain
come from Southern Mali. The road network in most of this area was degraded or non-existent,
particularly in the new area of Bougouni, recently freed from onchocersiasis, and transport was a
major constraint to agricultuaral production. Agricultural services were also needed for better
soil management and crop/animal husbandry.



3
9.     The use of a hybrid adjustment/investment credit was appropriate as there was no
ongoing investment project to complement the adjustment program in order to maximize the
expected supply response.  Also, government needed compensatory financing under the
adjustment program following the elimination of the xport tax on cotton, making it important to
increase cotton productin through sector investments and sector profitability through sector
reforms in order to increase government tax revenues from the cotton sector. In terms of project
documentatino, there were some inconsistencies between tables and text in the President's Report
(PR), but this did not have a negative impact on implementation.
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
B.1 Degree of Achievement of Objectives
10.   Overall, the project achieved most of its stated objectives. The achievement of individual
components is described below.
B.1.1 Agricultural Sector Reform Objectives
11.   Cotton Sub-Sector reforms. The project's objective of strengthening international
competitiveness of the sub-sector was substantially achieved. Incentives for increased efficiency
were introduced with the transformation of CMDT into an autonomous company and the putting
in place of a system of performance contracts. The major measures implemented were: (i) the
elimination of the cotton export tax which was replaced with a profit tax; (ii) the complete
separation of commercial and industrial activities of CMDT from the rural development activities
which it now executes on behalf of Government; (iii) the establishment of a mechanism linking
producer prices offered by CMDT to world market prices through a mechanism based on the
combination of a floor price and a profit sharing formula, whereby farmers receive a guaranteed
price plus a percentage of the cotton sector profits (see Table 5C-1 in the annex); (iv) the
establishment of a Floor Price Support Fund (FPSF) to insulate the sub-sector from short-term
price fluctuations on the world market (see Table 5C-2 in the annex for its evolution); and (v) the
capping of CMDT's overall purchasing, processing and marketing costs per kilogram of cotton
fiber at preset levels as an incentive to increase efficiency, with CMDT being responsible for all
cost overruns from its own share of the profits, but allowed to keep all cost underruns (see Table
5C-4 for the evolution of CMDT's costs).
12.   There was increased production and profitability of the cotton sector as a result of a
combination of several factors: the above reform program, the positive of impact of the CFAF
devaluation in January 1994, and favorable climatic conditions.  Seed cotton production
increased substantially from 246,000 tons in 1989/90 to 561,000 tons in 1997/98 compared to the
appraisal projection of 361,000 tons. The sector's renewed profitability permitted CMDT to
increase its subscribed share capital from 1 billion CFAF in 1989/90 to 32.5 billion in 1997/98
through retained earnings, and increase its ginning capacity, from 278,300 tons of seed cotton in
1990/91 to 486,000 tons in 1997/98 (and expected to reach 711,557 tons by the year 2000).
Government's tax revenue from the cotton sector increased from 1.6 billion CFAF in 1989/90 to
15.3 billion in 1995/96.
3Based on 150 ginning days.



4
13.   CMDT's overall costs per kilogram of cotton fiber were, on average, lower that the
preset ceilings by 11 percent (Table 5C-4). Whereas CMDT costs exceeded the preset limits in
the early 1990s, they have been below the ceilings in three out of the last four years, resulting in
cumulative "underruns" of 8.5 billion CFAF in the last 7 years, or 4.6 billion CFAF in real terms
(1989/90 base year), i.e. profits not subject to sharing by other signatories to the performance
contract under the current incentive system. CMDT's overall costs, which have averaged 204
FCFAF per kilo of fiber excluding the seed cotton base price, have on average increased by 13%
in real terms over the last eight years. In the absence of comparative data on industry norms, no
definitive judgement could be passed on CMDT's level of efficiency based on this cost
information alone, although at appraisal, CMDT had been deemed a fairly efficiently run
company (see para 28 of the President's Report). A study has been launched to assess the extent
to which CMDT could reduce its overall cost structure, the results of which are expected in
September 1998.
14.   Although the system of performance contracts which was put in place is supposed to link
producer prices offered by CMDT with world market prices through a combination of a floor
price and a profit sharing mechanism, there has not been an appreciable pass-through of
international prices to cotton producers. For example, whereas the price received by CMDT on
the international market for cotton fiber sales increased by an average of 3% in real terms
between 1989/90 and 1995/96, the producer price measured in real terms increased by an average
of only 1% over the same period (see Tables 5C-1 and 5C-4 respectively). Indeed, the ratio of
the producer price to the international price has changed little over the period, remaining at
around 40 percent. This appears to indicate that (i) if producer prices are to be indeed linked to
world market prices, the price setting mechanism has to be more appropriately structured, and (ii)
whatever effiency gains which CMDT made in its operations were not passed on to producers.
Although the current performance contract provides for a midterm review and a possible
renegotiation of virtually any of its provisions in response to major (undefined) events, farmers
have so far failed to bring the other signatories (CMDT and the State) to the negotiating table,
largely due to their poor organization and low bargaining power. However, through their union
(Syndicat des Producteurs de Coton et de Cultures Vivrieres, SYCOV) farmers are becoming
increasingly more assertive about their rights and are proposing a more flexible price
determination system for the next performance contract.4
15.    CMDT's capital was not opened up to producers starting in October 1991 as planned, the
main issues being: (i) lack of agreement between the two shareholders of CMDT (i.e. Compagnie
Fran,aise de Developpement des Textiles, CFDT - 40 percent, and the Government - 60 percent)
on how much of the shares to part with, and (ii) lack of clarity about share transfer mechanisms.
The opening up of share capital was not a condition of second or third tranche release.
16.    Cereal Sub-Sector reforms. The achievement of this objective is substantial.  The
cereals sub-sector had been liberalized prior to this project, in 1988, but additional refinements
were needed in order to complete the reforms. In particular, the functions of the Malian Agency
for Agricultural Products (Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali, OPAM) needed to be redefined.
4In a recent incident, SYCOV threatened to strike by not growing cotton for the entire season unless
CMDT acceded to permiting multiple bank lending for agricultural inputs. CMDT agreed to the
demand after producers carried through with their threat and only resumed planting after reaching a
settlement.



5
Under the 1989/90 and subsequent performance contracts, OPAM discontinued its cereal price
support program, and its role was limited to the maintenance of a national buffer stock (originally
set at a maximum of 58,500 tons and later at 35,000 tons)5, the management of food aid, and the
supply of cereals in deficit areas. OPAM reduced its staff from 718 to 204, introduced a
performance-based salary structure, and strengthened its accounting and control procedures.
External food aid has been drastically reduced as Mali has become virtually self-sufficient in the
production of cereals following the liberalization of the sub-sector, the 1994 devaluation, and
good climatic conditions. Some minor food distribution has been done in the past few years to
food deficit areas, but the cereals involved are increasingly purchased on local markets in surplus
producing areas. Over the next three years, Government will take on an increasing share of the
operating costs of OPAM from its own budgetary resources and fully fund its operations by
2001, at which point all donor support will cease.
17.   Rural Development Agency Reforms. The appraisal document did not specify the level
of cost savings expected from the reforms, nor was the ICR mission able to obtain pre-project
budget data in order to assess these savings. However, it is expected that the institutional reforms
of the six ODRs have substantially reduced the drain of these institutions on the public budget as
a result of: (i) the complete privatization of the loss making Rural Equipment Works Agency
(OTER) which, according to its current management, is now profitable; (ii) the liquidation of the
Grain and Groundnut Integrated Development Agency (ODIPAC) and the Kaarta Integrated
Rural Development Agency (ODIK), whose extension services are now delivered by the National
Program for Agricultural Extension; (iii) the restructuring of the Segou Region Rice Agency
(ORS) by discontinuing its loss-making commercial activities (input supply and rice processing
and marketing) and limiting its role to the provision of extension and water management services
with strong cost recovery through water fees (the discontinued services are now satisfactorily
executed by the private sector); (iv) the restructuring of the Improved Seed Development
Agency (OPSS) whereby seeds were no longer produced by the unit itself but rather by contract
farmers on its former seed farms, with partial cost recovery through seed sales; and (v) the
restructuring of the Upper Niger Valley Rural Development Agency (OHVN), which improved
its efficiency and reduced the costs of its extension service through organizational changes.6
Although no independent evaluation of their service delivery was carried out, the three
restructured ODRs (ORS, OPSS, and OHVN) reported improved service delivery because of
increased focus.  The cost of restructuring the ODRs (primarily payments to redundant
personnel) was borne by other donors.
18.   Public Investment Program. Programming, priority setting, and coherence of the public
investment program for the agricultural sector has substantially improved following the adoption
of a Master Plan in 1992, and the institution of a comprehensive three-year rolling PIP for the
agricultural sector, starting with the 1990-93 PIP. The PIPs are updated annually. As no explicit
"efficiency" criteria had been defined at appraisal, this aspect was not evaluated by the mission.
19.   Natural Resource Management. This component substantially achieved its limited
objectives. The National Coordinating Unit at the then Ministry of Environment and Livestock
5 The present proposition, supported by some donors, is to replace the buffer stock with a fund. So far, two
donors have pledged one billion CFAF to such a fund.
6 For example, OHVN reduced its transportation cost from 100 CFAF to 67 CFAF per ton/km through
organizational changes.



6
was strengthened. A national resource management strategy was produced to maintain the
production potential of Mali's agricultural sector and slow down the process of natural resource
depletion.  Its main recommendations were implemented under the Natural Resource
Management Project (NRMP, Cr. 2370-MLI). A preliminary study on land tenure issues was
completed, with proposals to empower local communities in applying local solutions to land
tenure problems and to assume more authority and accountability for natural resources
management. Mechanisms of local community empowerment are embodied in the design of the
on-going decentralization process.
20.   Studies Fund. Most planned studies were carried out. Project-funded studies facilitated
the restructuring of the ODRs and the elaboration of proposals for farmer participation in the
cotton fund (implemented) and share holding in CMDT (under discussion). Studies regarding the
agro-processing industry and the protection of natural resource were carried out, and the results
included in two ongoing projects (the Agro-Processing Project, Cr. 2737-MLI and the Natural
Resource Management Project, Cr. 2370-MLI). Another study carried out under the project
supports the ongoing restructuring of the Ministry of Rural Development. A planned evaluation
of the transfer of cotton stabilization activities to groups of villages associations and of
establishing complementary stabilization schemes to the cotton fund was not carried out.
B.1.2 Southern Mali Investment Program Objectives
21.   Agricultural Production. Appraisal projections for agricultural production in the Mali-
Sud area were largely exceeded. As indicated earlier, this was due to a combination of several
factors that are analytically difficult to disentangle from one another: the sectoral reforms that re-
energized CMDT through the new incentive system, the modest increase in the producer price,
the impact of devaluation, and prolonged favorable climatic conditions. Cotton production is
substantially up from 246,000 tons in 1989/90 to 561,000 tons in 1997/98 compared to the
appraisal projection of 361,000 tons and cereal production up from 483,000 tons in 1989/90 to
951,000 tons in 1997/98 compared to the appraisal projection of 775,000 tons. The objective of
introducing improved farming techniques was onlypartially achieved, as production increases
were mainly due to land expansion with aggregate yields improving only marginally or declining
in the case of cotton. This was partly the result of an influx of a relatively large number of
settlers from other areas, that were unfamiliar with the local agricultural calendar, and new cotton
farmers who were relatively less equipped with farm equipment (draft animals, plow, harrow,
etc.) for early plowing and planting, production and transportation of organic manure, etc. In the
newly developed region of Bougouni, area under cotton increased by 145 percent between
1989/90 and 1996/97, whereas the area under coarse grains was up by 116 percent. The second
reason for the less than expected impact on yields, particularly outside of Bougouni, was the
extension of farmland onto marginal, less productive land.
22.   Improved Land Management. The project achieved its objective of increasing the
attention accorded to natural resource management. The sustainability of agricultural production
through improved land management practices was integrated into CMDT's rural development
activities by creating a natural resource management unit within CMDT and integrating natural
resource management activities within CMDT's extension service. For example, the percentage
area to which organic manure, a major soil fertility maintenance theme, is applied increased from
28 percent in 1993/94 to 48 percent in 1996/97 and proper crop rotation is now widely practiced.
However, the adoption rates of some other measures is still low (e.g. anti-erosion measures



7
whose adoption is estimated at around 26 percent). Several pilot land management activities
were supported under the Bougouni investment program (see para 25(e) below).
23.   Diversification. The production of six non-cotton crops largely exceeded appraisal
estimates. Maize production, which had been targeted under the project, increased from 136,000
tons in 1989/90 to 305,000 tons in 1997/98 compared to an appraisal estimate of 254,000 tons.
Production of other crops, e.g. niebe, sesame, dah, groundnuts and soybeans was up about 70
percent (see Table 5.B. in the annex for more information). Yields were lower than expected
because of the reasons cited above. In addition, no technical support was extended for non-
traditional crops. For instance, although the sugar pea (pois sucre) has been grown for almost
four years in certain areas and is reported by the farmers to be very profitable, no project funds
were used to promote it.
24.   Transparency and priority setting.  Investment planning and coordination of rural
development activities in Southern Mali with national programssubstantially improved with the
preparation by government and CMDT of a detailed five-year rolling rural development program
for Southern Mali (Mali-Sud), which is updated annually.
25.   In the newly developed area of Bougouni, the outcome of the project financed investment
activities was as follows.
(a) Thanks to the farm equipment revolving fund, the number of fully equipped farms
increased by 6,296 compared to 5,000 estimated at appraisal.
(b) Improving livestock production and its integration into the farming system was
financed from government and cotton sector contributions, 'with parallel financing
for the promotion of private veterinary staff provided by the French cooperation.
Between 1989/90 and 1995/6, the number of cattle in the zone increased by 180
percent, corresponding to an increase from 3.4 cattle/household to 7.8
cattle/household, and from an average of 1.7 to 2.2 work bulls per household,
facilitating cultivation by plowing and the production and transportation of compost
manure, a major element in soil fertility maintenance. This is a result of increased
animal purchase and better animal care. Between 1993/94 and 1996/97, for
example, the percentage of households using general animal feed supplement
increased from 64 percent to 83 percent, with those using purchased animal feed
supplement increasing from 36 percent to 61 percent.
(c) More than 500 village associations were set up compared to 150 projected at
appraisal, as a result of CMDT's previous experience in the creation of village
associations in more than 1,200 villages elsewhere in Mali-Sud. Village
associations, once established, gradually assume responsibilities for cotton
collection, input distribution and credit repayment, in addition to being in charge of
village social investments like rural water supply, schools, health centers, etc.
(d) Training of farmers and extension staff was carried out as planned. However, less
than optimal support was provided to women's activities -- mainly bottomland rice
production and vegetable gardening -- as extension staff focused on the rapidly
growing cotton sector. This was partly due to the fact that although the project had
provided for increasing the number of extension staff, CMDT was forced to cut



8
down staff during its reorganization, particularly following the cotton crisis of
1991/92 and 1992/93.
(e) The project carried out village land management pilots in soil fertility protection,
anti-erosion measures, reforestation, and rangeland management in 25 villages,
compared to 20 villages projected at appraisal. These pilots aimed at introducing
joint decision making in the management of the villagers' own resources. Technical
support was provided by a consultative committee of staff from CMDT and different
government agencies. The beneficiaries contributed between 5 and 20 percent to the
cost of village activities. The effect of these tests is visible, but more long-term
village involvement and provision of technical support and follow-up is needed for a
lasting impact, particularly with regard to adequate maintenance of physical
infrastructure. Currently, this support is provided by CMDT. The consultative
committee approach appears to be cost-effective. Its cost was only 42 percent of the
cost of the approach supported under the on-going Natural Resource Management
Program. A purely private sector approach was also piloted in 7 villages in Fana.
Whereas the results were the same, the cost per village was much higher than in the
CMDT/government staff approach.
26.   Activities not specific to Bougouni (i.e. for all Mali-Sud including Bougouni) were
executed as follows.
(f) The project financed the construction of 770 water wells compared to 450 water
wells projected at appraisal because of a very high demand, manifested by the
population's readiness to provide an upfront contribution of 250,000 CFAF per
pump in addition to in-kind contribution towards the construction of the water well.
Eleven water wells were fitted with solar pumps for large villages of 1,500 to 3,000
inhabitants costing between 44.5 CFAF million to 72.5 CFAF million for pumps
with a higher capacity and wider distribution network, compared to 5.3 CFAF
million for manual pumps, more appropriate for small villages of 400 inhabitants. A
total of 656 villages with about 200,000 inhabitants now have access to clean
drinking water.  The project also supported the constitution of Water Users'
Associations (WUAs) which were trained in the maintenance requirements of the
pumps, the funding of which is provided through village association funds. These
funds are in turn constituted by deductions from cotton sales (see paragraphs 34 and
35 below for more discussion on sustainability).
(g) With respect to roads, 236 km of rural roads in the Sikasso region were upgraded
under IDA funding, compared to 390 km planned at appraisal as other donors
financed the rest of the Sikasso road program (West-African Development Bank:
196 km; Caisse Francaise de D6veloppement: 39 km), for a total of 471 km. Of the
500 km projected at appraisal for the Bougouni road program, 488 km were
rehabilitated/constructed.  CFD financed an additional 183 km  in Bougouni,
bringing the total to 671 km  (see paragraph 36 below for a discussion on rural
sustainability measures).



9
B.2 Project Costs, Financing, and Economic Evaluation
27.   At appraisal, total project costs were estimated at US$71.3 million, of which US$27.9
million for the adjustment component, US$34.5 million for the investment component, and
US$8.9 million for other activities (studies fund and the Floor Price Support Fund). Actual costs
are estimated at US$98.1 million, with IDA contributing US$56.4 million.7 Total Mali-Sud III
program costs were estimated at about US$185.0 million at appraisal. At completion, actual
program costs were re-estimated at US$261.9 million, but this includes the costs of the CMDT
factory expansion program. Details for project and program costs and financing are shown in
Tables 8.A-C. The program costs were used as the basis for the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
estimation.
28.   At appraisal, an ERR of 28 percent was estimated for all investment and incremental
recurrent costs for the entire rural development program in the Mali-Sud zone, of which IDA
investments constituted 22 percent. After project completion, an ERR of 31 percent was
estimated for Mali-Sud. It was not possible with the available data to replicate the ERR analysis
for the Bougouni area. The small difference between actual and estimated ERR can be explained
by various conflicting factors. The appraisal team's yield projections were consistently higher
than the actual yields obtained (17 percent for cotton, 10 percent for maize, and 7 percent for
millet/sorghum on aggregate). This was more than compensated by a higher than expected
expansion in the surface cultivated.  Although agricultural output projections were rather
optimistic in the early years of the project, they were underestimated in the later years, resulting
in aggregate cotton and cereal production that was 2 percent and 9 percent higher than projected
respectively (see Tables 5B in the annex). Also, the drop in cotton prices in 1991/92 and 1992/93
was steeper than expected at the time of project appraisal, but could not have been foreseen.
However, prices for all commodities were higher over most of the project's life.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
C.1 Factors not Subject to Government's Control
29.   Two major factors outside of Government's control affected project implementation.
The first factor was the 30 percent decline in the international cotton prices from 1990-1993,
compounded with a sharp decline in the value of the US Dollar. This had a negligible long-term
impact on the project, because of the mitigating influence of the newly FPSF and the devaluation
of CFAF. The second factor was the devaluation of the CFAF in January 1994 which helped
restore the competitivenless of Malian cotton on the world market.  Whereas the impact on
producer prices was positive, the impact on production costs was delayed because of increased
use of bulk purchasing, existing stocks of agricultural equipment, declining world market prices
of certain inputs and a change in technology to less costly but equally effective insecticides
resulting in a net increase in farmer earnings. Local inflation remained relatively low (33.2
percent in 1994, 12.5 percent in 1995, 6.3 percent in 1996 and 1.8 percent in 1997), thereby
safeguarding the positive effects of the devaluation.
7This difference between the projected cost and actual cost is largely due to a 7 fold increase in
government's own contribution to the project, from US$ 3.3 million to US$ 21.6 million.



10
C.2 Factors Subject to Government's Control
30.   The government did not implement the opening up of CMDT's capital to producers as
called for in the project. Also, when it became evident that there was insufficient pass-through of
the international cotton price to producers, particularly after dlevaluation, the government, both as
shareholder in CMDT and as overseer of the cotton sector, did not act to redress this imbalance.
C.3 Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
31.   A substantial delay in the investment program, resulting in a one year extension of the
credit, was caused by two factors: (i) poorly prepared bid documents for the rural road program,
which resulted in the late start-up of the rural road rehabilitation and construction program; and
(ii) slow progress in establishing 250 WUAs, which was a condition of disbursement for the
water wells component.
32.   CMDT also experienced delays submitting audits, which was explained by the fact that it
had a highly centralized and manual accounting system. However, the system's decentralization
and computerization were almost complete by project completion and the situation is therefore
improving.
D. Project Sustainability
33.    The results of policy reforms are sustainable. The system of performance contracts and
their annual review (which facilitates continuous dialogue between farmers, government and
CMDT on cotton sector issues), and the existence of an increasingly powerful farmers' union
(Syndicat des Producteurs de Coton et de Cultures Vivrieres, SYCOV), make a policy reversal
by government unlikely. The Government is also unlikely to backtrack on the ODR reforms as
several of them are already dissolved or successfully restructured, and going back on reforms
would add to Government cost without obvious benefits.
34.   WUAs were set up for each pump installed, and trained on the maintenance and
replacement needs of water pumps. For a manual pump, maintenance and amortization charges
amount to CFAF 11,240 per household for a village of 400 inhabitants, CFAF 31,047 for a solar
pump for a village of 1,500 inhabitants, and CFAF 24,035 for a large village of 2,800 inhabitants.
These charges are affordable by the villagers in the project area.8 Currently, village associations
deduct between CFAF 50,000 and CFAF 100,000 per household from cotton sales for the all-
purpose village account. This account, which is managed by the village association, is used to
meet all the village's financial obligations, including water maintenance costs.9 In general, the
viability of the WUA system depends heavily on the viability of the village association system.
35.   Developing the capacity of WUAs is a long term process that cannot be completed in the
life of a single project. Whereas CMDT currently plays this follow-up role, a more lasting
8At the current average of 3.2 ha of cotton per family, a yield of 1,100 kg/ha, and a price of CFAF 165/kg
of cotton, this is equivalent to 2.0 percent of cotton production for a manual pump, 5.3 percent for a
small solar pump, and 4.1 percent for a larger solar pump.
9 In 90 percent of the villages, water fees are part of the village fund, whereas in 10 percent of the villages,
a separate contribution of CFAF 50/month/family is collected.



11
solution is being sought (e.g. Ministry of Rural Development's Department of Rural Works and
Equipment, in conjunction with the local administration). A national workshop on rural water
supply will be held in June 1998 to revise the rural water supply policy. The revised policy will
be implemented under the Rural Infrastructure Project under preparation for possible World Bank
financing. Thus, with these follow-up measures, it is likely that this component will be
sustainable.
36.   Sustainability of road investments is likely given CMDT's commitment to, and the
producers' interest in, a functional road network for farm input distribution and cotton
evacuation, and the existence of a mechanism (performance contract) for assessing road
maintenance charges.  CMDT currently deducts CFAF 5/kg from  cotton sales for road
maintenance in its zone, which in 1997/98 was equivalent to CFAF 2.8 billion. CMDT has a rural
road network of 11,000 km, of which 1,200 km was rehabilitated during Mali-Sud III (all donors
together). Annual maintenance needs for the entire network are estimated at CFAF 4.0 billion
(CFAF 0.9 billion for routine maintenance, CFAF 1.4 billion for periodic maintenance, and
CFAF 1.7 billion for targeted interventions on the unrehabilitated part of the network). The funds
currently mobilized are sufficient for covering 70% of maintenance needs but are expected to
reach 100% in the next 3 years with increased cotton production. Moreover, maintenance costs
could be reduced by replacing the current more costly force account road maintenance system
with private contractors. It is recommended that an assessment of the performance of the rural
road and rural water supply components be carried in two years.
E. Bank Performance
37.   The Bank's performance at project identification and preparation was satisfactory,
particularly regarding the linkages established between the macro-economic environment,
sectoral reforms and the investment programs, and the consistency with government strategy.
38.   Project appraisal was, however, somewhat deficient. The appraisal team overestimated
crop yield increases as most increase in production came from land expansion and not increases
in productivity. This could have been anticipated since in several cases the farmers were to grow
cotton for the first time, thus had limited experience, especially in Bougouni. Also, the appraisal
report was poorly prepared (e.g. the livestock component was expressed in the President's Report
text as IDA financed, but in the cost tables as Dutch financed). In addition, although the
investment component had a good monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, which was part of
CMDT's own monitoring and evaluation system, the design of an M&E system for the reform
component was inadequate.
39.   The Bank's performance during supervision was satisfactory. There was adequate skill
mix and sufficient field time, particularly in the crucial early years of project implementation.
F. Borrower and Implementing Agency Performance
F.1 Borrower Performance
40.   Borrower performance in preparing and executing the project was satisfactory. There
was a high ownership in preparing and carrying out socially difficult reforms like winding up or
downsizing ODRs, and successfully executing performance contracts with CMDT, OPAM, and
Office Riz Segou. However, as indicated earlier, the government did not implement the opening
up of CMDT's capital to producers as called for in the project. Also, when it became evident that



12
there was insufficient pass-through of the international cotton price to producers, particularly
after devaluation, the government, both as shareholder in CMDT and as overseer of the cotton
sector, did not act to redress this imbalance. The borrower's performance regarding the
investment component was also satisfactory as evidenced by regular and adequate payment of
counterpart funds.
F.2 Implementing Agency Performance
41.    CMDT's preparation and implementation performance under the project was generally
satisfactory. It was very active in the preparation of the investment program, and implemented it
with minimal delays. Moreover, it possesses a good monitoring and evaluation unit which
closely monitored the impact of investment activities at the farm level. CMDT's major
weaknesses were: (i) an inadequate linkage between the monitoring and evaluation function and
its role in refocusing development activities (e.g. extension activities were not refocused when it
became apparent that yields for many crops were falling); (ii) offering less than optimal
extension services to certain diversification activities like rice production in bottom lands and
sugar pea production; and (iii) a weak financial management system largely caused by the
centralization of the company and the long delay in computerizing its accounting system which
was the main reason behind the consistently late submission of audit reports.
G. Assessment of Outcome
42.   The overall outcome is satisfactory as the project achieved most of its stated sector
reform objectives and projected agricultural output levels. Improved cotton sector management
and the rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads, supported by the effect of the CFAF
devaluation and favorable weather, had a pronounced positive effect on farm income. Between
1993 and 1996, household income for a farm equipped with draft animals increased from
375,000 CFAF to about 500,000 CFAF, while it increased from about 45,000 CFAF to 62,000 for
an unequipped farm (all in constant 1993 prices). However, net farm incomes would have
increased more if there had been a higher pass-through of international prices to farmers, and it is
likely that cotton production could have been higher than the current levels. Under the current
monopoly processing and marketing of cotton, only limited upward adjustment of farm prices to
reflect increased sector profitability occurred.
H. Future Operation
43.   Although cotton sector reforms largely accomplished their stated objectives, a series of
major sector issues still need to be addressed to consolidate the gains of this project and permit
the continued efficient development of the cotton sector. These issues, currently under dialogue
with the Government, include for the short term (i) increasing processing and marketing
efficiency by carrying out a technical audit of the entire sector to examine possible sources of
efficiency gains in the context of a "managed monopoly" (results expected in September, 1998);
(ii) ensuring a better pass-through of the international price to farmers; (iii) strengthening
farmers' organizations to enable them to assume increased responsibility in handling input
purchase/distribution and credit, and to enhance their bargaining power with regard to CMDT,
the private sector, etc.; and (iv) making sure that CMDT sells the currently undervalued cotton
seed at market prices and that farmers receive a fair share of the increased proceeds thus
generated. For the longer-term, there is little doubt that sustained efficiency gains will require
examining mechanisms of introducing competition in the sector.



13
44.   CMDT, together with the government, is drawing up the fourth Southern Mali rural
development program, Mali-Sud IV. CMDT, which has its own road unit and coordinates the
implementation of Mali-Sud programs, will continue to monitor rural road conditions and ensure
their maintenance. This will be done in collaboration with local communities as they emerge
under the on-going decentralization and their capacity is strengthened. The responsibility of
monitoring and training WUAs will gradually shift from CMDT to local governments who will
work closely with agents of the department of Rural Works and Equipment of the Ministry of
Rural Development and Water. CMDT's extension service will address the issue of soil and
natural resource management and diversification programs, including women activities (e.g.
bottomland rice production). The World Bank supported Rural Infrastructure program under
preparation will support the elaboration of a policy framework in June 1998 for rural
investments, particularly in view of govemment's recent move towards decentralization and local
community empowerment.
I. Key Lessons Learned
45.   Sectoral reforms should be accompanied by adequate complementary sectoral
investments in order to have a major impact. The translation of cotton and cereal sector reforms
into increased agricultural production in Southern Mali was highly facilitated by investments in
the extension service and rural infrastructure in a coherent hybrid program.
46.   A well-coordinated, multi-donor effort is essential for greater impact of sector
investments because of the resulting synergy and complementarity. This project, like the two
previous Mali-Sud programs, demonstrated that a properly designed, well coordinated and
executed area development program can be effective in raising rural incomes, as several donors,
each with their own center of interest, join forces to complement one another's efforts. In this
particular case, several donors worked together around a well articulated rural development
program.
47.   Sector reforms and investments should be carefully placed within an agreed overall
macro framework and long-term sector development program. The successful transformation of
the cotton and cereal sector was greatly aided by the devaluation of January 1994 and the low
inflationary environment maintained after devaluation. It is imperative, therefore, that proper
valuation of the CFAF be maintained in order for Malian agriculture to grow and remain
competitive, and for investments, including those under Bank financed operations, to be
successful.
48.   In a complex operation such as this one, particular attention should be paid to the
selection of the executing entity for each of the project's components. Although the
diversification component was very small relative to the project, its implementation demonstrated
the limits of an implementing agency with a particular interest in one commodity -- in this case
cotton -- whereby only the diversification that interferes least with its line of business is likely to
be promoted. In this particular case, the extension service in Southern Mali "belongs" to CMDT,
and thus CMDT cannot use it in activities non-complementary to cotton production. Should there
be another farming activity whose returns to farmers are greater than those from cotton, but
which competes with cotton, the CMDT controlled extension service may not have an incentive
to actively promote this activity. Thus, farmers may continue to grow a less remunerating crop,
and less pressure is put on CMDT as a monopoly to offer better prices to producers. Thus, the



14
government needs to, and is in the process of reviewing, the "housing" of extension service to
make them truly responsive to farmers' various needs.
49.   Project components should be limited to a manageable number. Even though CMDT is
an experienced and adequately staffed agency, some components received less than optimal
attention, because of the relatively large number of small project components.



15
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2163-ML)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives                  Substantial      Partial     Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies
Sector policies                                  [fl
Financial objectives
Institutional development                       I=I EZ
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                                |Z
Gender issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector management
Other (specify)                                [l                             E                   [Km
B. Project sustainability                          Likely                Unlikely             Uncertain
LII~            F-
Highly
C. Bank performance                              satisfactory         Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                                      D                   [                          E
Preparation assistance                              [                                             [I]



16
Appraisal                                       0T
Supervision                                     g                  7                       2
Highly
D. Borrower performance                     satisfactory        Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                                                              [Ii EC
Implementation
Covenant compliance                              Llll
Operation (if applicable)                                                                 LI 
E. Assessment of outcome                    Highly                                     Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Loan/credit title                          Purpose                          Year of         Status
approval
Preceeding operations
1. Mali-Sud I & II (Cr. 669    A  combined  sector adjustment/investment project to  1984   Closed
& 1415-MLI)               increase agricultural production and farm  incomes by
stabilizing and increasing cotton production.
2. Mopti Area Development  Increasing crop production through improved flood control  1985  Closed
(Cr. 1597-MLI)             cultivation of rice, and increasing the off-take from the
livestock herds and protecting pasture lands in the pastoral
areas.
3. Office du Niger (Cr.    Restructuring the ON in order to increase farmer's incomes  1988  Ongoing; closing
1906-MLI)                 by increasing agricultural productivity.                          11/30/1998
Following operations
1. Agricultural Services  Improving the effectiveness of agricultural extension, the  1991  Ongoing; closing
Project (Cr. 2235-MLI)    linkage between research and extension and by providing           6/30/1998
support to village associations through functional literacy
and numeracy training.
2. Nat. Resource Mgt (Cr.    To introduce a rational land use system which will halt, and  1992  Ongoing; closing
2370-MLI)                 then reverse the process of degradation of the natural            6/30/1998
resource base.
3. Nat. Agr. Research     Improving the performance of the national agricultural  1993      Ongoing; closing
Project (Cr. 2557-MLI)     research system, by improving research coherence, quality,       12/31/2001
relevance, and accountability for results.
4. Agroprocessing (Cr.     Addressing key sector constraints to private investment in  1995  Ongoing; closing
2737-MLI)                 agricultural processing and marketing, and focus primarily        6/30/2001
on capacity-building and on the transfer of know-how to the
private sector through information networks, training,
specialized TA, and study tours.
4. Pilot Private Irrigation  Improving and inducing an expansion of investments in  1997    Ongoing; closing
Promotion (N021 MLI)       small-scale irrigation, which would contribute to increased      12/31/2001
on-farm diversification of investments, productivity, and
food security.



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle.               Date planned                 Date actual/latest estimate
Identification  (Executive  -Project                                 04/8/1988
Summary)                                                                                               l
Preparation                       07/1988 - 12/1988 - 03/1989
Appraisal                         06/1989                            10/28/1989
Negotiations                                                         05/11/1990
Letter of development policy (if                                     05/12/1990
applicable)               ._l
Board presentation                05/1990                            06/21/1990
Signing                                                              07/25/1990
Effectiveness                     07-09/1990                         09/14/1990
First tranche release             09/14/1990                         09/14/1990
Second tranche release            09/14/1991                         12/05/1991
Third tranche release             09/14/1992                         12/17/1992
Project completion                06/30/1996                         12/31/1997
Loan closing                       12/31/1996                        12/31/1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY91        FY92        FY93        FY94        FY95        FY96        FY97        FY98
Appraisal         15.3        26.4        36.9        44.2        50.4        53.0        53.0         53.0
estimate
Actual            18.4        29.1        36.4        37.3        39.1        46.0        51.8         56.3
Actual as %  of  120          110         99          84          78          87          98           106
estimate
Date of final
disbursement:     April 30, 1998



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5.A: Adjustment Program
Objective and Policy                              Actions Required                            Date         Prior to       lst      2nd        3rd      Comment
Reform                                                                                             Effectiveness  Tranche  Tranche   Tranche
I CMDT/COTTON
(a) Finalization of      - establishment and depositing of CFAF I billion in Cotton Fund;                  X
instruments to fully   - approval of Council of Ministers of Law abolishing cotton export taxes;        X
implement              - enactment legislation abolishing cotton export taxes;                                                   X
CMDT/Govt. (1989/90-  - satisfactory transfer of all OSRP cotton accounts;                    01/91
93/94) Contrat-Plan.   - legalization of CMDT statutes.                                       9/96
(b) Full implementation of   - Satisfactory implementation of all features of Contrat-Plan, in particular:  Ongoing                 X         X
Cotton Policy Reforms   - producer pricing mechanism linked to international prices;
as agreed upon in      - elimination of cotton export taxes since 10.01.89 (beginning of 1989/90
CMDT/Govt. Contrat-     marketing season);                                                                                                                          o
Plan, including all    - full adherence to Cotton Fund rules;
pricing and institutional  - implementation of institutional reforms as laid out in Contrat-Plan.
reforms.
(c) Participation of     - action plan to represent producers in Cotton Fund;                    3/91
Producers in Cotton    - representation of producers in Cotton Fund;                          10/91                                        X
Fund and CMDT capital  - presentation of action plan to open Cotton Fund capital to producers;  9/91
- opening up of CMDT capital to producers                              10/91
(d) Preparation of Mid-  - Mid-Term review of CMDT/Govt. Contrat-Plan                            8/91
Term Review of
CMDT/Govt. Contrat-
Plan
(e) Preparation of Policy  - presentation, by cotton price stabilization fund, of complimentary measures to  9/92
Reforms beyond 89/90-    village communities or other non-governmental institutions;
93/94 CMDT/Govt.       - draft proposal for CMDT/Govt. Contrat-Plan for 1993/94-97/98.        1/93
Contrat-Plan



Objective and Policy                              Actions Required                            Date         Prior to       1st      2nd        3rd      Comment
Reform                                                                                             Effectiveness  Tranche  Tranche   Tranche
11. OPAM/CEREALS
(a) Price and export      - continued full liberalization of coarse grain consumer and producer prices and  Ongoing
liberalization for coarse  markets
grains                 - liberalization of exports of coarse grains of all years except in emergency
drought situations
- elimination of CPS export tax on coarse grains.
(b) OPAM/Govt. Contrat-    - implementation of Contrat-Plan satisfactory to IDA.                 Ongoing
Plan (88/89 - 89/90)
(c) OPAM/Govt. Contrat-    - preparation of follow-up Contrat-Plan (90/91 - 92/93) with:
Plan (90/91 - 92/93)    - further streamlining of OPAM tasks (reduction of number of secondary tasks
in present Contrat-Plan);
- refinement of the concept of cereals deficit zones and OPAM intervention in
the zones;
- improved coordination mechanism with food aid system;                                                                                     -
- performance indicators for OPAM cost reduction                                                                                           'I
- presentation of drafts Contrat-Plan                                  10/90
- signing of OPAM/Govt. Contrat-Plan, satisfactory  to  IDA, and  full  11/90                             X         X
implementation.
(d) Improved financial and   - annual completion of audits six months after closing of financial year and  Annually
management controls of    presentation to IDA.
OPAM
III. NATURAL
RESOURCE MGT
(a) Monitoring and       - complete and adequate staffing of interministerial coordinating unit established  8/90
evaluation of pilot     at Ministry of Environment and Livestock;
operations and        - presentation of National Resource Management Strategy.                3/91
formulation of National
Resource Management
Strategy



Objective and Policy                               Actions Required                              Date         Prior to       1st       2nd         3rd     Comment
Reform                                                                                                Effectiveness  Tranche   Tranche   Tranche
(b) Clarification of land  - preparation of regional studies on land ownership;
ownership rights to    - presentation of studies.                                                9/92
assure more permanent
rights to land
(c) Monitoring and        - adequate staffing of central coordinating unit at CMDT;                 9/92
evaluation of different    - annual monitoring reports of land management schemes under implementation;   Annually
land management        - annual evaluation reports on resource situation in Mali-Sud area monitoring  Annually
schemes under            selected indicators.                                                    starting
implementation in                                                                                91.
CMDT region to assure
consistent strategy
formulation on regional
and national level and to
monitor effects of
agricultural production
on natural resources
IV. ODR REFORM                                                                                                                                                             o
PROGRAMS.
Restructuring of Rural    - closing of six ODRs;                                                 Compiet.
Development            - detailed restructuring proposals for five ODRs;                         8/91
Organizations through    - transfer of one ODR into a mixed capital company                      1/93
reduction in number of
ODRs, streamlining of
functions, restructuring
and privatization of
selected ODRs.
V. PUBLIC
INVESTMENT
PROGRAMS (Ag.
Sector)
(a) Improved national     - presentation of annual investment program satisfactory to IDA           Annually                            X         X
public investment                                                                                in Oct.



Objective and Policy                              Actions Required                            Date         Prior to       1st      2nd        3rd      Comment
Reform                                                                                             Effectiveness  Tranche  Tranche   Tranche
planning in line with                                                                        (starting
priorities of agric. sector                                                                   1990)
and financial resources.
(b) Improved rural        - presentation of revised five-year rural development program for Mali-Sud area  Annually                 X         X
development planning     satisfactory to IDA.                                                 in June
for Mali-Sud area in                                                                          (starting
line with sectoral                                                                            1990)
priorities and financial
resources
(c) Finalization of       - presentation of Regional Plan;                                       10/91
Bougouni Regional      - incorporating additional soil surveys and areas demarcated for wildlife reserves.  12/91
Development Plan in
line with natural
resource mgt priorities
VI. MACROECONOMIC
POLICY
FRAMEWORK
Implementation of        - implementation of PFP program (Govt.'s letter of Agricultural Policy)  Ongoing                           X         X
macroeconomic policy
measures consistent with
sectoral adjustment
program



22
Table 5.B: Crop Production Data
1 - Projected and Actual Production
89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95     95/96     96/97
Cotton
Estimated       246,000  252,000  285,000  299,000  316,000  316,000   316,000   316,000
Actual          219,529  264,142  261,092  307,234  230,093  280,181   390,086   430,074
Maize
Estimated       193,008  200,728  208,757  217,108  225,792  234,824   244,217   253,985
Actual          135,876  156,270  176,264  204,768  215,186  236,822   254,112   305,240
Millet/Sorghum
Estimated       404,135  414,238  424,594  435,209  446,089  457,242   468,673   480,397
Actual          315,245  324,910  330,805  368,638  389,855  415,991   450,476   567,640
Rice
Estimated        31,928   33,109   34,334   35,605   36,922   38,288    39,705    41,174
Actual            N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.   49,124   57,174    65,610    78,482
Other Crops
Estimated        55,018   56,944   58,937   60,999   63,134   65,344    67,631    69,998
Actual           59,978   65,438   62,867   69,591   66,266   89,379    82,350   101,467
2 - Projected and Actual Yields
89/90    90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94    94/95   95/96      96/97
Cotton
Estimated           1,351    1,355    1,376    1,408    1,436    1,463   1,486    1,500
Actual              1,231    1,359    1,275    1,311    1,196    1,086   1,213    1,083
Maize
Estimated           1,752    1,843    2,083    2,178    2,230    2,288   2,348    2,348
Actual              1,821    1,939    1,963    1,984    1,925    1,953   1,925    1,952
Millet/Sorghum
Estimated             822     940    1,154    1,192    1,239    1,269   1,270     1,270
Actual              1,084    1,090    1,057    1,059    1,090    1,052    993     1,050
Rice
Estimated           1,367    1,400    1,450    1,500    1,600    1,650   1,680    1,680
Actual               N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.   1,696    N.A.   N.A.          1,660
Other Crops1o
Estimated           1,036    1,036    1,036    1,036    1,036    1,036   1,036    1,036
Actual                679    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.       579    N.A.   N.A.          619
3 - Evolution of Area under Cultivation
89/90     90/91    91/92     92/93     93/94     94/95     95/96    96/97
Cotton              178,335   194,423   204,760   234,271   191,744   255,120   321,619   397,201
Cereals             385,592   401,844   430,856   482,785   508,400   563,503   640,850   728,058
10  Weighted average of several crops (Niebe, groundnuts, soybeans, dah, sesame).



23
4 - Farm Size and Number by Technology Type
89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95   95/96     96/97
High Level
Type A             38,515   38,509   39,254   40,705   41,417   44,258   47,638  N.A.
Type B             49,758   52,603   57,866   58,015   58,381   62,120   71,023  N.A.
Low Level
Type C              14,777   16,247   17,993   19,141   18,801   20,511   23,291  N.A.
Type D             20,144   22,083   20,511   16,660   16,018   14,516   19,976  N.A.
Table 5.C: Cotton Sector Indicators
1 - Cotton Producer Prices (CFAFIKG)
89/90  90/91   91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97  Total
President's Report price estimate"1     85      97     97   - 100    100       -       -      -
Actual base price                       85      85     85      85     85    125    125    125        --
Supplement to base price (Ristourne)     0       8      10      0    12.5      5     30      30      --
Total nominal farm-gate price           85     93      95     85   97.5    130    155    155        --
Total price in constant 1989/90 terms   85      91     91      80     73      83     92      89
% change in prices                             0.1    0.0   -0.1   -0.1    0.1    0.1    0.0    0.1
Nom. farm-gate price in cotton equiv.   199    224    226    201    233    297    372    365
Ratio of producer prices to            .4C    .49    .61    .63    .30    .32    .40    .41
international prices
2 - Evolution of Price Support Fund (Billions of CFAF)
89/90 l90/91    91/92   92/93   93/94   9/95    95/96    96/97l
Annual Deposits         3,924 | 769   -4,709   5,829   6,779   1,403    1,349    2,867 
Balance at end of Year    3,924 |4,692    619    637   7,486i  9,095   10,719   14,026
3 - Export Price for Fiber (CFAF/Kg of Fiber)
89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   Total
Actual               503     456      369     319     782     922     929     881    --
Actual in  constant  503     446      354     299     582     589     551      508    --
1989/90 terms
% change             --      -0.5    -0.2    -0.2    0.9      0.0    -0.1    -0.1    0.3
1 PR only provided estimates for the 1989/90 through 1993/94 cropping seasons.



24
4 - CMDT Cost of Production
90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96   96/97   Total
Performance contract cost ceiling        400      400     380      597      667     656      632      ---
(CFAF/Kg of cotton fiber)
Actual CMDT costs, nominal prices        422      418     401      489      584     640      674      ---
% difference btn actual and ceiling       6        4       6       -18      -12      -2       7       -11
Gain/loss to CMDT (Billion CFAF),       -2.4    -2.0    -2.7    10.4    10.2         2.6     -7.6     8.5
nominal
Gain/loss to CMDT (Billion CFAF),       -2.4    -1.9    -2.5       7.8      6.5      1.5    -4.4      4.6
real - base 1989/90.
Actuals, w/o producer price component    218     215      203      286      299     340      378      ---
Actuals, constant 1989/90 terms          218     210       195     268      223     217      224      ---
% change in actuals, constant prices     ....     -4       -7      38      -17       -3       3       10
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.  Key operating indicators in the President's Report  Estimated          Actual
None had been defined in the PR
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as defined at   Status                Impact of Study
appraisal/redefined
I. Restructuring of    Prepare for the restructuring   Done  The ODRs concerned were restructured
the ODRs            of ODRs (OHVN, OPSS,
ORS, OTER)
2. Share capital   Action programs for farmer   Done    Government and the French share holder have
participation study  participation in cotton fund       not decidecl on how much share capital to sell to
and CMDT capital.                   producers
3. Cotton fund study   Evaluation of possibilities to  Not done
transfer cotton stabilization
activities to groups of AVs
and to establish
complementary stabilization
schemes to the cotton fund.



25
Table 8.A: Project Costs
Item                             Appraisal estimate       Revised Estimate1 2     Actual/latest estimate
(US$ million)           (US$ million)            (US$ million)
1. Quick disbursing component          27.9                      27.9                     29.4
2. Investments (Include. PPF)          34.5                     166.5                    138.9
3. Studies component                    2.0                       2.0                      1.5
4. Cotton Fund                          6.9                       6.9                     27.0
5. Taxes                                3.3                       3.3            included in items above
TOTAL                                  74.6                     206.6                    196.8
Table 8.B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate       Actual/latest Estimate
Source                             (US$ million) -             (US$ million)
IDA                                     53.0                       56.4
Federal Republic of Germany              2.9                        2.9
Netherlands                              5.2                       12.5
Switzerland                              6.9                        4.7
Government                               3.3                      21.613
TOTAL                                   71.3                       98.1
Table 8.C: Program Financing for Mali-Sud
Estimate in 1993               Actual/latest Estimate
Source                                    (US$ million)                     (US$ million)
IDA                                            25.0                             29.6
West African Development Bank                   8.0                               7.5
(BOAD)
African Development Fund                       18.5                              17.6
Banque Europeenne                               0.0                              25.0
d 'Investissements
Federal Republic of Gernany                     2.9                              2.9
Netherlands                                    18.5                              12.5
Switzerland                                     4.7                              4.7
Belgium                                         3.1                               3.1
Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation                  4.0                               3.8
Caisse Franfaise de Developpement              15.7                             78.7
Government                                     22.9                             21.6
Cotton Filiere                                 58.2                             54.9
TOTAL                                         181.5                             261.9
12   The investment component in the PR excluded a large number of investments financed by others. It is impossible to
re-estimate the investment costs based on the assumptions in the PR. Total investment costs have therefore been
revised to reflect the true cost of the Mali-Sud program.
13 Govemment's full contribution to the Mali-Sud Program.



26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Rate of Return
l                        ~~~~~~~~~Appraisal Estimate       ICR Estimate
Mali-Sud                        28%                          18-31%
Bougouni                        32%                           N.A.
The Economic Analysis in the ICR follows the outline of the one presented in the PR. Two scenarios
were analyzed. The first uses the crop projections from the PR and has a relatively low rate of return (18
percent), as the PR overestimated crops production and yields in the first few years of the project. The second
adjusts the crop production data in the PR to the level of the first year of the project and increases this for the
first 3 years on the basis of the growth rate assumed in the PR. The resulting rate of return for this scenario is
31 percent. In both scenarios, production has been kept at the level prevailing at the end of the project
(cropping season 1996/97). The actual rate of return under the project is higher because of higher than expected
commodity prices (for cotton after 1993) and higher producti,on. The rate of return on investment in the
Bougouni region could not be calculated because data was not available on the specific investments in that area.
Using proxy by pro-rating cost data according to the level of services provided was considered but rejected
because of the high degree of unreliability of the resulting computation.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit    Covenant   Current        Original      Revised                             Description of covenant                             Comments
Agreement    type        status      fulfillment   fulfillment
section
(C21630)                               date           date
Credit
3.01 (a)        5           C                                    The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set  No comments.
forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement &, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the DCA, shall: (a) cause
CMDT to carry out Parts A & B of the Project, & to performing accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement, all the obligations of CMDT
therein set forth.
3.01   (b)      5           C                                    The Borrower shall:(b) take & cause to be taken all action, including the  No comments.
(c)                                                              provision of funds, facilities, services &  other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable CMDT to perform such obligations; (c) not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
3.01   (d)      5           C                                    The Borrower shall: (d) carry out Part C of the Project under the overall  No comments.
(e)                                                              responsibility of MA with due diligence & efficiency & in conformity with
appropriate administrative practices; and (e) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services, and other resources for Part C of the Project.
3.02 (a)      5, 9          C                                    (a) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit which may from time to  No comments
time be allocated to Categories (1) through (4) & 5 (b) of the table set forth in
Schedule I of this Agreement available to CMDT under a subsidiary grant
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower & CMDT, under terms &
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
3.02 (b)      5, 9          C                                    (b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement  No comments.
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower & the Association &
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit &, except as the Association shall
other- wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
3.03 (a)      2, 9          C                                    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree: (a) procurement of the
consultants' services required for Part C of the Project & to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit & procurement of the imports required during
execution of the Program shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement; and
3.03 (b)      2, 9          C                                    (b) procurement of the goods, works & consultants' services required for Parts  No comments.
A & B of the Project & to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
3.04          5, 9          C                                    The Borrower & the Association hereby agree that the obligations set forth in  No comments.



Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 & 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods & services, plans & schedules, records & reports,
maintenance & land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A & B of the
Project shall be carried out by CMDT pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
3.05 (a) (i)     9           C          11/19/1990                  (a) The Borrower & the Association shall from time to time, & in any case not  No comments.
(ii)  (iii)                                                         later than 11/30 each year the Project is being executed, starting with 11/30/90,
(iv)                                                                 exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out: (i) the Project; (ii) the
Program(iii) the CMDT Contract-Plan & the OPAM Contract- Plan; and (iv)
the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.05 (b)         9           C                                       (b) Prior to each such exchange of views as specified in para (a) of this Section  No comments.
& not later than 10/31 of each year the Project is being executed, the Borrower
shall furnish the following documentation satisfactory to the Association:
3.05 (b) (i)     9           C                                       The Borrower shall furnish to the Association: (i) a report on the progress  No comments.
(ii) (iii)                                                           achieved in carrying out the Program, including a review  of the related
investments & expenditures in such detail as the Assoc. shall reasonably request
;(ii) the Borrower's revised 3-year rolling Program of Invts & Public
Expenditures for the agric. sector; &(iii) a report on the execution of the CMDT
& OPAM Contract-Plans.
4.01 (a) (i)     I           C                                       (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records & accounts  No comments.
(ii)                                                                 adequate to reflect in accordance with sound acctg practices the operations &
financial condition:(i) in respect of Part C of the Project of the Borrower's
department or agencies responsible for carrying out such Parts of the Project;                        N
and (ii) of the Cotton Fund.                                                                          co
4.01 (b) (i)     I           C                                       (b) For all expenditures relating to Part C of the Project & to the imports  No comments.
necessary during the execution of the Program with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
exp., the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records & accounts reflecting such
expenditures;
4.01   (b)       I           C                                       The Borrower shall: (ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,  No comments.
(ii) (iii)                                                          receipts & other docs.) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least I
year after the Assoc. has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and (iii) enable the
Association representatives to examine such records.
4.01 (c) (i)     I       NOT YET                                     (c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the records & accounts referred to in paras (a)  The revised date of
DUE                                     & (b) (i) of this Section & those for Special Account B for each Borrower's  submission of audit
fiscal year audited, in accordance with  appropriate auditing  principles  reports for the
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  executing agency
CMDT will be
June 30, 1998
instead of March
31 since the
company has
changed its Fiscal



Year to end Dec.
31 in conformity
with the new
UMEOA
.__________     requirements.
4.01   (c)      I       NOT YET                                  The Borrower shall:(ii)furnish to the Ass. as soon as avail., but in any case not  Same as above.
(ii)                      DUE                                    later than 6 months after end of each such Borr.'s fiscal year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope & in such detail as the Ass. shall have
reasonably requested, inc. a separate opinion by auditors as to whether the stat.
of exp. submitted can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
4.01   (c)      1           C                                    The Borrower shall: (iii) furnish to the Assoc. such other information  No comments.
(iii)                                                            concerning said records & accounts & the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
4.02 (a)        9          CD        03/19/1992                  The Borrower shall: (a) not later than 3/31/92, submit a development plan  No comments.
satisfactory to the Association for the Bougouni region, including a road
construction program with soil surveys & areas demarcated for wildlife resorts;
4.02 (b)        9          CD        01/19/1993                  The Borrower shall: (b) not later than 1/31/93, transform OTER into an SEM;  No comments.
and
4.02 (c) (i)    9, 10       C         12/1911993                 The Borrower shall: (c) not later than 12/31/93: (i) eliminate all subsidies on  No comments.
(ii)                                                            tractor maintenance & sale activities carried out by CMDT; (ii) implement
measures, satisfactory to the Association, for the promotion of the private
activities carried out by CMDT;
4.02   (c)    9, 10         C         12/19/1993                 The Borrower shall: (iii) eliminate all subvention on insecticides for agriculture  No comments.
(iii) (iv)                                                       sold through CMDT except for the last insecticide treatment on cotton; and (iv)
cause CMDT to sell fertilizer to farmers at cost.
Project                                                                                                                                                    l
2.01            5           C                                    CMDT declares its commitment to the ojbjectives of the Project as set forth in  No comments.
Schedule 2 to the DCA &, to this end, shall carry out Parts A & B of the Project
with due diligence & efficiency & in conformity with appropriate
administrative, fin., eng. & agr. practices, & shall provide promptly as needed,
the fund facilities, services. & other res. required for A & B.
2.02          2, 5          C                                    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods,  No comments.
works & consultants' services required for Parts A & B of the Project & to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.                                                        l
2.03            5           C                                    CMDT shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  No comments.
9.06, 9.07 & 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
& services, plans & schedules, records & reports, maintenance & land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A & B
of the Project.
2.04            5           C                                    CMDT shall duly perform  all its obligations under the Subsidiary Grant  No comments.
Agreement & the CMDT Contract Plan. Except as the Assoc. shall otherwise
agree, CMDT shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Sub. Grant
__________ __________ ____________  _____________ _____________  Agreement, the CMDT Contract-Plan or any provision thereof



2.05 (a)       5, 9          C                                       (a) CMDT shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the  No comments.
Assoc. with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement & under the Sub. Grant Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
2.05 (b)       5, 9          C                                       (b) CMDT shall promptly inform the Assoc. of any condition which interferes  No comments.
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by CMDT of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Sub. Grant Agreement.
2.05 (c) (i)   5, 9          C                                       (c) CMDT shall, not later than 6/30 of each year the Project is being  No comments.
(ii)                                                                implemented, furnish the following documentation satisfactory to the Assoc: (i)
the revised 5-year rolling Rural Dev. Program of Mali-Sud; and (ii) the draft
budget for Rural Development for the next following fiscal year.
3.01           5, 9          C                                       CMDT shall carry on its operations & conduct its affairs in accordance with  No comments.
sound administrative, financial, and agricultural practices under the supervision
of qualified & experienced mgt assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
3.02           5, 9          C                                       CMDT shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, equipment  No comments.
and other property, & from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs & renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial and agricultural practices.
3.03           5, 9          C                                       CMDT shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers insurance against  No comments.
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
4.01 (a)         I            C                                      (a) CMDT shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance  No comments.
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
4.01 (b) (i)  I          NOT YET                                     (b) CMDT shall: (i) have its records, accounts & financial statements (B/S,  The revised date of
DUE                                         statements of income & expenses & related statements) for each fiscal year  submission of audit
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,  reports for the
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association                       executing agency
CMDT will be June
30, 1998 instead of
March 31 since the
company has changed
its Fiscal Year to end
Dec. 31 in conformity
with the new
UMEOA
requirements.
4.01   (b)       I       NOT YET                                     (b) CMDT shall: (ii) furnish to the Assoc. as soon as available, but in any case  Same as above.
(ii) (iii)                  DUE                                      not later than 6 months after the end of each such year: (A) cert. copies of its FS
for such year as so audited; & (B) the rpt of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope & in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
4.01   (b)       1           C                                       (b) CMDT shall: (iii) furnish to the Association such other information  No comments.
(iii)                                                                concerning said records, accounts & financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.



Covenant types:                                                     Present status:
I = Accounts/audits
2 = Financial performance/ revenue   8  =  Indigenous people        C   = covenant complied with
generation from beneficiaries
3 = Flow and utilization of project   9  =  Monitoring, review, and  CD = complied with after delay
funds                               reporting
4 = Counterpart funding           10 =  Project implementation not    CP =  complied with partially
covered by categories 1-9
5 = Management aspects of the     11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral  NC = not complied with
project or executing agency         budgetary or other resource
allocation
6 = Environmental covenants       12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral
policy/ regulatory/
institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 =  Other
wA



32
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Indicate any significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
statement (OD or OP/BP):
Statement number and title                        Describe and comment on lack of compliance
OP 10.02: Financial Management                    Submission of audits with more than 6-month delay.
CMDT's highly centralized and manual accounting
system resulted in audit delays. However, it is
being decentralized and computerized.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                     Revised                      Actual
Stage of project
cycle
Weeks          US$          Weeks          US$          Weeks       US$ ('000)
Through                                                                     88.6         216.1
Appraisal                                                                                         l
Appraisal-                                                                  13.2          35.9
Board                                                                                             l
Supervision         81                                                     162.8         417.5
Completion          17                                                                    16.8
TOTAL                                                                                    686.3
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of project    Month/year  Number of   Days in   Specialized staff    Implemen   Dev.      Types of
cycle                         persons       field     skills represented lO  tation  objectives   problems
_________________   ____________    ___________________ statu s
Supervision 1    11/90        1             22        E                  HS         HS          TS
Supervision 2    3/91         1              12       E                  HS         HS
Supervision 3    6/91         2             20        E, Agr/Env         HS         HS          AS-FM
Supervision 4    10-12/91     3             42        E, IE, IE          S          S           AS-P
Supervision 5    7/92         2             20        E; Agr/Env         HS         S           AE
Supervision 6    10/92        5             21        E; E; Agr/E; RR; P   -
Supervision 7    11-12/92     1             20        E                  S          HS          P
Supervision 8    3-4/93       1              15       E                  S          HS          AE, P
Supervision 9    6-7/93       1              15       E                  S          HS          P
Supervision 10        11-12/94  1            10       E



33
Performance rating
Stage of project    Month/year   Number of    Days in   Specialized staff    Implemen   Dev.        Types of
cycle                          persons        field     skills represented IO  tation   objectives   problems
status
Supervision 11    3-4/94       3               15        E, Agr, FA         S           HS          FM
Supervision 12    6-7/94       1              10         E                             __X_X_X_FM
Supervision 13    10-11/94     1               10        E                                          P
Supervision 14    3/95         2              8          E, Agr.E
Supervision 15    7-7/95       2              8          E, Agr.E
Supervision 16    11-12/96     1              6          Agr.E
Supervision 17    2-3/96                      8          Agr.E                                      FM
Supervision 18    7-8/96       1              5          Agr.E                                      FM
-Supervision 19    11/96        1              4          Agr. E.                                                   l
Supervision 20    5/97         1              5          Agr. E.
Supervision 21    11-12/97     1              5          Agr.E.                                                     .
Completion        2/98                                   Agr.E., OA, I; WS;
l_________                    I                          ME; NRM
Specialized skills: E = Economist; IE = Irrigation Engineer; Agr = Agronomist; Env = Environment; P
Procurement Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst;OA = Operations Analyst; I= Rural Infrastructure
Specialist, WS = Rural Water Supply Specialist; ME = Macroeconomist; NRM = Nat. Res. Mgt Specialist;
RR = Resident Representative.
Types of problems: TS = Turnover of staff; AS = Implementating Agency Staffing; P = Procurement; FM
= Financial Management;



34                               APPENDICES
REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
AIDE MEMOIRE
MISSION BANQUE MONDIALE
EVALUATION DE L'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
D'AJUSTEMENT ET D'INVESTISSEMENT DANS LE SECTEUR AGRICOLE
(PASA - CR. 2163-MLI)
(16 fevrier - 06 mars 1998)
INTRODUCTION
Une mission Banque mondiale, dirig6e par M. Eustacius Betubiza et composee de Messrs. Dirk Prevoo
(analyse economique), Abdelghani Inal (pistes rurales), Yao Badjo (hydraulique rurale), Youssouf Thiam
(aspects macro-economiques), Agadiou Dama (gestion des ressources naturelles) et Melle Alexandra
Goffin (collecte de donnees), s'est penchee sur 1'evaluation de l'achevement du Projet d'ajustement et
d'investissement dans le secteur agricole (PASA - Cr. 2163-MLI) du 16 fevrier au 06 mars 1998. La
mission tient A remercier tous les partenaires maliens, pour l'accueil qu'ils lui ont reserve et la
disponibilite dont ils ont fait preuve au cours de cette mission. En plus d'une visite des realisations du
projet du 18 au 23 fevrier 1998 dans les regions CMDT de Bougouni, Sikasso, Koutiala et Fana, la
mission s'est entretenue avec les differents responsables du projet A Bamako du 24 au 27 fevrier.
L'6valuation de cette mission fera l'objet d'un Rapport d'achevement du projet qui sera finalise
prochainement et envoye au gouvernement et aux autres partenaires pour observations. Le gouvernement
a deja complete son propre rapport d'evaluation du projet qui sera annexe au Rapport final de la Banque
mondiale. Le present aide-memoire, qui recapitule ci-dessous les principales conclusions de cette
mission, n'engage la responsabilite que de ses auteurs et devra faire l'objet d'une confirmation par la
Banque mondiale.
RAPPELS DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET
L'Accord de ce credit de six ans a et signe et mise en vigueur fin 1990. Le PASA etait une operation
hybride comportant un volet ajustement et un volet investissements. Le volet investissements faisait
partie d'un programme plus large visant A developper la r6gion sud du Mali, appele Mali-Sud III, et
financ6 par plusieurs bailleurs de fonds. L'objectif general etait d'appuyer et consolider les reformes
sectorielles en cours d'6laboration qui visait A promouvoir la croissance agricole tout en diversifiant la
production et assurant la viabilite du systeme de production.
Les objectifs specifiques du volet ajustement etaient les suivants: (i) ameliorer le systeme national des
incitations pour le secteur du coton afin d'en accroitre l'efficacite, ce qui permettrait de maintenir la
competitivite du coton malien sur les marches internationaux ; (ii) consolider et parfaire le programme de
lib6ralisation du march6 des cereales afin d'assurer une offre adequate de cereales dans toutes les regions
du Mali ; (iii) appuyer le programme gouvernemental de r6formes institutionnelles des Operations de
developpement rural (ODRs) dans le but d'ameliorer les services publics dans les zones rurales et de
reduire la ponction de ces institutions sur le budget de l'Etat; et (iv) assurer l'efficacite du programme
d'investissement public dans le secteur agricole et rendre plus transparents la planification et
l'etablissement des priorites d'investissements agricoles.



35
Les objectifs specifiques du volet investissements etaient les suivants: (i) accroitre la production agricole
(notamment cotonniere et cerealiere) au sud du Mali grace A l'amenagement d'une nouvelle zone, la
region de Bougouni, et A l'amelioration des techniques agricoles de la region traditionnelle Mali-Sud; (ii)
assurer la perennit6 de la production agricole en ameliorant les pratiques de gestion des terres; (iii)
diversifier la production agricole de la region Mali-Sud en mettant l'accent sur la production de mais; et
(iv) ameliorer la transparence et l'etablissement des priorites de planification des investissements de la
Compagnie malienne pour le developpement des textiles (CMDT) et coordonner les activites de
developpement rural de la region avec les programmes nationaux dont est responsable cet organisme.
APPRECIATION DE LA PERFORMANCE DU PROJET
De maniere generale, la conception du projet a et6 satisfaisante et ses objectifs atteints. Les reformes
preconisees ont e  effectuees et les investissements execut6s. L'analyse economique preliminaire faite
au cours de cette mission montre que le taux de rentabilite des investissements estime au moment de
l'6valuation du projet a ete atteint.
Reformes sectorielles
Bien que le PASA ait servi de cadre pour les reformes menees dans le secteur, force est de souligner que
celles-ci ont e  elaborees et effectuees avec l'appui de plusieurs partenaires.
Secteur cotonnier. La taxe a l'exportation a ete supprimee et dans le cadre des contrats-plans, des
mecanismes d'ajustement des prix aux producteurs et pour minimiser les cofits de revient ont ete etablis.
La situation financiere du secteur s'est fortement amelioree grace a, entre autres, une meilleure gestion de
la filiere, de bonnes conditions climatiques durant ces dernieres annees, la devaluation du FCFA de
janvier 1994, I'accroissement des cours mondiaux du coton et I'appreciation du dollar americain. Par
consequent, la production cotonniere pour la campagne 1997/98 s'est elevee A 561.000 tonnes, or, au
moment de l'evaluation du projet en 1990, la production pour la meme campagne 1997/98 etait prevue
aux environs de 310.000 tonnes.
Secteur cer6alier.   Le secteur cerealier avait e   liberalise en  1988, mais des ameliorations
compl6mentaires etaient necessaires pour achever les reformes. Parmi ces ameliorations, les fonctions de
l'Office des produits agricoles du Mali (OPAM) ont ete redefinies pour le limiter A la maintenance du
stock national de securite alimentaire (SNS), la gestion des stocks alimentaires d'urgence et
l'approvisionnement des zones deficitaires en cereales. L'appel A l'aide alimentaire exterieure est de
moins en moins necessaire puisque le Mali devient autosuffisant en production cerealiere grace A de
bonnes conditions climatiques et suite i la liberalisation du secteur qui ont incite une augmentation de la
production cerealiere.
Operations de developpement rural (ODR). Pendant cette periode, un total de huit ODRs qui n'etaient
plus necessaires ont ete dissoutes, d'autres restructurees (Office du Niger, Office riz Segou, Operation
production de semences selectionnees, Operation Haute Vall6e du Niger...), ou privatisees (Operation des
travaux d'equipement rural...). Les ODRs restructurees ont recentre leurs missions, ce qui les a rendu
plus performantes avec une participation accrue des ben6ficiaires dans le financement des services
fournis par ces organismes (par ex. ON, ORS).
Programme d'investissements publics. Dans le contexte du schema directeur de 1992, les priorites
d'investissement du secteur ont e  identifiees pour guider le choix des investissements dans le secteur.
La planification et le suivi des investissements publics avaient et6 ameliores avec l'ex6cution d'un
systeme national de planification et de suivi pour tous les secteurs. Le gouvernement prepare chaque



36
annee un programme triennal d'investissement glissant pour le secteur agricole. Le premier PIP couvrait
la periode de 1992 A 1994. II etait axe sur une decentralisation progressive et un desengagement continu
de i'Etat des activites de developpement qui peuvent 8tre transf6rees au secteur prive, en particulier les
organisations de producteurs.  Les investissements inclus dans le PIP visaient A augmenter la
competitivite des produits agricoles maliens. De maniere generale, le processus de I'elaboration du PIP
qui ne constitue qu'une consolidation des projets/programmes en cours ne reflete pas forcement le
resultat d'un processus systematique de prioritisation. La mission a e  informer que le gouvernement en
est conscient, et qu'il est en train d'elaborer des programmes prioritaires d'investissements pour the cinq
ans A venir auxquels s'accorderaient les differents projets d'investissements dans le secteur.
Investissements
Ces investissements ont ete effectues dans le cadre du programme Mali-Sud III qui devait coute 71,3
million de dollars E.U. au moment de l'evaluation. Ce financement devait etre assure par, entre autres,
les gouvernements de la R6publique f6derale d'Allemagne (2,9 millions de dollars E.U.), des Pays-Bas
(5,2 millions de dollars E.U.), de la Suisse (6,9 millions de dollars E.U.), du Mali (3,3 millions de dollars
E.U.), de la France (la Caisse centrale francaise de cooperation economique et le Fonds d'aide et de
cooperation - 36,9 millions de dollars E.U.) et de la Banque mondiale (53,0 million de dollars) E.U.).'
Pistes rurales ($9.6 millions IDA ; $0.5 million Govt). L'IDA devait financer l'amelioration et la
construction d'environ 500 km de pistes rurales dans la region de Bougouni et l'amelioration de 390 km
de pistes rurales dans la region de Sikasso pour un total de 890 km. Finalement, 918 km de pistes rurales
ont ete construits ou r6habilites (196 km cofinances avec la BOAD). Des pistes supplementaires (298
km) ont ete financees par la cooperation bilaterale francaise. L'execution du volet de pistes rurales a
connu des delais causes par la pr6paration inadequate des documents d'appels d'offres. Les travaux ont
6t6 realises de maniere satisfaisante par les entreprises.
Hydraulique villageoise ($6.6 millions IDA; $0.4 million Govt). Bien que 450 puits avaient ete construits
dans le cadre du programme precedent (Mali Sud II), certaines collectivitds locales avaient abandonne
leurs points d'eau et les associations d'usagers s'6taient dissoutes car les pompes installees n'6taient pas
bien adaptees aux circonstances locales (le materiel choisi avait contamine l'eau). Le PASA a donc eu
comme condition de decaissement le remplacement de toutes les pompes installees sous Mali-Sud II et
l'assurance de leur entretien, ce qui a ete complete avant la mise en vigueur du credit.
Les decaissements pour les besoins de cette composante de 450 puits supplementaires dans le cadre de
Mali Sud III devaient etre subordonnes A la creation de 250 associations d'usagers. Une dvaluation
complete des associations d'usagers a e  menee comme prevue en 1991/92. La realisation des points
d'eau a e  retardee a cause de la lente constitution des associations d'usagers, la condition de
d6caissement ntayant ete satisfaite qu'en mars 1993.
L'approvisionnement en eau potable etait en grande demande dans les villages, avec 1.331 requetes
recues par la CMDT pour un total de 1.391 puits, parmi lesquelles 1.126 requ8tes ont ete examinees et
1.061 contrats sign6s. Les beneficiaires ont paye un forfait de 250.000 FCFA pour les couzts de forage et
d'equipement et ont fourni la main d'ceuvre pour certaines activites. Sous le programme Mali-Sud III,
parmi les 941 pompes a motricite humaine et 29 pompes solaires construites, l'IDA a finance 917 forages
'Durant I'execution du programme, (a) d'autres bailleurs de fonds non cites tel que la BOAD y ont
participe; et (b) dans certains cas les montants cites pour les differents bailleurs de fonds ont ete
ajustes.



37
de ces puits (dont 770 positifs, soit un taux de succes de 84 pour cent) et l'equipement de 319 des pompes
A motricite humaine et de 11 des pompes solaires. La CMDT et les beneficiaires ont finance l'installation
des 440 pompes manuelles restantesl. La Banque ouest africaine de developpement (BOAD) et le Fonds
africain de developpement ont conjointement finance le forage et l'equipement de 200 puits (182 avec
pompes manuelles et 18 pompes solaires).
Le couit par puits s'est eleve de 3,5 millions de FCFA pour un puits traditionnel avec pompe A motricite
humaine A entre 44 et 72 millions de FC1FA pour un systeme de pompe solaire avec plusieurs
distributeurs. Les pompes solaires ont ete installees pour tester leur compatibilite et fonctionnement dans
1'environnement malien. Les cofits annuels d'entretien varient de 110.000 FCFA pour une pompe
manuelle A de 1,2 A 1,7 millions de FCFA pour une pompe solaire.
Gestion des terroirs ($1.9 millions IDA ; 14 millions Pays-Bas; $0.1 million Govt).  Un Service
d'amenagement des terroirs a et6 cre6 A la CMDT ayant pour objectifs le suivi et 1P6valuation de plusieurs
projets de gestion des terroirs executes dans la region Mali-Sud. En se basant sur l'experience des projets
pilotes, la CMDT a participe A Pdlaboration de la politique nationale de gestion de terroirs et a travaille
etroitement avec la Cellule nationale pour la lutte contre la Desertification (Ministere de
l'Environnement). Une methode d'evaluation participative a ete developpee comme outil pour identifier
et aider les villages avec l'ex6cution de leurs plans de gestion des ressources naturelles. Des agents
vulgarisateurs ont ete formes sur ces techniques de gestion dans la region vulnerable de San.
Dans la region CMDT de Bougouni, une operation de gestion des terroirs villageois devait etre entreprise
au niveau d'une vingtaine d'associations villageoises. L'objectif vise etait de donner a cinq collectivites
locales l'enti&re responsabilite de la gestion des ressources naturelles. A la cl6ture du projet, un total de
25 villages A Bougouni ont prepare des plans de gestion des terres.
Un cadre de concertation des services techniques (au niveau cercle , niveau arrondissement) appuye par
la section amenagement des terroirs a applique une approche participative de planification de la gestion
des ressources naturelles dont les differentes etapes sont: la preparation (la prise de contact avec le
village, information /sensibilisation des villageois par la methode GRAP), un diagnostic global
participatif (DGP), des diagnostics specifiques thematiques( DST), planification, organisation des
populations, formation des acteurs, l'execution et le suivi-evaluation.
Les actions concretes ont e  realisees dans le domaine: de la gestion de la fertilite des sols, de la lutte
anti-erosive, du reboissement, de la protection de la foret, de la lutte contre les feu de brousse, et meme
de la gestion des parcours (cas du village de Tiekoumala en concertation avec 6 communautes voisines)
et de points d'eau. Les effets sont visibles, mais pour arr8ter la degradation et inverser la tendance il faut
des realisations plus importantes sur le moyen et le long terme de la part des populations avec le soutien
des techniciens. Les mesures de recouvrement des cofits d'entretien et d'amortissement ne sont pas
adequates: il est toujours fait reference A la caisse de l'AV qui ne pourrait tout prendre en charge etant
donne que toutes les activites du village font appel au meme fonds (sante, education, eau, etc...). La
CMDT assure pour le court terme le suivi des comites dejA crees.
Aucun comite villageois de gestion des terroirs (CVGT) n'est autonome dans la gestion de son terroir, ne
jouissant pas d'une existence legale; les codes actuels ne le permettent pas encore. Les comites inter-
villageois sont inities, mais ils sont trop jeunes (cas de Tiekoumala pour la gestion des parcours).
Ces pompes manuelles n'ont pas pu etre financees par le credit IDA car les directives de passation des marches de
la Banque mondiale n'avaient pas ete respectees.



38
Au cours de la mise en oeuvre du projet, 7 villages dans la region CMDT de Fana ont prepare des plans
de gestion des terres. Le comite de concertation beneficie depuisjanvier 1997 d'un appui d'un bureau
d'appui conseil prive (AGE-MALI) pour la mise en oeuvre des actions de gestion des terroirs. AGE-
MALI dispose pour le faire de 5 cadres: I agronome amenagiste, I agronome formateur, 1 agro-
economiste, I agropastoraliste et I Agroforestier. Un plus des activites de maintien du potentiel
productif et les activites generatrices de revenu qui y ont ete developpees, un fonds de gestion des
ressources naturelles (FGRN) a e  mis en place. Le credit a certains exploitants sous la gestion du
CVGT et du cadre de concertation sera rembourse et sera reinjecte dans le village. Les echeances n'etant
pas arrivees, la capacit6 de gestion du CVGRN dans le futur n'etant pas connue, et en I'absence d'une
structure permante de suivi, nous ne pouvons pas nous prononcer sur la perennite de ce fonds.
Sur le montant depense de 191 millions F CFA, environ 56 % ( 15 millions par village) ont et investi
dans les villages et le reste pour le fonctionnement de l'equipe d'animation (13%) et du bureau AGE-
MALI (8 millions/village, soit 31%).
Des activites d'amenagement de bas-fonds ont ete executees dans 92 sites (compares a 10 comme prevu a
l1'valuation), en construisant des petits ponts pour la r6tention d'eau, a un cofit moyen l'unite de 6 a 7
millions de FCFA. Les villages ont fourni la main d'cuvre et, dans certains cas, paye les coQits de
construction. L'amenagement des bas-fonds etait suppose beneficier les femmes en particulier.
Ces amenagements ont assure une meilleure ma^itrise de l'eau et cree de meilleures conditions
d'intensification de la production. Malgre l'existence de ressource financiere dans le projet pour le
recrutement d'agents vulgarisation feminins et 1'engagement de la CMDT a remplir la mission de service
public ( formation en maraichage, amenagement des bas-fonds, production rizicole, femme/
developpement), les appuis attendus par les femmes n'ont pas ete apportes et les amenagements n'ont pas
ete bien rentabilis6s. Pour assurer la perennite aucune mesure de recouvrement des cofits n'a ete mise au
niveau des b6n6ficiaires.
Vulgarisation ($1.8 millions IDA ; $0.3 million Allemagne ; $0.3 million Govt). Du personnel de
vulgarisation supplementaire etait necessaire pour realiser les activites prevues dans le PASA. L'IDA
devait financer leur formation pour s'assurer que l'accent soit mis sur le maintien de la fertilite des sols et
les agricultrices. Au cours de l'execution du programme, ce volet a ete pris en charge par la Caisse
Fran9aise de Developpement.
La CMDT devait etablir 150 nouvelles associations villageoises dans la region de Bougouni, en utilisant
la meme approche que dans la region Mali-Sud oui environ 1.200 associations villageoises avaient ete
creees durant le projet Mali-Sud II. Ces associations devaient etre en mesure d'assumer peu a peu les
taches pr6sentement effectuees par la CMDT. A la fin du projet, plus de 500 associations avaient ete
crees. Ces associations comme les plus anciennes ont besoins de formation en gestion de leurs activites
surtout en matiere de recouvrement des cofits de leurs investissements en vue de les perenniser.
Diversifications des productions agricoles ($0.5 million IDA; $0.5 million Pays Bas). Le projet avait
prevu un fonds g&e par la CMDT pour soutenir des initiatives des AV, des ONGs, des structures locales
et des prives dans le domaine de la production, transformation, commercialisation de nouvelles
speculations. Neanmoins, cette composante n'a pas et executee. Plus recemment, quelques actions
timides de diversification, eu egard aux potentialites de la Zone CMDT, se realisent ( cas du pois sucre).
LECONS/RECOMMANDATIONS



39
Le projet a largement atteint ses objectifs. Cependant, les problemes suivants meritent une attention
particuliere pour consolider les gains acheves.
Reformes Sectorielles
1. Le secteur cotonnier
(a) Bien que la performance du secteur cotonnier se soit fortement amnlioree pendant la periode du
projet, les producteurs maliens recoivent toujours un des prix aux producteurs les plus bas de la
sous-region. Il est recommande que durant la prochaine revision du contrat-plan, non seulement le
prix-plancher et les benefices des producteurs soient augmentes, mais aussi qu'un mecanisme plus
flexible d'ajustement du prix soit concu pour eviter de mettre les producteurs dans une position
desavantageuse pendant une longue periode.
(b) Beaucoup a e  fait pour multiplier le nombre des associations villageoises et pour les renforcer,
mais peu de progres a e  realise en terme de transfert des responsabilites de la CMDT aux
associations, comme par exemple, I'approvisionnement en intrants comme convenu dans le
contrat-plan. Plus d'effort est requis dans ce domaine.
(c) La programmation et la gestion financieres de la CMDT se sont fortement ameliorees au cours des
six dernieres annees. Cependat, beaucoup reste A faire, et la CMDT continue A sortir les audits des
comptes avec plus d'un an de retard. La decentralisation et l'informatisation de son syteme de
gestion financiere pourront ameliorer cet defience. Il est reitere que la CMDT s'investisse
beaucoup dans ce domaine vital.
(d) La CMDT devrait continuer A chercher des moyens pour reduire ses couts de production et pour
augmenter les recettes de la filiere. Un cas en particulier est le bas prix auquel les graines de
coton sont cedees A une filiale de la CMDT, HUICOMA, ce qui denie aux producteurs une source
de benefice potentielle. En outre, les contr6les actuels sur le marche de l'aliment betail fabrique A
partir des graines de coton continuent A rendre le secteur inefficace au detriment des producteurs
de coton, de l'HUICOMA et des eleveurs de betail. La mission reitere sa recommandation sur
laquelle la Banque, le Gouvernement et la CMDT avaient convenu pendant la mission de
decembre 1997, selon laquelle le Gouvenement et la CMDT allaient commanditer un audit
technique de la filiere avec pour but de chercher les mecanismes de reduction des coats de la
filiere et d'augmentation de ses recettes. Une telle analyse devrait servir de base des discussions
sur le prochain contrat-plan et l'avenir de la filiere.
(e) Bien que la production de cotton ait augmente pendant les 4 dernieres annees, le rendement au
champ n'a pas evolue. Il est est recommande que le causes de cette stagnation soient analysees, et
les mesures appropriees soient mises en place pour acroitre le rendement, y compris un fort
programme du maintien du potentiel productif des sols.
2. Programmes d'Investissements Publics
Le schema directeur qui a ete elabore en 1992 a besoin d'etre mis A jour pour le rendre plus adapte A la
situation actuelle. Les m6canismes systematiques pour assurer que tous les nouveaux investissements
soient conformes aux priorites de l'Etat ont besoin d'etre ameliores.
Investissements



40
1. Pistes rurales.
L'entretien routier est effectue en regie par la CMDT, ce qui n'est peut-&re pas la methode la plus
economique. Il est recommande que les prives soient fortement impliques. De plus, le plan d'entretien
manque de programmation et de d6finition des responsabilit6s du gouvernement, de la CMDT et des
communautes locales, ce qui devrait 8tre 6labore. Au plan national, le problme d'entretien des pistes
rurales continue A se poser. Dans le cadre du programme RTTP, le Mali definira une politique national
en la matiere. Il est recommande dgalement que cette polique soit mise en place avant la 1'ex6cution du
volet pistes rurales du Programme National des Infrastructures Rurales.
2. Hydraulique villageoise
Bien que les associations d'usagers aient ete creees dans chaque communaute ou un puits a e  construit,
le systeme sense responsabiliser ces associations pour assurer 1'entretien et l'amortissement des puits a
besoin d'8tre renforce pour assurer sa viabilite A long terme. A l'heure actuelle, il y a pas de systeme de
suivi dans le sous-secteur pour veiller A ce que tout les comites continuent a jouer leurs roles et les
problemes qui emergent soient trait6s. Ce n'est pas evident, par exemple, quels seront les r6les des
communes, et les directions techniques du MDRE telles que la Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Energie qui a l'expertise en la matiere mais qui n'a pas d'agents a la base, et la Direction Nationale
d'Amenagement et d'Equipement Rural qui les a mais n'est pas specilialisee en la matiere. Un atelier
pour actualiser la politique nationale nationale d'approvissionnement en eau potable est prevu pour fin
avril 1998. II est imperatif que cette polique soit mise en place avant la pr&evaluation du Programme
National des Infrastructures Rurales (PNIR) actuellement en preparation.
3. Gestion des terroirs
Pour la poursuite de I'appui technique, la disponibilit6 des budgets de fonctionnement suffisant au niveau
des services du MDRE devrait 8tre envisagee au niveau de l'Etat. II est sug&e que la possibilite d'un
transfert progressif vers les ONGs et bureaux d'etudes avec prise en charge par les communes A long
terme sur les recettes g6nerees par la gestion des ressources naturelles (taxes, penalites, droits
d'exploitation etc..), par exemple, soit examinee.
Bas-Fonds: Les mesures d'accompagnement n'etant pas assurees (conseil agricole, approvisionnement
en semences selectionnees, engrais, etc.), tout le potentiel economique de ces bas-fonds n'est pas utilise,
d'oiu le besoin d'un support complementaire pour aider ces communautes A pleinement mettre en valeur
ces bas-fonds. Les discussions dejA engagees avec la CMDT en la matiere, en tant qu'institution qui
assure le conseil agricole dans la zone, devraient 8tre poursuivies.
4. Diversifications des productions agricoles
La CMDT a certes un avantage comparatif pour promouvoir Iles speculations du systeme coton dans le
cadre d'une rotation, mais elle l'est moins quand it s'agit des autres cultures qui ne concourent pas A sa
mission premiere de promouvoir la filiere coton. La DNAMR ou d'autres intervenants seront plus
indiques.



41
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE PROJET
REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
PROJET D'AJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL AGRICOLE (PASA)
(Cr6dit 2163-ML)
Evaluation de I'Emprunteur



42
Acronymes et Abr6viations
ACDI           Agence Canadienne pour le Developpement International
BAD            Banque Africaine de Developpement
BOAD           Banque Ouest Africaine pour le Developpement
CFD            Caisse Francaise pour le Developpement
CMDT           Compagnie Malienne de Developpement des Textiles
CPS            Cellule de Planification et de Statistique
DGP            Diagnostic Global Participatif
DP             Diagnostic Participatif
DNSI           Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique
DTS            Droits de Tirages Speciaux
EPA            Etablissement; Publie a caractere Administratif
EPIC           Etablissement Public a caractbre Industriel et Commercial
ECOFIL         Economie des Filieres
FAD            Fonds Africain pour le Developpement
FAO            Food and Alimentation Organisation
GRN            Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
G.T.V          Gestion des Terroirs Villageois
H.V.C          Hors Vocation Centrale
IDA            International Development Aid
IER            Institut d'Economie Rurale
MDRE           Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Eau
MAP            Matrice d'Analyse de Politiques
ODIK           Office de Developpement Integre du Kaarta
ODIMO          Office de Developpement Integre du Mali Ouest
ODR            Operation de Developpement Rural
OHVN           Office de la Haute Vallee du Niger
ON             Office Niger
ONG            Organisation Non Gouvernementale
OPAM           Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali
ORM            Office Riz Mopti
ORS            Office Riz Segou
OTER           Operation des Travaux d'Equipement Rural
PASA           Projet d'Ajustement Sectoriel Agricole
PAS            Programme d'Ajustement Structurel
PGRN           Projet de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles
PIB            Produit Interieur Brut
PNAE           Plan National d'Action Environnementale
PNT            Phosphate Naturel du Tilemsi
PRMC           Projet de Restructuration du Marche Cerealier
SAP            Systeme d'Alerte Precoce
SDSR           Schema Directeur du Secteur Developpement Rural
SIM            Systeme d'Information du Marche
SNS            Stock National de S6curite
SSN            Service Semencier National
TCI            Taxe Conjoncturelle d'Importation
UEMOA          Union Monetaire et Economique de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
V.C.           Vocation Centrale



43
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE PRO/JET
REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
PROJET D'AJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL AGRICOLE (PASA)
(Credit 2163-ML)
TABLE DES MATIERES
Page
Acronymes et Abr6viations .......................................................................                                                                                                                    42
Introduction .......................................................................                                                                                                                                 44
L es objectifs du PASA .......................................................................                                                                                                                       44
Programme pour atteindre les objectifs .......................................................................                                                                                                       45
D6veloppement rural du Mali-Sud .......................................................................                                                                                                          45
Appui institutionnel .......................................................................                                                                                                                     45
Analyse des resultats atteints .......................................................................                                                                                                               46
Le coton ..........................................................................                                                                                                                              46
Les c6r6ales .......................................................................                                                                                                                             47
La diversification des cultures .......................................................................                                                                                                          48
La gestion des terroirs villageois .......................................................................                                                                                                       48
Programme de d6veloppement rural de Bougouni ..........................................................................                                                                                          49
Infrastructures rurales ..........................................................................                                                                                                               50
Hydraulique villageoise ..........................................................................                                                                                                           50
Volet pistes rurales ..........................................................................                                                                                                              50
Appui I nstitutionnel .......................................................................                                                                                                                    50
Restructuration de l'OPAM .......................................................................                                                                                                            50
Restructuration des operations de developpement rural .......................................................................                                                                                51
Le Contrat-Plan Etat-CMDT-Producteurs .......................................................................                                                                                                52
Modalit6s Definancement des Activites du Projet .......................................................................                                                                                      52
Lecons tir6es .......................................................................                                                                                                                                54
Orientations pour                           la nouv elle phase .......................................................................                                                                               55



44
Introduction
1.      La presente etude s'inscrit dans le cadre de I'Accord de Credit de Developpement signe le 25 Juillet 1990 entre la
Republique du Mali et l'Association Internationale de Developpement (IDA), en vue de la realisation d'un Projet d'Ajustement du
Secteur Agricole et d'Investissement (PASA). Le Gouvemement du Mali, l'emprunteur selon les termes de ..... Ce rapport sera
partie integrante du rapport final sur d'execution du projet, lequel sera produit sous l'egide de la Banque Mondiale. L'equipe
d'auto-evaluation etait forte de six (6) cadres sous la supervision du Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Eau. Les activites
ont ete coordonnees par la Cellule de Planification et de Statistique du meme departement (cf.; voir liste en annexe). Des
personnes ressources ayant ete concemres par le pilotage du PASA ou de l'une des composantes mais egalement par le phasage
institutionnel et politique des activites de ce projet avec les autres actions gouvemementales ont participe aux phases cles de
l'auto-evaluation (reformes institutionnelles du MDRE, de la CMDT et de l'OPAM, le montage du PASA, la coordination des
politiques et programmes de gestion des ressources naturelles au niveau national). L'evaluation a ete menee en etroite
collaboration avec la Compagnie Malienne de Developpement des Textiles (CMDT) qui est liee par un Accord de Pret
Subsidiaire A l'Etat pour la realisation du dit projet. Le mandat de lrequipe est conforme au contenu des termes de reference joint
en annexes.
Les objectifs du PASA
2.      Objectifs globaux: soutenir et consolider les plans de l'emprunteur visant A diversifier et a maintenir la production
agricole; accroltre et diversifier la production agricole de la partie meridionale du territoire de l'emprunteur grace A des
investissements, A l'amelioration des pratiques culturales et A la gestion des ressources naturelles; dtant donnee l'importance
cruciale des cereales et du coton dans le secteur agricole du Mali, le programme de reforme est axe tout d'abord sur ces deux
secteurs; le programme d'ajustement appuiera egalement la formulation d'une strategie de gestion des ressources naturelles, ainsi
que la preparation d'autres reformes concernant les operations de developpement rural (ODR).
3.      Objectifs speciflques: Programme de reforme: amdliorer le systeme national des incitations pour le secteur du coton
afin d'en accroitre l'efficacite, ce qui permettra de maintenir la competitivite sur les marches internationaux; consolider et affiner
le programme de liberalisation du marche des cereales afin d'assurer une offre adequate de cereales dans toutes les regions du
Mali; appuyer le programme gouvernemental de rdformes institutionnelles des operations de developpement rural dans le but
d'ameliorer les services publics dans les zones rurales et de reduire la ponction de ces institutions sur le budget de l'ttat; assurer
l'efficacite du programme d'investissement publie pour le secteur agricole; rendre plus transparents la planification et
l'tablissement des priorites d'investissement agricole.  Programme d'investissement: accroltre la production agricole
(notamment de coton et de cereales) au sud du Mali grace A I'amenagement d'une nouvelle zone, la region de Bougouni et A
l'amelioration des techniques agricoles de la region traditionnelle du programme Mali-Sud; assurer la p6rennite de la production
agricole en ameliorant les pratiques de la gestion des terres; diversifier la production agricole de la region Mali-Sud en mettant
l'accent sur la production de mais; ameliorer la transparence et I'tablissement des priorites deplanification des investissements de
la CMDT et coordonner les activites de developpement rural de la region avec les programmes nationaux dont cet organisme est
responsable.
4.      Les repercussions attendues. Dans le sous secteur du coton: fournir des stimulants A la CMDT pour l1encourager A
maximiser ses profits en lui permettant de garder une portion importante de ses recettes d'exportation qu'elle pourrait soit
reinvestir, soit distribuer A ses actionnaires; etablir une distinction claire entre ses activites commerciales et ses activitds de
ddveloppement rural. Pour les activites commerciales, la CMDT agirait A ses propres risques, alors que les activites de
developpement rural seraient realisees pour le compte de l'Etat et financees sur le budget public lier le prix A la production aux
cours mondiaux en payant une prime au producteur lorsque les cours mondiaux augmentent et en abaissant le prix plancher si le
secteur cotonnier est deficitaire pendant deux campagnes consecutives; etablir un fonds cotonnier pour proteger les prix A la
production des fluctuations A court terme; remplacer la taxe A l'exportation du coton et les autres mesures dimposition inelastique
par un impot sur les benefices de la CMDT; accroissement des revenus et des recettes en devises. Dans le sous secteur des
cerdales: appuyer la liberation totale des prie A la production et A la consommation des cereales traditionnelles; liberaliser les
exportations de cereales; limiter le r6le de l'Office de commercialisation des cereales du Mali (OPAM) A la gestion du stock
national de securitd, A la fourniture de cereales aux zones deficitaires et A la gestion de laide alimentaire d'urgence; maintenir le
stock de securite de cereales A un niveau approprie et elaborer la reglementation) L'OPAM concernant l'achat et la vente de ce
stock sur les marches interieurs; definition d'une zone deficitaire oui l'OPAM vendrait des cereales aux prix du marche et etablir
les regles de determination de ces prix; reorganisation l'OPAM pour comprimer ses couts de fonctionnement; preciser les
arrangements administratifs liant l'OPAM et le systeme de d'aide alimentaire d'urgence pour assurer la distribution des cereales A
moindre coAt aux populations cibles et dont le pouvoir d'achat est nul; distribuer les cdreales de facon plus efficace, reduire les
marges intermediaires et donc aboutir A des gains de revenu tant pour les consommateurs que pour les producteurs. Dans le



45
domaine des investissements: accroitre la production de coton, de cereales et de certaines cultures mineures; A Bougouni, les
possibilites accrues de production agricole en fournissanl: une zone oui pourraient s'installer les immigrants du nord du pays et oil
la capacite de charge et les sols s'epuisent.
5.     Indicateurs du PASA:  Les mesures incitatives vont bien au delA du seul secteur cotonnier. C'est pourquoi, les
indicateurs de performances de l'conomie (taux de croissance de l'economie, valeurs ajoutees des secteurs, contribution des
secteurs au PIB) seront utilises pour mieux apprecier la contribution du PASA. Concernant les objectifs specifiques, les
indicateurs retenus se rapportent beaucoup plus aux objectifs quantifids du projet, et aux indicateurs de realisation budgdtaire
ainsi qu'aux rdsultats de certaines filieres. Les indicateurs se repartissent entre quatre groupes conformement aux objectifs
:Accroissement des revenus des producteurs: revenus des producteurs , sources de revenus , rentabilite financiere et
economique; Accroissement des recettes d'exportation:  recettes d'exportation du coton, du betail et de l'or. Diminution du
soutien de l'Etat: formation brute de capital; autofinancement; evolution du financement exterieur. Efficacitd des services
charges des missions publiques: resultats de la restructuration des services du MDRE.
Programme pour atteindre les objectifs
Developpement rural du Mali-Sud
6.      Programmes exp6rimentaux de mise en valeur et de diversification: Reorientation de la recherche adaptative sur
des technologies experimentales; developpement de la production, du traitement et de la commercialisation de nouvelles cultures
complementaires au coton. Am6lioration des programmes de gestion des terroirs et des services de vulgarisation:
action de suivi et d'evaluation recyclage et renforcement des services de vulgarisation, introduction de mesures de gestion des
ressources naturelles; creation de programmes d'action permettant la promotion des organisations villageoises. Amelioration du
systeme d'approvisionnement en eau en milieu rural : construction de quelques 450 systemes d'alimentation en eau des
villages; Pistes Rurales: Amelioration de quelques 390 km de pistes rurales dans la zone de Sikasso; Audits et etudes pour la
CMDT; Developpement rural int6gr6 regional de Bougouni: Augmentation de l'utilisation du materiel et des intrants
agricoles, amelioration des pratiques culturales, renforcement des services de vulgarisation; amelioration de la production de
I'blevage et intdgration de celle-ci dans les op6rations agricoles, developpement des institutions villageoises, formation des
exploitants et des agents de vulgarisation, appui aux activites des femmes, creation d'un projet pilote de gestion des terroirs
villageois, soutien au systeme de recherche en vue de la diversification de l'agriculture, rehabilitation de quelques 500 km de
pistes de desserte.
Appui institutionnel
7.      Restructuration des operations de developpement rural, etude de mecanisme complementaire au fond coton au niveau
des institutions; creation d'une cellule de coordination au ministere de l'Environnement et de I'Elevage pour I'appui aux etudes
menant a des reformes de l'amenagement des ressources naturelles; audits. Le programme comprend donc des mesures de
reformes sectorielles centres sur les sous secteurs du coton et des cereales, ainsi que certaines reformes des institutions et des
mesures concemant la gestion des ressources naturelles. II prevoit egalement des investissements au Mali Sud III. Le PASA est
un projet hybride qui repose sur les quatre (4) grands groupes d'actions ou mesures ci-apres: les mesures de reformes sectorielles
(coton, cdreales); les mesures de refonnes institutionnelles; les mesures relatives A la gestion des ressource naturelles; les
investissements. Les composantes du PASA portent sur la realisation de reformes sectorielles et d'investissements dans le Mali
Sud, la concretisation de mesures macro economiques, l'identification et la realisation d'etudes afferentes particulierement aux
reformes sectorielles, institutionnelles ainsi qu'A la gestion des ressources naturelles. Les composantes tiennent de par leur
complementarite et la synergie qui existent entre elles. Elle sont structurees comme ci-dessous
8.      La composante "reformes sectorielles" conceme les sous-composantes (coton, cereales, reformes des institutions et
gestion des ressources naturelles). La composante "investissements" sera realisee dans les zones d'intervention, anciennes
(Koutiala, Sikasso, Fana, San) aussi bien que nouvelles (Bougouni et Kita) selon des programmes et volets identifies au prealable
et qui portent pour l'essentiel sur les pistes rurales (amelioration de quelques 390 km dans la zone de Sikasso et l'hydraulique
villageoise. Les mesures macro-economiques comportent essentiellement des mesures budgetaires et monetaires bien identifiees
dans le rapport d'evaluation finale du projet mais dont certaines, telle la devaluation de 1994, sont egalement concernees par
l'objet de la presente evaluation. Les quelques domaines d'etudes identifies dans le rapport d'evaluation finale avant le
fmancement du projet mais sans que leur nombre soit ndcessairement limite portent sur les etudes de restructuration des ODRs, la
participation des producteurs au fonds cotonnier et au capital de la CMDT, les dtudes sur les politiques sectorielles et de reformes
ainsi que divers audits.



46
9.      La consistance du PASA (cf.; Schema I ci-apres) vise surtout A assurer la croissance et le developpement du secteur
agricole en general et de la zone Mali-Sud en particulier un processus d'ajustement et d'investissement. L'ajustement sectoriel
consistait A adopter une Iegislation plus incitative dans le domaine de 1'exportation et de l'importation des produits agricoles. En
ce qui concerne le coton, il s'est agi dans un premier temps de suspendre la taxe d'exportation sur ce produit et d'appliquer l'imp6t
sur les benefices industriel et commercial de la CMDT et d'affiner dans un second temps le mecanisme de stabilisation ainsi que
les mesures concemres par un "pilotage aval" de cette filiere apres avoir apporte une clarification des depenses dans le sens de les
traiter suivant qu'elles soient tout specifiquement concemres par la filiere coton (V.C) ou par les activites de developpement rural
(V.H.C). Pour mieux renforcer ces mesures tant au niveau national que de la zone Mali Sud, des contrats plans specifiques ont
ete elabores et adoptes. Trois categories de contrat-plans sont concemres, d'un c6te, le Contrat-plan CMDT-Etat et de l'autre le
Contrat-plan Etat-OPAM et les Contrat-Plans Etat-Offices de Developpement Rural (ORS, ORM, ODIMO, ODIK, OHVN, SSN
et OTER). Les autres reformes institutionnelles concernent la structuration du milieu rural et la gestion des ressources naturelles.
11 est attendu au terme de l'ex6cution du projet un transfert d'activites (amenagement, gestion , commercialisation et
transformation), jusque lA souvent exclusives aux services et institutions charges du developpement rural aux producteurs et
prives. Une enveloppe a 6te prevue A cet effet pour realiser des etudes d'accompagnement et de faisabilite de ces nouvelles
initiatives. A la faveur de la disparition de certains organismes de developpement rural et de la mise sous contrat de six autres, il
est egalement attendu une meilleure efficience dans l'utilisation des ressources nationales (terres, capitaux) en meme temps qu'une
cellule de coordination des activites visant A deaborer des politiques de gestion des ressources naturelles et de l'environnement.
10.     Les investissements concement surtout la zone d'intervention de la CMDT et portent sur les pistes rurales (1217 km),
I'hydraulique villageoise (450 nouveaux points d'eau) et l'amenagement des bas-fonds, notamment dans la region de Bougouni.
Cette region dispose d'une superficie totale de bas-fonds de 23 720 ha. Le projet a prevu l'ouverture de nouvelles pistes et
l'amenagement de bas fonds ameliores dans la region de Bougouni. Cette region dispose un appreciable potentiel en terres
acquises sur les zones liberees de l'onchocercose et en sites pour amenager les bas fonds exploites par les femmes. Les autres
regions CMDT sont plut6t concemrs par les pistes et leur maintenance que par le developpement de la riziculture de bas fonds
sauf Sikasso. Contrairement aux autres composantes, I'hydraulique villageoise interesse toutes les regions et portent sur la
rehabilitation des anciens points d'eau realises sur Mali Sud 11 ainsi que la realisation de nouveaux points d'eau. Le volet pistes
rurales A part, la realisation des autres composantes envisageait le developpement de structures villageoises capables de gerer et
d'exploiter ces investissements. Toutefois A cause des reformes sectorielles et institutionnelles, les modalites de mise en oeuvre du
PASA ont ete etayees de plusieurs sortes de conditionnalites requerant un suivi et une collaboration entre les differentes
institutions de l'Etat, d'oui le caractere hybride du projet.
11.     C'est ainsi que le departement de tutelle du PASA est le Ministere Charge du Developpement Rural et en depit du fait
qu'il soit une composante essentielle du programme global d'ajustement structurel dont le suivi est ailleurs assure par le Ministere
Charge de l'Economie, des Finances et du Plan. Sur un autre plan, l'execution des nombreuses conditionnalites et leur maitrise
constituent en soi d'autres resultats attendus de 1'ex6cution du projet.
Analyse des resultats atteints
Le coton
12.     Les objectifs de production et de superficie sont atteints et m8me depasses au cours des dernieres annees du projet. A
noter surtout que I'accroissement de la production cotonniere est plut6t lid A celui de la surface cultivee en coton, laquelle ne cesse
d'augmenter chaque annee. La progression des surfaces coton s'explique par des facteurs socio-economiques suivants
I'augmentation du nombre des exploitations nouvelles suite A 1'eclatement des grandes unites d e production familiales
l'immigration des populations venues du Nord et de l'Est; I' augmentation de la surface moyenne par exploitation. Le defi reste
toujours comment garantir l'intensification de cette culture simultanement avec l'obtention de gains de productivite et une
limitation des surfaces moyennes par exploitation. Les superficies cultivees en cereales et en legumineuse representent avec le
coton, la quasi totalite des cultures de la zone Mali-Sud (Graphe A - annexe). Les autres cultures ne realisent que 1% des surfaces
cultivdes. La progression de la culture cotonniere s'est faite A la fois par augmentation de la superficie globale cultivee mais
surtout au detriment des jacheres, des legumineuses et autres cultures, mais pas ou tres peu des cereales, car ces dernieres sont
elles aussi en progression. En 1996, le pourcentage de coton cultive sur la superficie totale represente 37% de la sudperficie des
exploitations cotonnieres dans les regions de Fana et Sikasso, 33% A Koutiala et 25% A Bougouni. Ces chiffres etaient en 1989
de 28% A Fana, 31% A Sikasso et A Koutiala, 26% A Bougouni, et 20% A San. Les options prises au debut du projet prevoyaient la
diminution de la sole coton de (15 A 12%) et des soles reservees aux cereales de 44 A 38%.
13.     Les rendements observes semblent etre influences par le niveau d'equipement des exploitations; il est plus eleve dans
une exploitation equipee et est different d'une region A l'autre. Ces observations laissent A penser que d'autres contraintes pesent,



47
en particulier sur les exploitations non ou peu equipees pour la culture attelee. Ces observations corroborent comme certaines
hypotheses selon lesquelles la voie royale de l'intensification passe par le theme de culture attelee. Les revenus des chefs
d'exploitation se repartissent suivant la structure sociale en place. lls sont tres diversifies et domines par le coton. L'equipement de
l'exploitation influence les sources de revenus. Plus 1'exploitation est grande, elle est mieux equipee et tire profit de ses
ressources agricoles. A l'inverse, les exploitations mal equipees, sont les plus petites et le plus souvent obligees de faire appel A
divers types de revenus et provenant souvent de l'exode pour subsister. Les revenus agricoles generes varient selon les types
d'exploitations. Suivant I a typologie en vigueur A la CMDT, le revenu moyen de l'exploitation de la zone a augmente de 108 %
apres la devaluation du FCFA (IERIECOFIL, 1998). Cette augmentation est cependant tres inegale. Le type A aurait vu son
revenu augmente de 177% tandis que les types B, C et D ont vu leurs revenus augmenter respectivement de 119 %, de 150% et
207%. En depit de toutes ces considerations, il peut etre avance de fa,on generale que la situation des exploitations paysannes
sur le plan des revenus s'est beaucoup amelioree.
14.    Cependant cette evolution financiere positive n'est pas accompagnee d'une amelioration dans le rendement moyen du
coton. Ce rendement moyen a depasse pour I a premiere fois une tonne A I'hectare en 1975/76 (cf., Graphe 3 et Tableau III -
annexe). Le fruit d'un travail debute 20 annees plus t6t. 11 a oscille entre 1000 et 1200 kg/ha jusqu'en 1981/82, puis de nouveau A
partir de 1982/83, un autre palier d'intensification a ete franchi, 1239 kg/ha. Ce second pallier fut suivi d'un autre palier en 1986
quand le rendement moyen a depasse pour la premiere fois la barre des 1300 kg/ha. Depuis, les rendements ne progressent plus.
Pour le projet, l'objectif etait de faire passer le rendement moyen de 1300 A pres de 1500 Kg/ha en fin de projet. Les rendements
moyens de coton sont certes plus eleves que dans la plupart des pays africains producteurs de coton mais force est de constater
que ces rendements ne progressent pas depuis une dizaine d'annees. La tendance generale est meme A la baisse. Cet etat de chose
n est pas satisfaisant si une reference est faite au potentiel de rendement de 2500 kg/ha que certains agriculteurs arrivent A obtenir,
la marge de progres reste encore importante.
15.    Une premiere observation est sans doute le non respect des doses d'engrais recommandees. Nous rappelons que la
recherche a toujours recommande la dose de 200 kg/ha de complexe coton et 50 kg/ha d'uree. Cependant, la CMDT vulgarise
depuis 1986 la dose de 150 kg/ha de complexe. On peut donc noter un sous-dosage tres anciennement pratique. L'augmentation
des charges dues aux cofits eleves des intrants A compter des annees 1990 n'est pas pour redresser cette tendance. L'utilisation du
Phosphate naturel de Tilemsi (PNT), un produit susceptible de contribuer a ameliorer la fertilite, est en baisse depuis 1992 (11800
t en 91, 2400 t en 92, 148 t en 94). Dans le temps, 1997/98, la CMDT avait opte pour sa subvention. Un deficit de communication
existerait actuellement entre 1'encadrement et les producteurs sur 1'emploi de ce produit national. Le sous-solage a ete egalement
constate dans l'utilisation des insecticides et par rapport A la recommandation de la recherche (15 1/ha avec des produits
conventionnels et 5 1 avec des produits en EC). Les contraintes de realisation au moment de la mise en place des cultures sur des
surfaces importantes amenent les agriculteurs A des itineraires techniques nettement differents de l'optimum. Comme en temoigne
l'dtalement des dates de semis dans certaines regions sur la base des donndes de 1996: Bougouni: du 9 au 26/6; Fana: du 17/6
au 4/7; Koutiala: du 13 au 24/6; San: du 9 au26/6.
16.    C'est le cas souvent avec le premier sarclage et les apports d'engrais et d'insecticides nettement egalement pratiques avec
retard. Ci-dessous les informations recueillies en 1996 et exprimees en nombre e jours apres e semis.
Premier sarciage   Apport du complexe     Apport de luree       ler traitement
coton                                  insecticide
Bougouni                   26                   30                   55                   50
Fana                       26                   31                   33                   47
Koutiala                   20                   29                   36                   56
San                        22                   26                   44                   54
Sikaso                     24                   26                   41                   32
Kita                       19                   23                   28                   53
17.    Compte-tenu de la diversite des pratiques mises en oeuvre par les paysans pour faire face aux lourdes contraintes de
realisation que leur impose leur choix de 1'extensif, il semble utile de construire des solutions techniques alternatives et
complementaires differentes de celles qui sont recommandces actuellement.
Les cereales
18.    Les cereales, notamment le maYs, le sorgho et le mil; sont encore moins cultivees intensivement que le coton. Les
rendements moyens entre 1986 et 1996 tiennent comme ci-apres: mais: 1895 kg/ha; riz: 1530 kg/ha; sorgho/mil: 1031 kg/ha.
19.    Le maYs: Le maYs est l'objet d'une attention particuliere de la CMDT depuis 1978; un projet d'intensification a etd mis
en oeuvre en 1980 sur des bases techniques saines mais economiquement peu recommandables car l'equipement et les intrants



48
etaient acquis sur une ligne de credit subventionnee avec en plus des soutiens aux prix des intrants. La production s'est tres vite
developpee jusqu'a la liberalisation du commerce en 1985/86 qui a porte un coup fatal a ce marche. Les objectifs de production
sont neanmoins atteints au cours des dernieres annees du projet. L'analyse de l1'volution moyenne triennale de cette production de
mais montre une progression, neanmoins le niveau du rendement moyen est inferieur au potentiel et les objectifs de rendement ne
sont pas atteints le plus souvent
20.     Le sorgho et le mil: L'accroissement de la production est reguliere, mais est tres lie a celui des surfaces cultiv6es. Ces
deux cultures n'ont pas beneficie des memes efforts d'intensification que le coton ou meme le mais. La preparation du sol pour le
mais est dominee par le labour, alors que sur sorgho-mil la preparation est plus superficielle. Les dates de semis semblent en
moyenne legerement plus tardives que sur le coton. L'utilisation d'engrais est relativement repandue sur le mais et peu frequente
sur le sorgho-mil et le riz. L'utilisation de la fumure organique varie egalement: en 1996, 37% des parcelles de mais en ont recu,
18% de mil, 8% de sorgho et 6% de riz. Le rendement moyen kg/ha en 89-91; 1067 kg/ha 92-94 et 1021 kg/ha 95-96. Le riz
(pluvial et irrigue) prend une importance croissante. La production depasse les 70 000 tonnes grace a I a diffusion de semences
ameliorees de riz pluvial, a l'amenagement progressif des perimetres et des petits bas-fonds
La diversification des cultures
21.     La diversification a la CMDT porte sur des actions autre que le coton. Elle est menee suivant une approche recherche
action: localiser et organiser les groupes de producteurs, valoriser leurs productions (stockage, transformation et
commercialisation). Les cultures concemres sont: le mais est cultive dans toutes les regions CMDT, sa production en 1996/97 a
ete estimee a 305 240 tonnes, sur une surface de 156 362 ha le fonio est une cereale importante dans la rdgion de San. II est
cultive par plus d'un tiers des exploitations de Bougouni, mais sur des superficies relativement importantes; les Iegumineuses sont
nettement dominees par l'arachide, puis le wandzou (surtout A Koutiala et an; le niebe en culture pure n'est cultive que par 10%
des exploitations (27% a Koutiala); la region de Kita est la grande productrice d'arachide, 97% des exploitations en cultivent 2.07
ha en moyenne; les associations de cereales sont assez marginales, sauf a Sikasso oui 23% des exploitations cultivent une
association mais-mil; la relative frequence de la culture de l'igname dans la region de Bougouni, de la pasteque a Koutiala et
Fana, de la calebasse a Koutiala, du piment a Koutiala et A San et du gombo a Koutiala; en plus du dah, du soja et du sesame, le
pois sucre et la pomme de terre prennent de l'importance; la production de pois sucre a Sikasso a atteint 4533 t en 1996 sur 1650
ha soit un rendement moyen de 2747 kg/ha; 2432 exploitations regroupees dans 114 villages; la production de pomme de terre A
Sikasso a atteint 3705t en 1996 sur 619 ha soit un rendement moyen de 6 t / ha.
La gestion des terroirs villageois
22.    Le service Gestion des Terroirs Villageois coordonne la conception de tous les outils qui permettent la mise en oeuvre de
la strategie GRN de la CMDT. Ceci se fait en collaboration avec d'autres services techniques. La Division Defense et
Restauration des Sols (DDRS) est particulierement chargee de ces taches. Les mesures techniques de gestion des ressources
naturelles introduites sont recensees dans le tableau ci-dessous. La demarche d'animation villageoise implique aussi des mesures
socio-organisationnelles.
Gestion des terres de culture   Int6gration Agriculture - elevage   Gestion de la zone sylvo-pastorale
Mesures mecaniques:                 Production fumure organique:           Foyers ameliores:
Lignes en cailloux                  Parc ameliore                          Plantation d'arbres
Lignes en tiges                     Fosse fumiere                          Technique de coupe du
Fascines                            Fosse compostiere                       bois
Barrieres en cailloux               Etable fumiere                        Installation pare-feu
Digues filtrantes                  Alimentation des animaux:               Materialisation pistes de
Mesures biologiques:                Cultures fourrageres                      passage et parcours
Haies vives                        Collecte et stockage des residus        Mise en defens
Bandes enherbees                    de recolte et fourrage                 Regeneration endroits
Defrichement ameliore               TraitementVamelioration residus         degrades
Culture en couloir                    (paille)
Techniques culturales               Coupe de foin
Grattage A sec/semi-humide          Sole fourragere pluriannuelle
Travail du sol perpendi-              (achAre amelioree)
culaire A la pente                 Conditionnement boeufs de labour
Buttage a sillons cloisonnes        Utilisation aliment betail
ZaY                                 Utilisation bloc melure/pierre
Fertilisation                         a lecher
Transport et epandage de fumier
Application engrais mineral
Application PNT



49
Assolement avec legumineuse
Cultures associees
Arbres champAtres
Plantation d'arbres champAtres
R6g6n6r. d'arbres champutres
23.     Les actions entreprises sont entre autres: la mise au point des differentes techniques, en collaboration avec les instituts
de recherche appropries, et en assurant le suivi-evaluation des differents tests de pre-vulgarisation et de l'impact des mesures; la
preparation de modules de formation; la production des supports pedagogiques (fiches techniques et methodologiques, series
diapos, cassettes video, etc.); mise au point d'un systeme de suivi-appui-conseil, de suivi-operationnel et de suivi-evaluation des
actions GRN. Un bon nombre de ces outils a dejA ete elabore.
Programme de developpement rural de Bougouni
24.     L'execution du programme a permis d'atteindre les suivants:
esignations                            1989190      1993194     1996/97
Nbre d'expitoitations total                          29 629     35 117
Nbre d'expitoitations encadrees         15 187       23 999     30 612
Nbre d'expitoitations coton                         20 946      30 106
Exploitat. type A                                     6 470      8166
Exploitat. type B                                     9510       13 337
Exploitat. type C                                     3506       4 812
Exploitat. type D                                     3772       4297
25.     Ce tableau traduit l'introduction d'equipement agricole, notamment le materiel de traction animale, et l'adoption de
meilleures methodes de culture par le renforcement du service de vulgarisation.
Evolution de la production agricole en tonnes:
1989/90             1990/91              1993/94               1995/96
Objectif   Realisat   Objecti   Realisat   Objectif   Realisat   Object'   Realisat
coton-graine                32.000     27.119              32.332     48.800     32.806    57.600     52.674
mais                        46.200     32.762              36.166     54.700     50.730    68.200     60.523
mil-sorgho                  21.000     22.710              29.846     25.700     37.275    31.200     40.912
riz pluvial                                                                       6.054                7.895
riz bas-fonds amenages       2.500                                     3.300        722     4.000      1.300
riz bas-fonds non                                                                 7.819               12.152
amenages
fonio                                                                              1.429               3.062
ni6b6-grain                             1.522               2.605                 4.975                5.616
arachide                                5.059               5.835                  8.169              12.065
dah                                       211                 386                   937                  684
s6same                                     90                  83                     4                    2
* objectifs calles a campagne 1998/99
26.     L'analyse du tableau montre que les objectifs de production de coton-graine ont ete atteints en 1996/97 (62 635 t). Les
previsions de 97/98 sont de 77900 t. La production de mais a atteint 65 867 tonnes en 1996/97. Celle du mil/sorgho a atteint 48
000 tonnes la meme annee. Pour le riz, la production totale en 1996 est egale A 23 990 tonnes.
27.     Le tableau ci-dessous (evolution du nombre des AV) traduit le developpement des institutions villageoises:
Secteurs                 1990/91       1991/92       1992/93        1993/94      1994/95       1995/96       1996/97
Bougouni                   41            37            40             42            51           100           109
Koumantou                  56            72            82             94           110           152           162
Garalo                      -             5              5            11            19            36            74
Gogo                        -             -                            -            -             -            106
Kolondieba                 44            63            71             81           106           149           218
Yanfolila                   8            12             17           215            48            76           173
Total                      149           189           215           260           334           513           842
28.     A Bougouni, un projet pilote de gestion des terres villageoises a ete mend afin de determiner les approches
susceptibles d'etre etendues A toute la region. Le volet a tdt finance par la Banque depuis Mars 1993. Les objectifs vises par cette
operation de gestion des terres etaient : 1) donner A 5 collectivites locales l'entiere responsabilite de la gestion des terres,



50
notamment des zones cultivees, des jacheres, des parcours et des forets; 2) les aider A organiser cette nouvelle approche au niveau
des villages et d'un village A un autre, avec pour objectif d'instituer un processus de decision collectif concernant, entre autres, les
droits de pacage, la lutte contre les feux de brousse et la gestion des terres boisees. L'appui aux collectivites feminines est fait A
travers le volet Amenagement des bas-fonds. Sur une superficie totale de 23 720 ha, 9245 ha (39% ) sont exploites parmi
lesquels 341 ha sont amenages soit 1% de la surface totale. Ce volet a certes apporte beaucoup A la region de Bougouni resolvant
par endroit le probleme de disponibilite en eau. ll reste beaucoup A faire si on considere le potentiel. Le probleme de valorisation
se pose dans certains bas-fonds amenages
Infrastructures rurales
Hydraulique villageoise
29.    Les objectifs assignes A la composante hydraulique villageoise du projet s'axent globalement autour des mecanismes
permettant une perennisation de l'alimentation en eau potable des populations rurales encadrees par la CMDT basee sur des
forages equipes. La realisation de la composante Hydraulique villageoise devrait permettre de realiser 450 nouveaux points d'eau
tout en impliquant les beneficiaires dans l'execution des travaux et la maintenance des equipements
R6sultats des travaux de forage:
R6gions CMDT           Forages admis        Objectifs initial   Nombre forages       Nombre forages
forages             positifs             negatifs
Bougouni                    68                   80                   55                  16
Fana                        191                 145                  166                  49
Koutiala                    207                  190                 205                  12
Sikasso                     385                  315                 344                  70
Total                       851                  730                 770                  147
30.    Les mini reseaux par pompage solaire constitue le systbme d'approvisionnement en eau le mieux adapte, mais les
ressources financibres disponibles ne permettaient pas d'aller au delA des 11 realises sur les centaines de demandes formulees et
justifiees. Au total 770 forages exploitables ont ete realises pour alimenter en eau potable 655 villages et hameaux ainsi que 11
centres ruraux (cf.; Tableau ci-dessus). L'objectif global assigne A cette composante a ete depasse de 40 forages positifs sauf A
Bougouni oui seulement 80 villages sur 167 admis au programme ont pu etre satisfaits. Sur les 1068 demandes d'ouvrages
admissibles il etait programme 851 pour IDA et 210 pour BOAD/FAD.
Volet pistes rurales
31.    Les objectifs assignes etaient les suivants: d'assurer la viabilite des principaux axes de transit du coton graine; de
desenclaver les zones de developpement prioritaire; de raccourcir les distances importants avec la realisation d'ouvrage de
Financement; d'am6liorer l'Etat des Pistes. Les objectifs chiffres du programme etaient la realisation de 500 kms A Bougouni, de
390 kms A Sikasso et 200 kms de nouvelles pistes. Les etudes ont demarre en Avril 1992 par la reconnaissance d'un volant de 2
500 km sur lequel 587 km de programme prioritaire a ete retenu sur la base de 1'estimation des cofits et a fait l'objet d'appel
d'offres. Les travaux ont demarre en fin Avril debut Mai 1994. Ce programme porte sur un volant de 1.217 km pour toute la
CMDT pour l1'vacuation du coton depuis les zones de production vers les usines d'egrenage. La ventilation tient comme ci-aprbs
par type de programme et bailleur de fonds: programme initial de 587 km (IDA et BOAD); programme complementaire de 192
km (IDA) ; programme complementaire, 298 km (CFD) ; et programme complementaire, 140 km (IDA, reliquat de fonds).
Appui Institutionnel
Restructuration de l'OPAM
32.    L'execution du Contrat-plan No. 2 de l'OPAM signe le 08 janvier 1991 pour une periode allant de 1990/91-1992/93 a
coYncide avec la mise en oeuvre du PASA. Ce contrat-plan au delA de la restructuration confere A l'OPAM le plein statut d'Agence
d'execution de la securite alimentaire et de gestion d'un systbme d'information. Dans la meme periode s'est tenue le 2bme
seminaire national du PRMC (uillet 93) qui a sanctionne la phase de restructuration de l'OPAM. L'OPAM entrait donc ainsi avec
l'execution du PASA, dans une phase de renforcement des acquis en meme que l'amorce d'une modernisation du marche
cerealier. A titre de rappel, les acquis portent sur la restructuration reussie de l'OPAM et les nouvelles missions de l'OPAM. La
restructuration, objet du premier contrat-plan (Contrat-plan transitoire Etat-OPAM 1988/89-1989/90, consistait pour 1'essentiel a:
reduire l1effectif du personnel; creer des bureaux regionaux en remplacement des delegations regionales; reduire le nombre de
fftioT xs techniques au sibge reduire le pare de vehicules et privatiser son entretien; former du personnel qualifie.



51
33.    Les nouvelles missions conferees A l'OPAM durant le PASA portent sur la gestion du stock national de securite; le suivi
des aides alimentaires; la creation, le traitement et la diffusion des informations sur les marches cerealiers. Dans ce cadre, le
PASA a pris en charge les frais de l'audit annuel des comptes de l'OPAM comme prevu dans le projet. Le consultant Waddel,
I'auditeur, a et choisi en accord avec les donateurs. II a, annuellement 6value les budgets de fonctionnement, de tresorerie, de
commercialisation et d'investissements, les systemes de financement ainsi que les baremes de remuneration des services de
1'OPAM. Par rapport au secteur cerealier et dans la continuite du PRMC qui en est A sa 15 annee d'execution, il est admis
aujourd'hui que le pays presente une bien meilleure situation alimentaire et dispose d'un systeme de securite alimentaire
exemplaire sur le plan regional. Le PASA a contribue A etablir par des audits tres suivis et de qualite, que le systeme est certes
efficient mais assez onereux pour les donateurs; d'oui necessairement une perennisation du dispositif par le transfert progressif de
certaines charges A la partie malienne et un positionnernent de l'OPAM en qualite de prestataire de services sur des creneaux de
modernisation du secteur. Les prochains contrat-plans de lapres PASA seront marques par une plus grande participation des
parties maliennes (Etat et segments concemrs de la societe civile) au financement de la securite alimentaire et le passage de la
gestion du dispositif aux nationaux.
Restructuration des operations de developpement rural
34.    Une hypothese de la restructuration des operations de developpement rural est la responsabilisation progressive et accrue
des populations dans l'orientation et la prise en charge de leurs activites et l'emergence du secteur prive en milieu rural. Elle doit
se traduire A terme par le desengagement des ODRs des activites A caractere commercial ou d'investissement public et par le
recentrage des activites techniques. A cet effet, la mise en oeuvre du PASA a per mis de restructurer six 0 DR (ORS, OHV,
OPS, ODIPAC, ODIK, et OTER) et a necessite l'elaboration de contrat-plans dans certains cas (ORS, OHV).
35.    Operation Riz Segou (ORS): Cette operation devenue office fut erigee en EPA par Ordonnance 91-49/CTSP du
21-08-91 et en est presentement a son deuxieme Contrat-plan qui de l'avis de la direction de l'ORS est bien suivi. Le FED s'etait
engage dans le cadre de la restructuration A couvrir les droits de licenciement en 1989 pour 44 183 943 FCFA et ceux de 1992
pour 6 189 557 FCFA, soit un total de 50 373 500 FCFA. A ce montant doit etre ajoute 670 195 FCFA d'indemnit6s de preavis de
1990 payees par l'Etat. Les cofits sociaux non finances s'6l1vent a 94 921 447 FCFA. Ils comportent les arrieres INPS de
1'ex-Operation Riz Segou d'un montant de 40 297 027 FCFA et les fonds de reinsertion de la 2eme et 3eme vague pour un
montant de 54 624 420 FCFA.
36.    Operation du Developpement Integre pour la Production Arachidiere et Cerealiere (ODIPAC): Elle a ete erig6e
en office par Ordonnance 91 -047/P-CTSP avec pour mission le developpement integre du Mali-Ouest. Le couit de la
restructuration a ete estime A 542 millions de FCFA sur la base d'une evaluation faite par l'ODIMO. Les couts sociaux de la
restructuration concernent les salaires et allocations, droits et indemnites, garanties, les arrieres d'especes herites de la periode
ODIPAC ou meme avant et la dotation au fonctionnement. La reclamation de paiement de salaires sur la base du statut d'EPIC de
la periode anterieure a contribue A augmenter substantiellement cette evaluation. En fonds de reinsertion, 141.305.152 FCFA ont
ete payes. Par la suite, d'autres fonds ont ete payes par l'Etat suite A des decisions de justice rendues au moment du changement de
statut en EPIC. Malgre tout, l'ODIMO ne disposant plus de financement exterieur et du fait des difficultes a mettre en oeuvre les
mesures de restructuration et de recentrage de ses activites a ete purement dissous.
37.    Operation Haute Vallee (OHV): Elle a e  erigee en Office (OHVN) dont la mission est definie par l'Ordonnance 91-
048/P-CTSP. Cette mission consiste A promouvoir le developpement des cultures vivrieres et industrielles, et de mener toutes les
actions qui concourent A l'accroissement de la production et de la productivite agricole, et aussi du revenu des paysans. La
restructuration de I'OHV visait A rationaliser les r6les des secteurs publics et prives dans la fourniture de services de qualite dans
les domaines de la commercialisation, du credit et de la vulgarisation. La premiere phase de la restructuration est intervenue en
1989 avec le redeploiement des agents de terrain accompagne d'une reduction du personnel de 26%, de 409 A 301 agents. Elle a
coute 16 000 000 FCFA de frais de licenciement et 15 000 000 FCFA au titre de salaires de l1exercice budgetaire au cours duquel
la compression a eu lieu. En sus, le garage de I'OHVN a ete maintenu dans ses fonctions d'entretien et de reparation du pare
vehicule. Les compresses n'ont pas su profiter du fonds de garantie de 53 000 000 FCFA depose A la Bank of Africa. Ils ont
beneficie du fonds de r6insertion A hauteur de 35.103.312 FCFA sur un montant estime A 40 000 000 FCFA. Un reliquat de
4.896.688 aurait ete reverse. Au 15 Mars 1993 la situation du Projet No. 688-0233 finance par l'USAID pour un montant de 17
500 000 dollars US soit environ 5,250 milliards de FCFA chiffre le reliquat de cette subvention A environ 4 898 909 dollars US
ou approximativement 1,469 milliards de FCFA. La fin de ce projet etait prevue pour le 30 Septembre 1993.
38.    Operation de Developpement Integre du Kaarta (ODIK): Cette Operation a ete aussi erigee en Office. Le Decret
91-206/PN-RM du 21 Aout 1991 rattache l'ODIK a la Direction Nationale de L'Agriculture. L'ODIK est un projet fmance sur une
subvention de 15 000 000 dollars Canadiens accordee par l'Agence Canadienne de Developpement International (ACDI). Le



52
projet est depuis le 20 Octobre 1989 dans sa troisieme phase de financement. Le projet visait l1'tablissement d'un nouvel
equilibre socio-ecologique dans le Kaarta base sur l'exploitation optimale des ressources hydro-agro-sylvo-pastorales et sur le
developpement auto-genere A la base devant permettre l'accroissement du revenu des paysans. La restructuration a porte sur le
developpement du secteur prive, la responsabilisation des populations, la redefinition de la mission publique et le desengagement
de l'ACDI. L'application du nouvel organigramme a necessite le licenciement de 104 agents a un cout social de 93 000 000
FCFA A rechercher. Cependant les amputations budgetaires operees par le Canada ont conduit A une reduction substantielle des
activites du projet. L'ODIK estimait A 1,8 millions de dollars Canadien soit environ 405 000 millions de FCFA le cout des
campagnes agricoles 1993/94 et 1994/95. Depuis, 30.725.660 FCFA ont ete payes par le budget national au titre du fonds de
reinsertion et la structure a ete dissoute.
39.    Operation Production Semences Selectionnees (OPSS): Cette Operation devenue le Service National a ete rattachde
A la Direction Nationale de l'Agriculture par Ordonnance 91-52/P-CTSP du 21 Aout 1991. 11 a pour mission la mise en oeuvre de
la politique semenciere au niveau national et se substitue ainsi a I'ancienne Operation Production Semences Selectionnees dont les
investissements et une partie du fonctionnement etaient habituellement effectues sur un pret de la BAD actuellement termine. Le
service ne beneficie plus de cette opportunite. Ceci a entrazin le desengagement de l'Etat des activites de production et de
commercialisation des semences au profit d'organisations associatives ou des prives. Le programme d'ajustement structurel
comprenait la reorganisation de la Direction a son siege A Segou, la creation et la mise en place d'antennes A l'interieur du pays; le
transfert progressif des activites sur les semences de base de la Recherche Agronomique au SSN (A commencer par le riz), le
transfert de la production de semences Rl (multiplication A partir de la semence de base) des antennes aux groupements et AVs
notamment et l'organisation de la production de semences R2 (seconde multiplication) au niveau de paysans. Les couts sociaux
de la restructuration se sont eleves A 86 360 757 FCFA et 5 953 571 FCFA ont ete payes au titre de la reinsertion. Ce service est
en voie d'etre dissout.
40.    Restructuration de l'Operation des Travaux d'Equipement Rural (OTER): Le Conseil de Surveillance du 24
Septembre 1992 a decide de I'6rection de l'OTER en un Etablissement Publie A caractere lndustriel et Commercial (EPIC). La
Banque Mondiale conditionnait cette option A la production d'un proces verbal de carence attestant qu'aucun Operateur
Economique n'est interesse A prendre part au capital de POTER. Ce proces verbal de carence n'a pu etre produit car sept (7)
entreprises ce sont declarees pretes A participer au capital de VOTER. Le Conseil de Surveillance, lors de sa Session
Extraordinaire du 5 fevrier 1993, a decide de la transformation de VOTER en Societe Mixte. La Societe a ete privatisee.
Le Contrat-Plan Etat-CMDT-Producteurs
41.    En 1988, suite a la chute des cours mondiaux du coton, les decidleurs de la filiere coton ont A Selingue, organise un
forum pour reflechir sur l'avenir de la filiere du Mali. Des reflexions, l'idee de gerer A l'aide d'une convention dite contrat-plan a
ete retenue. Le premier Contrat-Plan, qui regroupait l'Etat et la CMDT, a ete signe en Novembre 1989 et le second Contrat-Plan,
etabli en 1994 entre l'Etat, la CMDT et les Producteurs, constitue aujourd'hui un cadre de reference entre partenaires. IL definit
les missions des differents acteurs, instaure un mecanisme de stabilisation des prix, un code de proc6dures pour les appels
d'offres, un systeme de suivi du Contrat-Plan. 11 etabli le mode de financement de chaque activite, le prix d'achat au producteurs (
prix plancher et ristourne ), les rbgles d'alimentation et d'utilisation du fonds de stabilisation, la contribution fiscale de la CMDT,
ainsi que les regles de gestion de la sous-filiere intrants. Il prevoit egalement des indicateurs de suivi et des criteres de
performance des diffdrentes activites et fonction de la Societe. C'est un contrat de performance pour la CMDT. II est etabli pour 5
ans et est relu A mi-parcours. ll prend fin en Septembre 1998 et tout amendement devait etre formule un an avant terme.
42.    Le principe de base repose sur: le paiement d'un prix d'achat plancher du coton graine; la couverture des depenses de
fonctionnement de la CMDT; la mise en place d'un systeme de stabilisation visant A amoindrir les variation anarchiques du
marche international de la filiere de coton; la repartition des surplus degages entre les diffdrents agents economiques de la filiere
coton. Le mecanisme de fonctionnement du fonds de stabilisation comprend les eldment suivant: I'alirnentation du fonds, le
plafond du fonds, le mecanisme d'appel du fonds de stabilisation. En plus de l'I.B.I.C. que la CMDT paie sur le resultat de ses
activites conformdment au droit commun, la CMDT paie une taxe conjonctuirelle ainsi calculee:
Modalites de financement des Activites du Projet
Enveloppes alloues au financement du PASA
43.    Dans le cadre de la realisation des objectifs assignes au Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur Agricole (PASA), la
Republique du Mali a beneficie des financements suivants: Credit IDA No. 2163/MLI d'un montant de 40 700 000 DTS soit
environ 14 245 000 000 FCFA A la date de signature du crddit le 25/10/90; Don Neerlandais mis a la disposition de l'IDA; No.
TF 021 125 d'un montant total de 3 300 000 Guilders soit environ 500.000.000 de FCFA A la date de signature le 28/01/93;



53
Contribution Suisse d'un montant total de 10 500 000 francs Suisse au fonds Coton; Accord de pret BOAD No. 93-05-00 du
02/04193 d'un montant total de 1640 000 000 FCFA; Convention CFD No. 58 25500516/04 du 20/04/93 d'un montant total de 26
200 000 FF. L'enveloppe totale allouee A ete confide A la Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpement des Textiles (CMDT)
pour l'ex6cution du programme. II faut noter qu'A part le Credit IDA N02163/MLI qui embrasse tous les aspects du programme,
les autres Bailleurs ne se sont interesses qu'A des points particuliers du programme.
44.    La BOAD par exemple ne finance que les pistes rurales dans certaines regions convenues avec l'emprunteur tandis que
les Pays-Bas financent les bas-fonds et la gestion des terroirs pendant que les francais et les suisses ne prennent en charge pour le
premier le financement de la gestion des terroirs villageois et des pistes et pour le second celui de la contribution au fonds
cotonnier. Une des remarques importantes sur le Programme est que tous les fonds n'ont pas ete mis en place au meme moment
(cf., Tableaux XVII A XIX A l'annexe). En meme temps, I'ensemble des enveloppes a permnis la realisation d'importants
investissements dans le Mali Sud. Ces investissements constituaient en soit des objectifs prioritaires du programme, A l'instar de la
composante "Infrastructures Rurales" (Pistes rurales et Hydrauliques Villageoises), mais permettait surtout de conforter la
realisation des autres objectifs du projet.
Composante infrastructures rurales
45.    Point d'execution des marches: Pour realiser les objectifs prioritaires assignes au PASA, la CMDT a lance pour
l'essentiel deux categories d'appels d'offres A savoir prioritairement dans les domaines Infrastructures Rurales et dans les Etudes.
Ces appels d'offres ont donne lieu A des marches approuves dans les domaines ci-dessus executes. Piste rurales : 1217 km de
pistes ont ete rehabilit6es dont 594,23 km A Bougouni et 421,63 km A Sikasso soit un taux de rehabilitation A Bougouni de 118 %
et 108 % A Sikasso. II faut noter qu'il n'y a pas de constructions de nouvelles pistes. Ce volet a ete finance par le Credit IDA no
.2163/MLI, la BOAD et la CFD. Hydraulique villageoise : Ce volet a ete entierement finance par le credit IDA no. 2163/MLI qui
a permis la realisation de 770 points d'eau, la mise en place de 1092 Comites villageois, l'installation de 759 pompes manuelles et
de il pompes solaires. A noter que les objectifs ont ete largement depasses. Bas-Fonds : Ce volet finance par le Credit IDA no.
2163/MLI et les Pays-Bas a vu la realisation de 98 bas-fonds d'une superficie rizicultivable de 673 ha dans la region CMDT de
Bougouni dont 78 bas-fonds sur le credit IDA et 20 sur le fond des pays bas.
46.    Difficultes rencontrees dans la mise en oeuvre du programme: De nombreux problemes de procedures et des
difficultes de communications entre la CMDT et la Banque Mondiale (retards avis de non objection de la Banque, lenteur de
reaction aux correspondance) ont tout le long de l'execution du PASA empreint l'ex6cution des marches relatifs aux Pistes rurales.
L'execution des travaux a particulierement souffert d'une insuffisance qui s'est averee tres cruciale pour un allotissement; correct
des marches. En effet, les travaux de terrassement et d'ouvrages de genie civil n'etaient pas attribues en marche unique A la meme
entreprise. Ce qui creait des problemes de coordination entre les intervenants. La dispersion geographique des lots a egalement
pese sur le poste "installation et replis" de l'entreprise. Au cumul, il s'en est suivi apres une evolution des degradations dues A la
longue periode qui a separe les etudes d'APS suivant metre des travaux (Avril 1992) et l'execution des travaux (Avril 1994), ce
qui a cree une augmentation d'environ 20 % du montant des travaux.
47.    Au niveau de la maitrise d'oeuvre: Les singularites suivantes ont ete enregistrees: la conception initiale de certains
ouvrages de traverse a ete modifiee et reprise. Ce qui a entraine un surcofit; le chef de mission de contr6le a ete remplace A 2
reprises, ce qui rendait difficile les echanges entre Maitre d'oeuvre et Entreprises; les decaissement prenaient beaucoup de temps
occasionnant souvent l'arret des travaux pour rupture de stock; les multiples difficultes de la maltrise de delai d'execution dues A
la dispersion des chantiers, la repartition des lots, la non execution des ouvrages hydrauliques avant les terrassements, I'etat
vbtuste des engins, la rupture de l'approvisionnement en intrant, au non respect de l'esprit de solidarite au sein du groupement, la
lourdeur de la mission de contr6le (ingenieur-conseil), l'inexperience du personnel de certaines entreprises, la non maitrise des
procedures de passation de marches de certains bailleurs de fonds au niveau du volet "hydraulique villageoise".
48.    Point d'execution financiere: Le point de l'ex6cution annuelle globale par composante sur credit IDA No. 2163/MLI
est disponible. Mais en l'absence d'un point detaille de 1'execution annuelle globale par composante commun au credit IDA et au
Don Neerlandais No. TF021125, il n'a pas ete possible de proceder A une comparaison donc d'estimer le pourcentage de
realisation par rapport au montant alloue. II faut noter que le credit IDA etait libelle en DTS dont le cours varie dans le temps et
en fonction des reallocations faites A l'interieur de l'accord de credit. La comparaison par composante n'aura pas de sens pour ce
credit.  Le tableau ci-dessous donne la situation d'execution globale du credit IDA  No. 2163/MLI en francs CFA:
Fonctionnement, 1 599 449 0 1OFCFA; Equipements, 69 162 606 FCFA; Pistes Rurales, 5 851 189 746 FCFA; Hydrauliques
villageoises, 3 386 844 431 FCFA; Etudes, 1 166 562 341,55 FCFA; Audit, 155 333 221 FCFA; Bas-fonds, 955 582 511
FCFA; Categorie 5A    328 068 837,15 FCFA. Le montant total decaisse au 31/12/97 est de 13 512 192 703 FCFA, soit un
taux de realisation de 94,8 %. La Categorie 5A des Etudes a e  confide au Ministere du Developpement Rural pour son
exdcution.



54
49.    Pour ce qui conceme le Don Neerlandais seul le marchd de Total Energie pour l'installation de pompes d'un montant
total de 101434 000 FCFA ont ete finances sur ce fonds soit un taux d'execution de 20%. Sur la Convention CFD No.
5825500516/04 du 20/04/93, le montant total decaisse a dte de 2 450 000 000 FCFA soit un taux d'execution de 93,5 % par
rapport A 1'enveloppe allouee aux pistes c'est-a-dire 2 620 000 000 FCFA. Sur l'Accord de pret No. 93-05-00 du 02/04/93 il a ete
decaisse un montant de 1576 231251 FCFA soit un taux d'exdcution de 96 %. Les difficultes rencontrees au cours de 1'execution
financiere du programme etaient des difficultes de communication. Entre les diffdrentes structures d'execution du programme et
entre celles-ci et certains bailleurs de fonds d'oc la lenteur dans les decaissements. Par exemple la BOAD a pour delai de
traitement d'une demande de retrait de fonds une fois la demande parvenue au sibge de la banque, 45 jours, un delai trop long. Le
volet pompes solaires avec mini reseaux d'adduction d'eau a e  finance sur le Fonds Neerlandais (TF 021125) dont la gestion a
e  confide A VIDA. Au 31/12/97, tous les ddcomptes dmis dans le cadre de l'exdcution de la composante ont dtd transmis A l'IDA
par ddcaissement. Le programme d'hydraulique villageoise du projet Mali SUD III (PASA) a concemd la rdgion administrative
de Sikasso (Cercles de Sikasso, Koutiala, Yorosso, Bougouni), la rdgion de Sdgou (Cercle de Bla, Baraoudli), la region de
Koulikoro (Cercle de DioTla).
Legons tirees
50.    Ge4n&ralite's: Le projet a etd exdcutd de facon satisfaisante dans l'ensemble en ddpit des nombreuses conditionnalites qui
ont souvent introduit des pesanteurs dans la communication entre l'Etat et les bailleurs de fonds d'une part mais egalement entre
celui-ci et les bdndficiaires (Etat, producteurs et institutions) de I'autre. Le deficit d'informations a pesd lourd dans les relations
entre l'Etat et les bendficiaires au ddmarrage du projet et A propos d'aspects institutionnels trbs pointus comme le sont par exemple
les mdcanismes de fonctionnement du fonds cotonnier. Les aspects autrement plus pratiques tel le pilotage par l'aval de la filiere
furent cependant compris d'eux et meme passes dans les habitudes.
51.    Bas-fonds: La C M D T pourrait se bomer a gerer l'exdcution gdnerale des amdnagements et les ONG ou les Bureaux
d'Etudes seront responsables de 1'encadrement techniques et des travaux exdcutds par les collectivitds locales.
52.    Pistes Hydraulique Villageoise: Les taux de realisation des investissements sont acceptables en ddpit des lenteurs qui
ont caractdrisd les ddcaissements et les passations des marchds pendant toute la durde du projet. Toutes les rdalisations, les pistes
et l'hydraulique villageoise ont dtd appreciees des bdndficiaires. Les pistes se sont avdrees tres salutaires dans l'dvacuation du
coton graine dont la production a largement ddpasse les objectifs.
53.    Diversification: Le contexte ci-avant ddcrit aurait pu autrement etre favorable A la diversification. II I'a dtd mais avec
des rdsultats mitigds et de timides percdes. Des marchds incertains et l'absence de marges compdtitives ont vite eu raison des
quelques contrats passds pour dcouler le sdsame, le dah et meme le poids sucrd. Les exemples rdussis ont dtd l'dlevage de volaille
et de petits ruminants, la pomme de terre et l'exportation des mangues; tous des produits de grande consommation et pour
lesquels des marchds porteurs et competitifs existent aussi bien dans le pays que dans la sous rdgion. Par rapport A ce dernier
aspect, il doit etre soulignd que les produits concernes qui ont eu un certain succbs, sont soit "genre orientds" ou "concentriques"
par rapport au pdriurbain comme pour bdndficier de reelles opportunitds de marchds (demandes stables, possibilitds d'dcoulement,
etc.) et diminuer surtout les couts de transferts. Les autres, A l'instar du dah, du sdsame et de I'arachide, sont localisds dans des
anciennes zones abandonnres de 1'ex. OACV et de la CMDT. Le programme d'investissement prevoyait de financer un fonds
gdrd par la CMDT, qui appuiera des programmes prdsentds par des partenaires extdrieurs (AV, ONG, autres structures). Un
comitd technique devait etre crdd au sein de la CMDT afin d'examiner et d'approuver les propositions, et les soumettre A
l'approbation finale de l'IDA.
54.    Production: Cette pression sur les terres a tous les contours d'une dvolution rampante dans la zone; mais elle n'en
demeure pas moins effective car s'accompagnant dgalement d'un phdnombne social tres pernicieux: I'accdldration de l'dclatement
des exploitations. A la faveur, d'une bonne pluviositd durant la pdriode de realisation du projet, la production cdrealibre s'est
globalement amdlioree dans le Mali Sud et dans le pays comme l'atteste l'dvolution de l'indice des prix a la consommation qui a
passd de 33,6% aux lendemains de la ddvaluation en 1994 a 12,9% en 1996. A ces reussites, il faut opposer une faible
structuration du milieu rural. Cette dvolution, selon les hypothbses de ddveloppement avancdes dans le document de projet, devait
conduire A la professionnalisation des acteurs des filieres et aider A l'bmergence puis A l'adoption de paquets technologiques plus
accentuds sur le maintien de la fertilitd des sols et une gestion rationnelle des ressources naturelles.
55.    Filiere Colon: En effet, en la faveur d'un environnement dconomique favorable; inflation maitrisde et confirmde par
une baisse de l'indice national des prix, la C M D T et les producteurs de la zone Mali-Sud ont enregistre des records en matibre
de production de coton graine et de fibre. Ils ont assaini leurs comptes qui accusent actuellement des soldes positifs. La ristourne,
I'amelioration du taux d'egrenage et la garantie de la qualite de la fibre autant de dispositions prescrites dans le contrat plan Etat-



55
CMDT qui ont joue favorablement dans cette relance de la filiere coton.. Les mesures de l'ajustement sectoriel prevues dans le
PASA (suspension des taxes d'exportation, participation des producteurs A la gestion du risque et au benefice) ajoutees aux effets
de la devaluation monetaire ont occasionne de nouvelles rentrees de producteurs dans la filiere; source de pression sur les terres.
Cette augmentation de l'importance du coton semble se traduire par des resultats fnriwu..iers et eCoriomiques plut6y satisfaisants.
En effet, au cours de la periude du projet la competitivite du coton malien a et etablie. La rentabilite financiere de la filiere est
actuellement beaucoup moins menacee qu'elle ne le fut durant la decennie ecoul6e. Le tableau ci-dessous contraste trois
campagnes representatives, 1991/92, 1994/95 et 1996/97, dans leurs effets sur les perfornances financieres et economiques de la
filiere.
56.     Durant la campagne 1991/92, la competitivite de la filiere etait serieusement compromise. Le pays perdait environ
44.000 FCFA par tonne de fibre vendue A l'exterieur. Le ratio cout benefice etait nettement superieur a l'unite. A l'epoque, les
transferts du reste de 1'economie a la filiere atteignaient 81 000 FCFA par tonne de fibre mais pour des rentabilites financieres
negatives. Les facteurs alors en question, exogenes au pays, etaient la volatilite des prix mondiaux du coton et la forte
depreciation du dollar par rapport au franc francais. Elles se sont traduites A l'absence d'un renforcement de mesures incitatives
(institutionnelles, legislatives, organisationnelles, etc.) dans les systemes d'echanges et de commerce du pays par un coefficient de
protection nominale tres eleve, 30%. La devaluation du FCFA intervenue en janvier 1994 marque un tournant dans la filiere en
plus de la reprise des cours du produit. Elle a permis de corriger les distorsions dues A la surevaluation du FCFA. Cette mesure
monetaire combinee a la reprise des cours a change de facon drastique les donnees. La filiere est devenue rentable avec un
benefice qui culmina lors de la campagne 1994/95 A pres de 308 000 FCFA la tonne. Les transferts ont certes augmente mais
pour engendrer cettefois-ci des bndfficesfinanciers et economiques tres appreciables et ramener le soutien global A la filiere de
22,5% A 12,8% et un abaissement de moitie du coefficient de protection nominale, de 30% en 1991 A 15% en 1994. A preciser
que sur les periodes considerees les mesures de politique des prix des intrants furent maitrisees de facon remarquable en la faveur
de politiques anti-inflationnistes tres volontaristes. Le ratio cofit en ressources interieures de l'ordre de 0,6 atteste d'un effort de
valorisation du capital financier et des ressources humaines actives au sein de la filiere.
Indicateurs d'analyse 6conomique                       1991/92               1994/95               1996/97
Rentabilite hnanciere (FCFA):                         -44 213                308 177               208 872
Ratio CoOt - benefice financier                          1,308                 0,471                 0,556
Rentabilite economique (FCFA)                         -125 203               188 860                75 659
CoOt en ressources interieures                           3,023                 0,592                 0,775
Transferts (FCFA)                                       80 990               119 316               133 213
Coefficient protection nominal                           1,299                 1,148                 1,188
Coefficient protection nominal coton                     1,304                 1,151                 1,191
Coefficient protection effective                         2,316                 1,258                 1,397
Coefficient de rentabilite                               0,353                 1,632                 2,761
Equiv. subvention producteur                             0,225                 0,128                 0,156
Source donnees: Projet de note financiere (revision contrat-plan Etat-CMDT),
Juillet 1993, Alain Waddell - Rapport Financier, Novembre 96, Alain Waddell
57.     A preciser toutefois un tassement des effets de la devaluation et des politiques induites par le PASA A l'issue de la
campagne 1996/97 (Donnees du compte d'exploitation previsionnelle). La filiere continue certes d'etre rentable, un coefficient de
rentabilite de presque 3.0 avec des benefices financiers et economiques de 208872 FCFA et de 75 659 FCFA la tonne, mais il faut
souligner une augmentation du transfert net de 1'6conomie vers la filiere de 12,8% A 15,6%.
Orientations pour la nouvelle phase
58.     Sur la base de la matrice de contraintes construite par l'equipe et qui suit en annexe Tableau XV; cinq grands domaines
d'action, sans pour autant qu'ils soient sans liens entre eux et exclusifs A la mission de developpement rural ou au coton: 1)
structuration du milieu rural; 2) professionnalisation; 3) gestion du terroir et de la fertilite; 4) conditionnement et ecoulement des
produits agricoles; 5) creation de nouveaux produits financiers. Dans le domaine des infrastructures rurales (pistes rurales, points
d'eau, micro-barrages) des reflexions et des dispositions sont en cours au niveau de la CMDT pour mieux imnpliquer les
beneficiaires dans la gestion des frais d'entretien, d'amortissement.



ALGERIAb.       8'000                        730'                        7o00'                         6030'                             M                          5"30'
jI     j  -s         ~~ALGERIAMAL 
'              i    'swo                                                                EANSFING-  <                                     AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/
.  8  s                                                   EFBAOUe w                                                       INVESTMENT PROJECT
MAURITANIA   IFOREST                                                                                                                                      I V S M            N         R    J C
MALI          r'                                                                                                                       BOUGOUNI AREA
*                                    ) 2                                           sv4s,                                                     PROJET D'ADJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL
SENEGAL                                NIGER                                            FOREST                                                         AGRICOLE/INVESTISSEMENT
7o Moo  BURKINk   f                                                                                                                                  REGION DE BOUGOUNI
GUINEA~          *' AS             j            -1 t2o0                                                                                                                             SECTORS:                       12000'-
GUINEA       t.;. -HAgEN INA        Z             TO Bamako                                                                                                                 SECTEURS:
8303                                                                                     (                                  '/                                   1  BOUGOUNI
-\                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~2 KOUMANTOU
3  GARALO
/1AN  <                                0                                 /                   -  r                                       mF4RET CLASSEES
Sf    t  tS   w   ri'  X   IANKA/DOUGO'7L1ll  I                                                     EARTH KOLONDSI(SECONDAR
FO>   X   J .  gREST _CMD /   X                    )    <                                       PISTES EN  TERRE (SECONDAIRE)
J    g  gtLILA   !>  vg <    1t    \                       t            S              Jemo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'-~- RIVERS
C -LIMITE5 DE  CEURCL
T                                                                                                                   FORE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LMTESO CASERCES
mbna>Basheenveguwdev~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T S-1fi  .nkosso                                                                                 PAE  R OADS  3 
P  -INTER NLATIONAL BOUNDIARIES)
LIMSTES DENTATE(SCNDIE
OKKOLONDAMAEBA
readers and isexclusively ar the s s FwT;t  , S
intemelt use ot The Wonld Bash           q        Jilt -- Z '.t. w;. *   r.           l  I       \   8         iKA RCEATL
and the hnternational Finance \t> ;,D,;,      
Corporation. The densrnintions  '., t sL r-4
used and the boundaries showun ),...*, ...     ,   ,  
on this nsp do net reply, en the {5,J ,f...9         
part ot The World B3ash end the                     nl,'                                                       - t>g <            
International Fmnance Cnrporatinn.                                                                                                                                                        -I   D  C       
eny judgreent on the tegat statusJon                                        
nI andOny tseem'erritnYory oracneyp,anceo     -                                            'D COTE   D'IVOIRE                                                                                 E
_such boundaries.                                             \,1
,               8~~~530                      ,0                           730                         7o00'                         6300                         6"00                           5,30            _  ,
GUI EA                                                                     G                                                                                                                                               r



IBRD 22266
To Kayes
Te   kou                  0~~~ Bandiagara                         AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR
.-,-._. ADJUSTMENT! INVESTMENT PROJECT
MALI SUD
14-                                                                                                                  oks                         PRO JET D'AD JUSTEMENT SECTORIEL
'90"__                     e~~~~~~~~~~~  ass no ~~~~~~~~AGRICOLEIINVESTISEMENT
D                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALI SUD
0                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CMDT REG~ION LIMIT
90c,--,-,.         Se ou                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION CMDT
N\ BOUGOLJNI CMDT REGION
N ~ ~         ~                 REGION CMDT DE ~~~~~~~~~BOUGOLUN(
600  ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS
ISOHYEFTS EN MILLIMETRES
800                     ~~~~~~~~~MAJOR ROADS
ROUTES PRINCIPALES
RIVERS
FLEUIVES
CERCLE CAPITALS
Bama                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHEF-LIEU DE CERCLE
CERCLE BOUNDARIES
LIMtTES DE CERCLE
6 610   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LIMITES D'ETAT
-12                                                                                      /00,                   0 ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 50  100  150
aongo9'  ~KILOMETERS
MAURITANIA
N ~ ~ ~ ~~~~IE
BIA~~~~~~~N
Kadi                                                                               F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UIE    ASO
LEON                 ~~~~~NIGERIA
G U I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N E A    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~     OTE                                         
~~~~~OTE  'I OIRE6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'OR
MAY 199S



