Dcument of
The World Bank
FOR OFF1CDAL USE ONLY
Rqent No. P-5324-NLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
FOR A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 40.7 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENTIINVESTMENT PROJECT
May 25, 1990
lThis document has a restricted distribution and may be osed by redpients only In the performance of
their official dutdes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bsok aui,orization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   G   CFA Franc (CFAF) 1
US$1.00    -   CFAF 290 (March 1990)
CFAF 1 million  -   US$ 2,900
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1 The CFA Franc is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of FF 1.0
to CFAF 50.0. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         African Development Bank
AV          Association Villageoise
BCEAO       Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (West African Central
Bank)
BDM         Banque de Developpement du Mali  (Development Bank of Mali)
BIC         Impot sur lea B6ndfices Industrie's et Commerciaux
BMZ         Bundesministerium fuer virtschaftliche Zusammenarbeit (Federal Republic
of Germany dinistry for Economic Cooperation)
BNDA        Banque Nationale de D4veloppement Agricole (National. Development
Bank for Agriculture)
CCCE        Caisse Centrale de Coop4ration Economique  (French Aid Loan
Agency)
CKDT        Compagnie Malienne pour le Ddveloppement des Textiles  (National
Company for the Development of Textiles)
CNAUR       Comite Nationale d'Aide trrgence et de Developpement Rurale
DIGIS       Directoraat Generaal vocr Internationale Samenwerking (Government
of the Netherlands International Aid Agency)
DNHE        Direction Nationale d'Hydraulique et d'Energie du Ministere de
l'Industrie  et de  l'Hydraulique    (National Directorate of
Hydraulic Power and Energy)
FAC         Ponds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (French Aid Agency)
GREA        Groupe Rdgiortal de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement pour l'Afrique
de l'Ouest (West African Regional Group for Water and Sanitation)
IER         Institut de l'Economie Rurale (Rural Economy Institute)
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF         Interniational Monetary Fund
1fW         Kreditanstalt  fuer Wiederaufbau  (Federal Republic of Germany Aid
Agency)
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
ODIK        Operations de Developpement Integre du Kaarta
ODIPAC      Office de Developpement Intdgre des Productions Arachidieres et
Cerealieres (Office for the Development of the Production of Groundnuts
and Cereals)
ODR         Opdrations de Developpement Rural (Regional/Commodity Development
Agencies)
OHV         Operations Haute Vallee
OPAM        Office  des  Produits  Agricoles  du  Mali    (National  Office  for
Agricultural Products)
ORSP        Office  de Regulation et de  Stabilisation des  Prix  (Price
Stabilization Fund)
OTER        Operation des Travaux d'Equipement Rural
eFP         Policy Framework Paper
PRMC        Programme  de  Restructuration  du Marche  CdrEalier  au Mali
(Cereals' Market Restructuring Program)
SPA         Special Program for Africa
WAMU        West African Monetary Union
ZAER        Zone d'Animation et d'Expansion Rurale
REPUBLIC OF MALI
This document has a restricted distribution and mar oz usc- by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othewle be dis; -.ed without World ank authorization.



- iii -
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT IINVESTMENT PROJECT
PROJECT SUNMARY
PART I. THE ECONOMY
PART II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
PART III. THE SECTOR ADJUSTIMENT/INVESTMENT CREDIT
A.   Objectives and Origin
B.    Justification for Hybrid Concept
C.    The Policy Agenda
- The Cotton Sector Adjustment Program
- The Cereals Sector Adjustment Program
- Natural Resource Management Issues
Reforms of Rural Development Instituti')ns (ODRs)
- Eft±ciency of the Public Investment P!.3gram
- Macroeconomic Policy Measures
D.    The Investment Program
- CMDT Five-Year Rural Development Program
- Bougouni Regional Development Program
- IDA Investmenti in all of the Mali Sud Area
E.    Studies Component
PART IV. COSTS. FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
PART V. IMPACT AND RISKS
A.    Impact and Risks of the Adjustment Component
B.   Impact and Risks of the IJvestment Component
C.    Environmental Impact
PART VI. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
PART VII. SUMMARY OF PROJECT CONDITIONS AND ASSURANCES
PART VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS



- iv -
SUPPORTING TABLES AND ANNEXES
Annex 1    MALI - Economic Indicators
Annex 2     Agricultural Sector Basic Data
Annex 3     Government's Letter of Agricultural Policy
Annex 4     Supervision Plan
Annex S     Cost Estimates of the Investment Component
Annex 6     Schedule of Disbursement for IDA Financing - Investment Component
Annex 7     Documents Available in Project File
Annex 8     Status of Bank Group Onerations
Annex 9     Simulation for Cotton Pricing and Taxation Mechanism
Annex 10    Economic Analysis for Mali Sud Five-Year Development Program and
Bougouni Investments
TABLES AND CHARTS INCLUDED IN TEXT
TABLE 1: MALI EXTERNAL FIMANCING REQUIREMENTS, 1989-1992
TABLE 2: POLICY AGENDA ACTION MATRIX
TABLE 3: INVESTMENT COMPONENT COST SUMMARY
TABLE 4: TOTAL PROJECT COST SUMMARY
TABLE 5t DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
TABLE 6: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
TABLE 7: PROCUREMENT METHODS FOR THE PROJECT INVESTMENT /STUDIES COMPONENT
CHART l: COTTON FINANCING AND STABILIZATION MECHANISM



REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTWENTVINVESTMENT PROJECT
CREDIT SUMNARY
Borrowers Republic of Mali
Amount:   SDR 40.7 million (US$ 53 million equivalent)
Terms:   Standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years
Co-lenders: The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany (with a grant of US$
2.9 million equivalent); the Government of the Netherlands (with a grant of US $5.2
million equivalent); the Swiss Development Corporation (with a grant of US$ 6.9
million equivalent). Parallel-financing is being provided by FAC and CCCE amounting
to US$ 50.8 million equivalent.
Program Descriptions The program consists of sectoral reform measures, concentrated
on the cotton and cereals subsectors and on selected institutional reforms and
natural resource management measures. It would also support investments in the
Southern zone of Mali. The sectoral adjustment and investment components are
directly linked through the cotton and cereals reform program.
A. Policy Reforms would focus on the cotton and cereals sectors. Cotton reforms
would (i) provide incentives to ths Cotton Corporation (CMDT) to maximize profits
by allowing it to keep a signif'cant portion of export revenues for internal
reinvestment or distribution to shareholders; (ii) provide for a clear separation
of CMDT's commercial and rural development activities. Commercial activities would
be carried out at CMDT's own risk, rural development activities would be undertaken
by CMDT on behalf of the Government and financed from the public budget; (iii) link
the now fixed producer price to world market prices by paying a premium to
producers when international prices increase and by decreasing the floor price if
the cotton sector has been in deficit for two consecutive seasons; (iv) establish
a cotton fund to protect producer prices from short-term fluctuations; (v) replace
the export tax on cotton and other inelastic taxation measures with a profit tax
on CMDT.
Cereals Reforms would (i) support full liberalization of coarse grain consumer and
producer prices; (ii) libera_ -ze cereals exports; (iii) limit the role of the
cereals marketing board (OPAM) to managing the National Security Stock, supplying
cereals deficit areas and managing emergency food aid; (iv) maintain an appropriate
level of Security Stock for cereals and establish OPAM rules for buying and selling
for this stock on domestic markets; (v) define what constitutes a deficit zone,
where OPAM would sell at market prices, and establish rules how to determine those
market prices; (vi) reorganize OPAM to reduce operating costs; (vii) specify
administrative arrangements between OPAM and the emergency food aid system to
assure distribution of food at least cost to targeted populations without
purchasing power. In addition, as part of the reform of rural development



- vi -
institutions six defunct organizations have already been closed and the Governmeut
would prepare a program to restructure the remaining rural development
institutions. The program would also support the creation of a coordination unit
at the Ministry of Environment and Livestock and support studies leading to policy
reforms in natural resource management.
B. Investments. Investments would be in the high potential Mali Sud Region, in the
existing, well-developed cotton zone and in the new, adjacent Bougouni region,
which has been recently freed from onchocerciasis. The investment program would be
managed by the Cotton Corporation, which has been executing agency for the IDA-
financed Mali Sud I and Mali Sud II projects. Both projects were unusually well-
executed rural development operations.
C. Hybrid Concept. Investments and sector adjustment measures are proposed to be
supported through a hybrid operation as (i) the IDA lending strategy for Mali
proposes to pursue sectoral adjustment measures in the context of Sector Adjustment
Programs or hybrid operations while macroeconomic adjustment measures are to be
pursued through the proposed Structural Adjustment Programs; (ii) sector reform
measures are a necessary but not sufficient condition to improve supply response
in the agricultural sector. Additional investments are needed to open up new areas
suitable for production, increase productivity and improve land management
techniques to sustain the production potential; (iii) the fast disbursing credit
provides compensatory financing for potential temporary fiscal revenue losses
resulting from cotton taxation reforms, (iv) the longer disbursement period of the
investment program provides IDA the opportunity to supervise adjustment measures
beyond the disbursement period of the fast disbursing credit which assures
consolidation and full implementation of all sector reform measures.
Benefits and Risks
Efficiency increases in cotton production, processing and marketing leading to
higher foreign exchange earnings and income are expected to be the main benefits
from the cotton reform program. Institutional reforms in the cotton sector should
lead to a more sustairable system operating with less Government interference and
inter-agency frictions. Cereals market liberalization is expected to lead to a more
efficient distribution of cereals, reductions in intermediate margins and therefore
to income gains by consumers and producers. Improved and timely distribution of
cereals coupled with a role of OPAM in the distribution of cereals to targeted
population in selected cereals deficit areas should also improve food security.
The much reduced and transparent role for OPAM reduces risk for private traders and
improved financial management at OPAM reduces financial deficits which in the past
had to be financed by either donors or Government. The streamlined system of rural
development institutions (ODRs) would reduce public expenditures through a
reduction in wage bills and the formulation of a comprehensive national natural
resource management strategy would lay the foundation for further investments to
conserve Mali's production potential.
Waivering political commitment to the reform process and the emergence of non-
competitive market structures in the private trading sector constitute the main
risk for the implementation of the cereals adjustment component. Should several
good rainfall years lead to continued cereals surpluses, political pressures would



. vil -
increase on the Govervnent to assign OPJAM a more Interventionist role to absorb the
excess production. In the cotton sector there is some risk that during a fiscal
crisis Government might find it difficult to respect all the Implications of the
transfer of cotton activities to CMDT as part of CNDT's own commercial - and not
public - activities. In particular, Government might try to interfere in CNDT
management and might try to control export revenue obtained from cotton exports.
The investment component would lead to Increased agricultural production in cotton
and cereals and some minor crops. The opening of the Bougouni region in particular
would create added agricultural production possibilities providing an area for in-
migration from the north where the land carrying capacity is being exhausted and
soils are becoming depleted. Leavy emphasis on new land management practices to be
introduced in the Bougouni area and the traditional sones would help safeguard the
agricultural production potential In the Mali Sud sone. Land development in
accordance with a regional development plan outlining high potential areas and
providing for environmental safeguards would minimize the environmental impact of
the development program. Environmental effects of the investment program would be
carefully monitored,



- viii -
Summary of Proiect Cost Estimates
Local     Foreian      Total
(US$ million)
A. Sectoral Adjustment Component                   -           27.9      27.9
(quick-disbursing element)
P  Investment Component                           14.0         20.5      34.5
C. Studies Component                               0.3          1.7       2.0
D. Cotton Fund                                     6.9          -         6.9
Total Project Cost                                21.2         50.1      71.3
Financing Plant       Sectoral Adiustment      Investment     Other      Total
(US $ million)
Government                                         3.3          -         3.3
IDA                         2!.0                  26.0          2.0      53.0
Fed.Rep. of Germany          2.9                   -            -         2.9
Netherlands                  -                     5.2          -         5.2
Switzerland                                                     6.9       6.9
Total                       27.9                  34.5          8.9      71.3
Estimated Disbursements:
Disbursements                         IDA FISCAL YEARS
1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total
(US$ million)
Annual
- Adjustment Credit      12.5     7.5      5.0     -       -        -      25.0
- Investment Credit       1.8     3.3      5.2     6.9     5.7      2.1    25.0
- Studies Component       0       0.3      0.3     0.4     0.5      0.5     2.0
- PPF 414 Refinancing    1.0      -        -       -       -        -       1.0
Cumulative               15.3    11.1    10.5      7.3     6.2      2.6    53.0
ADDraisal Revorts This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal Report.
Economic Rate of Return: An economic rate of return of 32 percent has been
estimated for IDA financed investments in the Bougouni region. The rate of return
on all investments proposed under the Five Year Development Program (of which IDA-
financed investments constitute 22 percent) is 28 percent.
Mapss IBRD No. 22265 and 22266



INTERNATIONAL DRVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMINDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO TEE REPUBLIC OF MALI FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSnHENT1INVESTMEKT CREDIT
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Development
Credit for SDR 40.7 million (US$ 53 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with
a maturity of 40 years to the Republic of Mali. The credit would help the
Government of Mali to implement sector reform measures i. crucial subsectors and
core investments required to achieve the desired supply response. The proposed
project would be a hybrid consisting of: (i) a sectoral adiustment proaram
supported by a quick disbursing element of about US $ 27.9 million equivalent (IDA:
US$ 25.0 million; cofinancing of US$ 2.9 million from the Federal Republic of
Germany) and (ii) an investment program of USS 34.5 million equivalent (IDA US$ 26
million, US$ 5.2 million co-financing from the Netherlands; US $ 3.3 million
Government contribution); (iii) a special studies component of US$ 2 million
equivalent; and (iv) a contribution to the cotton fund provided by the Swiss
bilateral aid program as a grant amounting to US $ 6.9 million equivalent. Co-
financing for the quick disbursing component and for the cotton fund has been
provided under the Special Program for Assistance to low-income debt distressed
Sub-Saharan countries. The proposed project would be IDA's fifteenth credit to the
agricultural sector. The adjustment component will assist Government to implement
reform measures which are an integral part of the overall program of reforms set
out in the PFP, the IMF program and the proposed Structural Adjustment Program.
2.    The program is being parallel-financed with CCCE by US $ 28.6 million
equivalent for the CaDT five-year rural development program and by US $ 13.9
million equivalent for the financing of fixed assets purchased by CMDT from the
Government of Mali. Transfer of fixed assets from Government to CHDT is part of
the institutional restructuring implemented under the cotton reform program. Grant
financing in the amount of US $ 8.3 million equivalent is provided by FAC for
selected investment components included under the CMDT five year program. All
preparation and the appraisal mission have been undertaken jointly with CCCE and
FAC as well as with the above-mentioned cofinanciers.
PART I. TEE ECONOMY
Backaroun
3.   'Aali's economic performance is highly constrained by a narrow resource base,
variable climate, and the legacy of inappropriate past policies. Nonetheless the
adjustment and stabilization efforts pursued by the Government since 1982 have
contributed to an increase in per capita incomes and domestic savings as well as
improvements in the fiscal and external accounts.
4.    Economic Growth.  GDP growth averaged about 5.6 percent per annum over the
past five years and 3.5 percent over the past de-ade. These averages mask large
annual variations, however, which are directly linked to climatic conditions.
During the last five years, for example, GDP growth has ranged from -1.0 percent



to 18.6 percent.  Most recently, exceptionally good weather and an improved policy
eavironment contributed to GDP growth of 9.9 percent in 1989. No growth in GDP is
forecast for 1990, due to a decline in agricultural production foilowing the
exceptional 1969 harvest.  Gross domestic investment has increased slowly as a
share of GDP over the last decade, averaging 22.5 percent of GDP during 1985-89 and
approximately 19.5 percent of GDP during 1980-89.   Fixed capital formation has
shown much less variability than GDP, largely because of the importance of foreign
financing  iA public  investment  expenditure.    Domestic  savings,  which were
consistently negative in the early 1980s and fell to -14.3 percent of GDP in 1985,
have been positive since 1987 and reached 8.4 percent of GDP in 1989.
5.    Fiscal and Monetary Policy.  The Government has pursued tight fiscal and
monetary policies.   The overall governmenL budget deficit (including foreign-
financed investment expenditure) has fallen steadily from its peak of 15.2 percent
of GDP in 1985 to 9.5 percent of GDP in 1989.   The current budget (including
annexed budgets and special funds) moved from a deficit of 0.8 percent of GDP in
1985 to a surplus of 2.7 percent of GDP in 1989. Government expenditure, including
investment expenditure, has declined from 30 percent of GDP to 26 percent, while
revenues have increased from 15 percent of GDP to 16 percent. The consolidated
budget deficit (on a commitment basis) was thus reduced to 9 percent of GDP in 1989
from 11 percent in 1988. The monetary authorities have also pursued a tight credit
policy, while the Government has reduced its obligations vis-a-vis the banking
system in each of the past three years in order to free credit for private sector
use.   As a result of the above-mentioned policies, the authorities have been
successful  at  containing  inflation  and  improving  Mali's   international
competitiveness. Inflation, as measured by the GDP deflator, was 1.0 percent in
1989 and averaged 3.9 percent per annum over the last decade. As a result, the
real effective exchange rate has depreciated by some 22 percent during the 1980s.
6.    Balance  of  Payments.    Mali's  external  accounts  have  also  improved
significantly since the mid-1980s. The current account deficit fell from a peak
of 31.2 percent of GDP in 1985 to 15.1 percent of GDP in 1989. Export volumes have
increased at an average annual rate of 5.4 percent during the 19809 and by 7.2
percent per annum since 1985. Import volumes have increased at an average annual
rate of 2.0 percent during the 1980s. Capital inflows, largely ODA to finance the
public investment program, have increased steadily, and the balance of payments
recorded surpluses in both 1988 and 1989 after more than a decade of consecutive
deficits.
7.    Total public debt outstanding and disbursed  (including IMP purchases)
exceeded 106 percent of GDP at end-1988.   The debt service ratio rose rapidly
beginning in 1983, peaked at 30.9 percent in 1986, and has subsequently declined
slowly to 27.1 percent in 1989.2 As a result of the rapid increase in scheduled
debt service, Mali was unable to fully service its debt in the mid-1980s and
external arrears exceeded US$ 100 million at end-1987. These arrears were totally
cleared by end-1989, primarily through debt relief from Paris Club and other
bilateral creditors. Mali sought debt relief from the Paris Club for the first
2 Excluding debt service to the USSR and China for which moratoria were
negotiated through 1989 and are expected to be continued.



- 3 -
time in October 1988, at which time creditors provided debt relief, on Toronto
terms, totalling CFA* 4.0 billion for 100 percent of arrears and eligible principle
and interest obligations through October 1989. Mali returned to the Paris Club in
November 1989 and obtained multi-year debt relief through 1991 on Toronto terms,
as well as the rescheduling of arrears on short-term commercial debt and late
interest payments for five years with a two year grace period. Total debt relief
obtained at the November 1989 meeting is estimated at CFAF 13.7 billion.
Adiustment Efforts
8.    Confronted with unsustainable fiscal and external deficits, the Government
launched a stabilization/adjustment program in 1982 and introduced initial reforms
to reduce budgetary deficits, public enterprise operating losses, and public sector
arrears.   This led to substantial progress in reducing economic and financial
imbalances until the pace of reform slowed noticeably in late 1986. In the absence
of adequate adjustment measures in 1987, the economic and financial situation
became increasingly difficult and a major crisis developed.   To redress the
situation, the Government of Mali started implementing in mid-1988 a medium-term
adjustment program as defined in a first PPP for 1988-90. The overall aim of the
adjustment program is to increase per capita income with equity. Long-term growth
of real GDP depends largely on the development of the agricultural sector and the
expansion of the small gold mining sector. Growth in the secondary sector, beyond
that linked to the processing of agricultural production, will depend on the extent
of further improvements in international competitiveness. The adjustment efforts
have been supported by two IDA sector adjustment operations, IMF stand-by and sAP
arrangements, and cofinancing in the context of the Special Program of Assistance
for debt-distressed low-income countries in sub-saharan Africa (SPA).
9.    Policy Framework Paeer.  In November 1989, the Government prepared, with the
assistance of the IMP and Bank staffs, a second-year PFP for 1990-92. The three
key objectives of the program are to attain an annual growth rate of real GDP of
about A percent by 1992; to contain the annual rate of inflatimn, as measured by
the GDP deflator, at about 3.0 percent; and to reach a viable external sector
position by 1992.   The program emphasizes policies aimed at (i) foster'ng an
environment corlucive to promoting private sector activity, savings and investment,
and international comperitiveness;  (ii) improving public resource management,
iu-luding a strengthening of the public sector financial position; and (iii)
de.eloping the human resource base and strengthening the management of natural
resources. To promote private sector activity, the Government is committed to
further liberalization of pricing and marketing policies as well as streamlining
of administrative procedures, including the simplification of import and export
procedures. In the agricultural sector, the three key objectives are promotion and
diversification of agricultural production, achievement of increased food security,
and improvement of natural resource management.
Macroeconomic Linkate
10.   The agricultural sector adjustment program inscribes itself in the ongoing
macroeconomic policy reform program.   This includes in particular reforms in
private sector incentives and in public resource management.  Specific actions
under the ongoing PPP and proposed Structural Adjustment Program include among



- 4-
others the elimination of export taxes and quantitative restrictions on imports and
exports, simplification of import taxation, price liberalization, reduction in the
relative size of the wage bill in the government budget and the strengthening of
budgetary control and public Investment programming.   The sector reforms in
cereals, cotton and the reforms of the rural development organizations contribute
to these macro-economic adjustment objectives.   The linking of cotton producer
prices to international prices and the liberalization of cereals prices and markets
are important elements in the Government's price liberalization policy.   The
opening of cereals market to private traders and the scaled down role of OPAM with
clearly defined predictable interventions is an important element in providing a
domestic environment conducive to private trade.  The elimination of the cotton
export tax would be the most essential element in the elimination of the country's
export taxation system, as export tax receipts obtained from cotton constitute 70
percent of total export tax earnings. A streamlining of the functions of rural
development organizations with reductions in civil servants employed by the
organizations would reduce budgetary expenditures.   The improved planning and
monitoring processes in the agricultural sector are in line with national
objectives of improving manageuent of public resources.
11.   External Capital Requirements.  The measures being adopted should contribute
to an expansion and diversification of exports and to a containment of import
growth, leading to improvement in the trade balance. The external current account
deficit is projected to decline to 12.8 percent of GDP by 1992. 3 The projected
financing gaps in 1990-92 will need to be closed through exceptional external
financial assistance including debt relief.   Even though domestic savings are
expected to rise, Mali will remain heavily dependent on external financial
assistance for implementation of its development program.   To maintain gross
investment at an average 21 percent of GDP over 1990-92, over 90 percent of public
investment expenditures are expected to be financed by foreign donors.   Total
external financing requirements for 1990-92 are thus estimated to be on the order
of US$ 1.3 billion.  This level of financing implies a continuation of per c'pita
ODA flows on the order of US$ 45-50 per annum.  The breakdown of the financing
requirement is the followings current account deficit, excluding grants (74
percent), debt amortization (12 percent, including IMF repurchases) and build-up
of reserves (14 percent). Disbursements from existing and expected grants and loan
commitments, including IMF  resources, are projected to provide about 85 percent of
the required external financing.   The remaining gap of approximately US$ 164
million will need to be financed by additional IMF resources, bilateral debt
relief, and new quick-disbursing non-project aid, including IDA adjustment lending.
The adjustment component of the proposed credit would cover approximately 15
percent of this residual gap.
3 This level of current account deficit is judged to be viable based on the
assumption that ODA capital flows, excluding exceptional balance of payments and
budget assistance, will continue to grow in nominal terms, at about 6 percent
per annum, i.e., roughly in line with nominal GDP growth in the G-5 countries.



12. IDA Support. The overriding goal of Bank assistance to Mali is to achieve
sustainable growth, with equity, in per capita income. Policy reforms to reduce
distortions in the incentive structure and to improve efficiency in public resource
management are essential to achieve this objective. Bank stra'.egy has been, and
remains, to identify the most important areas of reform and to remain flexible
enough to support change when and where it occurs. Hence, key sectoral issues have
been dealt with under Sector Adjustment Credits, in order to keep adjustment
operations sharply focussed and to allow for flexibility in the pace of reform
between sectors.   Two sector adjustment operations are curr  tly ongoing.  The
Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1938-MLI), wLch was approved by
the Board in June 1988, supports the Govetnment's adjustment program in four key
areas: (i) reform of key economic policies regarding public investment expenditure
and economic incentives, (ii) financial sector reforms, including restructuring the
largest commercial bank, (iii) institutional and legal reform of the relations
between government and public enterprises, and (iv) rationalization of the sector
through restructuring and divestiture.  Progress in the implementation of these
reforms has been satisfactory and the second tranche of the credit was released and
fully disbursed in December 1989. The Education Consolidation Credit (Cr. 2054-
MLI), a hybrid operation approved by the Board in June 1989, complements the
Government's overall structural adjustment program by reducing inefficiencies in
the large education sector, promoting the private financing of education, and
better preparing graduates for self or micro-enterprise employment and the needs
of the economy. Given the structure of the Malian economy, overall economic growth
is contingent on growth in the agricultural sector.  The proposed Agricultural
Sector Adjustment/lnvestment Credit would support poli.y reforms and investments
aimed at maintaining strong agricultural growth. In addition, a first Structural
Adjustment Credit, focussing on incentive and public resource management issues,
was appraised in March 1990 and is tentatively scheduled for Board presentation in
FY91.



TABLE 1s MALI EXTERNAL FINJANCING REQUITEM4ENTS, 1989-1992
(UsS millions)
1989    19W    1991    1992    199B
FINANCIMG RE4UIREMENT
Current Account (excluding grant.)            8a4.5   814.0   819.7   892.5   820.8
of which: lat r rt payments                 (89.1)  (88.8)  (81.9)  (84.9)  (84.9)
Amort.wthicn i9.t    p6.2    89.7    41.1                                       4
IMF Repurchso_                                 28.4    17.9     9.0     6.6     4.5
Changr in arrer (incro ee -)                   C0.2     0.0     0.0     0.9     0.6
Change in reserves (decrnree                   62.2 74.2    09.1    91.1    1.1
Other                                           5.4    ...      0.1     0.1     0.1
TOTAL                                         486.1   445.2   4a86.    839.7   81.3
DISBURSEMENTS
Existing Commitemnts
Grants tS                                   228.6            ...      ...
Loans
Bilateral creditors                       107.1    82.6    22.1      7.6     2.8
Multilateral croditors                     75.0    76.5   6B.8    409.    80.4
of which: IDA                          (4J8.)  (41.5)  (8. 6)  (22.4)  (16.0)
of which: adjuetient lending            (11.1)   (2.0)  (12.4)
Private (net)                              -2. 
IMF Resources                               6.5    ...      ...
of which: SAF                           (9.6) 0).
Expected New Commitments
Grant. /                                          208.S   211.6   219.9   226.2
Loans
Bilateral creditors                              21.5    44.9    60.9    64.0
Multilateral crditeor  j/                         2.6    24.9    88.7    54.0
Private (net)                                     4.9     4.2      4.4     4.6
IMF Resource                                     21.6    18.5      0.0     0.0
of which: SAF                                 (20.1)  (18.5)   (9.6)   (0.0)
TOTAL                                         499.6 879.1   861.6   8B9 8   861.6
FINANCING GAP BEFORE RSEDULIN                  75.5    75.1    66.5    82.4     0.0
Debt Re lef                                75.5    21.1    14.8     9.0      9.0
RESIDJAL FINACO GAP                             0.9    84.1    41.6    82.4     0.0
a Excluding the change In the net position vis-a-vis the IMF
£/ Including errors and omissions
V No date are valiloble on existing grant comitments byond 1959
Excluding the adjustent component of the proposed credit
28-Apr-9
PART II. THE AGRXCULTURAL SECTOR
13.   Agriculture  in Mali is based primarily on rainfed cultivation,  although
important irrigation schemes exist for rice cultivation. Cereals, mostly
sorghum/millet and maize, are the most important crops. They are grown by 90
percent of farmers and contribute about 25 percent of GDP. Cereals are primarily
cultivated for home consumption; only about 20 percent of total production is
marketed. Rice is also important in consumption, particularly in urban areas. It
is grown in large-scale irrigation schemes (mainly the Office de Niger, Operation



- 7 -
Riz Mopti and Operation Riz Segou) and in low-land cultivation. Cotton is the most
important cash crop. It is Mali's major export crop, represents 11 percent of
Mali's agricultural output and provides 45 percent of foreign exchange earnings.
Groundnut. and maize are other, less important cash crops, grown for domestic
consumption in southern areas of Mali. Average annual growth in agriculture is
estimated at 3 percent over the last ten years. Annual growth rates fluctuate
widely as a result of large variations in the amount and distribution patterns of
unual rainfall. Agricultural output declined in particular during the 1982-1984
drought period but has since recovered strongly due to several good rainfall years
and the improved policy environment. Mall is today essentially self-sufficient in
the production of coarse grains while it was heavily dependent on commercial and
food aid imports during the 1982-1984 drought years.
14.   Cotton. Mali produced about 235,000 tons of seed cotton in 1989190 and has
over previous years experienced rapid expansion in cotton output. It is the second
largest West African producer after Cote d'Ivoire. Cotton is grown in the southern
areas of Mali. the so-called Mali Sud region, where annual rainfall is sufficient
and good infrastructure has been established to allow for the processing and
marketing of cotton.   The traditional cotton growing areas are fully under
cultivation. Due to land pressures fallow periods are often not observed and soil
erosion and declining yields are common in areas which have been under continuous
cultivation for a long time. There is potential for expansion of cotton production
in adjacent areas to the south and the west of the traditional cotton zones,
provided the necessary infrastructure investments, particularly in roads, are made.
15. Due to prudent management and prevailing low domestic wages, Malian cotton
is competitive in international markets. In addition, it is known for its good
quality and has a secured market. With improved farming practices there is
potential for still further productivity improvements. Better ginning coefficients
are expected with a recently introduced new cotton seed variety. Mali also well
mastered the cotton crisis years (1985-1987), when due to a collapse of
international cotton prices, the viability of African cotton production systems was
threatened. With quick and effective cost savings measures losses were minimized,
and Malian cotton regained competitiveness more quickly than most of its African
competitors.
16.   Cotton is not grown in a monocrop system but is cultivated in crop rotation
with millet, sorghum and maize. As a result of crop rotation practices total
cereals production and productivity has increased significantly along with the
expansion of cotton. Cereals production has benefitted from the residual effects
of fertilizers applied to cotton and maize and from improved farming rractices
through agricultural equipment introduced for cotton cultivation.   Hali's so-
called cotton areas have therefore also developed into the country's most important
cereals region, producing about 60 percent of cereals which are sold on the market.
Food and cash crops constitute good complements in Mali's cotton areas and there
is potential for further diversification.
17.  Cotton processing and marketing is carried out by the Compagnie Malienne pour
le Developpement des Textiles (CMDT), supported through a network of about 1,200
village associations established in the Mali Sud region. CMDT is a mixed capital
corporation with 40 percent of its capital owned by the Compagnie Francaise riur



- 8 -
le Developpement des Textiles (CFDT) and 60 percent owned by the rGovernment of
Mali. CMDT also operates as a comprehensive rural development organization in the
Mali Sud region, providing extension services, supply of inputs, some credit
delivery, and other public services not only for cotton but also for other crops
grown in the area. CMDT is capably managed under Malian leadership and has
successfully executed complicated regional development programs integrating cotton
with food crop production. In recent years, CMDT has begun to give particular
emphasis to soil conservation activities.
18.   Cereals. Cereals represent 60 percent of agricultural production, as well as
80 percent of calorie consumption and 70 percent of protein consumption. Cereals
are primarily produced for home consumption; only about 20 percent of production
enters the market. As transportation costs are high and exports have only recently
been liberalized, exports of cereals are not common. But after several years of
good rainfall, surpluses have now been accumulated for millet/sorghum and maize.
They cannot be absorbed in the domestic market, and export markets are sought.
Exports of coarse grains are now encouraged. Exports to cereals deficit countries
are feasible, provided transportation costs can be minimized and production costs
reduced. Mali has for many years been considered structurally deficit in rice
production and has in most years relied on significant rice imports. Due to
important increases in production through expansion of small irrigation schemes and
bottomland cultivation as well as improved productivity on large irrigation
schemes, Mali is presently considered self-sufficient in rice. This shift to self-
sufficiency in cereals requires important adjustment in Mali's cereals policy and
a redefinition of food aid policies among Malian donors.
19.    Livestock.   After cotton, livestock is the most important agricultural
export, accounting for about 30 percent of total exports and 20 percent of total
GDP. Livestock is an important component oi all agricultural production systems.
The Tourag, Tamashek and some Peul tribesmen in the Sahel North of the country are
pure pastoralists, deriving all means of their livelihood from herding livestock.
Farmers in the central and southern part of the country use livestock, mainly oxen,
for traction and manure for enhancing soil fertility. They produce milk, mainly for
home consumption and meat, both for the market and for home consumption. Animals
are used for transport in both the pastoral and sedentary production systems.
Livestock production in Mali is basically a low-input/low output system, primarily
depending on extensive grazing of the natural pasture. There are only a few large
scale, intensive commercial dairy and poultry farms around Bamako and other urban
centers.
20.   Sustainability of Asriculture.  Mali's agricultural production potential is
threatened by a deteriorating natural resource base. Population pressures,
desertification, poverty, farming practices which unduly strain the resource base,
and increased livestock herds competing with agriculture for land, all endanger the
sustainability of the system. Marginal land is increasingly brought under
cultivation and fallow periods, recently adhered to for reconstitution of soils,
are abandoned. Resource degradation is reflected in decreasing yields in those
areas which have been under cultivation for many years. It is also reflected in
continued depletion of land in the northern areas. Improved land management
practices as well as the opening up of new productive areas will be needed to make
room for the increasing population and to slow down this degradation process.



- 9 -
PART III. TEE SECTOR ADJUSTME_T1INUVSSTENT CREDIT
A. Objectives and Oritin
21.    The broad objective of the proposed operation is to support and consolidate
an evolving Government program to ensure agricultural growth while diversifying
production and ensuring the sustainability of the production system. The operation
is designed as a combined investment/sector adjustment operation.   This is to
assure that sectoral policy reform measures in the cotton and cereals subsectors
will be complemented by suipply responses from investments in Mali's southern areas
where almost all of the cotton and most of cereals sold on domestic markets are
grown. The operation is the outcome of an extensive policy dialogue carried out
since 1987. The cotton sector reform measures and the complementing investment
program are also the result of previous IDA involvement in Mali's cotton sector
through the Mali Sud I Credit (Cr. 669-MLI) and the Second Mali Rural Development
Credit (Cr. 1415-MLI). Both projects were very successfully implemented.   The
program has been designed in close cooperation with other donors, including, in
particular, the CCCE, FAC, IFAD, and the Swiss, German and Dutch bilateral aid
agencies. The PRMC food aid donor group was directly involved in the design of all
cereals liberalization policies.
22.    Given  the  overwhelming  importance  of  cereals  and  cotton  in  Mali's
agricultural sector, the reform program is primarily focused on these two
subsectors.  Reform  programs  for  the  livestock  sector  are  presently  under
preparation but require further discussion and refinement and can only be
implemented in a follow-up program. The adjustment program here presented would
also support the formulation of a National Natural Resources Management Strategy
and support the preparation of further reforms in Rural Development Operations
(ODRs). Investments would be undertaken in the traditional Mali Sud area and in a
new adjacent area, the Bougouni region, where there is good agricultural production
potential for cotton, cereals, and other minor crops.
23.   Specific objectives of the policy reform Droaram are (i) to improve the
country's incentive system for the cotton sector to increase efficiency in order
to maintain competitiveness in international markets; (ii) to consolidate and
refine the cereals market liberalization program to assure adequate supply of
cereals in all areas of Mali; (iii) to support the Government's program of
institutional reforms for the Rural Development Organizations to allow for better
public services in rural areas and to reduce the drain of these institutions on the
public budget; (iv) to assure efficiency in the public investment program for the
agricultural sector; (v) to increase transparency in the planning and priority
setting of agricultural investments.
24.   Specific objectives of the investment proaram are:
(i) to increase agricultural production (especially of cotton and cereals) in
Southern Mali through the development of a new area, the Bougouni region, and
through improved farming techniques in the traditional Mali Sud region;



- 10 -
(ii) to assure sustainability of agricultural production through improved land
management practices;
(iii) to diversify agricultural production in the Mali Sud area, with particular
emphasis given to maize production;
(iv) to improve transparency and priority setting of CMDT investment planning and
to coordinate rural development activities in CMDT region with national
programs.
B. Justification for HNbrid ConceDt
25.   The project is proposed as a combined adjustment/investment operation for the
following reasons:
(i)   it forms an integral part of IDA's country assistance strategy for
Mali, which intends to pursue macroeconomic adjustment issues as part
of the Structural Adjustment Credit while sector policy issues will be
adressed in Sectoral Adjustment Credits or hybrids. This approach
permits the diversification of adjustment type, quick disbursing
operations that support the SPA and facilitate cofinancing. It also
allows a spectrum of sectoral policy issues to be dealt with through
a more continuous process as well as a more effective debate on the
appropriate level;
(ii) the fast disbursing credit provides compensatory financing for
potential temporary fiscal revenue losses resulting from the shift of
cotton export taxes to CMDT profit taxes. Simulations show that the
cotton taxation reform would be revenue neutral or possibly revenue
enhancing. But annual fiscal revenue obtained from CMDT profits will
be more difficult to forecast and will fluctuate annually as a result
of changing international cotton prices than the previous revenues
obtained from export taxes;
(iii) reforms of cotton incentives are a necessary but not sufficient
condition to increase cotton supply. Additional investments are needed
to open up new areas and to increase productivity. Investments are
needed to improve land management practices to minimize land mining and
assure continued supply of cotton in the medium and long term;
(iv)  the more extended disbursement period of the investment credit would
allow IDA to supervise the reform program bevond the two year
disbursement period of the fast disbursing component and assure its
firm acceptance and implementation by all government agencies involved.
C. The Policy Agenda
26.   The policy agenda includes (i) a cotton sector reform program; (ii) a cereals
sector reform program; (iii) reforms in natural resource management program; (iv)



- 11 -
reforms of rural development institutions5 (v) improved planning and priority
setting for public investments in the agricultural sector; and (vi) implementation
of macroeconomic policy measures consistent with the sectoral adjustment program.
Most of the policy reform measures in the cotton and cereals subsectors have been
implemented in January 1990.
The Cotton Sector Adjustment Program
27.    The cotton sector reform program is the primary focus of the adjustment
program. It entails a detailed reform of the producer pricing, taxation and
institutional system. Reforms are necessary to assure continued competitiveness of
the cotton production system. Domestic resource cost analysis shows that cotton has
a clear comparative advantage in Mali. Under the previous system CMDT was
responsible for cotton production, ginning and marketing but performed this
responsibility on behalf of the Government. CMDT operated within a pre-approved
annual budget under the supervision of the Ministry of Finance. Export revenues
from cotton were deposited to a Government account from which the CMDT budget,
cotton export taxes and other related expenditures were paid. This system provided
no incentives for CMDT to minimize costs and stifled entrepreneurial decision
making. Rather, the system encouraged CMDT to overstate annual expenditures to
obtain higher budget allocations. While CMDT, due to capable leadership, had not
overly misused the system and, in spite of this system, Mali's cotton costs remain
competitive, there is significant scope for further productivity improvements.
28.    Under the reformed system CMDT produces, processes and exports cotton not
on behalf of the Government but on its own account. As CMDT is a mixed capital
company, Government guides CMDT management through its representation in CMDT's
Board of Directors, but Goverwment would not be involved in CMDT management
decisions. CMDT directly exports cotton and repatriates export earnings into its
own account. CMDT operates like any private enterprise and pays profit taxes on its
net earnings from the export of cotton. However, as CMDT holds a de-facto monopoly
position in cotton marketing, some rules affecting producer prices and marketing
margins had to be established to avoid excessive profit taking by CMDT. As the
system of ginneries is efficiently managed in Mali and high fixed costs of
ginneries require a guaranteed supply of seed cotton, the de-facto monopoly
position of CMDT in cotton ginning will not be abolished under this reform program.
Policy discussions will be continued on the gradual introduction of private
ginneries in the Mali Sud area.
29.   Producer Pricing System. Cotton farmers received in the past a guaranteed
producer price of 85 CFAP/kg for first grade seed cotton. This guaranteed price was
set independently from international market conditions and there was no automatic
upward or downward adjustment mechanism. The price of 85 CFAF/kg is the lowest
cotton producer price in West Africa and below present cotton export parity prices.
Under the reform program a linkage has been created between export prices obtained
for Malian cotton fiber and the actual producer price paid. While CMDT would
continue to announce at planting season (in the month of March) a floor price,
which in principle is to be maintained at 85 CFAP/kg, a premium would be paid to
farmers if cotton exports were profitable. The premium will be distributed by CMDT
staff to farmers when the next cotton harvest will be picked up at the villages
(between November and January each year). Profits are determined by subtracting the



- 12 -
negotiated margin for processing, marketing and the producer price from export
receipts. Profits will only be distributed to farmers after the Cotton Fund has
been fully established (see Chart 1 for illustration of this mechanism). Farmers
will obtain 25 percent of this profit. The floor price will be adjusted downward
if cotton export receipts have not been sufficient during two consecutive marketing
seasons to cover the negotiated CMDT intermediate margin and the producer price of
CFAF 85/kg and if the cotton fund is empty.
30.    Cotton Fund. To avoid that short-term fluctuations (price trends of less
than two years) in international markets are translated into producer price
adjustments, a stabilization fund has been established. The size of the fund is
designed to stabilize only 20 percent of the minimum price of 85 CFAF/kg. At the
present production level of 235,000 tons, this corresponds to an amount of CFAP 4.0
billion. The fund will be financed through a levy imposed on cotton, which is
discontinued once the maximum level of the fund has been obtained. The levy will
be collected by CMDT and directly transferred to the fund. An initial deposit of
CFAF 3 billion will be made, of which CFAF 1 billion will be financed from CMDT's
own resources and CFAF 2 billion will be provided through a grant from the Swiss
Bilateral Aid Program. Deposit of CFAF 1 billion in the Cotton Fund by CMDT would
be a condition of Board presentation. As the ongoing 1969190 cotton marketing
season is profitable, the cotton fund is expected to be fully funded with profits
accumulated during this season (see Annex 9 for simulations of the results of the
1989190 marketing season).
31.    Resources for the fund will be deposited in commercial bank accounts
administered by a committee which is composed of a representative of CMDT, the
Ministry of Agriculture and the Minirtry of Finance. The joint signature of all
three committee members is necessary to deposit or withdraw resources from the
fund. An arrete interministeriel has already been signed which creates the fund and
designates the members of the committee managing the fund. The fund may be invested
to earn interest among several financial institutions which offer the best
financial returns. No more than 40 percent of the total fund may be deposited with
one bank and 20 percent of the total fund resources must be liquid within three
months, the remaining within six months. The fund has to be strictly separated from
all other stabilization mechanisms in Mali and can only be used in accordance with
the rules laid down in the CMDT/Goverument contrat-plan. Assurances have been
sought that the Management Committee would present each year, no later than June,
audited financial statements for the use of the Cotton Fund.  Audits would be
undertaken by a recognized international auditing firm.
32.   Cotton farmer groups are to be represented in the committee managing the fund
starting with the 1992/93 marketing season. A study will be launched to define how
to select representation from producer groups. Participation of one producer in
the committee managing the Cotton Fund would be a condition of third tranche
release. The transfer of cotton price stabili,,tion to groups of village
associations (ZAER) is one of the long term objectives of this cotton reform
program. A study to evaluate such possible transfers and to define preparation and
support measures needed to create and monitor the appropriate village structures
would be launched under the program.
33.  Cotton Taxation Reforms. Under the past system all cotton exports were taxed



- 13 -
with a 3 percent export tax. Furthermore, all income retained from cotton export
after payment of the CMDT budget and releted expenditures were transferred to the
public treasury vhich corresponds to a 100 percent profit tax. This taxation is
inadvisable on two accountat (i) export taxes reduce competitiveness on
international markets; (ii) a 100 percent profit tax provides disincentive for CMDT
to generate profits. Under the reform program cotton would be exempted from all
export taxes. Tax revenue would instead be obtained through the general corporate
profit tax amounting to 45 percent which would be imposed on CMDT's profits. In
case of windfall profits due to exceptionally high international cotton prices,
Government would in addition receive 602 of export revenue obtained above 525
CFAPIkg through a special surtax. Approval by the Council of Ministers of the
legislation abolishing all export taxes on cotton would be a condition of Board
presentation; enactment of the legislation abolishing the export tax would be a
condition of second tranche release.
34.    A schematic presentation of the cotton pricing, taxation and stabilization
mechaui3m to be applied in the reformed cotton sector is presented in Chart 1.
Simulations in Annex 9 apply the scheme to the 1989/90 marketing season with
alternative assumpticns for average export prices and present projections of
financial results for the contrat-plan period.



- 14 -
CRhRT 1s PRESENTATION OF TOl COTTON PINANCING AND STABILIZATION NECEANISM
Export Revenues
Minimum Margin4
(defined as CFAF 400/kg)
equals
Total Amount Available for Distribution
A. If Positive                                    D. If Nexative
Payment to Stabilization Fund until               Payment of deficit from
ceiling has been attained or positive             Stabilization Fund
margin exhausted
If marain positive:                               and/or
* 25 percent of margin paid                      If resources of Stabilization
as premium to producers                        Fund insufficient to cover that
deficit, then prefinancing of
* if export revenue highly profitable            deficit will be arranged through
(above CFAP 525/kg 5) payment of              CMDT's own resources and/or
special tax of 60 percent after                lowering of producer price
payment of producer premium                    in subsequent season
If margin Dositive:
* 45 percent of margin profit tax
* 55 percent of margin profit for CMDT
4 CFPA 4001kg lint cotton has been agreed upon as the minimum margin
required by CMDT to pay farmers, gin cotton seed and export cotton lint. If
CMDT's actual costs remain below this margin, CMDT generates additional profit.
If actual production costs are above, excess costs have to be covered by CMDT's
retained earnings. The CPAp 400/kg Includes payment of CFAf 200/kg (CFAF 85 per
kg of cotton seed with 42 percent ginning coefficient' to farmers and CFAP 200/kg
for ginning and exporting of cotton. This minimum margin vould be reviewed at
mid-term review of the CMDT/Goverrment contrat-plmn before the 1992/93 marketing
season.
5 The break-even point for cotton production and export is presently CFAF
407/kg lint cotton



- 15 -
35.   Institutional Reform Program. The institutional reform program in the cotton
sector would (i) strictly separate CMDT's commerciallindustrial activities
(including cotton) from rural development activities; (ii) allow CMDT to operate
like a profit making enterprise for its commercial and industrial activities with
Government involvement only through the CMDT Board of Directors5 (iii) provide that
all rural development activities carried out in the Mali Sud region would be
undertaken on behalf of the Government, approved in and financed from the
government budget; (iv) open CMDT capital to producers. To assure that CMDT is
performing its industriallcommercial activities according to profit maximization
considerations Government interference in management needs to be minimized. As CMDT
is a mixed capital company with 60 percent public capital, Government is
represented on its Board of Directors. Rural development activities undertaken in
the Mali Sud need to become part of Mali's national agricultural policy and should
be undertaken on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture. CMDT has therefore
developed a five-year rural development program for the Mali Sud region which
defines all rural development actions and expenditures. This plan will be revised
annually and approved by the Ministry of Agriculture. In its rural development
activities, CMDT would operate in close collaboration with different national
services (such as the livestock and forestry services, the health and education
services) and would subcontract all road maintenance activities to the private
sector. The objective is to reduce C2DT rural development activities to services
Which cannot and should not be performed by the private sector and to gradually
integrate public development functions into national services while maintaining the
effective and integrated delivery of services.
36.   The CMDT/Government contrat-plan provides for the opening of capital for
producers active in the CMDT region. Opening of CMDT capital to farmers and village
associations would provide for a possibility to invest savings generated from
cotton production. It would also assure more direct participation of producers in
management decisions of CMDT through representation in its Board of Directors. An
action plan to open CMDT capital to producers and village associations would be
prepared by CMDT, and CNDT would open its capital to producers starting October
1992.
37.   Imnlementation of CMDT and Cotton Reform Program. All reform measures
affecting cotton pricing, taxation and CMDT institutional reforms have been spelled
out in detail in a contrat-plan signed by the Minister of Finance and Commerce, the
Minister of Agriculture, and the President of the Board of Directors of CMDT in
November 1989. The complete set of reforms is already being applied in the ongoing
1989/90 marketing season and all responsibilities in cotton marketing and financial
controls previously exercised by other Government structures have been transferred
to CMDT. All actions required to settle the accounts for previous cotton marketing
seasons are presently completed. New by-laws legalizing the new structure of CMDT
which are drafted in accordance with the new law on mixed capital companies,
prepared under the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (Credit 1937-MLI)
are presently being finalized. Continued satisfactory implementation of the cotton
sector reform measures as defined in the contrat-plan would be conditions of second
and third tranche release. Failure to continue satisfactory implementation would
also constitute an event of susnension for all disbursements,  including the
investment component.



- 16 -
38.   Additional Measures to be taken. CMDT would prepare actio.a programs how (i)
to open CMDT capital to producers; and (li) to represent producers in the
management committee of the cotton fund. Starting October 1991, producers would be
represented in the management committee of the cotton fund, and CMDT capital would
be opened to producers. CMDT would also prepare a study on how to transfer cotton
price stabilization to village groups or ZAERs.
The Cereals Sector Adiustment Program
39.   Major cereals market reform measures have been undertaken since November 1987
when full price liberalization and market liberalization of coarse grains had been
announced. Consumer and producer price liberal4zation has since been implemented
and private sector trade in cereals has been firmly established. An important
reform measure was the elimination of OPAM's official stabilization role which
required OPAM to intervene in the market in order to defend the fixed producer and
consumer prices. For this purpose OPAM maintained a *stock regulateur which was
insufficient to defend fixed prices but was costly and an important reason for high
annual deficits. This "stock regulateur' has been eliminated and OPAM now only
maintains a National Food Security Stock. OPAM's mandate now includes only: (i)
the management of the National Food Security Stock; (ii) the management and
distribution of emergency food aid; (iii) supply of cereals to food deficit zones.
Some less important secondary responsibilities are still being maintained but would
be abolished under this adjustment program. The exact definition of the new OPAM
role and the consolidation of the liberalization policies already under
implementation are the objectives of the cereals reform adjustment component
proposed under this credit.
40.   Price and Export Liberalization.  Consumer and producer prices for coarse
grains (millet,sorghum, maize) have been fully liberalized since the 1988/89
marketing season. Exports of cereals had in the past been banned but authorization
to export was granted in years of good cereals production. As good rainfall during
the 1987/88-1989/90 seasons resulted in excess cereal production which could not
be absorbed by the domestic market, exports have now been liberalized and export
taxes on cereals suspended. Agreement has been reached with the Malian Government
that exports of cereals would remain liberalized except in emergency drought
situations.
41.   Management of National Food Security Stock (SNS). A food security stock of
58,500 tons is maintained in Mali. The objective of this SNS is to stock sufficient
coarse grains to assure domestic supplies in a drought situation until cereal
imports arrive. Cereals distributed from the SNS are to be sold on the domestic
market in drought situations. The SNS stock is distinctly different from emergency
food aid which is distributed even in non-drought years to a very limited, targeted
population (see para. 43). The present level of the SNS of   58,500 tons is
considered adequate.  Agreemen. has been reached with the Government that the SNS
would be limited to this ceiling.
42.  While during drought years all of the SNS would be sold on the domestic
market, OPAM's market interventions during non-drought years are limited: OPAM can
only purchase and sell in domestic markets to turnover cereals stored in the SNS.
As cereals cannot be stored longer than three years, one third of the tctal SNS



- 17 -
stock needs to be rotated annually. OPAM sells these stocks primarily in cereal
deficit area: and purc&ases for SNS stock from private traders. As total SNS stocks
are limited to 58.500 , is, OPAM's annual market sales and pur.Ahases cannot exceed
19,500 tons in non-drought years. This is a small share of the total 400,000 tons
estimated to be traded in domestic cereal markets and insufficient to significantly
influence market prices. OPAM purchases through c'mpetitive bidding with bids
obtained from larger traders, mostly from Bamako, Sikasso and Mopti. Sales are
primarily undertaken in cereal deficit zones in northern parts of the country where
access for private traders is difficult and markets are thin due to limited
purchasing power (see para 44 below). Sixty percent of these sales are made through
local competitive bidding with lots broken down into small quantities; the
remaining 40 percent is made through direct sales to small traders located in
regional towns. Direct sales are made at market prices obtained through a weekly
market information system wherein regular market surveys are publicized by weekly
radio announcements.
43.    Management of Emergency Food Aid. OPAM has the additional role of storing
and distributing emergency food aid imports. This is a small amount of food aid
which ;8 distributed to a limited target population without purchasing power under
food-for-work schemes. For that purpose a transitory stock with a maximum level
of 10,000 tons is maintained in which emergency food stocks may be stored up to one
year before it is distributed in accordance with emergency food aid according to
an emergency food aid plan. Such plan is prepared annually between OPAM and CNAIUR,
the coordinating committee of emergency food aid donors to Mali. To assure that
emergency food aid distributions are well targeted to the population in need and
do not destabilize producer and consumer prices the emergency food plan is being
revised monthly in accordance with indicators monitored through the Early Warning
System. OPAM's role is to establish and adjust this emergency food aid plan and
assure that distributions are made strictly in accordance with requirements
signaled through the Early Warning system. This role is difficult as political
interests may attempt to bias the plan and distribution away from target groups and
areas indicated in the Early Warning system. The indicators used to identify
emergency food requirements and the rules used to establish emergency food aid will
be further strengthened in the 1990191-1992/93 performance-contract.
44.    SupPly of Cerea4s Deficit Zones. To assure adequate supply of cereals in
the northern areas of the country, OPAM continues to sell cereals in deficit zones.
Cereals deficit zones are regions, where access is difficult and markets are thin
due to inadequate infrastructure and lack of purchasing power of the population.
In these areas a competitive private trading sector is slow to develop and supply
of cereals are often inadequate. While many of these areas receive emergency food
aid, population with sufficient incomes exist to purchase cereals at market prices.
Administrative cercles are declared as cereals deficit through an interministerial
decision in accordance with indicators obtained through the Early Warning system.
45.   OPAM Reorganization and Efficiency Improvements. The new reduced mandate of
OPAM required a significant reduction of staff. Two major restructuring and staff
reduction programs have been carried out in November 1988 and in May 1990 when OPAM
staff was reduced from 718 to 300 staff. OPAM staff size is now considered to be
appropriate for its present role.



- l 6
46.    Important and successful adjustments in OPAH management and financial
controls have been made to improve efficiency in OPAM activities and control loss
of stocks. As part of the ongoing OPAMHGovernment contrat-plan, performance
indicators have been established which are being monitored, audits have been
introduced, the accounting procedures improved and a program to control stocks has
been put into place. These efforts have reduced unit costs for stocks and
transportation and further cost reduction measures are anticipated. Management and
financial reforms are supported through short term consultancies financed through
the PRMC program and bilateral sources. Continued monitoring of progress in OPAM's
financial and stock management would be part of the 1990191-1992193 OPAM/Government
contrat-plan.  OPAM will submit annua'ly to IDA audited financial statements no
later than six months after closing of the financial year.
47.   Implementation of Cereals Reforms. Cereals price and export liberalization
are fully under implementation. The new role of OPAM has been defined in the
OPAMlGovernment contrat-plan which has been signed by the Ministry of Finance and
Director General of OPAM in December 1988 and has been approved by the Council of
Ministers in January 1989. This contrat-plan has been applied for the 1988189 and
the ongoing 1989190 marketing season. A review undertaken in November 1989 showed
that the contrat-plan has been fully implemented and that OPAM operates according
to defined rules. Based on experiences during the 1989190 marketing season certain
provisions of the contrat-plan were revised and approved by the Council of
Ministers in December 1989. A follow-up contrat-plan, which would further specify
procedures of OPAM market interventions, improve coordination mechanisms with the
emergency food aid program and food aid import policies, reform financial
procedures and implement a second staff reduction program will be prepared for the
1990/91-1992/93  seasons.  Signature  of  this  OPAM/Government  contrat-plan,
satisfactory to IDA, and satisfactory implementation would be a condition of second
tranche release. Continued satisfactory implementation of the contrat-plan would
be a condition of third tranche release.   Failure to continue satisfactory
implementation would also constitute an event of suspension for all disbursements,
including disbursements for the investment component.
48. Measures to be taken includes (i) the preparation of an OPAM/Government
contrat-plan for the 1990191-1992/93 cereals marketing seasons to be signed by the
Minister of Finance and the Director General of OPAM; (ii) presentation of annual
audits of OPAM's financial statements; (iii) continued strengthening of financial
and stock control procedures for OPAM.
Natural Resource Management Issues
49.   To maintain the production potential of Mali's agricultural sector and to
slow down the process of depletion of natural resources, several pilot schemes are
presently carried out in Mali. These schemes test site-specific village land
management practices and are implemented by villages. A national coordinating unit
has been created in the Ministry of Environment and Livestock to monitor and
evaluate pilot schemes under implementation, undertake additional studies and to
define a national resource management strategy. The natural resource management
component would support the complete and adequate staffing of the National
Coordinating Unit and support preparation of several studies. Experiences collected
under the pilot schemes and results from studies would form the basis for a



- 19 -
National Resource Management Strategy. A study on regional land ownership rights
would be carried out over the next two years to provide information how to secure
land rights in different regions. The national coordination unit would cooperate
closely with the land management unit established at CMDT (see para. 72 ) for the
monitoring and evaluation of land management activities carried out in the Mali Sud
zone. Measures to be taken under the program would include (i) the complete and
adequate staffing of the national coordinating unit; (ii) presentation of a
national resource management strategy; and (iii) completion of a study on
traditional and modern land rights in different regions.
Reforms of Rural Develonment Institutions (ODRs)
50.    Government has elaborated a reform program for its rural development
organizations (ODRs). ODRs are responsible for most rural development services and
selected crop related commercial activities, each in a specified region. The task
and structure of ODRs differ widely. These differences are largely a reflection of
different donor philosophies as individual donors have in the past financed
individual ODRs which were then shaped according to donor priorities. As most ODRs
generate only minimal income from commercial operations and obtain little budgetary
resources for recurrent expenditure financing, ODRs often cease functioning once
donor support discontinues. Government has prepared a reform proposal which defines
a general policy for the role of ODRs in Mali's agricultural services and lays out
restructuring proposal for most of the ODRs. Government has also closed six defunct
ODRe. The objective is to transfer all commercial activities to the private sector
and have ODRs only perform typical public service functions (such as extension
services) related to the agricultural sector. Proposals would specify public
service functions to be performed by the ODR (such as extersion and selected
research and training functions, natural resource management programs, etc).
Restructuring programs would also specify which functions presently performed by
the ODR would be transferred to the private sector or to other public agencies,
would estimate manpower requirements for each ODR and specify the number of excess
employees employed by each ODR.
51.   Measures to be taken include: (i) The presentation of detailed restructuring
proposals for five ODRe not yet restructured (ODIK, ODIPAC, Operation Riz Segou,
Operation Production des Semences Selectionnees, Operation Haute Vallee); and (ii)
the transfer of one ODR primarily involved in commercial activities (Operation des
Travaux d'Equipement Rural) into a mixed capital commercial enterprise.
Presentation of a restructuring program for five ODRs not yet restructured would
be a condition of second tranche release. Assurances have been obtained that one
ODR would be transferred into a mixed capital company no later than January 1993.
Efficiency of the Public Investment Proaram.
52.    A detailed review of the three-year public investment program for the
agricultural sector (1990-1993) has been completed and found satisfactory. General
agreement has been reached with the Government on investment priorities and the
efficient use of resources for the public investment program in the agricultural
sector. Planning of public investments in the agricultural sector has improved over
the last years as a national investment planning and monitoring system for all
sectors has been put into place. Assurances have been obtained that Government



- 20 -
would present annually the three-year public investment program for the
agricultural sector for IDA review and approval. Approval of the revised 1991-
1993, satisfactory to IDA, public investment program in the agricultural sector
would be a condition of second tranche release and approval of the revised 1992-
1994 program a condition of third tranche release.
Macroeconomic Policy Measures
53.   Mali's Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program is an integral part of its
overall adjustment program, as outlined in the medium-term PFP for 1990-92 which
was reviewed by the Committee of the Whole on January 9, 1990.   The program
supported by the proposed credit is fully consistent with the macroeconomic
framework outlined in the PFP (para. 9). Implementation oi? the measures proposed
under the agricultural adjustment program will be key to meeting the macroeconomic
targets, and maintenance of an appropriate macro framework will be essential for
achieving  the  objectives  of  the  agricultural  adjustment  program.    Hence,
maintenance of appropriate macroeconomic policies is a condition for release of the
second and third tranches of the proposed credit.  The macroeconomic objectives
regarding growth, inflation, and the balance of payments are summarized in
paragraphs 9 and 11 of the present report.   The review of the macroeconomic
framework for second and third tranche release will examine the consistency of
overall macroeconomic performance with the PFP objective, particularly fiscal and
monetary policies.  In this regard, total government receipts are projected to
remain at 16.6 percent of GDP; current budgetary expenditures are projected to
decline from 10.3 percent of GDP in 1990 to 9.2 percent of GDP in 1992; and the
overall budget deficit (including foreign-financed investment) is projected to
decline from 9.3 percent of GDP in 1990 to 6.5 percent in 1992. With regard to
monetary policy, the growth of domestic liquidity is projected to remain below that
of nominal GDP.   This should allow to contain the annual inflation rate, as
measured by the GDP deflator, to about 3 percent during 1990-92. The macroeconomic
projections and requisite policies will continue to be revised annually, in the
context of annual updating of the PFP, in order to take into account both the
progress achieved in reducing imbalances and the availability of financing.



- 21 -
TlIL3 St POIUCY AMU   ACIII MlUtIX
IlDJUStIIT IEI15E
aONoMIS FOk
Objotle sad PolIcy Rorm                      ction Reired                  Dato         B               tr-ab    Tend.    Treecd F_ _  _bamomt_
Preembetlea   Flrftiwonebe Tr  econd    Trd   For   eeot,
NoIbl_      3.1gm       hI*M*  Copoment
I. CWT/COTTN
(a) Flnalitloe o              - oetablie-  t  ad dopoelttn  oft                          X
lstnot w%a to fully         CFAF I billito ti cotton fund;
lpleeb CTorat   -  p               l o Counil of Miist    of                          X
nse6,0 - 1335/06)           i. abiel laia  coto  epo,X tern
Co Itt-Ples                           lgelatoX
abolishing" coto  eapert tenxn
- eatiefetc^>ry treanor tof all _6       Jan 13
cottonmot
- legliaatiom of COT statute             Sept. 1tow
(b) Fell ltplomeaUttioe et Soef tiKdefoy i.pl.eautioo of                o oing                                      X           x         x
Cotton Policy R"orms        all festures of Cont-Pl,48an,
*gred "wo  In CbT/          ti pertictlarr
Ooworinast Cozntes-Pla    - predoesr prieltn  macboosn flnked
including all pricine       to iterlebtil  priem
and trstitubterl rmform   - *Itlnatieon of otdton  uperb _tems
stem  Octobr 1, 1939 (beogeningoft
- tfll edhor    to Cotto  fond
roles,
- laplonattioo of instituileeol retor
as olad out i Contest-Pbo
(a) Perticipetion of Prsdmmv.  - notion pla to repren p      _ocer     lMrAc 13
In Cotteo food NWd Cr       ia cott  tfw
cwitel                    - remtoea of producers io                 Oft. U9t                                                X
- pre_enttion of action plea to          Sept. lo1
ope co_tt  Fed capitol to prodcers
- opeion up of CO  capit  to prodosre   Oca. 1991
(4) Propentlok of old-two       aid-tea  reWvlo  of aTlomwrsnt          Ag. 1O1
rwl_. of C111IT/ rnmat,   Contest- Ion



-22-
CMnDMi FOR
Obetiv    m  Policy IbtoM                      tew t"le                         Do                        _ ^_d _"tlvx    _eod        Tid      Oe     ma
Proeseettion  Firbt Traseb.   Tra,_e       Tueeeh    For Zmvestmt*
Relosee biases     Rolmoss, Compesests
(e) Preperatioo of Policy       - ptlnttion, by cotton prico *tbtli-    Sept. im
Referms beyond                zation fund, of cmewmote  osor
lng/of - IM/94                to VI I I o Mmtl            of othr
CDTJOov.r_nt                  non-ov mti Instititlone
Contrt-PIn                  - Drft proposal for CTDf/Gov.rumso           Jan. 19S
ContraPln for 1900/94 - 19f7/1919f
(f) Othor                       - Annual amdito of Cottoen Fud              aDnually
drte-k               s by reconized fire  Jun
I. CPA/CEREALS
(a) Price *nd export           - continuod full llbor Iixotion of coar       Onoolno
liberalizetion for           grain contmer ond produeor prices
ceaoro grin                  end mrkete
- liberallstion ot export  of coars          Onplng
raIne for *11 years "cept In
mOmrnc ydro.  a*tuations
- el iminat70n ot CPS  tsport tax on coaree   Ongoing
ore ino
(b) OPAM/Governeent Contrat-   - ispie.Wtalon Of C0ntret-Pl an               Ongoln
Plan (IPS/sO - i99/9,        sati*tfctory to  DA
(e) OPAM/O" rnmmnt Cont.rt-   - properotion of follow-up Contrat-Plen
Plan (199i/SI - ift/93)      (199W/91 - 19W/IS) wit
- further sroeamlionio of OPAM task
(reduction ot numbr ot e_ ndry
tasks in present Contrat-Ploan)
- refinement df the concept of CCfeele deficit
zones ond PAM Interention In tel sgeno
- improvwd cordlntion useonim with
food aId system
- *imulatbone of financlal coot of PAM taisk
- perfo nce indcator for PAMI coet
redction
- presenttion of Droft Contrat-Plen          Oct. low
-  lgning of WAM/Povsrnmst Coetrat-PIlon    O. ISS                                                      x          x
satisfctory to DA, and fuII
lmplemetotion



- 23 -
ObjzetIve.  d lolicy   tern                  IWlo . ReqA iti_red                            _ I                          _          _ S
Presmotatios  first Tren, Trench         Trnc_.  Pr. Revestmet
Ibl_m       Ible_a       Wolee    t"Oae _
(d) 2eproved financial  d         - annal sompletion of audits six month.    annually
_aaet  controls of OPAM          ftter closing of financial yar and
presentatloe to IDA
Ill. NAUMAL IiSCE MANA1EW
(a) lmitorrln and evaluatio       - coplet and adequat Staff ldg of           A"ug .S
of pilot opeation  and          Interstinlsterll coordinating unit
fo.uieti.n of Ntlional          eatobiled at Minisry of Eniroment
Resoce Menam                   and Livestock
Stratey                       - pr_X*l    of National Resorce             Mrch loft
(b) ClariticatIon of land         - preprtion of retiostl atudieo
oardhlp right. to               onla   ownersbip
saure  oe permnent            - preseetation of atudleo                   Sept. to"
righbte    lad
(c) Menitering aW    ealuation    - adequate stuffing of entral               Sept. 1ow
of different land  _a -t        coordinating unit at CT
I_m   under implmentation   - annual monitering rewet. of land             *nnu lly
In CMT region to _ar              nm    nt  *c_        r implemeaotion     atarting
conaltent strategy                                                           iN
formlation on reion l
and nalonal leel and to       - annual evaluation repete on reoure         anully
motnitor effect of              situation In Meli SWd are mlnitorlng       Starting
agricultural produtilon         seleeW  indicators                           U
on ntural reo Prc
IV. ODR RFORM PROWAM
Reatructrlng of Rural Developmet - closing of SIx Sie            cmpleted
orwlaxtlons througo  reduction In - detol led reetroturg         Aug. 1091                                                  x
mber of One, atremllIng of          proposals for fiv s,.
funOlons, retructuring and        - transfer of oen Si Into      Jan. iS
prlvatixatlon of selected Sis       a mixed capitol c_mpay



- 24 -
cxmnwms FUR
aJ Iftlvm a_I Policy Worm                     Action f.lri red                     eDoad                Effectlvewea     $*God        hlird    Dis      a
Preeettloe    First Trench   Treh          Teache   For Zaveetmmst
Release      Release     Release   Caspommata
V. PBWUC DIESTMN   PROMS
(Agricultural Sector)
(a) mprove  national public invetment        - presentoton of nnnual          annally                                        X           X
planning in lin, ilth priorItles of        Investment progrm             OctoUber
gericultural sector and financial          satisfactory to IDA            (strtIng
rfeoerce                                                                   l9)
(b) Improve  rural development planning      - prentatlon of revised         bnnuallr            X                            X           X          X
for Mall Sad ara In lino with              tive-yer rural development    June
*eteral prloritles end                    prora  for me II Sud are       (strting
flnancial reource                          satisfactery to IDA              1996)
(c) Finalization of Bougouni Regiona1        - presntation of R"einol        Oct. IM                                                                           A
evelopmnt Plan In leA with                 Plan
naural resorce mnament                   - Incorporating additIonal      De. 1991
priorities                                 eoil survey  snd area
demarced  for wildlife
VI. ACROECNOMC POLICY FRMRK
splementation of macroecoomic             - impl_eation of PFP             "going                                         X            X
policy _raures consistent with               prorm  (eon  ttchmt to
sctorlal adjustmnt proorm                    GovermAnt's Letter of
Agricultural Policy)



- 25 -
D. The Investment Program
54.    The investment program would be undertaken in the Mali Sud area. The Mali
Sud region, covering virtually all areas of the country south of the Niger River
and west of Mopti, with its estimated 2 million inhabitants, represents
approximately one quarter of the country's total population.It has a distinct rainy
season with average rainfall increasing from 500 mm in the north to 1,300 mm in the
extreme south. An average family of 12, including 3 to 4 adult men, cultivates
approximately 4.6 ha, of which 1.5 ha cotton and the remainder in coarse grains,
groundnuts and cowpeas. As about 96 percent of Mali's cotton is produced in this
area, Mali Sud is often referred to as the country's cotton area. The Mali Sud area
also produces 30 percent of total cereals production, 60 percent of cereals marketed
and 20 percent of total groundnuts. About 40 percent of total agricultural
production comes from this region. The Bougouni area which would be developed
through special IDA-financed investments is part of the Mali Sud area.   The
investment program would be executed by CPDT, which has a proven record in
implementing complex multisectoral regional development programs. CMDT executed
the IDA co-financed Mali Sud I (Cr. 669-MLI) and Mali Sud II (Cr. 1415-MLI)
projects. Both projects were unusually successful rural development projects and
are a clear exception to the otherwise questionable implementation record of
regional development projects. 6
CMDT Five-Year Rural Development Progr
55.    The IDA-financed investment program, including investments in the Bougouni
area and the traditional Mali Sud zones, is part of a five-year rural development
program prepared by CMDT. This program would be revised annually, be presented to
the Ministry of Agriculture for approval and be inscribed in the national investment
budget. The program includes all rural development activities undertaken in the area
regardless whether financed from external or domestic sources.
56.    The five-year rural development program presently prepared amounts to US$
119.5 million, including both investment and recurrent expenditures. The proposed
IDA-supported investment program of US$ 26.0 million would provide 22 percent of
total financing requirements for the five-year program. CCCE/FAC have approved
financing amounting to US$ 36.8 million, while US$ 14.3 million would be financed
under Dutch bilateral aid programs and through IDA-cofinancing. USS 27.3 would be
financed from CMDT's cotton budget, as 80 percent of all overhead expenditures are
assumed to directly support cotton related activities. Government and beneficiaries
would contribute US$ 8.7 million. The program presently has a financing gap of US$
5.4 million for which financing from the African Development Bank and increased
Government participation is being sought. Annex 5 page 3 provides details of costs
for the total program. Presentation of a revised five-year ru-al development
program, including all activities undertaken by CMDT and satisfactory to IDA would
be a condition of Board presentation. Annual review of the five-year development
program, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of second and third tranche
release and assurances have been obtained that each year no later than June 30, CMDT
6 See Operations Evaluation Department, World Bdnk Experience with Rural
Development 1965-1986, October 1987



- 26 -
will present a revised five-year rural development program which will be maintained
as a planning instrument beyond the project as a five-year rolling plan.
57.   Production objectives for all of the Mali Sud reLion (including Bougouni) for
the five-year rural development program are as followst
Production (tons)             Percent3Re (growth)
1989190            1993194
Cotton                  246,000             316,000                   28
Sorghum/Millet          404,000            446,000                    10
Maize                   193,000             226,000                   17
Paddy                    32,000              37,000                   15
Others                   55,000              63,000                   14
58.    The rural development program aims at further intensification of cotton
production and diversification of crop production and intends to improve land
management practices to slow down soil degradation. Extension agents are to be
retrained and supported by specialized agents to provide messages and improved land
management practices. Village associations would continue to be developed and
strengthened and the development of groups of village associations, ZAERs, would
be supported among villages which have :lready achieved a high degree of
organization. These ZAERs would directly provide extension services to its villages
and gradually replace CMDT agents in these functions. Moreover, ZAERs would enlarge
village activities and would also build up rural savings institutions; they would
directly participate in cereals trade through participation in competitive biddings
and sales to wholesalers, undertake road maintenance activities and carry out in
natural resource management activities in collaboration with other local structures.
1mprovements of roads and construction of village watersupply systems are major
infrastructure investments envisaged. Table 3 shows project costs by component and
cofinancier for all of the Mali Sud area.
TABLE 8:  NVSTNT COPONENT PROJECT COST SUMRY
FCFA Million                     USS Thousand
IDA  NL cot in.  GVT.  Total    IDA  NL cofln.  GVT.  Total
LAND WMAAEMENT        6se    490      ts   s9a    1921    1877    121    8419
EXTENSION            514    100       87    791    1769    844    So0    2418
RURAL MECHANIZATION          898    10      418       0    1062    862    1424
LIVEMSOCK                    lN       6     16       a     844      21    ga8
DIVERSIFICATION       1S0     159            896    517    517         0    1033
APPLIED RESEARCH     2W9     20              400    669      689       a    18??
WATER SUPPLY         1916             12   1928   6597         0      41   e6as
RtURAL ROADS         2778            149   2925   9569         0     518   10073
ACRICULTURAL CREDIT                  470    470        0       0    1016   1618
ADMINISTRATIVE       269     IN        5     864    892    844        17   1258
OVERHEAD bl
PPF                   290                    299    10o                    106
TOTAL                6682    1858    869   8899   22948    4678    2992   80614
Physical and price
contlngencies       s88      149     92    1128    am91     511    817    8885
TOTAL                7550    1597    961    I918   2o9    51990   3310   84560
n/ IDA Project: including financing by IDA, co-flnancing by the Netherlands and Government contribution
b/ Audite costt and incremental structural costa



- 2 -
Bougouni Regional Developgment Program
59.   The Bougouni region is located south of Bamiko extending to the border of
Guinea and Cote d'Ivoire. The region covers 36,160 sq. kilometers and has a low
population density of 12 inhabitants per square kilometer. In 1987 total population
was estimated at 445,000. This low population density is largely due to the fact
that the Bougouni region was previously Infected with onchocerciasis. The area is
now freed from the disease and vector control programwu -re in place to control
reinfection. In addition, a paved highway between Bamako and the border town between
Mali and Guinea has recently been completed. With this improved accessibility and
the clearance of onchocerciasis Bougouni is likely to see significant immigration
by people from more nothern areas where population densities are high and the scope
for improvement in dryland farmiog is limited.
60.   The Bougouni region receives rainfall levels between 1000 in the north to 1300
in the south. The agricultural potential of the area is good and the potentially
cultivable surface is estimated at more than seven times the currently cultivated
area of 170,000 hectares (excluding fallow land). The number of farming units is
estimated at 24,300 in 1065 villages. Agricultural production for the Bougouni
region in 1989190 is shown in para. 64. Yields compare favorably with other areas
of Mali and there is significant potential for yield improvements with the
introduction of improved farming practices leading to intensification of production.
61.   IDA's investment in the Bougouni region would be an integrated program of
extension services, rural infrastructure such as feeder roads and village water
supply systems, provision of agricultural inputs and agricultural equipment (oxen
and ploughs) for farmers without any equipment, land management activities, and
animal health services for livestock herds. The investment program would be
implemented by CMDT which is already active in the northern zone of the Bougouni
region and has a good knowledge of most of the region. CMDT has a proven record to
manage regional development programs and can be entrusted with this complicated
task. The program would be directed at existing villages and farm families as well
as new settlers.
62.   To assure that rural infrastructure is located in areas with good agricultural
potential and to minimize environmental damage from settlement, a natural resource
inventory has been completed, based on which a regional development plan for the
Bougouni region will be elaborated. Additional soil maps are being prepared for
areas where the knowledge on the suitability of soil for agricultural prroduction
is inadequate. Agreement has already been reached on feeder roads to be constructed
during the first two years of project implementation and roads would be placed to
minimize negative environmental impacts and only to areas where agricultural
potential is good. Assurances have been obtained that a revised regional development
plan for Bougouni and a feeder road program for roads constructed after the second
year of project implementation consistent with the Bougouni plan be presented no
later than March 1992. The regional plan would integrate additional soil maps which
are presently being completed. Special environmental protection measures, such as
protection of wildlands, would be integrated into the Bougouni plan, and a
monitoring program would be established within the land management coordination unit
of CMDT to monitor environmental effects of the development program. The regional



- 28 -
plan would be prepared by a working group consisting of representatives from CMDT,
the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minsitry of Environment and Livestock.
63.   Specific grogram obtectives for the Bougouni regional program are:
(a)   an increase in crop production through the introduction of agricultural
equipment and inputs and improved farming methods, strengthening of
extension services and through the opening up of new areas for settlers;
(b)   improvement of livestock production and its integration with farming
operations;
(c)   development of village institutions, training of farmers and extension
agents, and support to women's activities;
(d)   the introduction of agricultural mechanization. including in particular
equipment for animal traction;
(e)   a pilot project of village land management to determine approaches to
be replicable throughout the region;
(f)   support  to  the  research  system  to  provide  for  agricultural
diversification in the region.
(g)   the improvement of two thirds of the feeder roads network of the region
(approximately 500 km) by upgrading part of the existing rural road
network and the construction of new feeder roads (approximately 200 km)
to provide access to communities located in areas with favorable
production potential.
64.   Production obiectives of the Bougouni region are as follows:
Production (tons)
1989/90          1993194             1998199
Cotton                  32,000            48,800              57,400
Sorghum/Millet          21,000            25,700              31,200
Maize                   46,200            54,700              68,200
Paddy                    2,500             3,300               4,000
Other                    7,200             7,900               9,000
65.   Production increases are expected to be brought about through improved farming
practices introduced through CMDT extension agents, introduction of agricultural
equipment distributed on credit, and supply of fertilizers and pesticides.
Production increases are also expected through the opening up of new areas to be
farmed by new settlers. Infrastructure will be located in areas where production
potential is good. The Bougouni region still has a very low level of agricultural
implements. Agricultural production systems are mostly extensive and there is a need



- 29 -
to develop intensive systems. The investment component would equip about 5,000 farm
families with firse equipment, consisting of draught oxen, implements and inputs.
5,000 carts would be sold to unequipped farmers. The investment component would
finance the CtDT mechanization staff in the Bougouni region. Their role is to train
CMDT staff to oxen-breaking and mechanized farming, and to create a network of
blacksmiths for repair work. Extension services would be directed to established
farm families as well as new settlers.
66.  A livestock program would be carried out by CHDT in conjunction with the field
staff of the Ministry of Livestock and Environment. Particular emphasis would be
placed on (i) the development of sedentary livestock; (ii) improving the data and
knowledge on herds, and (iii) organizing pastoralist production in the southern
parts of Mali. The livestock program would be undertaken in close cooperation with
a project already under implementation and financed by CCCE. IDA financinAg of the
livestock component would be limited to financing of a revolving furd which would
allow the creation of stocks of veterinary drugs and minerals, managed at the
village level by farmers' associations.
67.  The investment component would finance incremental extension staff to be
posted in the region and training programs required to diversify their activities
and improve their skills. Specifically, the objective is to assure that CWDT staff
provides extension messages based on a farming systems approach, where emphasis
would be placed on soil and water conservation, fertility maintenance, rotations,
cultivated fallows, intensive livestock breeding. A special extension effort would
be made to address women farmers. Through special women extension agents themes
particular to women farmers would be addressed, such as the cultivation of bottom
land rice and the cultivation of vegetable gardens. Support would also be provided
for the marketing of these products.
68.    CMDT would launch a comprehensive village 1evelopment prograw with the
objective of establishing 150 new village associations in the Bougouni region. The
program would follow the approach taken in the traditional Mali Sud areas, where
a network of 1,200 village associations has been created. There, village
associations are undertakmng a multitude of rural development activities, including
the distribution of inputs, marketing of cotton and distribution of credit at the
village level, literacy training and basic health services. In addition, villages
carry out a multitude of non-standardized activities established according to their
own priorities, such as feeder road maintenance activities, soil protection and
reforestation measures, dike construction programs, cereals banks etc. Village
associations which are functioning well and are ready to assume additional
responsibilities are subsequently grouped with several other associations to take
over extension services and development functions from CMDT.
69.  In the Bougouni region, a villase land management operation would be started
at the level of about twenty village associations. The objective is (i) to give five
local communities full responsibilities in the management of their own lands,
including cultivated areas, fallows, range and forest, and (ii) to help them
organize this new approach at the village level and across villages with the
objective of introducing common decision making regarding, among others, grazing
rights, control of bush fires, management of wooded lands. While the program would
be managed by CMDT, specific village activities would be mostly planned and



- 30 -
monitored by NGOs which are already active in these areas.
70.  The investment program would further fund bottomland reclamation activities.
Built on technical experiences collected in other pilot projects in Bougouni about
ten such bottomlands of an average of 15 to 20 hectares would be studied and
equipped with small structures to improve water availability and cropping
conditions. CMDT would only manage the general implementation of these activities,
with NGOs being responsible for technical supervision and works executed by local
communities. This activity would be primarily directed towards women, as it is the
primary responsibility of women to produce rice in the bottomlands of the Bougouni
region.
IDA Investments in all of the Mali Sud Area
71.   The proposed project would finance investment activities in all of the Mali
Sud area, including Bougouni. These investments are selective as they are part of
the overall five-year rural development program where other donors, Government and
beneficiaries finance complementary components. IDA financing of activities not
restricted to Bougouni ares Ci) financing of experimental development and
diversification programs; (ii) Improvements of the rural water supply system; (iii)
coordination of land management schemes and improvement of CMDT extension services
to introduce natural resource management activities; (iv) upgrading of rural roads
in the Sikasso area.
72.  IDA would support the creation cf a land manasement coordinating unit at CMDT
headqua.ters which would have the objective of monitoring and evaluating the
different land management schemes implemented in the various areas of CMDT. Based
on these site-specific experiences, CMDT would present a land management policy to
be implemented in all of the Mali Sud area. The coordinating unit would also work
closely with the National Cellule Pour la Lutte Contre La Desertification, located
in the Ministry of Environment and responsible for the formulation of a National
Resource Management Strategy (see para. 49).
73.   IDA would finance the retraining and strengthening of the extension service
in the San region to assure that land management themes would be properly
implemented in this region. Due to its northern location the San region is
particularly endangered by soil degradation and erosion and the production potential
can only be safeguarded by actively stepping up land management measures on a
regional scale.
74.   The present adaDtive research program works primarily on variety selection
on several crops, including cereals, legumes, fiber plants, etc. It promotes the
best varieties through an efficient but costly seed multiplication system. The
nroposed project would reorient this system away from seed production to more
xperimental development actions in which field demonstrations of fertility
conserving technologies would be the leading theme. The project would finance a fund
managed by CMDT to support experimental development actions executed by CMDT or
outside partners such as NGOs, the national research institutes or private groups.
A technical committee would be created to review and approve proposals and monitor
implementation results. All programs financed by IDA would be submitted for IDA
approval, and progress reports and yearly technical and financial programs would



_ 31 -
be presented during the annual review of the bali Sud five-year rural development
program.
75.   CMDT has in the past launched several diversification activities aimed at
developing new crops and commercial alternatives to cotton. This included the
production of dah, sesame, confectionery groundnuts, etc. Part of these activities
have been successful and diversification programs deserve continued support. The
proposed investment program would finance a fund, managed by CMDT, to support
programs presented by outside partners such as village associations, NGOs, local
administrative structures or private entrepreneurs directed at the production,
processing, marketing of new experimental crops. A technical committee created at
CMDT would review and approve proposals and submit proposals to IDA for final
approval.
76.   The rural water supply program would be a follow-up activity of investments
undertaken under the Second Mali Sud Rural Development Credit (Cr. 1415-MLI), where
a total of 450 wells had been const.acted. Due to a very high level of water acidity
and the incompatibility of pumps selected, pumps installed contaminated the water
which subsequently became unsuitable for drinking. Local communities therefore have
abandoned many water points and discontinued maintenance and cost recovery
activities. Pumps have now been replaced and are functioning satisfactorily.
Community development activities will need to be restarted to establish water user
associations in charge of maintenance activities of the wells. The proposed
investment program would finance part of the cost of community development actions,
such as short-term consultants, didactic materials, incremental CMDT training and
development staff. GREA7 would provide support in the relaunching of these community
development activities. When the system of wateruser associations and cost recovery
has been firmly established, 450 more village water supply systems would be
constructed. Construction of wells is scheduled for the fourth and fifth year of
project implementation. DNHE would be responsible for the technical superv$sion of
the construction program, would supervise all technical studies, prepare bidding
dociments and supervise private contractors. Depending on demand to be identified,
rural waterpoints would be established in Bougouni or in other areas of the Mali
Sud zone.   Presentation of evidence that 250 wateruser associations have been
created and are functioning satisfactorily and that cost recovery measures have been
implemented in the villages where water points have been constructed would be a
condition of disbursement for the water supply component. A comprehensive evaluation
of the wateruser association system would be carried out during the second year of
project implementation. Finalization of contractual arrangements, satisfactory to
IDA, between CMDT and DNHE for the technical preparation and supervision of work
undertaken by private contractors would also be a condition of disbursement for the
water supoly component.
77.   Improvements of rural roads are essential as easy access remains a problem
for a majority of villages in Mali Sud. IDA financed investments would support the
upgrading of the rural road network in Bougouni and Sikasso, while other donors
7Groupe Regional de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement pour l'Afrique de l'Ouest
funded by UNDP and bilateral assistance



- 32 -
finance road improvements in other areas. 390 km of feeder road upgrading is planned
in the Sikasso region. Feeder road construction and rehabilitation work would be
carried out by private contractors engaged through international bidding. Bidding
documents would be prepared by a special engineering consulting firm contracted for
this purpose. This firm would also be responsible for the supervision of private
contractors. Assurances have been obtained that the civil engineering firm be
recruited by December 1990. Under the Mali Sud Five-Year Rural Development Program
new forms of maintenance work would be tested. Road maintenance as presently still
executed by CMDT would be opened to local competitive bidding at which village
groups and local contractors would be encourage to participate using as far as
possible labor intensive techniques. The financing of an evaluation of this road
maintenance program is scheduled for the third year of project implementation.
78.   CMDT Specific Policy Issues.  Two policy issues specific to the CMDT area
would be addressed: (i) input subsidization/taxation on inputs sold by CMDT; and
(ii) elimination of all subsidies on CMDT tractor sales and maintenance activities
and opening up of these activities to the private sector. These issues are specific
to CMDT and are therefore addressed as part of the investment program. CMDT sells
inputs to farmers and taxes fertilizers to cross-subsidize insecticides.  CMDT
argues that farmers are not yet sufficiently familiar with insecticides which is
essential to maintain consistent quality of cotton which is an important element
in export markets. Moreover, additional insecticide treatments are necessary to
safeguard quality with the new cotton variety recently introduced in the Mali Sud
region.   Calculations undertaken show that fertilizer demand is elastic and
continued taxation could lead to a reduction of demand below the necessary level
to maintain soil fertility. Assurances have been obtained that all input
subsidization and taxation imposed by CMDT will be phased out by December 1993
except for a final, additional treatment which is applied late in the growing season
and which is essential for safeguarding cotton fiber quality under the new variety.
CGDT operates a small tractor sales and maintenance program. This program has been
established as a pilot operation, to test demand for tractors in the CMDT region,
test the appropriate equipment and the effects of the introduction of tractors on
the production system. Maintenance for tractors continues to be subsidized.
Assurances have been obtained that all subsidies to tractor sales and maintenance
be phased out by December 1993 and that the private sector can compete with CMDT
in these activities.
E. Studies Component
79.   Studies in support of the adjustment program would be financed in the amount
of US$ 2 million equivalent. These studies would be executed by the Ministry of
Agriculture and would include among others: (i) proposals for the restructuring of
rural development organizations; (ii) studies to prepare action programs for farmer
participation in the cotton fund and CMDT capital; (iii) the study to evaluate
possibilities to transfer cotton stabilization activities to groups of village
associations and to establish complementary stabilization schemes to the present
cotton fund. Some resources would remain unallocated to support analytical work for
our ongoing policy dialogue in the agricultural sector and to prepare future policy
reforms. The studies component would also finance audits for BCEAO (see para. 91)
to be undertaken for the fast disbursing component and for the audit of the cotton
fund (see para. 31). Audits for CMDT would be directly financed under the investment



- 33 -
component. All terms of references for studies financed under this component would
be approved by IDA and quality and relevance of studies for policy dialogue would
be closely monitored.
PART IV.  COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREYENT
Cost Estimates
80.   Proposed project costs would be US $ 71.3 million equivalent, including a
quick disbursing credit of US $ 27.9 million equivalent, an investment component
amounting to US $ 34.5 million equivalent, a studies component of US $ 2 million
equivalent, and USS 6.9 million equivalent to be deposited in the Cotton Fund. Table
2 summarizes total project costs. The quick-disbursing credit would finance about
1 percent of Mali's merchandise imports in the period of April 1990 to December
1992. It would meet about 2 percent of the country's gross external capital
requirement fer the same period and 20 percent of the residual financing gap of the
rescheduling (Table 1). The amount of the proposed IDA contribution was determined
on the basis of the IDA allocation for Mali, taking into account other priority
needs for which IDA assistance has been reauested.
8l.   Annex 5 pages 1 and 2 present detailed breakdowns of costs of components
financed by IDA and the Government of the Netherlands for the investment component.
Base costs were derived from 1989 appraisal cost estimates. Physical contingencies
amount to 10 percent for all investment expenditures, including civil works,
equipment, and inputs. Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of
projected annual price increases 8. The physical and price contingencies represent
US$ 3.9 million, or 13 percent of the total base costs of the investment component.
TABLE 4: TOTAL PROJECT COST SUMMARY
-CfAF mlIllIon-        ---USS mllion --          X For.    X Totel
Components       Loc l  Foroln  Total   Local   Foreign   Total    Exch.   Base Cost
A. quick disbursing
Componont             8,091   6,691           27,009  27,966      100       48
8. Investments    4,110   5,616  10,018  14,160   20,360  84,600     6        52
(tncl. PPF 414)       (290)  (290)            (1,OOO)  (1,00)    (100)      (2)
C. Studies Component  87    493    680    800    1,700   2,000       15        8
D. Cotton Fund    2,000         2,900   6,900             6,900       0
E. Government     961             31 8,300                3,300       0
8 Annual projected price increases:
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Local costs (X)          3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0
Foreign costs (2)        4.9    4.9    4.9    4.9    4.9    4.9    4.9



- 34 -
Total           7.168  15.20: 21.650   VJ66    49.950  74.600       79      100
Loan Amount and Financint
82.  Total project cost vould amount to US$ 71.3 million equivalent of which US$
68 million equivalent would be externally financed. Government contribution would
amount to US$ 3.3 million. Co-financing for the investment component would be
provided from the Government of the Netherlands in the amount of US $ 5.2 million.
The Government of the Federal Republic of Germany would provide cofinancing in the
amount of US$ 2.9 million for the quick-disbursing component under the SPA
initiative. Switzerland would provide grant-fimancing amounting to US$ 6.9 million
equivalent as an initial deposit into the Cotton Fund.
Disbursements. Retroactive Finasncinn and Administration of Funds
83.   The IDA adiustment credit of US$ 25 million would be disbursed in three
tranches. The first tranche at credit effectiveness, expected in September 1990,
would amount to US$ 12.5 million and would be cofinanced by US$ 2.9 million provided
in co-financing from the German Federal Republic. The second and third tranche would
amount to US$ 7.5 million and US$ 5 million, respectively. They would be disbursed
12 months and 24 month after the first tranche release, provided that conditions
for tranche release have been met. The relatively larger shares of the first and
second tranches are justified by the fact that adjustment efforts are very front
loaded as most adjustment measures under the program are already under
implementation. Retroactive financing of up to US$ 5 million would be permitted for
imports taking place prior to Credit signature, but no earlier than four months
prior to credit signature.
84.  The IDA investment credit of US$ 26 million equivalent and credit for the
studies component are expected to be disbursed over a 6-year period. This period
is consistent with the disbursement profile for projects in Mali. It is also
consistent with the disbursement period for the Mali Sud II (Cr. 1415-MLI) credit
which has also been executed by CMDT and is comparable in the complexity of
implementation and has also been implemented over a six-year period. The expected
schedule of disbursements for the IDA credit is given in Annex 6 and summarized
below. Retroactive financing of up to US$ 2.5 million equivalent would be permitted
for the investment program for contracts signed no earlier than twel%e months prior
to credit signature.  This includes in particular all activities undertaken to
prepare the Bougouni regional development plan.



- 35 -
TABLE 5t DISBURSEMENT SCEEDULE
------------------------.-------------------.---_------__--------------------_
Disbursements                         IDA Yiscal Years
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   TOTAL
(US$ million)
_____________________________________________________________________________
Annual
- Adjustment Credit    12.5    7.5    5.0                           25.0
- Investment Credit     1.8    3.3    5.2    6.9    5.7    2.1   25.0
- Studies Component     0.0    0.3    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.5    2.0
- PPF 414               1.0                                          1.0
Cumulative             15.3   11.1   10.5    7.3    6.2    2.6   53.0
Disbursement categories financed by IDA would be as follows:
TABLE 6: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Amount of the    I of Total   Disbursement
Categories                      Credit Allocated ExDenditures  Percentaaes
(US$ million)
--------------------------------------------------------------__------------__
1. Civil Works                       14.7            27.7           100
(a) watersupply component         6.5
(b) other                         8.2
2. Vehicles and equipment             0.6             1.1           a/
3. Technical Assistance               0.8             1.5
4. Studies/Audits                     5.0             9.5          100
- Ministry of Agriculture       1.8
- CMDT                          3.2
5. Incremental Operating Costs        3.0             5.6           85
6. Adjustment Credit                 25.0            47.2          100
7. PPF 414                            1.0             1.9          100
8. Unallocated                        2.9             5.5           100
TOTAL                             53.0           100.0
a/ 10O of foreign expenditures, 1002 of local expenditures (e.g. factory costs)
and 85Z of local expenditures for other items procured locally.



- 36 -
85.   The proceeds of the IDA credit for investments would be passed on to CMDT as
a grant.   As investments finance only rural development activities which are
undertaken by CMDT on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, no on-lending to CMDT
is justified. Signing of a subsidiary grant agreement between the Government and
CMDT would be a condition of disbursement for the investment project.
86.   Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursement two special accounts would be
established by the Government: one for the adjustment credit and one for the
investment credit. The special account for the adjustment component would be opened
by the borrower at BCEAO at terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. IDA would make
an initial disbursement of USS 3.5 million into the account. This account would be
replenished monthly, subject to a minimum replenishment application of US$ 500,000,
up to the limit of the amount of each of the two tranches on the basis of: (a) fully
documented reimbursement applications for contracts exceeding US$ 100,000; and (b)
statements of expenditure for items between US$ 5,000 and US$ 100,000. The BCEAO
would indicate on the statements of expenditure the nature and origin of the goods,
as well as the payment date, and would maintain all relevant supporting
documentation (invoices, customs declarations and evidence of payment) for review
of supervision missions.
87.   The special account for the investment component would be established at a
commercial bank at terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. IDA would make an
initial deposit of US$ 1.7 million into this account. IDA would also replenish this
account quarterly, subject to a minimum replenishment application of US$ 100,000,
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that all expenditures were eligible for
financing, together with a bank statement reconciled with invoices and/or statements
of expenditures submitted. Full documentation would be retained for inspection in
the course of normal project supervision and by independent auditors.
Procurement
88.   Procurement procedures for the quick-disbursing and investment components are
as follows:
(a)   The quick disbursing adjustment credit would finance 100 percent of the
CIP costs of eligible goods (excluding a negative list of luxury
consumer goods, defense items and goods intended for military use).
The Government of Mali has already engaged a qualified international
firm for pre-shipment import verification services, and all imports
financed under this credit would be inspected by this firm. Disbursement
of this credit against a positive list related to the agricultural
sector would not be possible as the total amount of agricultural inputs
imported by Mali is small and is largely financed by other donors who
prefer providing balance of payment support for the import of
agricultural products. Imports by Government and the private sector
would follow international competitive bidding for amounts exceeding
US$ 2.5 million.
(b)   For amounts below US$ 2.5 million: (i) Government would follow public
procurement and seek three price quotations from at least two countries;
and (ii) private sector purchases would follow established commercial



- 37 -
practices. Whenever possible, quotations from eligible suppliers from
at least two countries should be sought. Direct contracting (single
source purchase) could be used only for proprietary equipment or where
compatibility with existing equipment would call for standardized
equipment and spare parts. Certain commonly traded commodities may be
purchased  through  price  quotations  available  from  organized
international commodity markets. Supporting documents related to these
contracts would be retained by BCEAO and made available on request to
the Association for review. Expenditures for goods procured under
invoices for US$ 5,000 equivalent or less would not be eligible for
financing in order to reduce the number of transactions. The CFAF
counterpart funds generated by the use of credit proceeds would be
devoted to financing general development expenditures in the government
budget years 1990 and 1991.
(c)   Procurement procedures for the investment and studies component are
summarized in Table 5 below. All contracts for major civil works (rural
roads, boreholes) to be financed by IDA, and totalling US$ 16.3 million,
would be awarded following international competitive bidding procedures
in accordance with IDA guidelines and grouped, when feasible, into bid
packages of at least US$ 100,000. Domestic contractors would receive
a 7.5 percent preference margin in bid evaluation for ICB procurement.
For supplies and equipment, contracts estimated to cost less than US$
100,000 up to a total amount of US$ 200,000 equivalent would be awarded
through LCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts
of less than US$ 20,000 aggregating to US$ 500,000 equivalent would be
procured through direct competitive shopping based at least on three
quotatione.   Specialist services and consultancies for the studies
component would be awarded in accordance with IDA's guidelines for the
use of consultants. All bidding documents and awards of contracts of
an estimated value of US$ 100,000 equivalent or more would require IDA's
prior approval.



- 38 -
TABLE 7: PROCUREKZNT METHODS9
FOR THE PROJECT INVESTMENT/STUDIES COMPONENT
(US$ million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__------------_
Procurement Methods
Project Element   ---------------------------------------------   TOTAL
ICB          LCB      Other      N.A.
Civil Works             16.3                   0.6                   16.9
(16.3)                                       (16.3)
Vehicles                             0.3                              0.3
(0.2)                            (0.2)
Equipment                            0.4        4.6                   5.0
(0.5)                 (0.5)
Technical Assistance                            0.9                   0.9
(0.9)                 (0.9)
Studies/Audits                                  7.3                   7.3
(6.8)                 (6.8)
Incremental Operating                                      4.1        4.1
Costs                                                     (3.3)      (3.3)
--------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL                   16.3         0.7       13.4        4.1        34.5
(16.3)       (0.2)      (8.2)      (3.3)      (28.0)
____________________________________________________________________________
Hanagement and Coordination
89.  The Minister of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for project
execution. The Ministry of Environment and Livestock would execute the Natural
Resource Management Component included in the Adjustment Program. As OPAM is
organized under ;ie Ministry of Finance and Commerce and the Ministry is directly
involved in cotton taxation and cereals market liberalization reforms, the Ministry
would be closely involved in the esecution of the sectoral sjustment component.
To coordinate the fimplementation of the reform program the iaformal working group
arrangement sustained effectively throughout the preparation process would be
maintained. In case of inter-ministerial conflicts, the Minister-Secretary General
of the Presidency would assure coordination for the program, as it is the Secretary
General which assumes responsibility for the overall coordination of adjustment
9 Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 39 -
programs in Mali.
90.   The investment component would be executed by CMDT, which would work in close
collaboration with DNEB for the water supply component and with the Ministry of
Environment and Livestock for the implementation of the land management component
and the finalization of the Bougouni regional development plan. CMDT would present
quarterly progress reports on the implementation of the investment component.
Developmental impacts of the investment components would be monitored by CMDT's
monitoring and evaluation unit.
Proiect Accounts and Audits
91.   CMDT would maintain accounts reflecting the financial situation of CMDT, as
well as separate accounts of the investment component. The Central Bank would
maintain separate accounts related to the adjustment credit. These accounts would
be audited by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA. Audit reports would
confirm  that  Statement  of  Expenditures,  submitted  as  justification  for
disbursements, correctly reflect detailed records kept by the Central Bank and CMDT.
The auditors' reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each
fiscal year.
PART V.  IlMPACT AND RISKS
A. Imnact and Risks of the Adiustment Component
92.   The major benefits of the adjustment component are expected to be efficiency
improvements in the cotton and cereals sectors and a rationalization of the public
investment program in the public investment program for the agricultural sector.
Efficiency improvements in the cotton sector should lead to Improved competitiveness
in international markets, income gains for cotton farmers, and increased foreign
exchange earnings and fiscal revenue. The cereals liberalization program should lead
to a more stable and less risky environment for the private sector and a more
assured flow of cereals in the country. A clearly defined and reduced role of OPAM
in the cereals market should provide for market transparency and predictability.
This shotLd lead to a more efficient distribution of cereals, reduced cereals
consumer *rices and reduced food insecurity. The streamlining of the ODR system
would lea.i to a reduction of budget transfers to the ODRs and more efficient
provision of public services in the agricultural sector. The natural resource
management component would lay the foundation for the formulation of a more
comprehensive natural resource management policy in Mali.
93.   Major  risks  associated with  the adjustment component  are  a possible
unwillingness of Government to adhere to rules established in the CMDTlGovernment
contrat-plan. Government might find it difficult to accept that cotton revenues are
now private and not public funds which belong to CMDT. In the cereals market the
cre.ation of non-competitive market structures through private traders with resulting
excess profit taking is the main risk. Ezcess profit taking as a result of
uncompetitive structures could encourage the Malian Government to play again a more
regulatory and interventionist role to control private traders. If cereals surpluses
are continued to be produced due to good rainfall, there is also the danger that



- 40 -
Government seeks again a more interventionist role for OPAM to purchase cereals on
domestic markets.
94.   Social Dimensions of Adjustment. As measures undertaken under this operation
are expected to improve rural incomes and improve the distribution of cereals to
consumers, they are expected to have a beneficial effect on cereals and cotton
producers as well as urban consumers of cereals. Costs of adjustments could possibly
occur for cotton farmers if the seed cotton price would need to be be set below its
present level. The probability of such a downward adjustment is most unlikely in
light of the CFAF 3 billion intial deposit into the Cotton Fund and the low level
of producer price of CFAF 851kg seed cotton maintained in Mali during the last years
(see Annex 9 for simulations of expected results). Should a downward adjustment
become necessary no compensatory measures are proposed. Cotton farm families are
relatively well off in Mali's rural society and could adjust to a temporary
reductions in income form cotton production through savings in their household
budget or drawdowns in savings from past years. The liberalization in the cereals
market could lead to market concentration of private traders who could create
artificial shortages through hoarding resulting in excess profit taking. This could
affect adequate distribution of cereals and unduly tax consumers. To assure that
cereals would be supplied in adequate quantities also to distant areas where
transportation costs and risks are high and markets thin, OPAM will continue to
supply defined deficit zones with cereals. Adjustment costs have occurred through
the release of redundant OPAM staff. Compensatory payments have been provided by
the PRMC donor group for OPAM staff released.
95.   Mali has recently become a member of the 'Social Dimension of Adjustment'
program and a program is presently being designed to increase the Governiment's
capacity to monitor social indicators for different social groups. The program would
put into place a system of periodic household surveys whose results would be
published annually. The monitoring of relevant indicators for various social groups
would provide Government the possibility to assess possible affects of adjustment
measures and to formulate compensatory measures if so required.
B. Im'act and Risks of the Investment Comnonent
96.   Benefits and Beneficiaries. The direct quantifiable benefits of the Project's
investment component would arise mainly from an increase in agricultural production
in the traditional Mali Sud area and in the Bougouni zone. In the Bougouni area a
total of 18,800 farm families would benefit through an incremental production of
(i) 16,000 tons of cotton; (ii) 4,700 tons of millet and sorghum; (iii) 8,500 tons
of maize; (iv) 800 tons of paddy during the five-year project implementation period.
As settlers are expected to be increasingly attracted into the area, additional
supply responses are expected beyond the implementation period from investments
financed under the project. This supply response would be lagged as settlers are
expected to settle in areas where rural infrastructure has been improved. As rice
in lowlands is almost exclusively cultivated by women, women would be direct
beneficiaries from investments in the rice component. Special extension efforts
would also be made to provide extension messages to women. Investments in the rural
road network would have significant secondary effects such as improved access to
trade for agricultural products and small-scale industry. The development of Village
Associations would lead to increased levels of literacy and imtproved health services



- 41 -
and the capacity to undertake a series of self help measures on the community level.
Economic Justification.
97.   An economlc rate of return of 32 percent has been estimated for investments
in the BouRouni region. Incremental production projections are based on projected
yield increases and production expansion. The without project calculation was based
on time series data for Mali between the years 1960 and 1988. Export parity prices
were obtained for export products, while import parity prices were calculated for
all import substitutes. Standard conversion factors were applied to marketing and
transportation costs. All labor was valued at the estimated opportunity cost of
labor at 300 CFAP/day. If labor is valued at an opportunity cost of CFA? 500/day,
the economic rate of return drops to 18 percent. As annual agricultural production
in Mali is fluctuating widely as a result of variations in rainfall, economic rate
of return calculations are sensitive to the assumption of rainfall.
98.   An economic rate of return of 28 percent has been estimated for all
investments in the Mali Sud zone with labor valued at CFAF 300/day and of 19 percent
with labor valued at CFAF 500/day. This includes all investment and recurrent costs
for the rural development program in the Mali Sud zone, of which investments
financed by IDA only constitute 22 percent. With project production, growth rates
are based on anticipated yield increase projected under the five-year plan due to
improved production technology and intensification of farming practices and improved
land management and soil conservation practices. As in the traditional zones, IDA
finances only investments in rural roads, rural water supply and natural resource
management for which it is difficult to quantify benefits directly linked to these
investments. No economic rate of return has been estimated related to these IDA-
financed investments. Details on the economic analysis for the Bougouni region and
all of the Mali Sud region are available in Annex 10.
C. Environmental Impact
99.   A special environmental reconnaissance mission has been carried out for the
Bougouni region to assess environmental measures necessary to minimize potential
adverse impacts resulting from the development program. The reconnaissance report
is available in project files. The reconnaissance mission made specific
recommendations in regard to wildland management plans, riparian woodland
preservation, monitoring of water quality of the Bani river, preservation of
historic and archaeological sites and environmental monitoring. The mission in
particular underlined the importance of having sound knowledge of Bougouni' s natural
resource base including in particular the composition and quality of soils. A
natural resource inventory on the Bougouni region has already been completed and
additional soil mapping exercises would be launched in areas where our knowledge
on soil quality is still inadequate. A map is also being developed which shows
different levels of soil degradation in all of the Mali Sud areas including the
Bougouni region.
100. In order to compensate for the loss of wildlands in the Bougouni region to
dry-land farming, a wildland management plan would be developed for the region and
an inventory of forest reserves would be established (see para. 62). The protection
of wildland and forest reserves would be an integrated part of the Bougouni regional



- 42 -
development plan. Delineation and protection of the reserves would be the task of
the Ministry of Environment and Livestock which is responsible for the Forestry
Service in Mali. To monitor the impact of pesticide/fertilizer use on the water
quality of the Bani river, water samples would be taken at regular intervals at the
main gauging station at Douna. To protect the region's cultural property an initial
inventory of historic and archaeological sites in the Bougouni region would be
carried out to help safeguard and protect the most important sites. The land
management coordinating unit established at CMDT would carefully monitor
environmental effects of the investment programs and collect information on soil
degradation and erosion tollowing agreed upon indicators.
PART VI. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
101. As of March 31, 1990, IDA had extended 44 credits to Mali (including Africa
Facility, Special Funds and Supplementary Credits) totalling USS 580 million
equivalent.   Of these operations,  15 have been for agriculture and related
activities; 9 for transport; 4 for education; 2 each for telecommunications, energy,
urban development, power, water supply and technical assistance; one each for small-
scale industries and health; and 2 adjustment credits in the public enterprise and
human resources sectors. In addition, the International Finance Corporation has
made two investments totalling US$ 2.5 million. To date, Mali has not joined MIGA.
Project implementation has been mixed with delays caused by institutional weaknesses
of executing agencies and inadequate Government counterpart funding. In view of
continued non-compliance with several DCA covenants, on May 1, 1990, the Association
advised the Government of Mali that it had decided to suspend disbursements on the
Fifth Highway Project (Cr. 1629-MLI). The suspension is due to project-specific
problems and should have no adverse impact on implementation of the proposed credit.
Annual IDA commitments to Mali averaged US$52 million in FYs85-89. The proposed
operation would be the first in FY90. Since the early 1980s, IDA lending has become
increasingly policy-oriented supporting structural change through operations in the
major sectors, starting with a series of investment operations with specific policy
components.   Since 1988, IDA has supported Government reform efforts through a
series of adjustment operations.  Thus, the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Program (PESAP) was approved by the Board in FY88, and the Education Sector
Consolidation Project in PY89. The proposed credit would extend the reform efforts
to the agricultural sector. Annex 8 contains a siumasry statement of Bank Group
operations in Mali as of March 31, 1990.
102. Future Operations. IDA lending to Mali, including the proposed operation,
totals $201 million in FY88-90, of which $133 million is for project lending and
$68 million for quick-disbursing support for Mali's adjustment efforts. The amount
of the quick-disbursing component of the proposed credit has been determined in
light of Mali's overall IDA-8 allocation, total financing requirements, and
appropriate burden-sharing with other donors. Based on the assumption of continued
strong adjustment performance, the indicative IDA allocation for Mali for FY91-93
amounts to approximately $230 million. Given the financing requirements summarized
in paragraph 11 and the expected composition of ODA from other sources,
approximately $150 million of this amount is tentatively allocated for project
investment financing and up to $80 million for adjustment lending.   Remaining
disbursements of adjustment financing under the ongoing public enterprise and
education sector operations ($15 million), the adjustment component of the proposed



- 43 -
credit ($25 million), and additional adjustment lending in FY91-93 ($80 million)
would provide the approximate level of resources necessary to fill the financing
gap and sustain Mali's strong adjustment performance.   Both the overall IDA
allocation and the breakdown between investment and adjustment financing will be
reviewed periodically to take into account Mali's adjustment performance, the
progress realized in reducing external imbalances, and the availability and
composition of other external financing.
103. The Government is presently preparing a macro-economic adjustment program that
could be supported by a first IDA Structural Adjustment Credit (SAL 1).  The
proposed operation was appraised in March 1990. It would reinforce the Government's
overall program of structural reform, supported by the IMF, IDA and other donors,
and focus on reforms in two key areass private sector incentives and public sector
resource management.   Specific policy actions would include the elimination of
export taxes, simplification of import taxation, introduction of a value-added tax,
price liberalization, reduction in labor market regulations, reduction in the
relative size of the wage bill in the Government budget, inc,ease in budget
allocations for operation and maintenance expenditure, adequate allocations for
current expenditure in the health and education sectors, and strengthening the
programming and monitoring of public investment.  The macroeconomic adjustment
measures would be complemented by sectoral reform programs currently anticipated
in the infrastructure and human resources sectors.   Mali's long-term growth
prospects ultimately depend on the full realization of its natural and human
resource potential. IDA will accordingly continue financing key projects designed
to exploit and augment that potential.   These projects would reflect a broad
sectoral orientation in order to focus on the issues of investment strategy and
institutional development.  Highest priority will continue to be given to the
development of the productive sectors, and in particular the rural sector which
remains the most important for long-term growth in the Malian economy.   The
indicative IDA allocation for Mali for PY91-93 amounts to approximately US$ 249
million.
104.    In agriculture, particular emphasis will be given to increasing and to
diversifying agricultural production through impr.e'ed extension and research
programs. An agricultural extension project is in an advanced stage of preparation
and is scheduled for appraisal in May 1990.   Mali's agricultural production
potential is to be safeguarded through a natural resource management project (FY92)
consisting of several site-specific pilot schemes implemented by village
communities. Preparations have also started on an agricultural research project.
The efficient development of Mali's vast irrigation potential remains a priority
and emphasis is being given to work on improving the incentive framework for private
irrigation, rehabilitation of existing schemes and the efficient use of existing
irrigation facilities.  Support for these efforts is to be provided through an
irrigation sector credit currently in the FY94 Mali lending program.
105. IDA places major emphasis on supporting Mali's human resource development.
The Government is formulating a national population policy and is working with the
Bank and other donors to help develop and implement an action program. In the
context of a populationlhealth project proposed for FY91, the Government is
encouraging more decentralization and private sector participation in the health
sector and the expansion of health services through cost recovery. To raise the



- 44 -
currently very low literacy level of 15 percent and to improve the quality of
education, Government is presently implementing an IDA-assisted education sector
reform program, which focuses on more effi:ient resource use in the education
sector, restructuring of the higher education subsector, and increasing allocations
for primary education.   It would be followed by a second comprehensive human
resource sector operation currently propwaed for FY93.
106. Major goals in the infrastructure sector are to reduce the cost of providing
infrastructure and to overcome price rigidities associated with transport and urban
services. The IDA-supported Fifth Highway Project was designed to improve planning
and resource mobilization and efficient allocation in the sector. In the energy
sector, the ongoing Power II project attempts to ensure that the benefits of past
investments are fully realized and that Mali' s long-term growth will not be hampered
by inadequate power supply. A planned Industrial Support Services Project (FY92)
would focus on financial and technical assistance as well as training to help
promote the development of Mali's industrial sector.
107. Relations with the IMF and other Donors. Mali's adjustment efforts during
the early 1980s were supported by three successive IMP stand-by arrangements. In
1988, the Government prepared its first PFP outlining Mali's overall program of
structural reform over 1988-90. A second PFP for 1990-92 was approved in January
1990. The adjustment program has been supported by an IMF stand-by arrangement of
SDR 12.7 million, which was originally approved in 1988 and in 1989 extended through
June 1990, and annual arrangements under the Structural Adjustment Facility (SAP).
The second annual SAP arrangement totalling SDR 15.2 million was approved by the
IMF Board on January 17, 1990. The Bank will continue to work closely with the IMF
in maintaining macroeconomic stability and to ensure consistency in policy reforms.
108.        Mali's overall adjustment program has been  supported by  several
bilateral and multilateral donors.   The Public Enterprise Sectoral Adjustment
Program is cofinanced by Japan, the African Development Fund, the Saudi Fund, and
the Netherlands. The education sector adjustment program is cofinanced by the U.S.,
France, Norway and Canada. Moreover, France has provided budget support as well
as parallel financing for the banking sector restructuring supported by the Public
Enterprise Sectoral Adjustment Program. As a result of Hali eligibility for SPA,
bilateral donors have been able to better coordinate the -- ' f resources through
co-financing in support of Mali's adjustment efforts. Non- . ect funding has also
been forthcoming from the European Community, the Netherlands, Germany, the USA,
Belgium, Canada, and the OPEC Fund.
PART VII. SUMMARY OF PROJECT CONDITIONS AND ASSURANCES
109. Measures already taken:
(a) Cotton Sector Reform Programs
Implementation of the CMDT/Government Contrat-Plan since January 1990,
including among other:
(i)   the transfer of all cotton accounts and monitoring activities from OSRP



- 45 _
to CMDT;
tii)  the institutional restracturing of the cotton sector with the separation
of commercial and rural development activities of CMDT;
(iii) linking of the cotton producer price to international prices, through
premiums to be paid to farmers;
(iv) establishment of a Cotton Fund to stabilize short term price
fluctuations.
(b)   Cereals Sector Reform Program:
Liberalization of coarse grain exports and elimination of export taxes on
coarse grains;
Implementation of OPAM/Government 1988189-1989190 Contrat-Plan includings
(i)   the limitation of OPAM to (a) the management of the National Security
Stock; (b) the management of emergency food aid distributed under food-
for-work schemes to target populations; (c) the supply of selected
cereals deficit zones;
(ii)  the elimination of all OPAM stocks other than the National Security
Stock and limitation of the SNS to 58,500 tons;
(iii) restructuration of OPAM in line with new tasks with staff reductions
and reorganization of management;
Civ) improvement of Early Warning System and establishment.of distribution
plan for emergency food aid in line with agreed upon indicatozs;
(v) establishment of performance indicators, improved financial management
and stock control procedures at OPAM.
(c)   Reform of Rural Develogment Oraanizations (ODRs)s
closing of six defunct ODRs
(d)   Natural Resource Management Program:
(i)   launching of six pilot schemes to test site-specific natural resource
management measures;
(ii)  creation of national coordinating unit to develop national resource
management policy based on experiences under pilot scheme.



- 46 -
(e)   Public Investment Protramminat
(i)   establishment of three-year rolling public investment program;
(ii) improved public investment programming in agricultural sector, including
five-year rural development plan for Mali Sud area.
110. Conditions of Board Presentation would bet
(a)   approval of Council of Minister of legislation abolishing export taxes
for cotton (para. 33);
(b)   presentation of a revised CMDT five-year rural development program
reflecting all of activities undertaken by CMDT, satisfactory to IDA
(para. 56).
(c)   depositing of CFAF 1 billion into the cotton fund (para. 30);
111. Conditions of Second Tranche Release (scheduled one year after first tranche
release):
(a) implementation of the cotton sector reform program as outlined in the
CMDT/Government contrat plan (para. 37);
(b)   enactment of legislation abolishing export taxes on cotton (para.33);
(c)   signature of an OPAM/Government contrat-plan for the 1990191-1992193
cereals marketing seasons, satisfactory to IDA, and implementation of
this contrat plan (para.47);
cd)  presentation of the 1991192-1995/96 revised CMDT five-year rural
development program (para. 56);
(e)   presentation of the 1992-1994 three-year public investment
program for agricultural sector (para. 52);
(f)   presentation of ODR reform program satisfactory to IDA (para. 51).
112. Conditions of Third Tranche Release (scheduled for 12 months after second
tranche release)s
(a) implementation of CMDT/Government contrat-plan (para. 37);
(b)   implementation of OPAM/Government 1991/92-1993194 contrat-plan (para.
47);
(c) representation of one producer in management committee of cotton fund
(para. 32);



- 47 -
(d)   presentation of revised 1992193-1996197 CMDT five-year rural development
program (para. 56);
(e)   presentation of 1993-1995 three-year public investment program for
agricultural sector (para. 52),
113. Macroeconomic Linkage. Withdrawal of second and third tranches would also be
subject to the consistent implementation of macroeconomic performance with PFP
objectives (para. 53).
114. The following would be Conditions of Disbursement:
(a) for the investment comtonent: signing of a subsidiary grant agreement
between the Government and CMDT (para. 85);
(b) for the watersunply comnonent: creation of 250 water user associations
and finalization of contractual arrangements, satisfactory to TDA,
between CMDT and DNHE for the technical preparation and supervision of
work undertaken by private contractors (para. 76).
115.  Dated Covenants
(a)   recruitment of a civil works consulting firm for rural road studies and
supervision of works to be undertaken by contractors by December 1990
(para. 77);
(b)   elimination  of  the  taxation  and  subsidies  on  fertilizers  and
insecticides sold by CMDT until December 1993 except for a final
additional insecticides treatment which is applied to safeguard cotton
fiber quality with a new cotton seed variety only recently introduced
(para. 78);
(c)   elimination  of  subsidies on CMDT  tractor  sales  and maintenance
activities and opening up of these activities to private sector by
December 31, 1993 (para. 78);
(d)   presentation of audits, undertaken by recognized auditing firm for the
Cotton Fund annually no later than June (para. 32);
(e)   CMDT would present each year, no later than June 30, for IDA review and
approval a revised five-year rural development program and budget for
its rural development activities for the following fiscal year (para.
56);
(f)   presentation of a regional development program for the Bougouni region,
satisfactory to IDA and agreement on the road construction program to
be undertaken after the second year of project implementation in the
Bougouni region in accordance with the revised regional development plan
by March 1992 (para. 62);



- 48 -
(g)   transfer of one ODR (OTER) into a mixed capital company by January 1993
(para. 51).
PART VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
116. I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, DC
Hay 25, 1990



- 49 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Table 1. hAJ: KU  MCRO41C  IICAT0M3
I"S      awe      iw      iw        tw       1 iwo     9Iw     iwo      iw
Est.     a",      Pj.   Po * PJ.   Pi.
QUM5T PATES
MP                                           -s       13       1is      -13      uS        as       la       4S       4
MP/Capitw                                    -a       163      -1s      -S     -S                   is       a 
Private Consuptien/Capite                     S3      -as      -U        211   U       I1 Ssi 
GMEII SERlna
ebt Service (WSml IIioen) (a)                46       13       88       2        2i       @7        1       8:       8
of which: interest eS million)
Debt Sorvicej3   (a)                         51       81S      2011     3         7       22r       0       2301     1m
ebt Service/jX0S ()                          M1s      313      311      S03      425      2l       201      a0n  191
Debt Service/ODP (a)                          43       a5       Ss        a       U        43       411      U        o
RATIOS TO (DP
Gra" Inveateent                              303      gas      233      30       so3      213      213      213      113
Osmtic Savintg                              -143      -1S       Ss       43       U         a       ox       ax       as
iublic I    t.nt                            ...      ...      ...       1ag       23      lag      103      103       10N
Private Investment (c)                      ...      ...                usl    1it        13       23       1in       i1
aovernment Revwnue-                          llS      18       16S       n       103      17m      175      1i7      17
Goern_nt Expenditurees                       801      no       33       20       36                2111 2SS    1 2a t
Deficit (-) or Surplu    )                  -US      -lll    -i10      -1us      -2       -        -li      -13       -0n
CDP Deflator                                  as      43                 as       is       as        U       as       ax
Real Echawe  ate                              73     -173       is       an .     .                ...               ...
Eaort Vol. Groth Rate                       -lUS      uS        as      4U       313      Ion       as       4s        a
Esport  (fod)13P                             173      uS       143      US       143      143      143      1s       143
Imort Vol. Growth Rate (d)                   13       -4S      -a3       Os  -ti           4S       43       43       45
Imports (alf)/IP                             4        an        3       36       33S      we       343      we       23
Current Account CM  million)               139       w a 7a            Sa8      84       S18        3      80       am
Current Acut/DP                             413      -3       -103     -173    -UaS    -UiS       -143     -In      -1n
(a) Eacludiog China an  the USSR; including esti_tem for Interost on now diaburemeete.
b) As per (a), plow debt a*rvie arrears metted In 1288-9.
(e) Al I variation in stocks are attributed to the privete aecwr.
(d) Excluding cerels importe, whieh eni-t fargely of food aid an  ten  to vary inv.r.ly with CDP.
23-Apr-2



- 50 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
TsbI. 2. H: SALAM OPF PAM4   OS (  WI I ion)
19*     1914   1SW      t1168    19"     101    191    1992    199
aE.    E.t.    Proj.   ProJ.   ProJ.   Proi.
A. Export of G*oe & WS         1        20.1   57.1   520.0   814.2   841.7   890.7   401.2   418.1   446.4
1. Merchandise (FM                     176.1   206.7  2561.0   21.4  1W4.2   812.6   51.0   882.1   887.1
2. mon-Vector services                  44.0     1.4    84.0    61.8    68.8    76.1    80.2    t8.0    09.8
S. Zsot. of Goad a WS                  -877.6  -6.6  -68.6  -678.6  46.7  -712.6  -740.0  -73.8  -7412.4
1. lberandiso (F0)                    -218.8  -5.8  -85.4  48.2  -8.4  476.7  4890.1  -8.0   411.8
2. Nond-ector Service.                -149.1  -1.7  404.2   406.4  -5.8  444.1  481.  8447.8  471.1
C. RAec  Balsca                        45.8  468.8  -419.6  464.4  -8.0  42.1  -9.4  418.4   -M6.*0
0. Nt Factor 1n                         -18.7   -1.4   -7.9  -41.9   40.1   418.    41.9   84.9   484.9
F-  ett Current Transfero                46.7    46.8    49.9    60.4    48.6   50.6    81.6   80.8    80.6
F. Current Accout Salae.               -8109.8  44.8    -17.7  -M.6  a404.8  -414.8  4.o.?  4-.6   -0.a
0. Los-Ter CIuttal nflw                 214.9   111.8   12.1   867.8   89.6   807.0  85s.4   8w.1   33.6
S. Official Coital Grent.              197.0   185.7   102.8   24.4   21.8   106.8   211.6   110.9   S#.2
8. not LT Lee" C= date)                 85.0   181.0     1.0   125.0 6  101.0    97.0   -10.0   -71.0   -10.0
a. Disbursements                     07.0   17.0   1.    14.0  1SO.0   15.0    8.0    81.0    84.0
b. Repayment                        -21.0   -18.0   -15.0   40.0   -9.0   -.0  -107.0  -15.0  -114.0
4. Other LT  Olow. QEet)                12.9  48.4   41.1        1.9    80.7      6.8   1.8   167.8   58.8
M. TlBl Other Item (bt)                 -14.6   -18.8   -1.8      4.4      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
x. Change In M" Rmerw.                   49.8    81.1     7.8   38.9   -8.1        7.8 6   .7    -4.7   -18.2
1. Not Credit frem the lF                8.0    -0.8  -91.6   -4.8   -16.9       0.9      4.8    4.0    -4.
E. other _erv CFae                      44.4    60.9    84.1   42.0  -41.1    -1.1   -18.8        1.8   -18.7
c- indicate tioreeel
0hre. of (DP
1. R_acrce Balane                      48.6S   4.25  -18.96  -18.03  -18.15  -18.46  -14.0S  -18.81  -12.91
2. Totl Intereet Payento                -1.6S   -1.0S   -1.03   -1.81   -1.81   -1.81   -1.41   -1.J    -1.03
S. Corrent Account Balance              11.19   -5.71  -18.73  -17.1S  -18.1S  -14.0   -14.03  -12.63  -12.03
4. LT Capitel  ilsw (line 2) 17.S   10.4S   a5.45   18.9C   28.1    14.21    U.43   18.0    1.os
8. Not Credit from the PP                0.51   -0.6S   -1.4S   -0.4S   -0.86    0.4S    0.5   -0.81   -0.25
emorwandum It..s
MP                                    1067.8  18126.2  189.6  1941.2  2011.8  2168.4  589.0  210.5  2609.4
Nominal Off. X-at. (VS if)             449.8   846.8   800.8  217.9   819.0       ...



MALI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENTI1NVESTMENT PROJECT
TALE AREA UNDER CULTIVATION
(000 ha)
79180     80o81     81t82     82/83      83184     84185     85186      86187     87/88     88189
A.   Cerealss
IIl1et/8orghum     986       1155      1337      1408      1272       1107       947      1262       1302      1907
tase               U4          50        64        47         71        50        75       129        118       143
Paddy              243        143       116       182       188        165       175       215        163       231
Cerealcs   TOTAL       1239       1299      1446      1591      1654       1277      1174      1586       1S8S      2281
S.   Cotton             133         90        92       104       128        155       166       101        159       282    w
C.  Groundauto          164        168       156       145       113         8S        66        93        126       166
TOTAL                  1535       1S58      1694      1839      1895       1515      1405      2053       1838      2729
Sources  0Sce (Office Statistique des Commmautes Buropeenes), Statistione de Base, Agriculture-Elevaae. Saumwo, 1989.
Io 
H,



MALI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/INVESTENT PROJECT
PRODUCTION
(000 tons)
YEAR
79/80     80/81     81182      82183     83184     84185      85/86     86/87      87/88     88/89
A.   Cereals:
millet/Sorghum      763       734       999       1080      1147       901       1245      1288       1222      1693
Maize                76        45        61         89       144       101        193       213        179       215
Paddy              240        122       135       153        216       109        232       236        237       288
Cereals:  TOTAL        1079        901      1195       1322      1507      1112       1670      1824       1637      2195
D.   Cotton              151        79        96        106       188       186        216       259        228       307
C.  Groundauts           146       135       114         94        75         54       101       107        101       172
TOTAL                  1375       1117      1406       1523      1770      1352       1987      2190       1966      2674
Source:  OSCE (Office Statistique des Connunaut6es Europ0ennes), Statistique de Base, Agiculture-Elevaze, Bsmako, 1989.
11g
o ,



-53 -                                      3
page I of 30
MONSIEUR LE MINISTRE DE L'AGRICULTURE                      REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
Washington
le 12 mai 1990
A s Monsieur le Pr6sident de la Banque mondiale
Oblet I  Cr4dit d'ajustementlinvestissement
dans le secteur agricole du Mali
Monsieur le President,
Vous trouverez ci-aprOs une description des mesures d'ajustement
du secteur agricole que le Gouvernement du Mali a l'intention de prendre et
a l'appui desquelles il sollicite un credit d'ajustement et d'investissement
financ4 par l'IDA. Ce programme de reforme fait partie d'un processus global
de reforme engage depuis plusieurs annees par le Gouvernement du Mali pour
ameliorer l'efficacite de la production dans le cadre d'un systeme economique
plus libEral et competitif. Les importantes reformes macroeconomiques qui
ont ete entreprises et se poursuivent actuellement apportent en particulier
un soutien au secteur prive et ameliorent la gestion des ressources du
secteur public grAce A un programme de reformes budgetaires et & une
utilisation plus efficace des ressources publiques. Plusisurs programmes de
reformes sectorielles ont ddej ete lances, notamment au niveau des
entreprises publiques, du secteur financier et du secteur des ressources
humaines.
Dans le secteur agricole, nous avons pour objectifs : i) d'assurer
la securitE alimentaire de la population malienne grace & une production
agricole diversifiee et efficace et a une productivite accrue, et ii) de
proteger nos ressources naturelles pour assurer de facon continue une
production efficace et diversifies.   Le programme d'ajustement sectoriel
presente ci-aprbs est fortement axe sur les sous-secteurs des cereales et du
coton (qui sont les deux principales cultures pratiquees au Mali), des
rEformes complimentaires devant etre entreprises au niveau de la gestion des
ressources naturelles et des operations de developpement rural (ODR).  Les
reformes sectorielles presentees ci-apros seront prolongees A l'avenir par
des reformes dans d'autres sous-secteurs. notamment celui de 14levage, et
par un programme national de grande envergure concernant la gestion des
ressources naturelles. qui est encore en preparation.
Nous  nous  efforgons  egalement  d'obtenir  un  soutien  pour  le
financement des investissements lies au programme d' ajustement. Ce programme
accroitra la production agricole et favorisera la diversification des



-54 -                                 Annex 5
Page 2 of 30
cultures dans le sud du pays qui assure la quasi-totalit4 de la production
nationale de coton et une bonne partie de celle de cCr4ales. et o(& les
mesures de r4forme des sectours c@rdalier et cotonnier auror.t les effets les
plus immediats. Le financement d'investisseuents nous permettra d'ameliorer
la productivit4 agricole dans les r4gions traditionnelles du -ali-Sud grace
a des mesures dlintensification des cultures et & I'am4nagement de la region
de  Bougouni  aux  fins  d'une  production  agricole.    On  veillera  tout
particulierement a introduire dans les r4gions traditionnelles de nouvelles
techniques de gestion des terres pour pr4eserver le potentiel de production
et reduire au maximum les effets nEfastes quo pourrait avoir pour
l'environnement un accroissement de la production agricole dans de nouvelles
zones.
Plus precisdment. le programme d'ajustement et d'investissement
aura pour but de s
a)   restructurer   le   secteur   cotonnier   conformement   aux
recommandations  formul4es durant un s4minaire sur le coton organise a
S4lingu4 en mai 1988, et aux dispositions prevues par le contrat-plan
Etat/CMDT signe en novembre 1989;
b)   definir le rOle de l'Office des produits agricoles du Mali
(OPAM) et. 6galement. poursuivre et consolider le programme de lib4ralisation
du marche c*realier;
c)   prdparer et exdcuter un programme  de reformes pour  lee
OpOrations de ddveloppement rural (ODR) necessitant une restructuration et
assurar le personnel et le financement voulus pour les taches devant etre
assumees par les ODR restructurees;
d)   assurer un service de coordination et effectuer des etudes
afin de definir pour  le Mali une Strat6gie nationale de gestion des
ressources naturelles;
e)   rationaliser les investissements publics destinEs au secteur
agricole, conformement aux priorites sectorielles et aux ressources
financieres;
f)   financer des investissements dans les regions du Mali-Sud,
notamment  les zones traditionnelles et la region de Bougouni dont  le
potentiel agricole n'a pas encore etd pleinement mis en valour.
Prosrawme de reforme du secteur cotonnie-
Le programs de reforme du secteur cotonnier est en cours
d'execution depuis le ler octobre 1989. Toutes les mesures de r4forme sont
definies dans le contrat-plan Etat/CMDT qui doit stre applique aux campagnes
de commercialisation du coton 1989/90-1993/94.  Une revue A mi-parcours de
co contrat-plan aura lieu a la fin de la campagne 1990/91. Vous trouverez
ci-jointe une copie du contrat-plan Etat/CMDT signee (sans ses annexes
techniques).   Le Gouvernement du Mali et la CMDT s'engagent a exdcu:er
strictement tous lee 4l4ments du programme de reforme du secteur cotonnier
conformement aux stipulations de co contrat-plan.
.: 



-55 -Annex 3
Page 3 of 30
Le programme de rOforme du secteur cotonnier pr4voit d'importantes
r6formes au niveau des prix a la production. des impots et des institutions.
Les princip*ux 61iments en sont -
a)   Le transfert de toutes les activitis  de production,  de
comuercialisation et d*exportation du coton a la CMDT qui ach&te, transforme
et exporte le coton pour son propre compte.  La CMDT tire directement des
exportations de coton des recettes qui constituent ses recettes propres et
non des recettes publiques. La CMDT mbne elle-meme ses activites cotonnieres
conformdment aux decisions prises sous l'autoriti de son Conseil
dadministration et aux ragles enonceos dans le contrat-plan Etat/CMDT signe
le 17 novembre 1989.
b)   Un prix plancher de 85 francs CPAIkg pour le coton de premiere
qualiti et de 75 francs CFA/kg pour le coton de deuxieme qualit# continuera
d'itre annonci aux producteurs, mais ce prix plancher pourra Otre abaisse si
le fonds de stabilisation du coton est ipuisi etlou si les recettes assuries
par les exportations de coton ne sont pas suffisantes durant deux campagnes
consicutives pour couvrir ce prix et la marge intermediaire agrEEe de
400 francs CFAlkg de fibre de coton pour la CMDT.
c)   Les producteurs seront intiressis aux binifices rEalisEs par
la CMDT sur les exportations de coton.  Une prime representant 25 Z de ces
benefices leur sera verseo durant la campagne de commercialisation suivante.
On calculera ces benefices en diduisant des recettes assuries par les
exportations de coton la marge CMDT agrEEe de 400 francs CFA/kg de fibre de
coton. Les primes ne seront versies qu'apres que le fonds cotonnier aura ete
pleinement alimenti.
d)   Un fonds cotonnier sera crEE pour attdnuer lea effets des
fluctuations a court terme des cours internationaux du coton. Ce fonds ne
couvrira que 20 2 au maximum du pris k la production de 85 francs CFA/kg de
coton-fibre. I1 sera financE au moyen d'une taxe per;ue sur le coton et, le
cas Echeant, des transferts re,us du STABEX pour le coton. Ce fonds pourra
servir uniquement au soutien des prix du coton et il devra etre distinct de
tous les autres mecanismes de stabilisation. Aucun montant ne pourra etre
prilevi du fonds & d'autres fins que celle de la stabilisation du prix du
coton conformiment aux stipulations du contrat-plan Etat/CMDT. Le fonds sera
administre par un Comiti de gestion comprenant les memes membres que le
Comitd de suivi du contrat-plan EtatlCMDT. Un representant des producteurs
sera ajout* au Comiti de gestion du fonds a partir de la campagne de
comercialisation 1992/93.   Les ressources financi$res du fonds seront
placdes dans plusieurs banques. 40 Z de ces ressources au maximum pouvant
etre dtposees dans la meme banque.
e)  I1  n'y aura pas de systame d'imposition special pour le
secteur cotonnier. La CMDT sera imposee conformement au droit commun et ses
benefices seront soumis & l'impOt sur les binifices industriels et
commerciaux (BIC). Les exportations de coton seront exonerees de tous droits
d'exportation.



- 56                                Annex 3
Page 4 of 30
f)   La CIDT exercera des fonctions de developpement rural pour le
compte de 1'Etat et soumettra chaque annoe un budget a son approbation.
8)   La CMDT 4tablira un programme quinquennal de developpement
rural incluant toutes ses activit4s de d4veloppement dans la rogion du Mali-
Sud, qu'elles soient financOes par l'Etat, par elle-meme ou par des
donateurs. Ce programe quinquennal sera ajusto chaque annie en fonction des
priorites de ddveloppement et des ressources financi6res disponibles.  I1
sera approuv# chaque ann4e par le Comite de suivi du contrat-plan EtatICMDT
et le Ministere de l'Agriculture.  Le programme sera examin4 chaque anneo
avec les donateurs intervenant dans la region du Mali-Sud.
h)   L'Etat assurera le service de la dette relative aux credits
obtenus pour les programmes de d4veloppement rural.
i)   Les producteurs pourront devenir actionnaires de la CMDT A
partir de la campagne 1992/93.
J)   Une 4tude sera realis4e pour #valuer la possibiliti de confier
La responsabilite de la stabilisation des prix du coton & des associations
villageoises ou a des groupes de villages a l'issue de la pdz' do couverte
par le contrat-plan EtatlCMDT (1989/90-1993194).
Propramme de r4forme du sous-secteur cerealier
Le Gouvernement malien a liberaliso les marches cCrCaliers du Mali
au cours des derniCres annees. En particulier, il a totalement libere les
prix A la consomation et A la production des cOrdales secondaires et du
paddy et ouvert les marches cerealiers aux negociants privCs. Dans le cadre
de cette politique de liberalisation, le rOle de l'Office des produits
agricoles du Mali  (OPAM) a ete profondement modifie.   Les principales
fonctions de l'OPAM sont maintenant i) la gestion du stock national de
securite.   ii) la  gestion   de   l'aide  alimentaire,   lorsqu'elle   est
indispensable.   et   iii) l'approvisionnement   en   cereales   des   zones
deficitaires. LOPAM ne joue pas de r8le de stabilisation des prix sur le
marche cerealier malien et a liquide tout le stock autre que le stock
national de sCcuritC et un stock transitoire d'un an constitue d'importations
au titre de  laide  alimentaire, dont le niveau est limitC au minimum
n6cessaire. Un contrat-plan enon;ant les nouvelles responsabilites de l'OPAM
sur les marches cerealiers a dete signe par le Ministre des Finances et l'OPAH
et approuve par le Conseil des Ministres en mars 1988.   Les rigles et
procedures Cnoncdes dans ce contrat-plan ont ete pleinement appliquees aux
campagnes de commercialisation de cdrdales 1988/89 et 1989190.
Compte tenu des excedents cdrCaliers produits par le Mali au cours
des dernleres annees, le Gouvernement a libdralisC les exportations de
cereales et supprime le droit d'exportation CPS applicable aux cereales. Le
Gouvernement s'engage a poursuivre cette politique de liberalisation des
exportations. sauf dans des situations rEsultant des calamites naturelles.
Le Gouvernement s'engage a poursuivre la mise en oeuvre du
programe de libdralisation du marchd cirealier. Un contrat-plan pour la
campagne de commercialisation de cerEales 1990/91-1992/93 sera conclu entre
,ky



- 57 -                                Annex 3
Page 5 of 30
l'OPAH et l'Etat en novembre 1990 au plus tard.  Ce contrat-plan prEcisera
lee taches de l'OPAH et EnumErera toutes les tAches secondaires maintenues
dans le contrat-plan pour 1988189-1990191. I- prEcisera le concept de zones
deficitaires en c4r4ales pour mieux dEfinir l'intervention de l'OPAM dans les
zones de ce type et etablira des indicateurs en vue de cibler exactement
laide alimentaire et faire en sorte que les distributions s'effectuent en
consequence.
Pour ameliorer la capacitE et la rentabilitE de see services, on
a profondement reorganise l'OPAM en d4cembre 1988 et en mai 1990 et ramene
le nombre de ses employes de 718 a 300. L'OPAH conservera le personnel, les
bAtiments et les 4quipements n4cessaires a llexEcution des taches qui lui
sont attribuees dans le contrat-plan. et reduira les cotts conform4ment aux
indicateurs de performance convenus.
Un programme visant a renforcer la gestion financilre et le
controle des stocks est en cours d'execution a l'OPAM. On procEdera a des
audits annuels qui seront acheves au plus tard six mois apras la fin de
lVexercice.
Le Gouvernement s*engage I limiter le stock national de securite
A son niveau maximum actuel de 58.500 tonnes.
Proaramie de sestion des ressources naturelles
Le Gouvernement du Mali attache la plus haute importance a
l'exEcution d'un programme de gestion des ressources naturelles a l'Echelon
national. 11 a Elabor6 un programme de grande envergure (Programme de lutte
contre la dEsertification) qui vise a protdger nos ressources naturelles
d'une dEsertification croissante. Plusieurs programmes pilotes destinds &
mettre A l'essai des techniques d'am6nagement des terres adaptdes a des sites
particuliers sont actuellement executEs par des groupes villageois.   Ces
programmes pilotes sont supervisEs par un Service de coordination qui a EtE
cr46 au sein du Ministlre de l'Environnement et de l'Elevage.  Ce service
sera dot4 d'un personnel adiquat constitue dtune equipe multidisciplinaire
qualifies.   Une strategie de gestion des ressources naturelles de grande
envergure, fondee sur les resultats obtenus dans le cadre des programmes
pilotes en cours, sera prdsentee au plus tard en 1991.  On effectuera des
etudes complementaires, comprenant en particulier une Etude des regimes
fonciers modernes et traditionnels dans differentes regions. Sur la base des
conclusions de ces programes pilotes et etudes, le Gouvernement formulera
une strategie de gestion des ressources naturelles de grande envergure.
Reforme des ODerations de develovnement rural (ODR)
Sur la base des recommandations adoptEes lors du sEminaire sur la
restructuration des ODR en mai 1987 et d'un prog 'me de reformes approuve
en novembre 1987 par le Conseil des Ministres,  Le systlme des ODR sera
rationalisE pour ameliorer l'efficacite du developpement rural et reduire les
coats budgEtaires du systime. Six ODR ont dEjA 4tE liquidEes et les autres
seront restructurEes cas par cas.   Des propositions concr6tes detaillees
relatives & cinq ODR seront presentees avant septembre 1991.  Une ODR sera
'. 7



- 58 -                               Annex 3
Page 6 of 30
transform6e avant janvier 1993 en entreprise commerciale dotes d'un capital
mixte d'origine a la fois publique et privde.
Proarammation des investissements poublics dans le secteur aaricole
Au cours des derniLres ann@es. le Gouvernement a fait un gros
effort pour ameliorer les ressources publiques et a consid4rablement renforce
son systeme de programmation et de suivi des investissements publics.  Un
syst&me de programmes dinvestissement triennaux incluant tous les
investissements publics a Ott mis en place. Des plans triennaux prEsentent
toutes les op4rations d'investissement en cours et sont ajust4s chaque annee.
La rationalisation des investissements publics dans le secteur agricole
conformement aux prioritOs sectorielles s'inscrit dans le cadre de ce
programme de reformes. Le Gouvernement du Mali preparera chaque annee pour
le secteur agricole un programme d'investissement triennal revise qui tiendra
compte de ces prioritCs et sera compatible avec les ressources budgetaires
du Mali.
Cadre Macroeconomique
Le programme d'ajustement du secteur agricole fait partie intGgrale
du programme global d'ajustement du gouvernement elabore dans le Document-
cadre de politique economique et financi&re a moyen terme pour 1990-92
prAsentC au Conseil d'Administration de la Banque le 9 janvier 1990.  Le
cadre macroeconomique tel que defini dans ce document cadre, en particulier
dans sa rubrique politique financi&re annexee a la presente lettre, est
compatible avec les objectifs du PASA.
-        /1l 
M. Moulaye Mohamed Haid#ra
Ministre de 1*Agriculture
M. Barber Conable
President
Bsanque Mondiale
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
pi&ce jointes: Syncptique des Hesures d'Action et d'Ajustement



_ 59 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 30
Extrait du Document-cadre de golLtiaue dconomigue et financiAre & moyen
terme (1990-92)
tEtabli par les autorit6s du Mali en collaboration avec les services du
Fonds et da la Banque  oandiale, 24 novembre 1989)
... La strategic a moyen terme ainsi mise en oeuvre devrait permettre au
Mali de realiser un taux de croissance rCelle du PIB d'environ 4 Z en 1992,
ce qui est proche de l'objectif rdvis  dtu programme; de contenir le taux
d'inflation annuel, mesurd par le deflateur du PIB, a environ 3 Z en 1990-
92, soit en deca de l'objectif revise qui etait d'environ 3,5 2; et de
ramener le dEficit du compte courant de la balance des paiements,
transferts officiels exclus, de 15,1 2 du PIB en 1989 a 12,8 2 du PIS en
1992. conformEment au programe. Ceci est compatible avec uns position du
secteur exterieur viable dts 1992, ainsi qu'il avait etE envisage I
l'origine. ...*
'..2. Politiaues financeires
Les politiques financires resteront orientees vers la realisation
des objectifs & moyen terme du Mali. Le gouvernement continuera de
chercher I rendre soutenable la position globale des finances publiques, a
regler l'encours de ses arriEr6s de paiements interieurs identifiEs et
vErifiEs, et & reduire ses engagements & l'Egard du systeme bancaire.
Cette politique sera appuyee par une politique monetaire qui met l'accent
sur le credit au s*tteur prive tout en maintenant la croissance de la
liquidite interieure t un taux compatible avec les objectifs fixes en
mati6re de croissance dconomique, d'inflation et du secteur exterieur.
Les mesures structurelles susmentionnees devraient permettre de
maintenir le rapport dee recettes totales au PIB a 16,6 2 pendant la
pdriode 1990-92, cc qul correspond a une augmentation annuelle moyenne
d'environ 6 2. Le gouvernement appliquera egalement une politique de
moderation des depenses, co qui devrait ramener le rapport des depenses
courantes au PIB de 10,3 2 en 1990 a 9,2 X sn 1992. En outre, il est prevu
que, dans le cadre du PASEP en cours, les dEpenses relatives A la
restructuration de la BDM et du secteur des entreprises publiques diminuent
fortement pendant cette periode. Ainsi, en dEpit de la poursuite de
l'augmentation des depenses d'investissement, le deficit global sur base
des engagements et dons exclus passerait, d'apras les projections, de 9,3 2
du PIB en 1990 A 6,5 2 en 1992. Les projections budg6taires continueront &
Otre revisees chaque annEe pour prendre en compte les progres accomplis
dans la resorption des desEquilibres et la disponibilite des financements.
L'amelioration de la position des finances publiques permettra de continuer



60 -                               Annex 3
Page 8 of 30
& rembourser le systeme bancaire et de finir de rOgler tous les arridr6s de
paiements identifies et v6rifies de l'Etat en 1990. L'icart de financement
qui subsistera en 1990, apres all4gement de la dette, necessitera une aide
financilre ext4rieure exceptionnelle.
Le gouvernement continuera d'appliquer une politique monetaire
compatible avec les objectifs en matiere d'ajustement. Pendant la periode
1990-92, le taux de croissance annuel moyen de la liquidit4 intLrieure sera
maintenu A un niveau inferieur A celui du PIB nominal, en vue de reduire
les pressions dues a la demande exc4dentaire. Toutefois, afin de
promouvoir la croissance, la politique de credit aura pour objectif de
canaliser les ressources vers les secteurs productifs de l'economie,
notamment l'agriculture. l'Elevage et la petite industrie. Les
possibilites dtexpansion du credit au secteur priv4 seront accrues, etant
donnr 1 rEduction di; role de l'Etat et l'amelioration des resultats
financiers du secteur public qui sont escomptEes. La conduite de la
politique monetaire sera facilitee par l'assainissement en cours de la BDM,
et par la reforme envisagde du systeme de comptes cheques postaux. A cet
Egard. le gouvernement apportera son appui entier aux efforts de
restructuration de la BDM, en particulier concernant le recouvrement des
prets.
La conduite de la politique monetaire sera egalement amEliorde par
les reformes des instruments de la politique monetaire qui sont
actuellement mises en place au sein de l'Union monetaire ouest-africaine
(UMOA) par la BCEAO. Ces reformes prevoient l'introduction d'un systeme de
contrOle monetaire plus indirect et axE davantage sur les forces du marchE.
Depuis octobre 1989, le taux d'escompte preferentiel a ete aboli et les
banques disposent d'une plus grande marge de manoeuvre dans la fixation des
taux d'intEr@t applicables aux depots et aux prlts. A partir du ler
janvier 1990, le marche monetaire sera elargi et son fonctionnement
ameliore, la politique sectorielle du credit a 6t6 abandonnee, le systlme
des crEdits de campagne sera refondu, le controle du credit A 1'Etat sera
renforcE. Par ailleurs, le controle des banques sera renforce tant au
niveau de chaque pays membre qu'au niveau de l'Union. Dans le cadre de ces
rEformes, la BCEAO a poursuivi une politique des taux d'interet plus
active, qui s'est traduite par des taux reels Oleves. ...



CREDIT D'AJUSTEMENT  T D'INMTISSEMENT ACRICOLE DU MALI
S1MPTIIIE OES iESURES D'ACTMON ET O'AJUSTCMT
I                      COJOITICPIS POUR
so Coe  I  Prmi,        s          Troisid..  Is C_o.oats
e/     Trencho /  Trec. /  Trench. !  d'Inv.stigomet
I. CT/ACT1Il
(a) Finiie.ti.on doe lostru.ese   - Etebll-*sewt et dot de FCFA                               X
c_ lres a Ilkalrs* Ia lo slIIleard ds   Isitowdocot
_eure du cortrt-plen          - accord do Consil due ml,lstre our I1                      X
EtJCIT                          aoJt d  Iel ellnt le ta. I
(1911C/ - 19969/)                I .ap.r*tatio  do cao
- 19elpotle d  1  I lti. olimeant                                                  X
Be tese S l'.p.tetioo do ceter
trensfe.* setisfeicoet do tou  lot        Jan. W19
coepton ceteoam;6~
- ilgl0astis dee stat.. CT                    "Pt. 19"
(b) Ex6cutlon eolt. dee       I     llee  Os or etierteeent de tow*            en cours                             X           I              X
r4forme  do I poltique         le, aepecte de cootr eAtle, tout
de cot" come convenr dens   _ 0,ilg eme-t,
le cooteetapleo Etat/CDT      - us u6canim de prixa Is prodection
y inclel toot* Itoo              11)6 e prim ear  1- march I.tsrotlonal
rformes_ dee prix ot          - I*l btisition des tUn & I'ezportatlen
tn tituta.nen   lle             duO ot.. doeim i 1 r ect.brs 19098
(d6but do Is saIoo  commercl-W 1999/96)                                                                              _
- edhdsio totaC 1- " r4leco de tond do
cot..
- *io en on~rs des rJfor onJtitutioe-
nel lle Caue pr4iuo d_e Is, contrat-plan
(c) Participation do  producteure  - plan iection d Is de repr6egntOr          Nore 1991
o *eia *du owdecotoen et         lec prodcteurs so *c*i do fond
do capitol d  Is C1DT          - repr6detation dc products... es *nl.       oct. 1os1                                        X
- prdentlenti do plan d'ecti.n olil do       *ept. 1991
psrmettrs, Iecci a. capital do fend
ams prodecteure
- o"eWrturo do capital do Is CilDT *s        oct. 191
(d) Prdparetion do la rewv   A    - ronse  ysJor-ttms do contrat-plon          so"t 191
ma1.n-torma do Etat/tWT         Etat/CMDT
Cs) Prlparation dee rlformas do   - prdesXtton due prop.sitiooe ear des        ept. 1996
peltiques a. dill do contrat-  n       _ciauee ceopidelntlireo  per 1i feetd
plan Etat/CNDT                  de atabilleUtion do prix do coten *ou
(198§19/  - 1968/H)             co_MMneutls vill aeo I e et satre
inetitotiena smo.puv.rsmetas isa
- Propoeltios de coretrt-ples Etat/CT        Jn. 96
(t) Autr*                - ~~~Audit snnusl de food de cot.. per use   eceusi
firt. rscennu                             ljtet
a/ pr1vu pour lo 26 Jui" 1990             b/ pr12    d. Is alas en vigeur de s Accords do Crddit at Prog.t;    A
.1/ 12 nois anr6s le Premi6re trench. e      12 so1s apr&oIs I deusili  trencho..



CREDMIT  '^AJUEMEIIT  OINYESTISSCEIT A¢RICLE DU MILI
NIPtIMQE DES KWRES DACTION IT D'AJUSlEMENT
COIDITIIOS PatI
O*JsStIf et .69ev... de p.1 Itiqmne         £41... a6c_seaIres                     Dabloque  0bleq"a ge   Dioqega  0boores.st poe
Su CesItl      Prmia4re   Second    Troll4_me   a coaenent,
Treac.b/ Trenthe       trech "    d'ivst.e.emo_ t
IIt. OPACEIEALES
(a) LtUWrllosatle doe prim St    - 1lrotlem costifu  et total. dee prix A    so c ent
des .xposotlo. poor toe          to c__mstloen et a to production, *Inai
crsfols  treditlosagItee         qus due aertbi di   c6rdelem traditionamtl.
- 1Ibrati.o dles sxcttio.. dee *64mlos         on coo..
tred11 tieel fee poor       one" _ et
deteSt orl  p6klsd.e              e lows
- 63 letolo de teas  CPS   I 'lspertation    en coors
ser fee o6elns tradctleooellee
(b) Contra  lao Etat/0PAN          - Was so "ties de ceatret-ple.                 so cors
(IWS/OS - IWO/)                  zacceptable per I1IDA
(c) Ceotw-pla ECPat/I              - pr4prstis. de prfoce  controt-plen
(iNS/Si - iWo/NA)                (iNS/S  - im/N) SWc:
- rmlonelstion accrue des tiche  do
I WAP  (-   Ti.e due ticies eecordai.e
du_ lo preeat ceStrat-plee)
-rff lmet de coesep do  esew do
d-ielt ccdilt lor St due leterwetles
do I'WM s easin dee asse
- 1-mies, do coordieStlea m6t 10_.
ewes to eysthm d'eldu aotimeeir.
- tmaltloe des set. f1_tlee .  AO
_ l"c  nb I POP"^I w
- diedteaiur do performs..e de o I'pA
pos a edocklom ds coOt.
- prdssetlem ds piweJot aetr-plaa              Oct. 1w
paMludeelro
- eleetre St Olse so action do cootret-plan  mev. oll                                   X                          X X
ftat/lPM ecceptable per IJIIA
(d) Coatrdl. _sllor d  b           - actlo*eu d1    adit. sIx R ole               _u
9.tboo St des finance.           sprie Is ftin do 1'_eis filmweir  ot
a  PIPAY                         prdeemtetlu  doe rdltate   I' ViDA
*I pr.6   pour to 26 Join 190; y  pr&  die Ialc so  wiea    ..r des Accords de Cr6dIt at PreJt.                                                            °
c/ 12  sois aprie lo prZeib.f trench.; &  12 aolo epre  as deaaiiee tranch. 



ClEIT D'AJUSTEENT ET D'INWSSEMINT AUICOLS GU MALI
SUPTISJE DUS IESUIES D'ACTION ET D'AJUSTEENT
___________ _    CODITIONS POUR
ObjetIteot .t6o.w  de polltl ques              Act.i. e                          DatPera               Dal ebll oODbour_ea                            t poor
so C_il         lO Sne     Iende   tr      _     * cempossnt.
/   Tr ycb     Tr"Kbe    Treahe y  d'lav"ti_sot
_            _       ________ ________________-___Trancie __Tronob. ___Trancho ___                                                        d'ioveetissem.nt
Itt. UlSTlN OS IESIIU  NAITUIEUES
(a) Contello St 6volvatleo des      dttlom em poe cooplt St                        t 199w
0r.tl.o.  plot    St                 de  d   '       . coordliatlon
tormlatio de I* erltuat         i      io            6b 1I-, ao
de pet). do restoe              Vsa"" do I *Eftwire_ma.   et II'EI.wa.
taturol Ii                    - pr6mtatle md* la strathl-, d.               more al
pestle. do. reso"rcem ..t)...lee
(b) Clariflcatio  dee, drolte     - prporabtle, des &ted** .olaoaiee
Is pr.prl66 fmowi&ro ofla       our is prepe16t6 ftcoiel
d'4mr  an droit I Is          - prA.tjou de 6tldes                          spt 1992 
trr, plus peoeet
(a) Contr81c *t &Valuation doe    - dottleion  n personeol od6uate do           s"pt. lo
diffreete plon  d'eem6ngeennt   I 'uait6 do coordi tleoa entrale so CdDT
toncder eiecutim dam  Ie      - rapport enmel our I- contrIl  dee            nnvel, &
r6glors COT ofIn d  _ sror      p lbn  d' emikaoeint foseloro em csoar      pertir do
o  s form Istlec  _"remo de    d'6a6cStIm                                   loot
.tetiqlee  as poler rgloenl St
netlon  I*  efti de  oeetrller - rapport d46valustlen enovel sur la         enamel a
lee offete de to pr ducti..     *1t elo dAm r"uorces dae to                 pertl. de
agelcole  ur lee reo_rcee       r dleR Molt-S.d pour us nombre              1991
natre ISO                       d lindloteter does
ai pr&w6 poor to 26 Jule 199; y   rt* dAe Is ste  em wvteur dee Accords do Cr4lt bt Projet;
5/ 12 sole *pr"  a pre e rg treneL;  ia eel2 oielrb  Is dsualm  tracb.
00
'I'
ID



CIEDIT DOAJUSTfET IT DINYESTISSE  IT ARtCOLE DU IULI
S"NPTISE KS  SM         D9ACTION ET 0'AJUSTEMENT
I-- - - -~~CONITIONS PM
Ob*jtifo .1 r6m  d  p.ItIqo                    ton ln6cn                   Dat    IPr4ntatlon  Dbl ocao  D c              D4bloc.   D6boor_at pour
so Coiol    Pralre   S               Tro*,la S=  a composnta
I   §/   Trnd o     Trench. yJ Trench. y  dlmvantiasaeint
IV. P     _00W5 K IEFM  DES Im
Iebrt.ratlon d  orala"tloa do    -faatra dee 0016                          rdl 6
lopp_sat raral * trtn t                 - propmltion de rostfocto-         soft. 1991                            x
rldoctien do sombre des 00, we            ration da"ellid  pour 6 O9p
1tlonalletlon de tk"   n                - Jr_enaoratln dO.T. E.. en        Jan. lo9g
rM&tfct4urtion ot pWlvatl0itlOn           soaldt6 & capitol Slite
d'U  .ldctl.ni.
V. PROlAES DIMSTISSEMENT PUBLIC
(Sactar aicol.)
(a) PlnifIcloti        lord. de             - prsntaftlo do program.           annual                                X           X
1' 1V.ut_eumt public national s          dlccv.ti.a..t _anul               octobre
accord a*e. lea priorltde aeturlellea    acceptable par IIDA               (dbut on                                                                      C
St le re_soc   fnenilr                                                    120t)
(t) PlaNllcatlo0  mi*rde do dlwaloPPWAnt - pCatetlo  de prgr                   annual        X                       x          x              x
rural de Is i.e Mall-Sod an accrd         qoiaqoal V&1.6 de lvejlop-    joIn
aeoc fea prioritlA  ectortel It. t lee    panant rural pour Is gone do     (d6but en
re_eerce  ftnn#ta                         Mall-S3od aceptable per l IDA    l9g)
(c) Flmnlleutlon do plan do d6lwel   an    - pr6eentatlon do Plan ragleol    oct. 1091
rdlosol de ounl a  cco          e          nclusin d l'auamn
lto  priorldo dana ba atIoe  de          addit_loanec dos sole at do       dAG. 101
raeo.rce  naural lee                      r6lona diurqone  poor des
rdserwee natural I".
!/ p.6w  poor In 28 Jo;i 1096; W prtw. d   Is elie a, vigeur des Accord do Crdit at PrjeatI
9/ 12 soler ipa la proolra tren.; #  12 mols spl.   dosAlxd. trench.
X1I
0 
'I
C



- 65 -
Anez 3
CONTRAT-PLAN                    Page 13 of 30
ETAT C.4DT
PREANIBULE
Les  12, 13, 14  Miai I 88  s'est tenu  a Selingue  sous la
presidence  de  Monsieur  Nloulaye  tiAIDARA,  Ministre  de
I'agriculture un Seminaire sur "L'avenir de la FiliRre Coton au Mali".
Ce seminaire dont les recommandations ont 6td approuv6es par
le Gouvernement au cours de la session du Conseil des Ministres du
16/11/88 constituent la base sur laquelle a e   dtabli le present
Contrat - Plan.
11 a W  recommand6 entre autres
n- La revision des statuts de la CMDT dans le sens d'une
Soci;tl anonymie a caract6re industriel et commercial.
- Le transfert des immobilisations et des recettes coton i
la CMDT.
- Que les rapports entre la CMDT et I'ETAT soient precises
dans le cadre d'un Contrat - Plan definissant les missions
specifiques de la CMDT en tant que Socidt6 I caractere
industriel et commercial d'une part, et les missions de
service public qui lui seront confides par l'Etat d'autre
part."
Le Contrat - Plan traitera notamment des questions
relatives :
- a la fiscalit6 de la fiRi&re,
- aux modes de financement des missions de service
public,
- aux modalites de fixation du prix au producteur,
- aux m6canismes de dotation du fonds de stabilisation,
- au service de la dette,



- 66 -
Annex 3
Page 14 of 30
- aux criteres de performances en vue de l'amdlioration de
la compe'tivite de la filire.
Le s6minaire recommande aussi
- que l'OHIV soil int4grde a la filiRre coton,
- que la filiMre oldagineuse soit totalement distincte de la filiere
coton, mais que les recettes et ddpenses de l'activitd de la graine de
coton soient imputdes i la CMDT,
- qu'un nouveau systlrr. de fixation de prix au producteur soit
mis en place pour permettre la prise en compte des fluctuations
des cours mondiaux du cocon fibre tout en preservant un prix
minimum incitatif,
- que le mdcanisme de stabilisation du prix au producteur soit
assurd par l'ETAT a travers un organisme public dans le Conseil
d'Administration duquel siegeront des professionnels notamment
les organisations de producteurs,
- que tout soit mis en oeuvre pour prdparer le contrat - Plan
afin qu'il devienne rdalitd au plus tard le 1/1/1990."
Sous le titre "Ddveloppement rdgional et encadrement", le
Sdminaire decrit les axes princip4ux du r6le A jouer par la CMDT
dans ce domaine, mettant un accent particulier sur la ndcessitd de
ddvelopper des systames d'exploitation des mdthodes de gestion
des terroirs permeutant de limiter le processus de ddgradation des
sols constatd actuellement.
Les recommandations du sdminaire (ANNEXE I) sont les
orientations principales sur lesquelles repose le prdsent Contrat -
Plan.
Son ambition est de mottre on place des mdcanismos
permanents, d'instaurer des pratiques durables et de favoriser les
actions visant I accrohtre la productivitd de la CMDT.



- 67 -
Annex 3
Page 15 of 30
11 est disectement orienld stir le maintien et le renforcement de
la compdtivit6 du coton ntalien sur le marchb international.
le coton represcntant un cdlment fondamental de l'dconomie
malienne, distribuant des revenus aux producteurs, et demeurant la
principale source de r6cettes du Mali, le Contrat - Plan est con9u
comme un ensemble coh6rent des mesures int6ressant tous les
operateurs (producteurs, CMDT et ETAT).
Le prdsent contrat - plan comprend le prdsent texte et les
annexes suivantes (parties intdgrantes du prdsent contrat - Plan)
- ANNEXE 1: RESUILUTIONS DU SEMINAIRE DE SELINGUE
- ANNEXE 11: MECANISMES DE REMUNERATION ET DE
STABIILISATION
- ANNEXE III: TERMES DE REFERENCES DES AUDITS
- ANNEXE IV: INDICATEURS DE SUIVI
- ANNEXE V: CRITERES DE PERFORMANCES.



- 68 -
Annex 3
Page 16 of 30
TITBRI-; I: DIEF:INITION DE lO'l.ET ET lDES
SIG1NATAIIRES
Article I1:
La pr6sente convention denommee 'CONTRAT - PLAN" est
sign6e d'une part par l'ETAT representd par les Ministres chargds
des finances et de l'Agriculture et d'autre part par la COMPAGNIE
MALIENNE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DES TEXTILES (CMDT)
repr6sentde par le Prdsident de son Conseil d'Administration.
AEticle 2:
11 est donne comme objectif a la CMDT la rdalisation de deux
fonctions ctroitctnnt liees, imais qui lui imposent deux systemes de
gestion difterents:
1') Activiti Induistrielle et commerciale
- L'achat, la collecte, l'egrenage du coton graine et la
commercialisation de la fibre et de la graine de coton.
Ces opdrations sont i mener avec un maximum d'efficacite, et
sont susceptibles de ddgager un b6ndfice ou un ddficit pour la
CMDT.
- La poursuite  dic totie  auirc activitl  rentable  a caractere
industricl ou commercial.
20) Mission de service nlutlic:
Lsxdcution d'une mission de sorvios pubilo quo lut sonfio Is
gouvernement et pour laquelle elle revoit une dotatdon du budget
de l'ETAT.
Le Contrat - Plan:
- precisera les r6les respectifs de la CMDT et de IETAT pour les
missions de service public ;



- 69 -
AmeOx 3
Page 7 of 30
- definira les modes de r4mun6ration des differents partenaires
(producteurs, CMDT, ETAT) pour les activites coton ;
d6finira  les  instruments  et les  procedures  de  contr6le  de
I'exEcution du present contrat - Plan.



- 70 -
Anne 3
Page sI of 30
TIT  L; If .,LA MISSION D)E LA cmtrr
211 ActiyLit industrielle- et eommetrciale
Article 3
La CMDT assurera lencadrement de la production, la collecte et
l'grenage de la totalit6 de la production cotonniere de la zone
d'intervention qui lui est fixee. Pour la duree du Contrat - Plan,
cette zone comprend :
- la totalit6 de la 3e r6gion administrative (Sikasso)
- les cercies de san, Tominian et baraoueli en 4e rdgion-
administrative (Sdgou)
- le cercle de Diofla en 2e region administrative (koulikoro).
La C MDT sera responsable de la commercialisation (vents
locale et exportation) de l'ensemble do la fibre qu'elle aura egrend,
de la graine produite et en percevra l'ensemble des recettes.
Elle pourra en outre sur contrat acheter du coton graine
c!lectW dans d'autres zones du Mali et en assurer l'egrenage et la
commercialisation.



- 71 -
Annex 3
Page 19 of 30
Article4
La CMDT veillera . maintenir operationnelle une capacite
d'Egrenage susceptible d'absorber les quantit4s de coton - graine
suivantes
(en milliers de tonnes)
ANNEE           PRODUCTION   PRODUCTION   CAPACITE
ZONE CMDT    ZONE OHV           D'EGRENAGE
TOTALE
1989/90        239              13              252
1990/91        256              14              270
1991/92        270              15              285
1992/93        283              16              299
1993/94         299             17              3 16
Atle 5 
La CMDT  achetera la totalite du coton prdsent6e sur les
marchEs de sa zone d'intervention aux conditions prevues par la
pr6sente convention.
2.2 Activitj ddvelonRement rural:
Article 6:
La  CMDT       est  chargEe  d'exdcuter  Ics  missions  de
developpement rural qui lui seront confides pourvu que les moyens
financiers correspondants soient mis A sa disposition.



- 72 -
Anex 3
Page 20 of 30
TITRE I111 LES MODES DE REMUNERATION
3.1   Rjmtin6ratiofL_de- differents n2artenzuires de la fiIikre
cokton
A[ticle 7 
Les deux parties adoptent un mecanisme de r6muneration
visant I r6partir les risques et les b6nefices de la vente du coton
entre le producteur, la CMDT et I'ETAT.
Ce mdcanisme fait l'objet de I'annexe 11.
ArtiAle It
Le prix plancher au productcur est fixe A 85 F'CF'A / KO de
coton - graine ler choix et 75 FCFA / KG de coton - graine 2e choix
pour la dur6e du Contrat - plan. Il constitue le seuil d'intervention
du mecanisme de stabilisation. Ce prix pourra etre revu en baisse si:
. le fonds de stabilisation est epuise,
. Ia marge brute est negative pendant deux ans (Annexe 11).
Aticle 9:
La stabilisation sera assum6e 'a partir d'un fonds dont la
gestion sera assuree & travers un organisille public dans lc conscil
d'Administration duquel siegeront des professionnels notamment
les organisations de producteurs.
Le montant du fonds sera plafonne A 20 % des achats de coton
graine valorisds au prix plancher d'achat au producteur.
Il sera aliment6 par la CMDT conformement aux modalites
precisdes dans I'annexe II et par le versement du montant du
STABEX et autres concours internationaux de stabilisation percus
pour les variations des cours du coton lorsque le Mali en b6neficie.



- 73 -
Annex 3
Page 21 of 30
* Artile 10
Une fois le plafond du fonds de stabilisation atteint, la CMDT
constituera une r6serve conform6ment aux modalit6s prEvues I
I'annexe I' en vue d'assurer une augmentation du prix d'acltat du
¢oton gra. * auX producteurs.
Le droit commun en matiere d'IBIC sera applique mais aucune
taxe suppidmentaire autre que la taxe conjoncturelle pr6vue en
annexe It ne sera prElevEe sur les ricettes du coton.
La CMDT est exonor6e de l'IMP (minimumn fiscal de 0.75 % du
chiffre d'affaires) pendant toute la duree du contrat - plan
31.2 Financgment des acfiyit~s de d6v'elglUggment rura
Article 12 :
La mission de developpement rural ex4cut6e par la CMD)T est
une mission de service public r6alisde par la CMDT sur delegation
du Minist4re de I'Agriculture.
Le financement de cette mission sera en consequence assure
par I'ETAT.
Le programme quinquennal glissant de developpemenit rural
6labor6 par la CMDT sera executable des la signature du present
Contrat - Plan et approbation par I' ETAT et les Bailleurs de fonds.
11 fait l'objet d'un document s6pare partie int6grante du
present Contrat - plan.
La CMDT  tiendra  compte  des  modifications  eventuelles
demanddes par Ecrit par le Ministtre de l'Agriculture.



- 74 -
Annex 3
Page 22 of 30
Celles - ci seront int6gr',es dans te programme i partir de la
campagne suivant celle au cours de laquelle la CMDT en a Wt6
saisie.
Cette activit6 sera donc totalemenL subventionnee par I'ETAT.
Les financements seront justifties par les projets composant le
programme quinquennal. L'ETAT assurera cependant I la CMDT un
fonds de roulement afin d'eviter que celle - ci ne soit obligee de
prdfinancer les activites subventionn6es.
Ce fonds sera dimensionne sur la base du plan trimestriel de
tr6sorerie que la CMDT pr6sentera pour le trimestre suivant.
Au cas ou le calendrier des ddblocages ne permettrait pas
d'alimenter les besoins, la CMD1T les financera sur pret apres
autorisation expresse du Ministre charge des Finances.
.e Service de la dettj
A dlele Ad i
La CMDT assurera le respect des engagements internationaux
en cours et a venir, pour les activites A caractere industriel et
commercial.
L'ETAT assurera le service de la de.te pour les activites de
developpement rural en cours et A venir.



- 75 -
Annex 3
Page 23 of 30
TITR,LL LES INSTRUMENTS DE SUIVI
4.1 Activit4 Coton
Article 15 - 
Le comit6 de suivi d6crit au litre V proc6dera annuellement i
un audit financier dont les termes de ref6rences sont definies en
annexe III.
Cet audit sera realis6 par une societe specialisde selectionn6e
par le comite de suivi.
Article 16 
La CMDT presentera annuellement, un rapport d'activite coton
et .un tableau de bord qui s'appuiera sur les indicateurs ddfinis It
l'annexe IV et les criteres de performance Annexe V.
4.2  Suivi d, or  rsMme de divelonoement rural
Article   7
Chaque ann6e, la CMDT prdsentera au comit6 de suivi et au
Ministere de I'Agriculture un rapport d'activite contenant une
comparaison   pr6visions/rdalisations   commentee  pour  les
differentes  composantes  du   programme  quinquennal  de
developpement rural. Celui - ci sera actualisW annuellement par la
CMDT en fonction de ces rdsultats et des ressources disponibles.
On s'appuiera sur les indicateurs de l'annexe IV.



- 76 -
Page 24 of 30
TITRE      ASPECTS INSTITUTIONNELS
Artice   L_
La CMDT proc6dera I une modification de ses statuts afin de les
rendre conforme I la loi.           du.A .......sur les societes
d'economie mixte ou toute loi la modifiant.
Les statuts definiront entre autres la composition du capital, les
pouvoirs de l'Assemblee G6nerale et les procddures de contr6le
financier.
Article 19_
le contrOle du respect du Contrat - Plan sera assure par un comit6
de suivi.
Article 20
Le comitd do suivi est composd de trois membres permanents:
- le Ministre charge des finances, ou son repr6sentant,
pr6sident
le Ministre charg6 de l'Agriculture, ou son repr6sentant
- le Prdsident du Conseil d'administration de la CMDT, ou
son repr6sentant.S
Sur demande du president du comite de suivi il pourra etre fait
appel I toute personne dont l'expertise peut etre utile aux
dElibErations (Minist6re du plan, Chambre d'Agriculture, OSRP,
Consultants...).
Le Secretariat du comite sera assure par la CMDT.



- 77 -
Annex 3
Page 25 of 30
A[tirle U_l
Le comitC de suivi dispose du Contrat - Plan et de la version
actualisde annuellement des documents suivants:
1. Le programme glissant de developpement rural et le rapport
d'activitd correspondant commentd par la CMDT
2. Le tableau de bord coton et le rapport d'activiz6
3. Le programme d'investissement.
11 dispose en outre du bilan de la CMDT.
Sur la base de ces donn6es, le comit6 de suivi' r6dige un rapport
constatant ie d6gri d'execution du Contrat - Plan et prdsente sa
propre analyse des ecarts eventuels.
Le comite dispose d'un budget annuel adopt6 par le Ministre
chargd des Finances, finance par I'ETAT, lui permettant de mobiliser
des cadres, de proc6der aux audits annuels et de faire appel A des
consultants exterieurs pour la redaction de ce rapport.
Ce rapport est remis au Minist&re de I'Agriculture, au Ministtre
des Finances, a la CMDT ct aIUx B3AILLEURS de FONDS.
Article 22:
La CMDT fournira les documents cit6s I rarticle pr6cddent le 15
Avril de chaque annde. Le comitd disposera de six semaines pour
remettre son rapport, soit le ter Juin afin lue les financements
necessaires puissent etre inscrits dans la loi des finances.
Artice Ll_:
Le fonds de stabilisation sera strictement sepi A de tout autre
mdcanisme de stabilisation.
la -gestion du fonds de stabilisation se conformera strictement
aux modalit6s d'alimentation et de mobilisation du fonds d6crites



- 78 -
Annex 3
Page 26 of 30
au titre Ill ct A I'alinexe II. Ia signature du repr6sensant du
Ministere charge des Finances , du  repr6senlant   du  MinistUre
charge de l'Agriculhure et du Directeur GenEral de la CMDT sera
n#cessaaire i toute operation.
le fonds sera reparti entre les organismes financiers offrant les
mcillctires conditions de relnlabilild Ct de sEcurild lout en veillant A
garder un niveau de liquidihe suftisanit :
20 %  du montant plafond doit etre mobilisable en moins de
trois mois , le reste en moins de six mois.
On s'interdira toute forme de placement I risque.



- 79 -
Annex 3
Page 27 of 30
TfIRF =- LES ENGAGEMZNTS DE L'ETAT
Arice24 :
Aucun texte officiel ne modifiera a la hausse le prix d'achat
plancher au producteur durant la duree du Contrat - Plan.
Article 25:.
La CMDT percevra directement les recettes de la vente du
coton fibre.
Articl  Zi_:
Le rEgime fiscal applique I la CMDT sera celui du droit
commun.
La CMDT sera exoneree de toutes taxes a l'exportation y
compris la CPS.
aic 2le
L'ETAT demandera I la Commission des CommunautEs
Europeennes de verser les sommes pergues dans le cadre du
STABEX pour les variations du cours du coton sur le compte du
Fonds de stabilisation de la Filiere Coton.
n en fera de meme pour tout autre concours prEvu I cet effet.
,&rticlg 28:..
Toutes les dotations correspondant a la Mission de Service
PublIC y compris la fiscalite y affErente seront inscrites dans la loi
des finances, et les sommes correspondantes mises i la disposition
de la CMDT.



- 80 -
Annex 3
Page 28 of 30
Articllg29 i
Si la marge brute d'uns annee (annexe II) est n6gative, il y
aura intervention du fonds de stabilisation I hauteur de la perte
enregistree.
Si les ressources du fonds ne permettent pas de couvnr cette
perte, la diff6rence constituera une creance de la CMDT sur It fonds.
Cette creance sera honoree des que la marge brute rodevient
positive.
Si la marge brute reste negative I'annee suivante, lIETAT
procEdera I une rEvision du prix d'achat du coton graine sauf s'il
peut degager les ressources necessaires a la couverture de cc
deficit.



- 81 -
Annex 3
Page 29 of 30
flhRL.XI M1 INTEGRATION DES PRODUCTEURS
Article 30 :
La CMDT 6tudiera la mani6re d'introduire une repr6sentation
des producteurs au comite de gestion du fonds de stabilisation.
La CMDT etudiera egalement une solution alternative ou
complementaire consistant A promouvoir des fonds locaux de
stabilisation greff6s sur les systames d'1pargne - credit ou sur les
structures de gestion de stockage villageois de cereales.
La CMDT etudiera enfin les modalit6s d'ouverture de son capital
aux producteurs.
les resultats de ces differentes etudes seront presentes au plus
tard a roccasion de la rEvision du Contrat - Plan prEvue en annee 3.
Aricle 31:
Par voie de presse, si possible dans les diffErentes langues
parlEes dans la zone cotonnitre, le comite de suivi publiera
annuellement avant le debut de la campagne d'achat : le resultat de
la campagne, (quantite, prix de vente, excedent I partager),
Ie montant de I'accroissement du prix,
la situation du fonds de stabilisation.



- 82 -
Aez 3
ipe Si of 30
3=ILYM 1: DUREE DE LA CONVENTION
Article 32;
Le Contrat - plan lie les parties pour S ans ; une dvaluation est
prevue en deuxi6me annee qui portora sur 1'ensemble de ses
composantes. Une attention particuliere sera portte aux eventuels
problemes poses par la fiscalite et le transfert a la CAA du service
de la dette liee au developpement rural.
Le  programme  de  ddveloppement  rural  sera  adaptd
annuellement selon les resultats obtenus, I'Evolution des objoctifs et
les ressources disponibles.
Article 33
La date de mise en application du Contrat - Plan est fixee au
ler Octobre 1989.
Article 34:.
Tout litige rdsultant de l'application du prEsent Contrat - Plan
sera soumis au Comite de suivi. A dEfaut d'une solution
mutuellement acceptable, il sera regle par voie de droit.
I17 Nov. 198
Fait a Bamako, le ...........
Lg MINISTRF aF5 PINANCS ::.TRR DE LAGRICILTUR
El Du COMMFiRCE         -;* t^*
-'d7
LE PURSinENT ati CONSEIL D'ADMINISTRATION
DELA CMDL-



- 83 -
Annexe 4
Page r of 4
hU AKICnLI11 SRCL Kt ADrRMINWISIIT PUOECT
S    PLU
1.    Bank SuperviSion Input: the staff Input Indicated tn the table below Is in addition to
regular supervlelon nod. for the review of regular progres  reports, procurmnt
actlonn, coorespondence, donor coordinatlon outside of missions. Thse actlvitloe are
estimated to require flve staff weeks during tho first three yers of project
implentation when the first, second and third tranche of the fast disbursing
component lo disbursed, *nd four staff weeks In yer four, fIve and *Ix of pro ect
Implementation. Duo to the complex systm and of co-and per llel-financing via,
different donors, donor coordination activities are expected to be time consuming
throughout project implementation.
2.    Borrower's contribution to supervision:
(a) The executing agency (CMDT) for the Investment coponent of the project Is to
submit annual program and progress reports concerning:
- Rv isod five-year rural dve lopment program for Ma I1-sud
- Land management coordinating fonctions of CMDT
-  Applied reserch progrm of CUDT
- Preparation/submisilon of audits reports and financial statements
- Boupouni Region development plan (including a road construction program and soll
and wildlife conservation studies
- Action plan for the participation of the producers In the Cotton Fund mnagoement
committee and In CMDT's capital
- Studies and reports related to land management: on land ownership, on
implemetation of land management projects in the Hal I-Sud zone, and en teourne
situation In Hal i-u  area.
- Report on the water-user associations In the Mali-sud area.
(b)   The Ministry of Agriculture for the adjustant component Is to submit annual
report as follows:
- Reports on the cotton Fund mangeoment
- Report on the execution of the contrat plan ETAT-CUDT
- Report on the execution of the contrat plan ETAT-OPAM
- Report on the threo-year overall program for public lnvestments In the agricultural
sector
- Reports on the restructuration plan for six ODR.
(c) The Mintstry of Environ_ment Is to prensnt a National Resource Management
strategy
S.    Organization of Supervision misslons: the bank missions till be compse d of the task
manager and an agronomist or environmentalist. Consultant work will be usd for the
preparatlon of now contrat-plans during the project implemntation.
4.    The Ministry of Airicultur* and CLDT wllI be rponsible for coordinating arrangemnts
for Sank Supervision missions and for provid' ' informatlon required by issihons.
Missions will also work clowly with the Miniery of Finance and the Ministry of
Environment and Livestock. Wrap-up meetings wll be hld with representatives of all
concerned Ministries present. Efforts will be made to hold supervision *issions
Jointly wlth CCCE/FAC, KfW, DIUS, the Swiss Development Corporation and other
nterested donors Involved In parallel or coftinncing of the program.



- 84 -
Annexe 4
Psge 2 of 4
SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTrVITIES
Approximate
Datoe                                                    Expected skills       Staff Input.
CMontblyear)            Activity                             Regul rements       Staff-weko
1-9/90              Project start-up.
Revie  of the 5 yoar rural             agricultural economics         1
development plan for 4 li-sud           agronomltt/*nvIronment.        1
9-11/90             Verification of adequat, stffing
of central coodinatilon unit for
I nd management at CMDT
0-11/Ue             Sbpervieloa miNles                       agricultur.l/financial         4
- Review of progresso  In                 economice
contrat Plan ETAT-CMDT
(60/U 109/04)
Rural development activities            agronomist/onvironment.       2
- Review of public Investment
In agriculture (W0-93)
- Review of the preparation of
the new contrat-plan ETAT-OPAM
(90/91-92/98)
2-8/91              Supervuison Mvisetn                                                     B
progres e  in rural development          agricultural economics
activites
review of the program/ progress          agronorist/nvi ranment.
report for th, land management
CuDT unit
procurement end disbursement             Procuremsnt/disbursemnt
review
8-4/91              Review of National Resource                                           O.5
management strategy                      agronomist/environment.       1
4-5/01              Review of financial statements           financial economice          06.
and audits of CUDT, OPAI and
BCEAO (for quick disbursing)
6-0/91              Review of revised 6 yer rural            *rtcultural/
development pin Mali-sud                financial
Review of Cotton Fund audit              economics                     1
(don. in June)
PYga
8-9/91              Verification of Mid-term review          economice                      1
of CMDY-ETAT Contrat-ptan
9-11/91             - Review of the reetructuration          financiel economie           1.6
plan of 6 ODRe:
ODDK* ODIPAC  OHV  OPS  ORS
- Review of th  action plan for
the participation of producers
In the Cotton Fund management
cemmittee and CNDT's capital
- Verification of adequate
Staffing of intermintsterial
coordination unit for natural
reourc mange ment



- 85 -
Annexe 4
Pege - of 4
Approximte
Dot"s                                                      Expected skills    Staff input
(Monthhear)               Activity                             Recutremente      Staff-weeks
9-11/91             Supervt-lon Misslon                                                   8.5
- Review of progresss  In                 agiecultural/finoncial
contrat Plan ETAT-OPAM               economics
contrat Plan ETAT-CUDT
Rural development activities
- Review of public investment
lo agriculture
- Re.le of annual CMDT report of          agronomist/envit..aent.      2
lond management schemes and of
resource situation In Mabl-eud
region
10-11/91            Review for Second tranch. release                                       1
2-3/92              Suprwvlslon Mission                       agricultural economies      2.5
- Revie of the program/ progresm
report for the land mangagmnt            agronomi t/nvi ronment.      2
CMDT unit
- Progress In rural dovelopment
astivities
- Procurement and disbursoemnt
review
4-5/92              Revlw of financiel statements             financial economics 6.
and audit  of CUDT, OPAM
and SCEAO
4-6/92              Review of the Bougouni Region             Agricultural, financial       1
Development plan (92-96),                 economics
includng
- a road construction program             agronomiat/environmentall t 2
- soll and wildlife conservation
studles
64/92               Review of revised 5 yer rural             agricultural/financial        1
development plan for MUlt-sud             agronomist/environment.      1
FY98
9-11/02             Review of the studies and                  rural/financial              1
proposala for the participation           economics
of producers In the management
of the cotton fund and                    agronomist/environment.      1
In CUDTs c apital
Review of the Regional studieo on
land ownership
9-11/92             Supervislon mission                       agricultural/financial        4
- Review of progresse  In                 economics
contrat Plan ETAT-OPAM
contrat Plan ETAT-CTDY
Rural development activities          agronomist/environment       2
- Revlew of public Investment
In agriculture
10-11/92            Review for third tranche release          agricultural/financial        2
1-8/98              Revlow of transformation of OTER          financial economic s.6
(one CODR) In SEM



- 86 -
A n x 4
Approximate
Daten                                                      Expected skitIb    Staff I mpue
Qtghmr) *SActivity                                             RuL mrement       W L-wfet
2-8/98              Supevtielop Mi.ito                        agricultural economices 
- Review of the progrm                    a
prograss report tor-as.                  groool t/ nvirora_ n.       2
land mnaTln.nt C unit
- Po  ra in rtiel development
*e,ttvttton
- Proeur_mat and disburement
review
4-5/98              Review of financial stotemento
and audits of CMDT, OPAM and              fn ancial econtece         6.5
BCEAO
6.4/98              Review of revised 5 year rural            agricultural/financial        1
development plan Mxl-  ud                 econonen
Reviow of tho report on water             Hydraulic tceelnics
user associatione In                      (Ores - Abidjan)
Meli-Sud before disburement of            agronce it/environaent.      1
voter eupply component
0-9/9               Review of Implementation of the           agricultural econoice         1
Bouguni region development Plan
0-11/98             Supewvieeo mislon
Preparation of a nme contrat-            agricultural/finantial       4
plan ETAT-OPAM (93/94-90/00)             economics
3 Review of proresss in
contrat Plan ETAT-CUDT
Rural development activities           agronoet tnv Ironmwnt.       2
3 Review of public Investment
In agriculture
2-8/94              Superwleleo Mission                       ogricultural economice         a
- Review ot the prograe/ progrese
report for the lond management
CEDT unit                               *ronomist/onvironment.        2
- Prore  i n rural development
aet?vitiee
- Procurement and dieburement
review
4-5/04              Review of financial StAteMente            financial  conoemics
*nd auditt of CMDT and OPAM
94-95               2 supervision missione                    agricultural/financial        10
Including he                              economIcs
Preparatton of a new contrat-
plan ETAT-CMDT (94/90  - 98/99)           agronomet/envi ronment.       7
FY06
95-906              2 superviieon missions                    agricultural/fi nenial        1O
Including one to prepre PCR.              economics
agronomist/nvi ronant. 



Pag 1 of 8
MAUI
AORICtLIURAL SECTOR ADJUSEUNTINVESTMENT PROJECT ad
POECT COST SUM
1T111 COWUWW
FCFA  ml lI I on          US 8 Thbond                X forelg
-                                                         Exchanoo
Local  Foroign   Total   Locol Forelgn   Total            -
LAWS MANGEMBir                 on6    B8?       998    2085    1888    8419               89.0
EXTENSION                      s6      1        761    215       862    2418              15.0
RRAL MECIWIZATION              211     208      418      726    6e       1424             49.0
LtVESTOCK                      21       86      106      78      292      86              80.0
DIVEMIFICATION                 225      75      800     775      258    1088              25.0
APPLIED RESEARCN               266     120      400     964      418    177               30.0
WATER SUPPLY                  448    1464    1920    1527    5111    686o                 77.0
RURAL ROADS                   566    2869    2926    1914    6159   10078                 91.0
ARICUL1t*UAL CREDIT           470        O      479    161i        9    1616               O.0
AU1"gISTRATXVE OVRHEAD  b/    864        9      864    1258        9    1258               O.0
PPF 414                                290    2go               100 11N                1U0.0
Total baseline  .t8772    5$118    OM99   12987   17627   89616                           57.6
Physical and price                                        O        9        O
contingencIes                 a88      789    1128    11n6      2719    8884              70.0
TOTAL                        4110      0908   10016   1412   19846   84500                56.1
X                              42       6S    1N
US1 a 290.4 FCFA
s/ IDA Projects Including financing by IDA, co-1inancing by the Netherlands and Government contribution
b/ Audit cost and lacremental structural costo
w



Anas 5 
P ae 2 Of 8
AGtICULTtURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMIENT/INVSTMiNT PROJECT */
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
INLTENT COWWNN
fCfA Ml  I to                        USITusand
IDA  ML cofIn.  GYT.  Total        IDA   NL cotIn.  GVT.  Total
LAND MAMAOEiENT                668      4B0      85      98    1921    1877         121    8419
EXTENSION                      514      100      9?      791    1789       844      w9e    2418
RUfAL MECHANIZATION                     808      195     418        0    1is2       882    1424
LtVESTOOCK                              1         6      196        a      844       21     a86
DIVERSIFICATION                10       15W              89       517      617        0    1098
APPLIED RESEARCH               200      200              400      689      889       0    1877
WATER SUPPLY                  1916               12    1928    8697          0       41    6688
RWAL ROADS                    2776               149    2926    060          6      S18   19973
ACRICULlRAL CREDIT                             470      470        0        0     1818    1618
ADNISATE OVERHEAD  b/    259    1we               5      864      892      344       17    1258
PPF                            290                       290    100                       1in
TOTAL                        68862    158       869    9899   22948    4678    2992   SO814
Physical and price
contingnces.                  s88       149      92    1128    895?        511      817    8s89
X contlngncles                  14       11      11       13 8
TOTAL                         755    1o7       961  1991    206000    5190    881    84600
X each fTnancIer                75       16      10      100       76       15       10     100
*/ IDA Project Including finaing by IDA, co-f Inocelng by the Netherlands ond OovWensMn contribution
b/ Audit, costs and Incr_teetol structural costs
w



Annex 5
Pose 8 of 8
MAUI
ARtICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTEMENTIINVESTMENT PROJCT
TOTAL COST FIVE-YEAR RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROAM
FCFA M1i1o.                        u 8 Touand
IDA    Other. s/ TOTAL              IDA    Othere o/ TOTAL
project                             project
VILA   DEVELOMENT                                29       29                   0    1ml8    10818
UND MANAEMENT                            99      241      844               8419     8440    11860
EXTENION                                 701     0882     7588              2414   28626   25940
RICE DEVEULOMT                                    957      957                 0     8296    8295
RURAL MECANIZATION                       418     1280    109                1422    4408    58
LIVESTOCK                               1i9      1247     1858               865     4294    4659
DIVERSIFICATION                          800      200      S6W              1088      689    122
INSTTUTIONAL RESEARCH                            1729     1729                 0     6964    5954
APPLED RESEARCH                          400      10      580              18"       620    1997
ATElR SUPPLY                            192       24    21C2                069       702    7342
MOITORIN  -EVALUATION                             55o      55o                      1is"      1894
RURAL ROADS                             2925    1401      4826             10072    4024   14807
ARtICULTWIUAL CREDIT                     470      480      g0e              1018     1481    89
ADMINISTTIVE OVERHEAD                    864      9086    150               1268     8896    4649
tOe I                                 890   21442    80882              81S 0    7880    104460
Physlcal and price
contlnence                              1128    8262    489a                8885    11281    15115                                       0
U co  enlee                               18                                  46        0        0                                       4
TOTAL                               10018   24704   84722               84500   85065   119565
each financier                           28       72     1e
a/ CONRIUTON OF EAa   NANCIER IN T   FE-YEAR RuRAL DEVELWMENT PROM
PCFA             us8I
Mit llIon      Thousan 
IDA                            7660            26606                22
Netherlnds cofln/IDA           1i07              5139                 4
CCCE                           8819             28647                28
FAC                            2410              O29                  7
Fl cra coton                   7941             27846                28
NetherlInds elI.               2640              9091                 8
Beneficiarie                    410              1412                 1
overnment                      2272              7824                 7
are*                            197               an8                 0
Financing gp                   156              63988                 5
TOTAL PROJECT                 84722            11056                1e



- 90 -
MINEX 6
Page 1 of 1
MALI
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJVSTHENT/IVNVSTNKNT PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISSURSEMENT FOR IDA FINANCING
INVESTM    COMPOmNT
US$ THOUSA
1990-     1991-     1992-      1993-     1994-      1995-     TOTAL
91        92        93         94        95         96
LAND MANAGEMENT     397        379       379        397       369          0       1921
EXTENSION           429        402       413        250       275          0       1769
DlifERSIFICATION     69         69        77         95       103       103         517
AtPPLIED RESEARCH    34         69       138        172       172       103         689
WATER SUPPLY        156         56        56       1454      3499      1377        6597
RURAL ROADS         411       1944      3492      3492        220         0        9559
ADMINISTRATIVE
OVERHEAD   a/      155        155       155        155       155       117         892
PPF                1000
TOTAL BASE COSTS   2651       3073      4710      6014       4794      1701       22942
contingencies        69        251       527       888        940       382        3058
TOTAL COSTS        2720       3324      5237      6903       5734      2083       26000
Disbursement Rate     8         13        20        28         23         8         100
Cumulated X           8         21        41        69         92       100
USS - 290.4 FCFA
ANNEX6-1.TBL
a/ audit cost and incremental structural costs.



- 91 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Do2CMENTS AV&!LABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.  iMnistlre de lJAgriculture, Compagnie Malienne de DEveloppement des
Textiles (C.M.D.T.), Aott 1989.
-    Le rapport principal
-    Le dossier 4conomlqae.
-    Llhydraulique villagecis.
-    Lee productions vdg6tales, la strat4gie et
lea perspectives.
-    Lappui a la recherche institutionnelle et la
programme de recherche d'accompagnement.
-    La gestion des terroirs.
-    La diversification.
-    Lee institutions villageolses et la
formation.
-    Le cr4dit agricole et le financement de
1 agriculture.
-    Los productions v6gtales.
-    La m6canisation rurale.
-    Le suivi op6rationnel et 1. suivi-
6valuation.
2.  CHDTjCFDT, Diagnostique du Syst&um de Collecte et de Traitement des
Informations lLhes au Dveloppsment Rural, Septembre 1989:
Fascicule 1   - Gdndralitds
Pascicule 1.1 - Service Vulgarisation Campagne de Production
Fascicule 1.2 - Service Vulgarisation Campagne de
Commrcialisation
Pascicule 2   - service Formation
Fascicule 3   - Service MatEriel Agricole
Pancicule 4   - Service slevage
Fascicule 5   - Service Diversification et Recherche
Ddveloppement
Pascicule 6   - Cellule suivi - Bvaluation
3.  Ministbre dO l'Agriculture, Ministbre des Finances, CMDT, contrat-
plan, Etat/CMDT, Novembre 1989.
4.  MLnist&re de Finace, OPAN, Contrat-Plan Itat/OPAM, Janvier 1989
5.   Coban, Julien, Royant, Georges, Strategies et Propositions de
D6veloppement des Productions Animales Dane le Cadre du Projet Mali
Sud III, Octobre 1989
6. Compagnie Nalienne de D6veloppement des Textiles (C.M.D.T.), Programme
dZxftension et de Modernisation du Dispositif Industriel et Commercial
de la C.M.D.T., Mars 1989
7.   ICEA, Etude des DebouehEs pour lee Arachides DEcortiquEes de l'UnitE
de San sur le MarchE MalLen, Septembre 1989



- 92 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
S.   Buuraink, John, Mali Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit,
Environmental Evaluation, First Phase Report, February 1990.
9.   Garaud, Andr0, Compagnie Malienne de D4veloppement des Textiles
(C.N.D.T.), Volet Piates, Rapport du 28 septembre 1989, Additif au
Rapport du 13 octobre 1989, et Annexes du 31 juillet 1989.
10.- Ministbre de lVAgriculture, Institut d'Economie Rbrale, Division des
Etudes Techniques, Etude socio-Economique de la R4gion CMDT de
Bougouni, mai 1989.
11. Ministere de l'Agriculture, Compagnie Malienne de D6veloppment des
Textiles (C.M.D.T.), Ceupagne Agricole 1987-1988 en Zone Cotonnibre,
Rapport Annuel et Annexes.
12. Plan Quinquennal de D4veloppement de la Haute Vallhe, Ministbre de
lVAgriculture, OV, 1989.
13. Rapport du Programme de Coopdration PAO/Banque Mondiale, Centre
d'Investissement, Mali Sud Ills Projet d'Extension du Bassin Cotonnier
sur la R4gion de Bougouni, Rapport de Pr6paration, Septembre 1989
14.  Rofe, Nicolas, Evaluation du Crddit Agricole en zone CMDT, F6vrier
1989.
1S. WADDELL, Alain, Composante Coton, Mission de Pr#-Evaluation du PrOt
sectoriel, Kai 1989
16.  Single, John, Development of Sustainable Farming Systems,
Northern Zone of Mali Sud, Pilot Design Report, 1989.
17.  Thenevin, Pierre, Revue a Mi Parcours du Contrat-Plan Transitoire
Etat-OPAM 1988/89 -1989/90, Decembre 1989.
18.  Waddell, Alain, Revision du Contrat-Plan OPAM/Etat Aspects
Financiers, Rapport Principal et Annexes, Decembre 1989.
19. Waddell, Alain, Rapport de Mission OPAM, N,ise en Place des Procddures
de ContrOle Budg4taire et Installation d'une Gestion des Stocks, Avril
1990.
DsAnnex7



- 93 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
sTATUS OF SMI(W- OPLIRAYTjQl
SUMMAY STATEMI OF MA CRItIS
(as of match St$ 100
Credit   WDA pI.@*l                                              smsan w,e
Number       Yeer                        Purpose                 Cancel Iati one       tJndi ebreed
sr-n             flf                      U  an6 lro
___^_*.__----_S, .li...-----_
Twenty semen credits fully disabursed                                   260.10
P970-MUZ     1904             Rural Water Supply                        61.111                1.24
P9196-MU      1904             Third E[ducation                           4.90                 9.27
14903-MU      14"4             *iomm Alcohol A btergy                     V.90                 1.20
141W-MU       1lo4             Second Mlel-Sud Rural                     25.90                 e.g4
14229-MU      1904             Health Development                        16.79                 3.22
14310-MU      106"             Rural Water Supply                         4.96                 03
1442011-MU    10614            Thi rd Education                           4.00                  .0
15070-MU      1065             Mopti Area DOvlopment                     10.60                14.311
1s200-MUJ     10               Fifth Highusy                             40.90                29.10
16540-MU      10o"             Seeond  oroetry                            6.39                 I.ee
10770-MU      10ow             Second Urban                              29.96                11.54
A9350-I        100             office De Nigr Caco"l ldatl.,              9.96 (1)             S."
10060-U       10"              oiee Os Rigor Cne.lidatloo               80.90                37.18
19370-1U       169U            Public Enterprise Sector Adjustmet        40.J0                11.37
1030-U        1090             Public Laterpris toetit.bov.               9.J0                 6.90
14e111U-      106              Secon4 Power                              83.96                29.22
29540-MU      1090             Ed"utIon lestr Cobs  datlo.               20.96                23.70
Total      l o9.46                   170.95
of whisk has bee" repeid            9.40
871.9111.
Tate a ne  heId by tDA          571.092
Total un0dSeewoe                                171J.9
(1) 111"Inning with Credit 120-MI, eredite hove been- denominated In
theis de rseq?v:Itlfs The dot lav samesute In theaw oliume represent
A the d*I lsf' "Ivaleftat the time of credit neptiatioa for the tDA
em39 Ie and Wm del or oqivale  sto March 31,1O9011, for the undeUree
4/12/OS
STAMAIW



- 94 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
!ILMMOILO ZFC TULlVESTHEITS
(As of March 31, 1990)
--------- US$ million -----------------------
Fiscal                        Type of           Loan      aujLty    total
Year    Cominmv              luuness         ------US$  illio-------
1918    SoCLtU  mamadou     Genervl            0.64       -        0.64
Sada Diallo and     Manufacturing
1r6res (SOMACI)
1982    So"iWt6             Sheanut            1.85       0.45    2.30
Tndustrielle de     Processing
Xarit6 (StEA)
Total Gross Coimituants                2.49       0.45    2.94
Less Canesllations, write-offs         2.47       0.45    2.92
and repayments
Total Commitments held by 19C          aIZ         aBa    aea
9883P
April 12, 1990



PFNANCIAL PROJECTIONS FOR COTTON SECTOR 198911990 - 199311994.
(In current prices)
1989190     1990191      1991192     1992/93      1993/94
Quantity of Seed Cotton                     246.000     270,000      282,000      299,000     316,000
GiAning Coefficient (2)                        42.6         42.0        43.0         43.0         43.0
Fiber Equivalent                            105,000     113,000      121,000      128,000     136,000
Export Price Projections (FCFA)i/               500          522         522          548          548
Level of Cotton Fund (PCFA '000)              3,000Y       4,5900/     4,794       5S083        5,372
Seed Cotton Floor Price (FCFAJEg.)               85          85           85           85          85
A. CMDS Result Before Contrat-Plan               9,795       11,615      10,916       13,184      1,192
Changes and SIC
Contributior. to Cotton fund ('000)           1,182          408         204          289          289
Preniua to Producers ('000)                   2,330       3,447        3,640        4,664        4,960
Take Conjuncturelle                               0            0           0        1,766       1,877
D. CM  Results Before BSIC                       6,283        7,760       7.072        6,465        5,066
BIC                                           2,827       3,492        3,182        2,909       2,280
CMDT Profile                                  3,456       4,868        3,890        3,556       2,786
C. Total Producer PriceW/ (FCPA/Rg.)O/            93.2         97.2        97.2         99.8        100.321
t/  Sd on actual 1989/90 cotton eort recept NW projected price. tre World bank Comodity Prece Projectlon, Doeome IWO.
ki nitiet .po.It.
/ Calculated a.oi quantlty See Cotton/yeer X  3 S a 0.2).
CaClculatd as (FloorPrice + (total Premlum to Produer Year X/Toal quantIty of Sed Cottoe YVer X + 1)).
Base"d on ra2s,O toe of seed cotton projoeted for 194/95.
anne=9-l.ah/vkb. tap
0Q
a-.
Ss



- 96 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 4
FINANCIAL PLOJECTION FOR COTTON SECTOR
(With different assumptions for export prices
and initial deposits in cotton ::mds)
1989 Level of Seed Cotton Productions   246.000
Ginning Yield:                             42.62
Fiber Production:                       104,796
A)  Average Cotton Export Prices 400 PCFAIKR.
- In thousands -
I itial Deposit in Cotton Funds         0   1 2,000  1 3,000  j 4,000
GHDT Result Before Contrat-           -684  I  -684  I  -684  I  -684
Plan Charges and BIC                                  j
- Payment to Stabilization Fund          0         0 0 |              0
- Producer Premium                       0  1      0 0 I              0
- Surtax                                 O         O         01        0
QEDT Result Before B7                 -684      -684  1  -684  1  -684
BIIC                                     O         O         0,        0
Net Result CMDT                       -684  j  -684       -684      -684
Total Taxes Paid by CMPT             1,151  j 1,151  I 1,151    1.151
Total Seed Cotton Price Paid            85 a      85  I    85  j    85
to Producers                                              .            _



Annex 9
Page 3 of 4
5) Average Cotton Egxort Prices 450 FCFA/RL.
- in thousands -
Initial Deposit into Funds             0     2,000  | 3,000      4.000
CMT Result Before Contrat-          4,555  I 4,555  | 4,555  I 4,555
Plan Charges and BIC
- Payment to Stabilization Fund     4,182    2,182    1,182       1,155
- Producer Premium                    264  l   764    1,014    1,021
- Surtax                               0         01        0      0
GMT Result Before BIC                 109  | 1,609      2,359  | 2,379
BIC                                    49  I   724  | 1,062  I 1,071
Net Result CMDT                        60  j   885  I 1,297  j 1,308
Total Taxes Paid by CMDT            1,218    1,893  I 2,232  I 2.222
Total Seed Cotton Price Paid         86.0  I  87.8  I  88.8        88.8
to Producers                  -            1         1         1
C) Average Cotton Exgort Price: 500 PCFAIKa.
in thousands -
Initial Deposit into Funds             0       2,000  | 3,000*    4,000
CMDT Result Before Contrat-         9,795    9.795  1 9,795  1 9,705
Plan Charges and BIC                        I         I
- Payment to Stabilization Fund     4,182  I 2,182  | 1,182  1   182
- Producer Premium                  1,574     2 2,074   2,324     2,574
- Surtax                                01        01        0         0
CMDT Result Before BIC              4,039    5,539  | 6,289  | 6.949
BIC                                 1,818 I   2,493  j 2,830  j 3,127
Net Result CQDT                     2,221  I 3,046      3,459  | 3,822
Total Taxes Paid by GMDT            3,006  j 3,680    4,017  I 4,314
Total Seed Cotton Price Paid         90.8      92.7      93.6  j  94.5
to Producers                                I        I
* Most Likely Scenario



- 98 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of 4
D) Average Cotton Export Price, 550 FCFA/Ea.
- In thousands -
Initial Deposit into Funds              0   J 2,000      3,000  I 4,000
CMDT Result Before ContrAt-         15,035  | 15,035  j 15,035  | 15,035
Plan Charges and BIC                                             |
- Payment to Stabilization lund      4,182  j 2,182      1,182  |   182
- Producer Premium                   2,884  J 3,384  I 3,634  1 3,884
- Surtax                             1,572  1 1,572      1,572     1,572
CHDT Result Before BIC               6,397  f 7,897  I 8,647  j 9,397
BIC                                  2,879  I 3,554  | 3,891       4,229
Net Result CMDT                      3,518     4,343     4,756     5 5,168
Total Taxes Paid by CMDT             5,512  | 6,159  1 6,524       6,808
Total Seed Cotton Price Paid          95.7  I  97.5  1  98.5  |  99.4
to Producers



- 99 -
Anex 10
Page 1 of 23
MULI SID III - OVERALL PROJECT
and BOUGOURI AREA PROJECT
uCoOImc FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS
MAJOR STEPS AND ASSUMPTIONS IN PEASIThLITY ANALYSISs
1.   The financial costs include only physical contingencies.
2.   The economic costs were obtained from the financial costs after using
the proper conversion factor (CF) for the specific cost category.
These conversion factors deflate the financial costs from their
internal transfers component.
3.   The official exchange rate used in all calculations ($1-290.4 cfaf)
is an average of the nominal exchange rat- for December 89, January
and February 90.
4.   Production growth rates were based on CMDT projections and on FAO
projections of production without and with the project. These
projections are based on project increases of areas and yields for
different crops.
S.   Incremental production, or the difference between "with' and
"without" project production estimates, is used as the basis for
deriving incremental, labor and inputs requirements. Multiplying
incremental production by the economic parity price at farm gate
results in the incremental economic revenue estimates for the
project.
6.   Economic parity prices and price projections were obtained for the
major crops grown in the project area, based on commodity price
forecasts in 1985 constant dollars. These prices were converted to
cfaf using the official exchange rate. Export parity prices were
btained for the exported project output, cotton, while import parity
rices were obtained for all import substitutes produced in the area,
i.e. mainly maize, coarse grains and rice. Economic parity prices
were obtained by applying the Standard Conversion Factor (0.93) to
the financial values of certain domestic valued added items such as
local transportation, marketing and processing charges.
7.   Incremental Revenues are scheduled to start 1990191, while
incremental costs start in 1989/90 (the first year is financed by
other financiers than the World Bank, and for Bougouni region, costs
and revenues are taking place with a delay of one year). The project
life extends over a period of 20 years. For the 'without' project
situation, no investments are made and the level of recurrent
expenditures remains the same throughout the project life, i.e., at
60 percent of total recurrent costs for the total region, and at 4OX
for the Bougouni region. Therefore, the "with' project situation



-100-
Annex 10
Page 2 of 23
implies Incremental costs including all proposed investments, 40
percent (60? for Bougouni) of total recurrent costs and incremental
input and labor costs associated with ths incremental area and
production due to the project. Investments after the project years,
i.e., 1994195, include replacement costs of vehicles and equipment
every 6 years. Also, recurrent costs are assumed constant from that
year on.
8.   The specific conversion factors and indices used in the feasibility
analysis are the followings
SRecific conversion factors:
Investment costs                   Recurrent costs
Civil Works             0.67       Personnel                   0.60
Equipment                0.77      Maintenance civil Works    0.70
Vehicles                 0.65      Operating costs equipment  0.54
Technical assistance    0.88       operating costs Vehicles   0.54
Studies/audits          0.88       inputs                      0.94
Other Operating costs       0.78
Main indices used for the Mali Sud III project and the Bouaouni
region
Average
Crop         Labor  Inputs
(day/ha) lOOOcfalha
Cotton        120       45
Maize          90         8
Sorghum        60        5
Rice           75         7
Other          45         5
The Labor cost per day vas set at 300 CFAF for the calculations of
the IRR. A sensitivity analysis was done with the figure of 500 CFAF
per day.
95/97 -
ProJected Yields  891/0   08/91  91/92   92/98  9B/94  94/96  95/96   2009911
Cotton          1.851   1.B56  1.876   1.408   1.43S  1.468   1.488    1.600
maizo           1.72   1.84U  2.08B  2.178  2.230  2.288  2.848    2.348
MI I let/Sorghum  0.822   0.940  1.164   1.192   1.289  1.269   1.270    1.270
Rice            1.847   1.400   1.460  1.60D  1.600   1.68   1.6880    I.89
Other Crops     1.03   1.e"  1.884   1.0B   1.08B   1.36  1.0 88    1.30



- 101 -
Auues 10
Page 3 of 23
9. Results of the Feasibility studies:
For the overall Mali Sud in projects the Economic ERR - 28.39?
For the Bougouni area *               the Economic ERR - 32.36?
Sensitivity analysis a with a labor cost per day of 500 ClAPs
Overall Mali Sud III project: ERR t 19.14?
Bougouni Area                 n ERR   MAU.42?



ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS
MALI SUD INVESTMENT PROJECT
FTIANCIAL COSTS WITHOUT PRICE CONTINGENCIES (1M9 FCFA)
1.INVESTMENT COSTS          89/W    W9/91    91/92    92/93   98/94   94/95   TOTAL
CITYL WOnRS               284868.5 167969.6 2294458. 3467120. 74682.00 75288.80 6274563.
E2IPVENT                  186257.9 832667.4 198515.8 1f184.2 190760.2 67727.25 671560.5
VEHICLES                  118062.6 24258S.2 297440.0 127281.0 253026.9 268886.6 1822899.
TRAINDIN                  14828.6 221260.7 225882.0 25722.7 256952.2 253829.2 188721.
TECHNICAL ASS./STUDIES    266606.4 65e258.o 929749.8 716716.1 651594.6 568a80.5 8996s37.
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS    939408.3 1686709. 8841997. 4619638. 1888814. 128629t. 18652256
2.RECURRENT COSTS
PERSONNEL                 1299099. 1809866. 1902806. 1947468. 2e12739. 2079221. 11061869
MAINTENANCE CIVIL WORKS   69228.38 18786B.2 161640.6 180727.7 144014.0 222077.3 795560.9
OPERATING COST EqUIPMENT  26811.95 101245.4 106544.0 111648.9 118219.6 1819B1.0 686931.6
OPERATING COST VEHICLES   91188.48 850668.6 897744.3 464079.9 876886.9 854261.4 1976945.
INPUTS                    96958.86 179288.2 208224.2 229665.6 288642.7 278587.6 1249951.
OTHER OPERATDING COST     2a8076.8 892469.9 889686.7 440988.6 427864.7 4168376.1 2303920.
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS     1606618. 2971629. 8196665. 828611. 8848377. 8467454. 17968977
TOTAL COSTS               2744721. 4808338. 6948688. 7674544. 4687n92. 4752752. 81818288
00 



I - MALI SUD III-ECONOLIC COSTS
FINANCIAL COSTS WITHOUIT PRICE CONTINGENCIES (1000 FCFA)
I.INVESIMENT COSTS                    69/90       90/91       91/92       92/98       98/04       94/95       TOTAL            CF
CIVIL Encs                              284889      187970    2294454      U4?126        749832      76297    0274587        9.70
EQJIPNENT                               1882s8      828867     13SlS       108164      10768        87727      0l7S61       0.77
VEHICLES                                1180S8      2428S5      297447      1272        268927      28683      1822899       M.05
TRAINING                                184824      221281      226683      25928       259952      258629    1366721        0.60
TEOUICAL ASS./STUDIES                   268689      8S6256      920749      718716      S1696 5     56889    899S637         9.88
TOTAL INVESTM   COSTS                   9498       18367ff    8641998    4910088       1886614     1265297   18852265
2.RECURRENT COSTS
PERS0ONIL                              1299769    1899665      1992666     1947469    2012789      2979221    1106518?0       .69
IAINTENAC  CIVIL WORKS                   6922       188765      101847      189726      144015      222097      79551        0.70
OPERATDIG COST ElMWENT                   26812      101245      108644      111649      116220      121962     565982        O.S4
OPERATI  COST VEHICLES                   91186      8864        897744      40948       876667      864251     1976945       O.54
DIUTS                                    90688      179288      208224      229686      268643      278667    1249951        0.04
OTHER OPERATING COST                    28877       892490      86961       440931      427895      416876    289929         0.76
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                  165816      29n629      819666      8264612    884837       8407456   178976
TOTAL COSTS                            2744722    48908889    8948664      7874645    407192    4752762    31862
ECONOllIC COSTS (1O00 CFAF)
1.9T COSTS                             9/90       90/91       91/92       92/98       98/94      94/95       TOTAL
CIVIL t81651                                        142967     17438765    269416        56872      57208    476664
E4JIPUENT                               106459      226248       7979?       81762       62781      86750      671102
VEHICLES                                 78464      167856      198840       82783      1656S3     167418      859884
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                    110994      182756      185568      169484       59671     152178      88298
STUDIES/AUDITS                          28015    ?7896          60259       082472      57848      519698     85168
TOTAL INiESTMENT COSTS                    566t7   148961       292691      8566817     192         97546    10946620
2.RECURRENT COSTS
PEISONNEL                               779629    106981    1141699       116475    1207648      1247588       s1992
MAINTEN     CIVIL WOR                    41460       96499       71158       91109      lo989      155454       -tU96
OPERATING COST EJUENT                    16286       54687       57684       69290      62769      68695       816408
OPERATING COST VEHICLES                  49216      169407      214782      21823      204566      191296    1967660
INPUTS                                   85180      166581      196781      21666      252524      257158     1174954
OTHER OPERATDIN  COST                   164874      896142      804991      848926     888765      82478      1797096
TOTAL RECURREfN COSTS                  1155266    1901248    1964860    2069299    2182683    2242068    11643860
INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS(401)        402114      7O6497      798966      893916     864688      696627    4617644
K f
o o
w0



It - ZNRUETAL PRODUCTION
PRO nUCTION WITH MRO.IECT TONS)          89/90       90/91       91/92       921/93      93/94      94/95       91/96       96/97       97/98       98J99
COTTON                                  240e        252600      28_         29_        slow        slow        aim         a.m         sm          sl
MAIZE                                   1968        2a9728    218757        2171W      2279M2      234624      244217      258396      264145      2747
mnlsET/SOROIWM                          404185      414283      424694      486289     446969      45n42       4e6678      480390      492899      9647M9
RICE                                      1928       3819        34a84        56a65     a6922       8629        397m6       41174       4269?       4427
OTHmR CROPS                              56Wl8       56944       56a93       699n9      63134       65344       67831       698         n448        74994
PRODUCTION WITHOUT PROJECT (TONS)        89/90       90/91       91/92       92/93      9a/94       94/96       96/96       96/97       97/98       9S/99
COTTON                                  2486        25          2699        207966     27400       274         274         274         2740"       274?_
MIZUE                                   198s8       196s96      19924       22421      2066        209695      212294      2159        219142      222643  _
M1ZUET/S0=                              404186      4196        417171      428846     4262        437617      444617      45166       455         4"197  0
RICE                                     32          8213        32441       32766      3292        38228       33492       38759       34636       34362  £
OTHER CROPS                              6s018       ss548       s5681       67531      56394       69270        1s5s9       imSi       61977       6297  1
INRIENTAL PRODUCTION (TONS)              99/90        6/91,      91/92       92/93      93/94       94/95       95/96       93/97       97/98       99/99
corrsN                            e ~~~~ ~~~                ~ ~ 2we  2sm8    42"0        420e0       42000       42"0        42"0       42000
MAXIZE                   O                            4632        9624       1466       20132       2567        31923       86295       45663       52663
MIU.ET/SORT                                  6        867?        7424       11364      15462       19725       24156       26760       38644       s812
RICE                                         6         926        169         2964       8960        56s3        6213        7415        96          997
OTHER CROPS *                                         11f         2256        uos        4740        6674        7472        6937       1471        12077
It
0 0



'Vt ~  ~     tg         gic          s           as         a          sm6t                      gt        "tl         921         "o
nesus      gsa:i       5353t       5S593       30551       GU         SOWT         at"5        90921       MI$5        HilT
o                   5059?~~~IA  SLU /G                  150 505 soMe55159090;  g/vs       to/on       Stffso      loSt,       to/O        SOMAt
-                      555St's551t    smsU    *a9tit      5515        sewSn       iear        sote        iteto      lot"        on"5        US"
*                      m~oel  enst  men9      must        meatg       Sme         meSt        ment       "een        gmea        maen        melt
9ewe         texts      sunm        sans        teems2      noese       sea        Sots sess   55          lamss        Omet       150
sore     tesa"       sm          asse        gowns       sAS        Om"         ame"        ofins       OWLS        iows        onet
swre         otsi"t     UAsTs       1G5135      inSS        sea         ues:        sems       ntm         9os         amus       Somit
eo'e         TomS       SUs"        sftoss      Smin        noon       sgemt       GiSt        MI;         sesus       OISee       sun
Ufl*      mean"      mmlow       Mutt        muna        tmets       metOM      sets        usiat       etms;       Ouei        mets;
surle        "tsse       warn       nun         este        nmts        tsiae       sass       ene         stow        aces         mit
sore      umes       nes         omit        omes        sees,       10as1      semis       omit        eOst        atti        DSts
syva e-Ast rn/Gm9    it/sam         eu/tess    seGmo       sm/ass      s/tm        se/ms       is/ass     ge/mgl   is/"e          soa/es



INCREMENTAL AREA RSWIREWETS ("A):
(INaREmENTAL PROOUCTION/YIELD)             09/90       90/91       91/92        92/93       93/94        94/9l       95/96       96/97        97/9S       g8/99
COTTON                                         0        1476        18169       22727       29248        28709       28264        28900       28000       26000
MAIZE                                          0        2518         4572        6748        90n2        1180s       13989       16l80        19167       22178
MILLET/SORHUM                                 3e889                  6433        9533        12480       15643       19020        22648       28412       30324
RICE                                           0         661         1806        ls0e        2475         8088        3898         4413        5169        6938
OTHER CROPS                                    0        1062         2177       8s49         4576         5883        7212         8828       10107       11667
INCREMENTAL LABOR REqUIREMENTS (1000 CFAF):
(LABOR VALUED AT 8e0 CFAF/DAY)             89/90       90/91       91/92        92/93       93/94        94/95       96/99       96/97        97/98       98/99
COTTON                                         0       63137      654070       818182     1062926      1033493     1017497     1008000      10080e0     1008000
MAIZE                                          O       87882       123446      182062      243750       305320      367085      440357       517497      598676
MILLET/SORGHUM                                 0       89649       115792      171599      2248s6       279781      342369      407821       476421      645837
RICE                                           O       14881        29382       43585       65689        890356      93226        9932       1e108      133800
OTHER CROPS                                    O       14839        29394       46196       61771        79151       97388       118455      1364u       157372
TOTAL                                          0      219868       952086     1268003     1838769      1768780     1907524     2071734      2253450     244345E
INCREMENTAL INPUT REQMTS. (1000 CFAF)      89/90       90/91        91/92       92/93       98/94        94/96       95/98       96/97        97/99       98/99
COTTON                                         0       68421       817587     1022727     1818158      1291886     1271871     1280000      1280000     126006M
MAIZE                                          0       20107        38677       53944       72222        96485      108786      130476       153333      177386
MILLET/SOGuM                                   0       19347        32164       47666       8239         77717       95100      113228       132061      151621
RICE                                           0        4630         9141       13654       17825        21477       25889       30894        88116       41564
OTHER CROPS                                    0        5a3l        10887       18739       22678        29816       88082       43181        50653       5a28m
TOTAL                                          0      116815       9685e7     1154831     1490980      1510841     137888      1577729      1832045     1688887
>
tDh



99/2MW       2M0/01     20ol/02      2wM/e       2wa/0       2M0/05       200/0M      20/0          MM0        2ee/e9      2W9/10
logo00                  2O9M        2fSb        200  290        M        2890O       2828009Ma                            2tn"D
$am         gem6        S21Ct       8S8t         a""8         4Bt40       47998       62466       67188        KNN¢8       67198
a4M8        sun0        42978       4M7S1        6222        Sz08         02199       87416       72862        78484       sale9
so0         rs#6        8479         gm#>       103S        line         12t99       18484       S4614        1679        i70l
182Bt       149X7       lOt62        low0        20649       2267a        24e94       2e90        2§21         a1s27       U4144
nJ/200      2WW/01      201l/02      2M0/M3      2 03Jl4     2W0/05       20fS/08     2Mt/07      207t/08      2608/0§     2W0/10
1_0~~om 000           s -        10080        10080w      uoaw         iosowm      10_m         imam        loa         10se9
69406    nsse "Sft     80244     997417       on6sse    ll80973       12sSs9e     1416298     1c42me       u67sso      Me4ss
92ms6       694|44      773001      ess6ao       940059      onsas       1119047     1218"       1astssa7     1412720     15fi1nt
151s96      170914      19Sn4       211470       2aXs7       2S6U4       2n8974      SWsM         a2sso7       SS289       aSome
17s275      202190      22sl10      2S1216      2m40s        804780       at874       tsU2ae      as420        428970      40"41
2042sel    se4sZs        _n77        s2n420    aSSOit         772so       4086194     4W04ss      46962SO    4878Me        clsan
90/00       2000/01     200"/02      2092/08     200sP4      2004/05      2MAS        200/0       2"7/98       208/09      2O/tO
1200e       1269WO     1200oo0      1280M       12000       12eof        12ee0W      12          12900        oeoM        12e0 
202087      229292      2n67M        2W"02       ss7508       U9n8        ssn940      419S44      4c7101       49sos7      caT7sl 
171981      198012      214889      2a76sa       2s112       2scss        a18         ss707s      se4200       ST422       421s6s 
474nn s        s7s   6ssc2   e6ss    *            2se7       79_          so?"    7    49        12 s9a       item a   119112 
osass       74sec       Bs7e2        sse4a      102744      112          12u47       1a4ssa      14008        1ss137      170n19 
1748M"      isioaoa     1s7s2        1sX48M      2assBs      2087041      21060C      2245640     2a2s7s       2417490     250_0
I @
oh



IV - ECmiMouC fEASIDiLITY ANALYSIS (BAS mN INOM MEMENTAL CASH FLOWS)s
COST/REWJE (MILLION CFAF)                89/90       "S/SI       91192       92/9a      98/94       94/96       96/0        96/97       97/98       "I"99
MIESTMBSNT COSTS                           706        1440        29087                  19           976        10          411         278         164
RECUWRNT COSTS                             442         7           794         889         SOt        897         697         697         697         697
IJ6tJTS                                      0         1109                   1156       1491        1511        1686        1578        1032        1696
LAJU                                         O         22e         962        1261       1689        1767        1908        2072        2268        244o
TOTAL COSTS                               1166                    "i8 5015    6791       5928        6149        4622        4967        6056        6194 c
TOTAL REVUmIES                               0         787        8117        4829       57m         607         6961        764          8736       9686
NET REVEUJES                             -1168       -1749       -2494      -246a         767        1415        2429        2889        a8m         4474
FCOHOMIC MII     26.891
*llth labor co Cef 60 efa? a days ECIDIOMIC IlR s   19.14%
I!g
o o
w%



99JY1"      2J  f@t     2m/lJ0      'it2/43S    2Ml/04       22t4/U       2n$/W0      2JOS/0       2007/0      2W90|8      911|/^0 
24e         26          too          411         na3         1e4          249         26t          180         411          m                          qD
so          so?          "9I89    997                        897 off       8?o               97          99 97             of
1749        le"         1875         lo"         2014        2M8          2M6         22 4         2U*S        2417        2509
2842        2uoa        aee7         ams          me8         am          4M8         4ae4         468C        On7         56e4
GM8         C812        aft9         0644        071         GM           784         TMe          TM          eean        08e
0048       1187         32464       law          14r6        1698$       IT2t         soot        20ll0        n4n         l#l
sloe        SW6         u43          703         s04a        GM$          Om2        1000>         Me0        12861       141U
IWh



ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS
BOUGOUNI AREA PROJECT
BOUPUNI:                            TOTAL(1)
TOTAL FINANCIAL COSTS WITHOUT PRICE CONTINCENCIES (10  CFAF)
1.INVESTMENT COSTS           9/890    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/96    TOTAL
CIVIL WhRKS                       O    69O7   208177  656644   607708          O  1435610
E6UIPMENT                         6   69126    88175    62568    28002   24976   28O75
VEHICLES                          a     9888    2120    2111       7290    896s   28966
TECWNICAL ASSISTANCE              6   22639   22658    22224    21828    216"   11138
STUDIES-SUBCONTRACT               O   2d9692   25628    257256   2624B8   26886   1227762
TOTAL NVESTMENT COSTS             O   379212  658311  909619   876586   25688S0 89n956
2.RECIRRENT COSTS
PERSONNEL                         O   168671   159404   167510   156169  166761   78996
MAINTENANCE RURAL ROADS           0     8764    8669    12477    17074    11958   57832                                     -
OPERATING COST VEHICLES           O    19048    1866.    18261    177M2    14401    88156                                   0
OTHER OPERATDNO COST              O    48958    48862    42928    23899    28485   177727
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS             6   2B2822   226008   281171   215616   206594  111a216
TOTAL COSTS                       O   611886  684314  1140969  1991200  468924 4192266
(1) Including physical contintoncIes
IQ



I - BNUONI - MLAU SU  III:ECONOMaC COS
3OULO   :                                       TOTAL(l)
TOTAL FACIAL COSTS WIHOT PRICE CONTINCES (1W  CFA)
i.DNVESTmT COSTS                       89/90       S9/91       91/92        92/93       98/94       94/95       TOTAL             CF
CIVL WIOCS                                    O        6907       26517       575644      567768           0     1485516        9.76
EWJPWt                                        0       69128        66175       52563       2890        24879      269756        0.77
VEHIflES                                      9        98DM         212N        2111        7290        8955       2965         6es5
TECNAICAL ASSLSTANCE                          a       22689        22563       22224       21823       21599      1T1136        8.89
SNDIES-S3CWOIITRACT                           O      25952        252         267268      252468      26666      1227762        9.68
TOTAL VESTM_ T COSTS                          O      879212       6811        909619      87536       2683       89756
2.RECURRENT COSTS
PERSOEL                                       0      16671        15944       1S7610     125169       ISSm1        7695         0.60
INTAV   NCE RIMRL ROAS                        0        8754        6589        12477       17674       11956       57882        0.70
OPERATINO COST VEHICLES                       O       19948        19668       16261       17762       14401       661s5         8.54
OTHER OPERATIN  COST                          O       48956       48*62        4292a       2a899       284ss      177n7         9.7?
TOTAL RECURRET COSTS                          O      232626      221009       281171      215815      206694     1113210
TOTAL COSTS                                          S "----------  9  81168  86414  1140990  1091200  488924    4192258
8OUWUNI:
ECONOMIC COSTS (1998 CFAF)
1.INVESTMENT COSTS                     89/95       90/91       91(92        92/9s       98/94       94/95       TOTAL
CIVIL WOW                                     0        5249       21736       437490      431519           o     18959
EIUIPEW OT8 627                                                   67895        40489       20021       19160      21612 
VEHICLES                                      O        6182         1376        1872        47s8        1966       15677
TEQHINCAL ASSISTANCE                          0       18709        13832       18884       18994       12969       6623
ST MIES-SUBCONTRACT                           0      229687       227291      228386      222185      193749    189448
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                        3      814519      s26839       719071     6s95ss       217844     2469822
2.RECURRENT COSTS
PF4SWW£L                                      O       96523       95643        94F9        93896       9)45       473917
MAINTEMANM WJRAL ROADS                        O        6128        4698         8784       12612        6871       40342
OPERATING COST VEHICLES                       0       1is6        19961         9661        9692        7778       47884
OTHER OPRATING COST                           O       34297       88623        88460       16719       1s6s8      136627
_~~~- -_-_- ------_  ---* --- _- ----- _-_------_ -__--_ ----_---
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS                         O      147221      14414        146561      1S4629      127616      790a98
TOTAL COSTS --------S-----                           481740      678974       s66562      6267t?      845780     3170212
INOCRMNTAL RECURRENT COSTS(6U5)               O       66382       86480       87949       66717        76749      420234
I-.¢
OQ -
0D{
0 
Fb,



- 112 -
a            ~~~~~~~~Annex 10
.s l | i |  30 i g 2 2 2  2 g ;t § 3! p   Page 14 of 23
I !t-Iig  I           I t"! IIS I  I"S
t-!2| i~i    t        :ts|  .4X.3f
3 3||;;3  R           3lS   IS# 3 @0
l S 0000 l 0Z053
Ii i 
II   E!i   
Iig  N§ §I i!N 1 X Rii



- 113 -
Anex 10
Psge 1S of 23
23e. 1111|
oo         oo"*40
g3I          l0          fl
I IPgo   j {gl   |l
; slili  X lt-§!§  t   ".4,
N !|Es    N          Nl*E } ;S
| !3333§      i        323 S§|
& ,2s;       lElfi.IlS



DITAM .A AMA IREfRIIT3 (OM)t
(INCUWMfAL PuSWUC`TUIOP/VLD)              SO/RE       66/01       91/62        92/98       93/04       94/9        s6/"6       96/97        97/96       06/9
6           I        8140        7210        0746        12164       18226       1896        14640       15024
NMAE                                          6           6          69         low8        2095        2748        8449         4264        5126        69m
MILLE/SfoRI                                   6           9          80          70         1172        16s2        262          2631        am           MY8
RICE                                          9            8          so          5          144         101         241          297        8a6          418
OTHE0 CROPS                                   S            S                     167         241         827         410          512         an9         7W0
DOCREMENTAL LAMP  r!IREET  (IMn CFAP)t
(LABOR VALUED AT 8ON CFFDY6/8                          95/01      91/92        02/98       08/04       04/96       06/96       So/97        07/96       96/99
COTTON                             0    ~     ~~~~~ S  11855      259679      8S9649      488618       476142      66576       528484      548672
MAIZE                                         6           6        16646       8678        66488       74239       98122       116181      18680       16299
MILLET/SORGHUM                                6           0         7117       14194       21099       2698        86402       44M9         64981       686Th
nice                                          9            9        1127        2280        8284        4296        5420        Goss         sets        9416  .
OTHER CROPS                                   9           9         If"         2122        8249        4421        6649       0SW7          628O59M
TOTAL                                         3            6      141279      816167      438864      649887      616725      677297       782152      786584
INCREMENAL DWUT RESES. (16ON CFAF)        SO/9U       90/1        91/92        92/98       08/94       04/96       06/96       96/97        97/90       98/99
COTTON                                        3           9       141686      824649      48656       64678       595177      029471       65425       67iam
kMAIZE.                                       3           9         5524       16864       16425       21068       27592       84113        41Wf        4891t
MILLET/SwoRum                                 6           a         1977        8048       5661         7659       19112       12450        1552        17687
RICE                                          9           9          866         696       1to6         1887        1686        239          2404        2920
OTNER CROPS                                   9           9          865         766        1208        1687        268         2656         so46        866
TOAL                                          0           a       140025      841156      468966      561im       646666      69621        715862      748549
IV r
go
Ow:



99/21       20W /01     2991/02      2192/08     2608/04     2014/05      215/0U      2010/97     27/0U        20098/09    2009/19
14908       14791       14674        14558       14487       14818        14198       14076        18957       1sm36       18718
6968        9014        M96s        19210       11408       12664        18969       15864        16864       16402       20081
4100        4698         5819        6978        6878        7405         8175        8988         9686       19738       11678
464         558         825          701         780         884          952        1044        1141         1242        1346
816         925        1088         1158        1279        1495         1586        1878        1614         1969        2112
99/2919     2000/91     2001/92      2002/08     2008/04     2004/05      29K/0I      2908/07     2007/06      208/099     2O99/10
586686      68248a      528256       524011      519748      515454       511143      506sll      502467       498981      49S884
1a6950      216885      245298       275920      S89818      841941       877702      416376      45O59       496642      540824
78797       94478       95741       107612      120116      188289       147154      181744      177092       198232      210198
10867       12484       14069        1566e       17561       19448        21419       28491       26656        27944       89832
11012       12487       14019        15s6m       17258       18968        20742       22582       24489        28465       28512
621s86      858249      899876       988819      982688     1929096      1978161     118908     1164762       1242568     18035s5
99/20o9     2900/01     2019/02      2002/08     2008/94     2004/05      205/96      2196/07     2007/08      2098/09     2999/19
079088o     66s54       o68922       855014      649879      644817       688929      688518      626971       622691      017104
55965       64108       72681        81724       91262      10le81       111912      128975      184888       147218      160244
20499       28486       2B695        29892       88868       87026        40878       44929       49192        58675       58868
887         S8868       4874         4906        548S        6049        8664         7808        7985         8694        9487
4979        4625        6192         6781        6892        7025         7682        8384       9o79          9692       1956o
754819      761672      709164       777317      788162      795782      S8os66       817190      829150       4 1985      s6784
_J
_)



TV - ECOMC FEASLITY ANYSIS (MM  ON DINEITAL CAS FULO)
CST/RVVENUE (MILL    CPAF                  89/90      60/91        91/02       U/U8        9/94        94/96       95/36       96/67        07/9U       U/n
INWESnTCSTS COM                                         8            527        n79                      21           99            o    6S    5            8
REOrE       sT               *                            Be          s4          sel                     n           n 7          7 
rse                                           0 9                    19o         841         46          561          4          6o1          71          749
LASWR                                         O           *          141         815         484          566         17         67"          782         7
TOTAL COSTS                                   *         403          6          148         16o"        1426        1429         1625        1579        184
TOTAL REVENUES                                9           0          448        392         1426         1067       1699        22M          2466        29
NET REYENUOES                                 0         -408       -481         -46I        -24          481         ea           7           Cos        19
ECoNOMIC IRR      82.86X
vith lab    ceot per day Is S0 CPAF: ECOMlIIC IRR s  18.425
.1



-4
99U 98       am           visa        DMM                       toot         tut          ot           List         "tt          LtZt
rs                   ~~~~ ~~T"     to           Me w                     bt            tM                                    098           SW          es"
-~~~~~~t                           S/5    t 9    tu          ttu         409          ot           Sa           Ot            Mt          sLt           Mt
Mt    8       tZt 1  t                @11tt         6m                      1g6           616      t                on           in
93          St           639           Its         w             u            Ut          I"                        59 ai        Su
U           LU            U            II          II           1I           L                         a L          L            U
sz n              m    99             tZ           6"           6            t/           99   ff              0 11    8g
lI/in       UJ/in8       U/LMZ        0/66650    u1/s0es        9s1e/Oss     tel eS       .e/          la/tlees     1./mu       rn/



REFERENCE ECONOMIC PRICES
FINANCIAL A ECONOMIC PARITY PRtICES
(CONSTANT 1905 PRICES)
REAL EXOCANGE RATE: Wi1 * 299.4 CFAF
FIACIAL PRICE
COTTON:EXPORT PARM  PRICE (CFAF/KO)      190         1990       1905        2000
CIF EUROPE                                865         38I        889         817
transport., fretsight & inran.e            8           as         8s          890
FIBER FACTORY GATE                        278         21S        269         287
depreciation                               20          20         20          20
ginning CoS t                                           0         sO         6s
COTTON GRAIN equiv. FIBER Factory         198         203        179        1i7
convorslon to row cotton (405)           0.4         0.4        0.4         0.4
COTON GRAIN Foctory                        79          81         72         8a
marketing charpog                          8           8          3           8
collecting                                 9           9          9           9
FARM GATE PRICE                            67         69          s0          51
ECONOMIC PRICE
COTTON:EXPORT PARITY PRICE (CFAF/KG)     1989        1990       1995        2010
CIF EUROPE                                858        a88         8s9         817
transport., froight A Insurance            890        8           80          89
FIBER FACTORY GATE                        278         283        269         287
depr.clation                               19          19         19          19
ginning cost"                              so         so          s           56
COTTON GRAIN oquiv. FIBER Factory         208        209         195         182
converston to raw cotton (409)          0.40        0.40       0.40        0.49
COTTON GRAIN Factory                       81         es          74          65
mrkoelng cherg                             a          a 8                    3
collecting                                 8          8           8          8
FARM GTE PRICE                             79         72         e8          54
I0 
x 
o0o
0



FINANCIAL RICE
MAIZE:IMORT PARITY PRICE (CFAFPKO)       1989       199J        1996       29
FOS GULf                                   28         20          20         21
treight & lnurnco                       84.0       U4.9        34.9       34.0
FOS DAKAR                                57.2       64.8        58.8       65.2
tr.n.port.tlon Dakar-S_iko              14.9       14.9        14.9       14.9
MAIZE BAAKO                              72.1       69.2       68.7        70.1
tr,nsport.tlon Obako-Farm Gote           3.0        8.0         8.0        8.9
FARMl ATE PRICE                            69         66         6           67
ECONOMIC PRICE
MAIZE:IIMT PARITY PRICE (CFAF/KO)        1989       1990        199S       200
FOS CWF                                  28.2       20.8        19.8       21.2
freight a tnsuranc                      34.0       34.0       84.0        34.0
FOS DAMA                                 57.2       54.3       58.8        6C.2
transportatlon Dakar-Bmako              18.9       18.9        18.9       18.9
MAIZE BAMKO                              71.1       66.2       67.6        69.1
tr,nsportstton Balk.-Form Cate           2.8        2.8        2.8         2.8
FARM  TE PRICE                           6s           65         06 
It
XQ
X



FINANCIAL PRICE
SOROWM:IMPORT PARrY PRICE(CFAF/KG)      1989        low        1905       2
FOB CUl                                   22         19          189-       20
f rol ght it I asurance     U4.0                  84.1        84.0       84.0
FOB DAKCAR                              65.0       C2.9        62.0       68.0
transporitaton Daker4ako               14.9        14.9       14.9       14.9
SOROM  BAMAKO                           70.7       67.          .9        68.7
tranportatlon Bamako-PFr  acte          8.0         8.0        8.0        8.0
FARM GTE PRICE                            so         e6          64         6
ECONOMIC PRICE
SORGHM:IMPORT PARm  PRICE(CfAF/KG)      199           W        1996       200o
Fall MU                                 21.8       18.9        18.0       19.8                                 f
freight   Ineurence                      .0 8. 4.0            84.0       84.0
FOB DAKA                                66.6       62.9        62.6       58.0
transport.tion Dakar-Smako             18.9        18.9       18.9       13.9
SOROM BAMAKO                            69.6       66.7        65.8       67.6
transportation faako-Farm Cate          2.8        2.8         2.8        2.6
FARM ATE PRICE                            67         64         0R         s6
IN
I,0
0
w



FINANCIAL PRICE
RICE:IMPORT PARITY PRICE (CFAF/KG)       1969        1990        1996        20S
FOB BANGKOK                                88          52          49         48
frolght & insurance                      U4.0       84.0        U4.0       34.0
FOM DAKAR                               101.7        86.0        62.6       92.2
trunsportetlon DOkar-4meko              14.9        14.9        14.9        14.9
RICE B(OJNI                              116.6      100.9        97.7       97.1
converelon to paddy (85%)               0.86        e.s6        6.65       0.65
PADDY EQUIVALENT                         7S.6        66.6        08.6       68.1
tranatogatlon a transportation          18.0        18.0        18.0        .8.#
FARM OATE PRICE                            s8          48          46         46
ECONOMIC PRICE
RICE: IMPORT PARITY PRICE (CFAFP/O)      1989        1990        l99w       2mI
FOB BANGKOK                              67.7        52.0        48.8       46.2
freight a in uranc                      34.0        84.0 U4.0              84.0
FOB DAKAR                               101.7        86.0        82.6 82.2
transportatlon Dakar-Beusko             18.9        18.9        18.9       13.9
RICE BOUGOUNI                           116.6        99.9        96.7       96.0
conversion to paddy (S8W)               6.65        O.65        9.6         0..6
PADY E*JIVALENT                          75.1        64.9        62.8       62.4
transfoermtion A transportation         16.7        18.7        18.7       16s7
FARM CATE PRICE                            s8          48         4U          46
I)



t-  I  ',:bo r30 POO er svr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5'0
ALGERIA                                                                                                 M A L I
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT/
MA_ITANIA              .ORo                                                                                         INVESTMENT PROJECT
i  MALI                                                                                                     BOUGOUNI AREA
PROJET D'ADJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL
,r-~.  .--N';GER               Rxfsr  uS                                            AGRICOLE/INVESTISSEMENT
_EN         AmAe -NERKIN    R, ,:5'                                                                                    REGION  DE BOUGOUNI
¢ s-v-M,J>o FASO  _Y4. i5{;/^
t Ilk  T BU"Wko                                                                   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECTEURS.  20
2t KOUMATOU
3GARALO
4YANFOLILA
/                                                                              S°~    W  X   0 = @rxsr V  sz z7   5 KOLONDLE8A
_4                                                                                                            $''CMD SECTOR ,OUNDAUES,
UMITE DE SECTELIR CMD?
CLASSIFIED FORESTS
FORET CLASSLrES
Si*_,                                     551; sikasso                                                  /X  5 / 8OUG                    -PAVED ROADS
., SaLngu;                                                                                                               ROUTES GOUDRONNEES
_-     /;_LATERtTE ROADS "PMAR
PISTES EN LATETE (PRNCIPALES)
- EARH ROADS (SECONDARY
PtSTES EN TERRE (SECONDAARE)
PIEUVE
a Ra0. CAPIALS
low   1/0                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHEFLIUM DE CERCLE  lw
matouvW"                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UWMTS Of CE30E
INEn"ATIONA 8OIJDARIE
UMITES DETATr
KWLMEiERS
an8 Mcb in*w soOES
of NW  Dilly a4 NW 1*
-si 'i ,11tDT . 1*Us   Ur \   D
?o9f-X -                                                - COTE  D'IVOIRE
8{30 )_                             rw                   liw                   67 F   /  > , j , t   't   §2D                         8,060



IBRD 22266
S                               ~~~~                             ~ ~~~~~~~~~6-  )   0 A'o4i-
<500oO                                                Tenenkovo XMOtF                      O Bondiogoro                 600                      M AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
DJUSTMENT/INVESTMENT PROJECT
MALI SUD
-14-                                                                           _                                                                              / .4;- ){ PROJET D'ADJUSTEMENT SECTORIEL
1100        S                           ~                         . ¢      Massino   Dien                                        .AGRICOLE/INVESTISEMENT
MALI SUD
-0 <   s\\\CMDT REGION LW|T
e                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION CMD07
B a m                                                              REON CMC T DE BOUGOCE
6 0 IJS MIYTS IN 1CUEERS
1000                                                                                                                       )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOHYEIS EN MIfWMETRES
-     MAJOR ROADS
ROUTES FRJNCIPAIES
1100                                                                                                                        RMRS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVR
900                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FLEU'/S
ama                                                                                                               aR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cEEIE CAPITALS
-. CERCLE BOUNDARIES
oi                                                                                         U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LMIIE DE CERCE
'1                                                                                                                          U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LMITES DETAT
1000             ~~~0   50           100       ISO
12'  *                                                           *~~~~~~~~~~~~~*~~~*  IIQ~~~~~~~~                                   I . .   I~~~~~70    I         I
KILOMETERS
1400                                                   N'el                                                                                                                            ALGERIA
Sikasso          20o          BURKINA                                                    -
*      FASO    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ MAURITANIA
MALI  ~
'A                                 NGER
OTE  'I OIRE  6'   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Z   LEO    C~~~~~~~~DIOTRE     c/NGEA
MAY TM9



