Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2163 MLI
                  (Agricultural Sector Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated July 25, 1990
                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2163 MLI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1990, between  REPUBLIC OF MALI (the
"Borrower") and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
"Association").
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
May 12, 1990, from the Borrower describing a program of policies,
objectives and actions designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's agricultural sector (hereinafter called the
"Program");
      (B)   the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution
of the Program and, as part of the Program, having undertaken to
carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project
and of urgently needed imports required during the execution of the
Program;
Page  2
      (C)   Parts A and B the Project will be carried out by CMDT
(as hereinafter defined) under the overall responsibility of MA (as
hereinafter defined), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to CMDT part of
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and in the
Subsidiary Grant Agreement;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of
the Swiss Confederation ("Switzerland") a non-reimbursable
contribution (the "Swiss Contribution") in an amount equivalent to
ten million five hundred thousand Swiss Francs (SwFr10,500,000) to
assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the "Swiss Contribution Agreement") to be
entered into between the Borrower and Switzerland;
      (E)   the Borrower intends to seek additional funds from other
donors to assist in financing the Project and the imports required
during the execution of the Program; and
      (F)   the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and CMDT;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the "General
Conditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "BCEAO" means Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest, the Borrower's Central Bank;
      (b)   "CFAF" and "CFA Franc" mean the currency of the
Borrower;
      (c)   "CMDT" means Compagnie Malienne pour le Developpement
des Textiles, a SEM organized pursuant to Ordonnance No. 4/CMLN of
January 30, 1975;
      (d)   "CMDT Contract-Plan" means the contract dated
November 17, 1989 between the Borrower and CMDT, setting forth the
mutual rights and obligations of the Borrower and CMDT in view of
CMDT's industrial, commercial and public service activities;
      (e)   "Cotton Fund" means the fund established pursuant to the
Borrower's Arrcte Interministeriel No. 99/MA-FC of March 22, 1990;
      (f)   "DNHE" means Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Energie, a Directorate of the Borrower's Ministry of Industry,
Water and Power;
      (g)   "MA" means Ministcre de l'Agriculture, the Borrower's
Ministry of Agriculture;
      (h)   "ODIK" means Operation de Developpement Integre du
Kaarta, a Rural Development Operation (as hereinafter defined);
      (i)   "ODIPAC" means Office de Developpement Integre des
Productions Arachidicres et Cerealicres, a Rural Development
Operation;
Page  3
      (j)   "OHV" means Operation Haute Vallee, a Rural Development
Operation;
      (k)   "OPAM" means Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali, a
commercial and industrial public entity (etablissement public 
caractcre industriel et commercial) of the Borrower organized and
operating under Loi No. 88-67 AN-RM of December 26, 1988 and Decret
No. 90-076 PRM of March 27, 1990;
      (l)   "OPAM Contract-Plan" means the contract to be entered
between the Borrower and OPAM pursuant to paragraph 2 of Part A of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (m)   "OPSS" means Operation Production des Semences
Selectionnees, a Rural Development Operation;
      (n)   "ORS" means Operation Riz Segou, a Rural Development
Operation;
      (o)   "OTER" means Operation de Travaux d'Equipement Rural, a
Rural Development Operation;
      (p)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and CMDT of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (q)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 20, 1987 and
February 26, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (r)   "Rural Development Operation" means any of the
Borrower's public entities established pursuant to Ordonnance No.
22/CMLN of March 24, 1972;
      (s)   "SEM" means Societe d'Economie Mixte, a company whose
capital is jointly owned by the Borrower and by domestic or foreign
private entity;
      (t)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986);
      (u)   "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to
in Sections 2.02 (b) and (c) of this Agreement;
      (v)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CMDT pursuant to Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Grant
Agreement; and
      (w)   "Swiss Contribution Account" means the account
established by Switzerland for the purpose of the Swiss
Contribution.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to forty million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 40,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit and of the Swiss
Contribution may be withdrawn from the Credit Account and the Swiss
Contribution Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
Page  4
1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required: (i) for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and of the Swiss Contribution; and (ii) during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Categories (1)
through (4) and 5 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account
(hereinafter referred to as "Special Account A") in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Category (6) of
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, open and
maintain in CFAF a special account (hereinafter referred to as
"Special Account B") in BCEAO on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
      (d)   Deposits into, and payments out of, any of the Special
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      (e)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year, specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and June 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
Page  5
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing July 15, 2000 and ending January 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 Dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. (a) With respect to withdrawals under Category
(6) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, the National Manager (Directeur National) of BCEAO is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts BCEAO with responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications under Category (6) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and
for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be
furnished to the Association in support of such applications; such
withdrawal applications shall, to the extent practicable, be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of
not less than $500,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall:
      (a)   cause CMDT to carry out Parts A and B of the Project and
to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement, all the obligations of CMDT therein set forth;
      (b)   take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable CMDT to perform such obligations;
Page  6
      (c)   not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance;
      (d)   carry out Part C of the Project under the overall
responsibility of MA with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative practices; and
      (e)   provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources for Part C of the Project.
      Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the
Credit which may from time to time be allocated to Categories (1)
through (4) and 5 (b) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 of this
Agreement available to CMDT under a subsidiary grant agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CMDT, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
      (b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree:
      (a)   procurement of the consultants' services required for
Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and procurement of the imports required during execution of
the Program shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement; and
      (b)   procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for Parts A and B of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of
Parts A and B of the Project shall be carried out by CMDT pursuant
to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, and in any case not later than November 30 each year
the Project is being executed, starting with November 30, 1990,
exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out: (i) the
Project; (ii) the Program; (iii) the CMDT Contract-Plan and the OPAM
Contract-Plan; and (iv) the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section and not later than October 31 of each
year the Project is being executed, the Borrower shall furnish the
following documentation satisfactory to the Association:
            (i)   a report on the progress achieved in carrying out
                  the Program, including a review of the related
                  investments and expenditures in such detail as
                  the Association shall reasonably request;
           (ii)   the Borrower's revised three-year rolling Program
                  of Investments and Public Expenditures for the
                  agricultural sector; and
          (iii)   a report on the execution of the CMDT Contract-
                  Plan and the OPAM Contract-Plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
Page  7
                   Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition: (i) in respect of Part C of the Project of the Borrower's
departments or agencies responsible for carrying out such Parts of
the Project; and (ii) of the Cotton Fund.
      (b)   For all expenditures relating to Part C of the Project
and to the imports necessary during the execution of the Program
with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made
on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
                  was made; and
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records.
      (c)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraphs (a) and (b) (i) of this Section and
                  those for Special Account B for each Borrower's
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such Borrower's fiscal year the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested, including a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their preparation,
                  can be relied upon to support the related
                  withdrawals; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31,
1992, submit a development plan satisfactory to the Association for
the Bougouni region, including a road construction program with soil
surveys and areas demarcated for wildlife resorts;
      (b)   not later than January 31, 1993, transform OTER into an
SEM; and
      (c)   not later than December 31, 1993:
            (i)   eliminate all subsidies on tractor maintenance
                  and sale activities carried out by CMDT;
            (ii)  implement measures, satisfactory to the
Page  8
                  Association, for the promotion of the private
                  sector in the tractor sales and maintenance
                  activities carried out by CMDT;
            (iii) eliminate all subvention on insecticides for
                  agriculture sold through CMDT except for the last
                  insecticide treatment on cotton; and
            (iv)  cause CMDT to sell fertilizer to farmers at cost.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
      (b)   The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under either the CMDT Contract-Plan or the OPAM
Contract-Plan.
      (c)   CMDT shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the CMDT Contract-Plan.
      (d)   OPAM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the OPAM Contract-Plan.
      (e)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that CMDT will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or the
Contract-Plan.
      (f)   The Borrower's Ordonnance No. 4/CMLN of January 30, 1975
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely the ability of CMDT to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the CMDT
Contract-Plan.
      (g)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CMDT or OPAM or for the suspension of their operations.
      (h)   The Borrower's Arrcte Interministeriel No. 99/MA-MFC of
March 22, 1990 establishing the Cotton Fund shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval
of the Association or the Borrower shall have failed to comply with
any of its provisions.
      (i)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project
                        and of the imports required during the
                        execution of the Program shall have been
                        suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
                        or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                        agreement providing therefor, or
                  (B)   any such loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph (i) shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Association that:
Page  9
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination
                        or prematuring is not caused by the failure
                        of the Borrower to perform any of its
                        obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project and of the
                        imports required during the execution of
                        the Program are available to the Borrower
                        from other sources on terms and conditions
                        consistent with the obligations of the
                        Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for
a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower;
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (f), (g) and (h) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
      (c)   the event specified in paragraph (i) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (i) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                            Termination
      Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by CMDT and is legally binding upon
CMDT in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
            Ministcre des Finances et du Commerce
            Bamako
            Republic of Mali
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINIFINANCES              972559 MINIFINANCE
                  Bamako
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
Page  10
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF MALI
                  By /s/ Sekouba Cisse
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                           SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Swiss
Contribution, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the
Swiss Contribution to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount
                              of the
                              Swiss
                  Amount      Contri-
                  of the      bution                    % of
                  Credit      Allocated               Expendi-
                  Allocated   (Expressed    % of      tures
                  (Expressed  in Swiss    Expendi-    to be
                  in SDR      Francs      tures to    Financed by
Category          Equivalent) Equivalent) be Financed Switzerland
(1) Civil                                 100%
    works:
 (a) under        5,000,000
     Part A.3
     of the
     Project
 (b) other        6,300,000
                              Amount
                              of the
                              Swiss
                  Amount      Contri-
                  of the      bution                   % of
                  Credit      Allocated               Expendi-
                  Allocated   (Expressed    % of      tures
                  (Expressed  in Swiss    Expendi-    to be
                  in SDR      Francs      tures to    Financed by
Category          Equivalent) Equivalent) be Financed Switzerland
Page  11
(2) Equip-          500,000               100% of
    ment and                              foreign
    vehicles                              expendi-
                                          tures, 100%
                                          of local
                                          expendi-
                                          tures (ex-
                                          factory
                                          cost) and
                                          85% of
                                          local ex-
                                          penditures
                                          for other
                                          items pro-
                                          cured
                                          locally
(3) Consultants'    600,000               100%
    services
(4) Operating     2,300,000               85%
    costs
(5) Studies                               100%
    and audits:
 (a) for MA       1,400,000
 (b) for CMDT     2,500,000
                              Amount
                              of the
                              Swiss
                  Amount      Contri-
                  of the      bution                   % of
                  Credit      Allocated               Expendi-
                  Allocated   (Expressed    % of      tures
                  (Expressed  in Swiss    Expendi-    to be
                  in SDR      Francs      tures to    Financed by
Category          Equivalent) Equivalent) be Financed Switzerland
(6) Imports      19,200,000               100%
    required
    during
    execution
    of the
    Program
(7) Initial                   10,500,000              100%
    Contribu-
    tion to
    Cotton
    Fund
(8) Refunding       800,000               Amount due
    of Project                            pursuant
    Prepara-                              to Section
    tion Ad-                              2.02 (e)
    vance                                 of this
                                          Agreement
(9) Unallocated   2,100,000
                 __________   __________
                 40,700,000   10,500,000
      TOTAL      ==========   ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
Page  12
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
      (c)   the term "operating costs" means incremental salaries
and vehicle operating costs.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
      (a)   out of the proceeds of the Credit in respect of Category
(7) of paragraph 1 above;
      (b)   out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Categories (1) through (4) and (5) (b) of paragraph 1 above: (i)
until the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been entered into between
the Borrower and CMDT; and (ii) in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
SDR 1,900,000, may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after the date falling twelve
months prior to the date of this Agreement; and
      (c)   out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category
(1) (a) of paragraph 1 above, until: (i) an agreement satisfactory
to the Association for the technical preparation and supervision of
the construction of new water points has been entered into between
CMDT and DNHE; and (ii) until at least 250 water users' associations
have been established in a manner satisfactory to the Association;
      (d)   out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category
(6) of paragraph 1 above in respect of:
            (i)   expenditures for goods included in the following
                  SITC groups or sub-groups, or any successor
                  groups or sub-groups under future revisions to
                  the SITC, as designated by the Association by
                  notice to the Borrower:
Group            Sub-group               Description of Items
112                  -                    Alcoholic beverages
121                  -                    Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                          tobacco refuse
122                  -                    Tobacco, manufactured
                                          (whether or not
                                          containing tobacco
                                          substitutes)
525                  -                    Radioactive and
                                          associated materials
667                  -                    Pearls, precious and
                                          semi-precious stones,
                                          unworked or worked
718               718.7                   Nuclear reactors, and
                                          parts thereof, fuel
                                          elements (cartridges),
                                          non-irradiated for
                                          nuclear reactors
Page  13
897               897.3                   Jewelry of gold, silver
                                          or platinum group metals
                                          (except watches and
                                          watch cases) and
                                          goldsmiths' or
                                          silversmiths' wares
                                          (including set gems)
971                  -                    Gold, non-monetary
                                          (excluding gold ores and
                                          concentrates)
            (ii)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or
                  for goods supplied from the territory of the
                  Borrower, excluding, if the currency of the
                  Borrower is also that of another country,
                  expenditures in such currency for goods supplied
                  from the territory of such other country;
            (iii) payments made for expenditures prior to the date
                  of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
                  aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
                  SDR 3,800,000 may be made on account of payments
                  made for such expenditures before that date but
                  after the date falling four months prior to the
                  date of this Agreement;
            (iv)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts
                  costing less than $5,000 equivalent;
            (v)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract
                  which any national or international financing
                  institution or agency other than the Association
                  shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
            (vi)  expenditures for goods intended for a military or
                  para-military purpose or for luxury consumption.
4.    Withdrawals out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Category (6) of paragraph 1 above for expenditures under contracts
for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
less than $100,000 may be permitted by the Association upon the
basis of statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions
as the Association shall specify.
5.    (a)   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Category (6) of paragraph 1 above after, under
said Category, the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 9,500,000, unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the
actions described in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have
been taken; and (iii) that the macro-economic policy framework of
the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
      (b)   No further such withdrawal or commitment shall be made
in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated to Category (6) of paragraph 1 above after, under
said Category, the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn
from the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of SDR 15,300,000 unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement based on evidence
satisfactory to the Association: (i) with the progress achieved by
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the
actions described in Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement have
been taken; and (iii) that the macro-economic policy framework of
Page  14
the Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
6.    If, after any of the exchanges of views described in paragraph
5 above, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved, actions taken and macro-economic policy
framework are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such
notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken
actions satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the
Credit allocated to Category (6) of paragraph 1 above or any part
thereof.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (i) to support and
consolidate the Borrower's plans to ensure agricultural growth in
its territory while diversifying and sustaining agricultural
production; and (ii) to increase and diversify agricultural
production in the southern part of the Borrower's territory through
investment, improved farming practices and natural resource
management.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Rural Development of Mali-Sud
1.    Experimental development and diversification programs,
including: (a) reorienting adaptive research towards experimental
technologies; and (b) developing the production, processing and
marketing of new crops complementary to cotton.
2.    Improving land management schemes and extension services by:
(a) monitoring and evaluation; (b) retraining and strengthening of
extension services; (c) introducing natural resource management
activities; and (d) establishing action programs for promoting
village associations.
3.    Improving the rural water supply system by the construction of
about 450 village water supply systems.
4.    Improving rural roads in the Sikasso area by the upgrade of
about 390 km of feeder roads.
5.    Audits and studies for CMDT.
Part B:     Regional Development of Bougouni
      Carrying out an integrated rural development program in the
Bougouni area of the Borrower including the following:
1.    (a)   Increasing the use of agricultural equipment and inputs;
      (b)   improving farming methods; and
      (c)   strengthening of extension services.
2.    Improving livestock production and its integration with
farming operations.
3.    (a)   Developing village institutions;
      (b)   training of farmers and extension agents; and
      (c)   support to women's activities.
4     Establishing a pilot project of village land management.
5.    Supporting the research system to provide for agricultural
Page  15
diversification.
6.    Improving rural roads by rehabilitation and construction of
about 500 km of feeder roads.
Part C:     Institutional Support
      Assistance in the carrying out of studies and other support
activities to implement the Program, including, inter alia: (a)
proposals for the restructuring of Rural Development Organizations;
(b) evaluation of the mechanisms complementary to the Cotton Fund at
the level of village associations; and (c) audits.
                           *   *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
                           SCHEDULE 3
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of
Special Account A, Categories (1) through (4) and (5) (b) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(ii) in the case of Special Account B, Category (6) set forth in
said table;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of:
            (i)   goods and services required for the Project; and
           (ii)   imports required during execution of the Program;
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from timeto time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into each of the
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
equivalent, in the case of Special Account A, to CFAF 500,000,000,
and in the case of Special Account B, to CFAF 1,000,000,000.
2.    Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
such Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
concerned such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                  requests for deposits into such Special Account
                  at such intervals as the Association shall
                  specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
Page  16
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                  paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                  payments in respect of which replenishment is
                  requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                  Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                  withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                  the Special Account concerned such amount as the
                  Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                  been shown by said documents and other evidence
                  to have been paid out of such Special Account for
                  eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the relevant eligible Categories less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the relevant Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account concerned as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into such Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
concerned shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a
Special Account.
Page  17
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                           SCHEDULE 4
          Conditions for the Making of Withdrawals under
    Category (6) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
      The following actions have been taken consistent with the
principles outlined in the Program and are satisfactory to the
Association:
Part A:     Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (a) of Schedule 1 to
            this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Second
            Tranche)
1.    The Borrower and CMDT have implemented the CMDT Contract-Plan
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower and OPAM have entered into the OPAM Contract-Plan
covering the years 1990 to 1993 and have carried it out so far in a
manner satisfactory to the Association.
3.    The Borrower has enacted legislation abolishing all taxation
on the export of cotton.
4.    The Borrower's revised three-year rolling Program of
Investments and Public Expenditures for the agricultural sector
covering the years 1992 to 1994 has been submitted and is
satisfactory to the Association.
5.    The revised five-year rolling Rural Development Program of
Mali-Sud covering the years 1991 to 1996 has been submitted and is
satisfactory to the Association.
6.    A plan for the restructuring of ODIK, ODIPAC, OHV, OPSS and
ORS has been submitted and is satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:     Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 1 to
            this Agreement (Conditions for Release of Third Tranche)
1.    The Borrower and CMDT have implemented the CMDT Contract-Plan
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
2.    The Borrower and OPAM have implemented the OPAM Contract-Plan
in a manner satisfactory to the Association.
3.    At least one representative of cotton producers has been
appointed as a member of the management committee of the Cotton
Fund.
4.    The Borrower's revised three-year rolling Program of
Investments and Public Expenditures for the agricultural sector
covering the years 1993 to 1995 has been submitted and is
satisfactory to the Association.
5.    The revised five-year rolling Rural Development Program of
Mali-Sud covering the years 1992 to 1997 has been submitted and is
satisfactory to the Association.
                           SCHEDULE 5
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods for Category (6) of paragraph 1 of
            Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
Page  18
equivalent of $2,500,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines"), subject to the
following modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Forum, Business Edition; or
           (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international
                  circulation; or
          (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $2,500,000 shall be awarded:
      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Association;
      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Association may be used
where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines;
and
      (c)   by any purchasers, for the supply of commodities on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained from more
than one supplier.
3.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds
of Special Account B, such copies together with the other
Page  19
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Association may reasonably
request to support withdrawal applications in respect of such
contract. Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of Special Account B, the documentation and the information
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the provisions of
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
5.  The provisions of the preceding paragraph 4 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.
Section II. Employment of Consultants for Category (5) (a) of
            paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
      In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part C
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
