Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2163 MLI
                   (Agricultural Sector Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               and
             COMPAGNIE MALIENNE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT
                           DES TEXTILES
                        Dated July 25, 1990
\0c                                           CREDIT NUMBER 2163 MLI
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 25, 1990, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association") and COMPAGNIE MALIENNE
POUR LE DcVELOPPMENT DES TEXTILES ("CMDT").
      WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Mali (the "Borrower") and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,700,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that CMDT agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and CMDT, part of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to CMDT on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Page  2
Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
      WHEREAS CMDT, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the term
"Fiscal Year" means CMDT's fiscal year which runs from October 1 to
September 30.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. CMDT declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Parts A and B of the Project.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. CMDT shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts A and B of the Project.
      Section 2.04. CMDT shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement and the CMDT Contract-Plan.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CMDT shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, the
CMDT Contract-Plan or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) CMDT shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   CMDT shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by CMDT of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
      (c)   CMDT shall, not later than June 30 of each year the
Project is being implemented, furnish the following documentation
satisfactory to the Association:
            (i)   the revised five-year rolling Rural Development
                  Program of Mali-Sud; and
            (ii)  the draft budget for Rural Development for the
Page  3
                  next following fiscal year.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of CMDT
      Section 3.01. CMDT shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
agricultural practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
      Section 3.02. CMDT shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
      Section 3.03. CMDT shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) CMDT shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   CMDT shall:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                  and expenses and related statements) for each
                  fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently
                  applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                  the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                  of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
                  auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and financial
                  statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                  Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of CMDT thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)   the date on which the Development Credit
                  Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                  terms; or
            (ii)  the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Page  4
                  Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify CMDT of
this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
\0c                           ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   197688 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      For CMDT:
            Compagnie Malienne pour le
              Developpement des Textiles
            B.P. 487
            Bamako, Republic of Mali
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                  CIMATEX                   972554
                  Bamako
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of CMDT may be taken or executed by the Board of
Directors' Chairman of CMDT or such other person or persons as the
Board of Directors' Chairman of CMDT shall designate in writing, and
CMDT shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                  COMPAGNIE MALIENNE
                    POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DES TEXTILES
                  By /s/ Sekouba Cisse
                                         Authorized Representative
\0c                            SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works for Categories (1), (2),
            (4) and (5) (b) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
            Development Credit Agreement
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territory may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, CMDT may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works and items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $200,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Civil works and items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions.
1.    (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
Page  6
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants for Categories (3) and 5 (b)
            of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
            Agreement
1.    In order to carry out Parts A and B of the Project, CMDT shall
employ consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Without limitation on the generality of paragraph 1 of this
Section, in order to implement Parts A.4 and B.6 of the Project,
CMDT shall, no later than December 31, 1990, retain consultants to
be responsible for the carrying out of rural road studies and for
the supervision of rural road civil works.
