Report No. 782-AL                                                                FILE  COPY
Appraisal of an Industrial Credit Project to
Banque Algerienne de Developpement
Algeria
june 10, 1975
Industrial Credit and Development Finance Companies Division
Project Department
Europe, Middie East and North Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
Ihis report was prepared tor official use only by the Bank Croup. it may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authonzation. The Bank Group doe5
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY
Algerian Dinar, abbreviated DA
Exchange Rates
1967 - 1970:       PA 4.94 - US$1.00
End  - 1971:       DA 4.64 - US$1.00
End  - 1972:       DA 4.56 = US$1.00
End  - 1973:       DA 4.19 = US$1.00
End  - 1974:       DA 4.00 = US$1.00
Mid  - 1975:       DA 3.85 = US$1.00
DA 1.00 - US$0.25
DA 1,000 - US$250
DA 1 million - US$250,000
DA 1 billion - US$250 million
ABBREVIATIONS
BAD          =   Banque Algérienne de Développement
BOA          =   Banque Centrale d'Algérie
BEA          =  Banque Extérieur d'Algérie
BNA          -   Banque Nationale d'Algérie
CEDA         =  Caisse pour l'Equipement et le
Développement d&Algérie
INPED            Institut National de la Production
et du Développement Industriel
KFW              Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
SEP          =  Secrétariat d'Etat au Plan
SNMJ         =  Société Nationale des Matériaux
de Construction
SNMétal      =  Société Nationale de Construction
Métallique
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Coudol and Batzella. It is based on
the findings of several missions to Algeria from October 1973 to March 1975.
Staff members included Messrs. Sekse, Coudol, Mombru and Batzella, from IO &
DFC Division, EMENA. Two consultants provided assistance (11 man-week) in the
sector review, Messrs. Klinghoffer from UNIDO and Mr. Ollivier from EREP.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SIMIARY   ................*........................      i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ......... i, ................... ..          1
Il. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT                 .        ...   2
A.   The Economy and Industrial Sector.                   2
B.   Institutional Aspects of Industrial
Investments .........5  .................           5
III.   THE PROJECT -- PART 1:  THE CONSTRUCTION
MATERIALS SECTORS..   8
A.   Present Status of the Subsector of Construc-
tion Materials .9
B.   The Demand for Construction Materials in
Algeria.                                           10
C.   Assessment of Supply Potential and
Prospects .10
D.   Summary Conclusions on the Outlook for the
Construction Materials Sector .14
E.   Economic Justification for Bank Lending to
-the Sector .15
F.   Subproject Eligibility for Bank Financing,
and Size of the Proposed Loan .16
G.   Sectoral Problems Under the Proposed Loan           18
IV.   THE PROJECT -- PART 2:  INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE .18
A.   Summary Description of BAD .19
B.   Role of BAD and the Proposed Loan .22
C.   BAD's New Appraisal and Supervision Unit            26
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN              .. .29
Recommendations..                          ..   29



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
Annex No.                                 Title
I    Algeria:  Selected Development Indicators
Il    The Banking System of Algeria - A Summary
III    Institut National de La Productivite et du Developpement
Industriel (INPED)
IV The Industrial Investment Decision Process Step by Step -
A Simmary
V    Charte de la Gestion Socialiste des Entre prises Socialistes
VI    Regional Industrial Development Program (RIDP) for Medium and
Small-Size Industries
VII    Description, Activities and Prospects of Banque Algerienne de
Developpement (BAD) (as of end 1974)
Attachment 1:  Organization
Attachment 2:  Volume of Operations 1971-1974
Attachment 3:  Breakdown of Identified Projects by Size of
Proposed Financing
Attachment 4:  Breakdown of 1973 Loan Portfolio by Economic
Sectors and by Types of Loans
Attachment 5:  Situation of Arrears as of December 31, 1973
Attachment 6: Income Statements 1971-1973
Attachment 7: Balance Sheets at December 31, 1970-1973 and
Provisional Balance Sheet at June 30, 1974
Attachment 8: Projected Income Statements 1974-1977
Attachment 9: Projected Balance Sheets 1974-1977
VIII    Statement of Policy for BAD's Unit
IX    Interest Rate Structure
X    Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Bank Loan
XI    Algeria - Constructions Materials (Excluding Cement):  Demand
and Future Outlook



SUMMARY
i.        This report appraises an industrial line of credit for the develop-
ment of small and medium size industry in Algeria, mainly in the construction
materials sector. An important aspect of the proposed loan of US$40 million
are the arrangements for technical assistance intended to upgrade the project
appraisal and supervision capabilities of Banque Algerienne de Developpement
(BAD), the proposed borrower and administrator of the loan.
ii.       Algeria has a centrally planned economy characterized by heavy con-
centration on industrial development. Industry is predominantly based on a
relatively small number of large State Enterprises. Each industrial State
Enterprise has a virtual monopoly over an economic sub-sector. This high
concentration of economic decision power has permitted the rapid achievement
of ambitious targets; it will continue in the pursuit of Algeria's long-term
objective of achieving economic independence primarily through the creation
of strong basic industries. The current 1974-77 plan sets a minimum invest-
ment target of about $20 billion in 1973 prices, on the basis of physical im-
plementation capacity. It also specifies a higher (maximum) target of about
$26 billion, with supplementary projects to be undertaken if implementation
capacity can be raised above the estimated minimum level. The share of indus-
try in total investment would be 44% in 1974-77, compared to 54% in 1970-73.
Annual GDP growth would, according to the plan, range between 11.2% and 12.5%
on average during the four-year period, depending on the investment level
actually reached. The plan foresees that, as a result of investment and out-
put growth, the employment situation of unskilled labor would be substantially
improved.  Algeria's investment effort will be mostly financed through its
exports of oil and natural gas. Uncertainties in the forecast of exports of
these commodities would necessarily affect Algeria's ability to finance its
large investments program.
iii.      Centralization and the absence of the balancing mechanisms of a
free market system, or of other market forms of financial discipline, have
created problems, including important cases of inefficiency in the allocation
Of financial resources. The 1971 reform of the country's financial structure
appeared as a first step to improve the financial controls over investment
decisions. BAD, in particular, was put in charge of providing and control-
ling all long-term investments of State Enterprises in the non-agricultural,
productive sectors of the economy.  So far, the reform has not taken firm
hold, in part because of the shortage of qualified bankers and project analysts.
The authorities are aware of the need to strengthen the banking system in
general, and BAD in particular. To this end, they have asked IBRD to couple
a loan to BAD with a technical assitance arrangement intended to upgrade BAD's
project appraisal and supervision capabilities.
iv.       In order to establish a manageable starting point for BAD, the use
of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan will be directed to an industrial
subsector whose main characteristics are that it has priority in Algeria's
economic development effort, and which offers BAD the opportunity to develop
project appraisal and supervision expertise over a reasonably large number of
subprojects that do not present exceedingly complex technical difficulties.
v.        The construction materials industry, excluding basic cement and
glass production, has been selected for this purpose. The current Four-Year
Plan foresees a large investment program in this activity. The priority of
these investments is high in view of the existing, and rapidly widening, gap



- ii -
between supply and demand for construction materials, coupled with the rapid
growth of Algeria's population. Housing, schools and other social and indus-
trial buildings are in acute shortage. The insufficient local production of
construction materials has, s0 far, been the main constraint to construction,
in spite of Algeria being rich in all basic raw materials needed.
vi.       The construction materials industry is presently dominated by two
large State Enterprises (SNMC and SNMetal). Though they will carry the bulk
of the construction materials investment programs, the Plan also promotes
an important role in the sector to be played by smaller public sector enter-
prises to be set up by local administrations (Wilayate) under the recently
launched Regional Industrial Development Program (RIDP). Due to the economic
and technical characteristics of the industry, which relies on the local
exploitation of available natural resources, projects of this subsector --
whether sponsored by State Enterprises or by the Wilayate Enterprises -- will
be decentralized and scattered throughout the country; generally of moderate
size; relatively labor intensive; and technologically uncomplicated. They
promise to yield a high economic rate of return.
vii.      The proposed loan, intended to finance the foreign exchange compo-
nent of selected construction material projects, would be an industrial credit
operation with some features of an operation with a DFC, insofar as the se-
lection, appraisal and supervision of individual subprojects would be confided
to BAD. A special department, or Unit, has been created for this purpose within
BAD, with a view to eventually expand its project appraisal and supervision
function to other types of projects financed by BAD. The organization and
functioning of this Unit will require the Bank's close supervision, and it
has been agreed that two Bank staff members will be seconded to BAD to assist
the Unit in its work.
ix.       For BAD and the Algerian Government, the main objective of the pro-
posed Loan is to attract to BAD technical and financial support in line with
the Bank's traditional support to institutions of a DFC character. However,
Algeria's centrally planned economic system offers little scope, at the pre-
sent time, for the kind of development banking operations the Bank normally
undertakes.  Though the volume of funds flowing through BAD for investment
is very large (over US$1 billion of disbursements per annum), BAD has little
autonomy. It is basically a conduit for Treasury funds. It is not a risk-
taking institution, since its solvency is assured by the Treasury, and its
creditworthiness consequently rests upon that of the Government. Under
existing laws, financial shortcomings of BAD's borrowers are offset by the
Government's budget. Moreover, BAD has, so far, little experience in project
appraisal and monitoring. However, the Government wishes BAD to become more
active and autonomous in these respects. In order to achieve that objective,
a balance had to be found between the Plan, which establishes Algeria's in-
vestment policies and programs, and BAD which, on the basis of sound appraisals
should become capable of, and increasingly influential in, preparing the basis
for investment and financing decisions. The ultimate decision-making powers
rest with the Government.



- iii -
x.        This project aims, therefore, at expanding BAD's influence over
investment decisions in Algeria and at building up gradually its professional
competence in project matters. With the declared support of the authorities,
and the assistance of the Bank, BAD should be able to attain, within a rea-
sonable period of time, the standards of projects appraisal and supervision
that are typical of a financial institution borrowing from the Bank. Thus,
BAD should reach, within the Algerian economic system, the standing it needs
to increase its input in decision-making and the economic gains that should
follow from this. If these expectations are met, the Bank expects to con-
tinue its support to BAD in future years.
xi.       A loan of $40 million is recommended to cover commitments, over
about two years, starting mid-1975, to finance medium size industrial devel-
opment projects in Algeria. Production units of SNMC and SNMetal would be
the final usera of about 50% of the proposed loan, while the other 50% would
be used for RIDP projects. A small portion of the loan (up to $100,000) would
be available to strengthen BAD's accounting procedures and train auditors,
should this prove to be desirable. The repayment schedule of the loan will
be determined on the basis of the aggregate maturities of BAD's subloans;
however, the total term of the loan should not exceed 15 years. There would
be no free limit.






I. !NTRODUCTION
1.01      Since 1966, the main thrust of the Algerian economy has been the
development of a strong, self-sufficient, industrial sector. To this end,
Algeria nationalized most industries in 1966 and has since invested very
heavily in the sector. The emphasis has been on the creation of basic,
capital-intensive industries, and :ndlistries of high p-iority in the fields
of processing and import substitti on. In many respects, Algeria has succeed-
ed, over less than a decade, in creatîng, nearly from scratch, a strong in-
dustrial base. However, this rapid industrialization has been accompanied by
structural imbalances and operational problems which are matters of increasing
concern to the Algerian authorities.
1.02      Consequently, the Algerian Government is taking a growing interest
in applying, in a more systematic fashion, economic, financial and technical
criteria and methodology in the appraisal and supervision of investment proj-
ects. It wants the Banque Algerienne de Developpement (BAD), Algeria's only
term investment bank serving the industrial sector, to take on a major re-
sponsibility in these respects.
1.03      Following several missions to Algeria, 1973 through 1975, the Bank
agreed to consider a loan, and technical assistance, to BAD to help the insti-
tution adjust itself to its new, expanded responsibilities. The Bank recog-
nized, however, and so pointed out to the Government, that a loan to BAD would
not conform, in many respects, to the pattern of Bank lending to development
finance companies. Financially, and in a considerable degree also organiza-
tionally, BAD is an integral part of the structure and fabric of the State.
Until now, BAD has been more a cashier of the Treasury than a development bank,
and its role in deciding on investment proposals has been very limited. Hence,
its creditworthiness, in a financial sense, rests basically on the credit of
Algeria, a fact which nonetheless requires the observance of financial and
managerial disciplines.
1.04      The proposed industrial credit project would have three major ob-
jectives. First, it would create in BAD an institutional ability to help
formulate, evaluate and implement projects as a corollary function to that
performed by the State Secretariat for Planning. Second, it would help
strengthen BAD's influence over decisions on industrial investments and their
financing,'from whatever source of funds.  Third, Bank funds would be invested
in specific industrial sub-sectors where their impact would be a substantial
one. To meet the third of these objectives, a loan designed to finance only
medium-size subprojects for the production of construction materials has been
found appropriate. The development of this sub-sector has high economic and
social priority. It includes a considerable number and variety of medium-
size t/ investment projects of relatively low technological complexity. Over
the next decade, investments in this sub-sector are to be undertaken both by
a few, very large State Enterprises as well as by numerous smaller, less ex-
perienced, provincial enterprises. Under the proposed loan, BAD would start,
1/   See definition of order of size in para 3.21.



-2-
for the first time, to play a direct role in the design, organization and im-
plementation of investments for projects of State Enterprises as well as pro-
vincial enterprises. The center of this new responsibility would be a newly
created special department, or IUnit within BAD, operating under the general
management of BAD.
1.05      Although this first loan to BAD would be confined essentially to
the financing of construction materials industries, the Algerian authorities
expect that, over time, the experience acquired by BAD's Unit in appraising
and supervising a number of medium-sized projects will set a pattern for BAD
in most of its future operations, whatever their nature and sources of fund-
ing. Progress should gradually enable BAD to assume a stronger role in the
Algerian investment-decision process. Whether this approach will work, par-
ticularly whether BAD's new working tools will carry weight, is the essential
risk in this operation which has considerable attributes of an experiment in
the Algerlan context.
Il. ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
A. The Economy and Industrial Sector
1. Background
2.01      Algeria's econofic development programa have been embodied in three
Plans (1967-69, 1970-73 and the current 1974-77 Plan) which, in this centrally
planned economy, are mandatory policy and strategy statements of the Govern-
ment. 1/
2.02      In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined the fundamental
objectives which the country intended to pursue during the period ending
1980. These are: (i) to expand and organize the productive base enabling
the economy to reach, by about 1980, a stage of self-sustained growth with
full employment; (ii) to achieve economic independence, which implies that
the country vould rely first on its own resources for development, although
international economic relations would be expanded and diversified; and (iii)
to improve income distribution, particularly among regions. These objectives,
and the strategy which has evolved towards their implementation, take into
account the country's physical and socio-economic potential, and form a set
of coherent choices to which the leadership is deeply committed.
1/   The Bank's Economic Report on recent developments of the economy of
Algeria is under preparation. Basic data on the economy are presented
in Annex 1.



2.  The Second Development Plan (1974-77)
2.03      The current Plan (1974-77) is ambitious, and possibly over-ambitious,
but in line with Algeria's objectives of achieving rapid economic independence,
primarily through the creation of a strong industrial sector. Five specific
goals are highlighted in the Plan:
(a)  the achievement of maximum production for domestic consumption
and for export;
(b)  the reduction of bottlenecks resulting in investment slippages
through increased emphasis on training of management and skilled
labor;
(c)  the increase of employment, especially through regional programs
(industry and rural development);
(d)  the improvement of standards of living through special urban
programs and expanded social benefits; and
(e) 'the achievement of a better economic balance between regions.
2.04      These objectives have been translated into targets, including
(i) a volume of investment, over the Plan period, of at least DA 85 billion
at 1973 prices and possibly DA 110 billion, (ii) and annual growth of GDP
(in real terms) of at least 11%, (iii) the creation of 450,000 new jobs out-
side of the agricultural sector, and (iv) an average increase in private con-
sumption of 11% p.a. The prospects of achieving these targets are heavily
dependent on Algeria's balance of payment prospects, and on the development
of the absorptive capacity of the economy. It is likely that the improvement
registered in Algeria's balance of payments in 1974, as a result of the oil
price increase, will be followed by a deterioration in 1975, which will prob-
ably be more pronounced than was expected in the 1974-77 Plan. This develop-
ment would be due mainly to a substantial shortfall of anticipated receipts
from crude oil and natural gas exports. It is therefore likely that Algeria
will have to opt for significantly slower growth of investment and private
consumption than foreseen in the 1974-77 plan, beginning in 1976.
2.05      The authorities will have to overcome considerable additional con-
straints, some of them inherited from the past. First, in most sectors, in-
vestment would need to more than double in real terms as compared to that of
the 1970-73 Plan. Algeria's ability to implement and absorb such rapid growth
is questionable, judged by past results. Second, the considerable difference
in growth rates between various sectors could result in serious structural
imbalances, income disparities, and bottlenecks in the implementation of in-
vestments. Third, the regional objectives of providing better living condi-
tions (employment, income distribution, social services) are unlikely to be
1/   The 1967-69 Plan was called a "Pre-Plan".



- 4 -
fully achieved unless special programs (e.g. training, administrative reforms)
are initiated rapidly. Finally, despite the reforms of the financial sector
in 1971, improvements or changes are still needed in this area, such as the
establishment of a more rational pricing system and the strengthening of
financial institutions to enable them to play a more active role in the
execution and supervision of investments.
3. Industry
2.06      During 1967-71, all means of industrial production were gradually
transferred to the public sector, foreign holdings nationalized and State
Enterprises created. Each State Enterprise was given control over a given
sub-sector. At present, the 24 largest State Enterprises own nearly 90% of
all industrial fixed assets, while private enterprises account for less than
5% of such assets. MIost State Enterprises are very large and account indiv-
idually, in many instances (such as petrochemicals, steel, etc.), for the
whole Industrial sub-sector. During 1966-74, the industrialization strategy
was aimed, in decreasing order of priority, at the creation of: (i) heavy
basic industries (hydrocarbon, steel, plastic, fertilizers); (ii) processing
industries (metal electrical products, tractors, construction materials, etc.);
and (iii) light consumer goods industries.
2.07      In adopting and implementing this policy, the authorities deliberate-
ly relegated criteria of returns on investments, efficiency in production and
pricing policies to second place. The main objective was, and to a large ex-
tent continues to be, the rapid physical build-up of a new production structure.
Notwithstanding waste and inefficiencies and, perhaps more importantly, serious
imbalances in the productive capacities of various industries, the structure of
the economy has over the past ten years changed radically as a result of this
policy.
2.08      Industrial productioni over the period of the 1970-1973 Plan reached
88, of the planned targets, which, given the constraints of the economy, was
quite aui achievement. Hydrocarbonic and food products reached, or exceeded,
the targets of the Plan.  However, other manufacturing industries were lagging
badly, especially two industries of crucial importance to Algeria's develop-
ment: construction materials (4.4% annual growth, instead of 14% foreseen in
the Plan) and mretal and electrical products (6.6% vs. 25.5%). As regards
investments, the lagging performance in these and other fields resulted, in
turn, in considerable delays and cost overruns. At the end of the Plan, more
than half of the ir.vestments supposed to be completed were still under con-
struction.
2.09      Both production and investment difficulties are the result of slow
and complex administrative procedures, technical difficulties, inadequate
infrastructure (ports, railways and telecommunications), and lack of manage-
ment and skilled labor. The last aspect, in particular, remains a major
constraint, in spite of the considerable progress made in education and
training. In some instances, price controls have compounded these diffi-
culties through their effect on the financial position of enterprises.



2.10      Under the 1974-77 Plan, 48% of planned investment will be for the
industrial sector. Some key aspects are:
a.   Continued rapid growth of basic and heavy industries, using
Algeria's natural resources. The bulk (63%) of projected
investments in the industrial sector over the period will be
allocated to the hydrocarbon industry (DA 10.5 billion, or
41% of total industrial investments), chemical industry
(DA 4 billion) and mining (DA 1.1 billion).
b.   An acceleration of growth of transformation industries such
as metal, mechanical and electrical industry, building
materials, chemicals and wood processing (35% on industrial
investments), and increased production of consumer products.
c.   The launching of a Regional Industrial Development Program
(RIDP) for smaller, decentralized projects. For that purpose,
about DA 1 billion is planned to finance investment in some
500-odd projects. A portion of the proposed Bank loan would
finance a small part of that program (Chapter III).
The Plan aims at a considerable growth of value added (18% for processing
industries, 14% for mining and energy), corresponding to a doubling of indus-
trial output in four years.  At the same time, 83,000 new jobs are to be
created. While such growth targets may not be reached fully, the considerable
efforts planned in training, education, and housing, the new stress placed on
consumer products, and the efforts to simplify the administrative apparatus,
should give the Plan's execution more of a chance of coming close to its
targets than the previous one had.
B. Institutional Aspects of Industrial Investm_ents
1. Role of the Financial Sector
2.11      Until 1971, public sector enterprises financed their investments
directly from the Treasury as well as from their own resources or borrowings
abroad. In 1971, Algeria's financial system was restructured. The need for
a radical financial reform arose because the previous system of ad hoc allo-
cation of resources to finance the country's investment needs had created
growing problems of inconsistencies, misallocation and waste. Little con-
sideration was given to the financial aspects of projects. Without a market
pricing mechanism, or other traditional forms of financial discipline, in-
vestments in the industrial sector were rarely subject to economic tests.
Main yardsticks against which enterprises were judged were physical investment
and output targets. Inadequate planning and lags in execution at the sector
level resulted in the creation of over- or under-capacities.



-6-
2,12      The main purpose of the 1971 reform was to introduce stricter fi-
nancial discipline in the economic system. Accordingly, investment decisions
are now formally centralized at the Secretariat d'Etat au Plan (SEP), the
central planning agency. The current financial management of enterprises is
subject to the supervision of the banking system and of the Ministry of Finance,
which act as the controllers, financial analysts and coordinators of the
economy. 1/ Direct grants and advances from the Treasury have been eliminated
as sources of investment financing in the productive sectors. All funds for
investment financing now come from the banking system in the form of long or
medium-term loans, while cash generation of State Enterprises has to be turned
over to the Treasury, or placed in Government bonds.
2.13      In the spirit of the 1971 reform, the system calls for supervision
over most of the financial aspects of the economy to be the responsibility of,
on the one hand, BAD, which provides long-term investment financing (except in
the agricultural sector) and, on the other hand, the primary (commercial) banks,
which check the actual financial performance of enterprises against their quar-
terly or annual operating budgets, also subject to the banks' prior approval.
As regards long-term investments, BAD is given a unique central roie, since
their financing, including all foreign borrowings, requires the approval of
BAD.  BAD also participates to a limited extent in the process leading to the
preparation of the Plan, and is consulted before the SEP and the relevant
Ministries make investment decisions.
2.14      In practice, the 1971 reform has had only a limited impact, because
(i) BAD has been only marginally involved in the investment decision process
and (ii) the primary banks' supervision over the financial situation of State
Enterprises is rather superficial. Inadequacy of personnel in BAD and the
primary banks has been a major constraint. So far, BAD itself, with a staff
of only 75 professionals, mostly with a background in finance, has been unable
to make any meaningful contribution to the appraisal of investment projects.
2. Organization of Enterprises
State Enterprises
2.15      Organization.  Alongside formal steps towards a reorganization of
the financial sector in Algeria, 1971 saw the publication of the Charter of
Socialist Enterprises which determines the principles of organization and
management of all public sector enterprises in Algeria. The main thrust of
this Charter, whose principal characteristics are detailed in Annex V, is to
1/   There are three Government-owned primary (i.e. commercial) banks:  Banque
Nationale d'Algerie, BNA, (specializing in agricultural credit), Banque
Exterieure d'Algerie, BEA, (specializing in foreign trade) and Credit
Populaire d'Algerie, CPA, (characterized by a particularly large network
of decentralized agencies, which cater to the more isolated communities
in the country). Each State Enterprises is assigned to one of the three
primary banks which handles both its current banking needs and the dis-
bursement of funds allocated to approved investments.



-7-
give the workers a say in the management of State Enterprises, by creating:
(i) a Workers' Assembly for each enterprise, elected by the workers; and
(ii) a Management Council presided over by the company's General Manager and
comprising a number of his immediate assistants and one or two workers' re-
presentatives nominated by the Assembly. Though the Assembly and the Coun-
cil have access to basic information on the company's policies, operations
and finances, and can make specific recommendation in these respects (includ-
ing management's performance), neither the Assembly nor the Council have so
far been sharing the decision power which remains with the General Managers
who are appointed by Government decrees. Control over management's perform-
ance rests with the relevant Ministry and the Conseil National Economique et
Social. Though the impact and implementation of the Charter on State Enter-
prises has been slow, there are indications that the Government is taking
steps to accelerate its practical application to enterprises.
2.16      Financial Structure of Enterprises.  A major characteristic of the
finances of Enterprises is their reliance on outside credit to finance their
investments and current operations. Thus, despite the existence in the bal-
ance sheets of enterprises of equity funds, the notion of equity is a his-
torical carry-over from the time before State Enterprises were created, rather
than means of achieving a balanced capital structure. Enterprises are fully
dependent on credit under the concept that State Enterprises are an instrument
of the State's economic policy and, as such, are financed by the State (through
banks) and provide finance to the State through the investment of cash sur-
pluses in Treasury bonds.
Regional Enterprises
2.17      Administratively, Algeria is divided into 31 provinces or Wilayate
(singular: Wilaya). Each has its own local government which is headed by
the Governor, or Wali, who is nominated by the Central Government. The Wilaya
is divided into communes. Both Wilayate and communes have local assemblies
elected by their constituents. Local executive administrations are appointed
by the Wali or the Mayor. In addition, local governments, at the Wilayate
levels, include representatives of all key agencies in the Central Government.
SEP, for instance, is locally represented by a "Service de l'animation et de
la planification economique."
2.18      The 1974-77 Plan provides for the creation of a large number of
industrial enterprises owned by the Wilayate, or the communes (Chapter III).
These enterprises are subject to the Charter of Socialist Enterprises. Manage-
ment is appointed by the Wali. Until recently, the investment procedure and
decision process for provincial projects were the same as for State Enter-
prises. Following a decree in January 1975, a new procedure has instituted
the decentralization of the financial decisions related to investments of
provincial enterprises. Accordingly, although BAD remains fully responsible
for the financing of long-term investment, it will have to branch out in many
of the 31 Wilayate. At present, BAD is represented only in three Wilayate
and, therefore, substantial efforts will be required to train and assign staff



- 8 -
for the other Wilayate. 1/ BAD has started to deal with this problem. In
the meanwhile, the Credit Populaire d'Algerie (CPA), which has branches in
all provinces, would represent BAD on the Provincial Committee responsible
for taking investment decisions. On the other hand, the political decision
to invest ("individualisation") has not yet been regionalized and remains with
SEP. Consequently, for some time, all SEP decisions will continue to be taken
in Algiers.
III. THE PROJECT -- PART 1: THE CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS SECTOR
3.01      As mentioned in Chapter I, the proposed Bank assistance to BAD re-
quired the creation of a mechanism by which BAD, with the Bank's help, could
address itself more effectively to small or medium size projects in relatively
neglected subsectors of high priority, so that BAD would be able to (i) make
suitable use of Bank funds; and (ii) optimize appraisal and supervision ex-
perience from such use. The proposed industrial credit project consequently
has the following objectives:
(a) allocation of resources to an important but lagging subsector
of industry, with emphasis on employment creation by evaluation
of alternative technologies and their respective capital/labor
substitution impacts; and
(b) creation of an institutional capacity to help formulate,
evaluate and implerment such projects as a corollary function
to that performed for large-scale projects under the Plan.
The plausible tools to achieve these objectives appeared to be (i) a line of
credit for which the use had been predetermined in a subsectoral sense and
by scale of individual operations and (ii) an institutional base on which to
build a meaningful appraisal and decision-making capacity.
3.02      The construction materials industry, excluding from it projects
which are too large or too complex to be dealt with by BAD under the proposed
loan (e.g. cement, glass), seemed to be best suited for the purpose indicated
above. Indeed, construction materials production units are generally of a
small or medium size, relatively labor intensive, and technologically simple;
they present no .particularly complex marketing nor managerial problems.
1/   It is unlikely that all 31 Wilayate will have sufficient investment
projects to require full time representation from BAD. At present,
only 5 or 6 Wilayate would have the investment activity sufficient to
require a permanent representation from BAD. In other Wilayate, re-
presentation could be provided on an ad hoc basis.



- 9 -
A.   Present Status of the Subsector of Construction Materials
3.03      Annex Xi glves details on the current situation and prospects.  The
construction materials industry in Algeria 1/ is presently dominated by Societe
Nationale des Materiaux de Construction (SNMC). SNMC, with a turnover of DA
341 million and value added of DA 165 million in 1973 produces, in 65 plants
scattered throughout the country, about 63% of the total output of construc-
tion materials. The other State Enterprise substantially involved with con-
struction materials is Societe Nationale de Construction Metallique (SNMetal),
which specializes in metallic products ranging from metal frames to railway
cars. Five of SNMetal's 13 plants produce materials related to the construc-
tion industry, such as metallic frames and carpentry, domestic boilers and
small hardware.
3.04      The development of the sector's production capacity is far behind
schedule. Only 55% of the planned increase in production capacity has, all
in all, been attained in the course of the first Plan (1970-1973), although
the amount invested in new projects during the period amounted to 90% of the
forecast.
3.05      While the Regional Industrial Development Program (RIPD) (paras.
2.10 and 2.17-2.18), is expected to have a key role to perform in the near
future, at present, local production of construction materials by Wilayate
enterprises is limited to the output of quarries and of a few small brick
and tile plants owned by the Wilayate public works enterprises, which produce
exclusively for the local public works programs. Exceptions are the Wilayate
Enterprises of Batna, Tlemcen and Tizi Ouzou, where the local administrations
have already pursued aggressive industrial development programs.
3.06      The main cause of SNMC's - and to a lesser extent of SNMetal's -
shortfall in implementing planned investments has been a lack of moderation
in setting realistic Plan targets, coupled with the State Enterprises' in-
ability to challenge the Plan on the basis of substantiated feasibility
studies. Inadequate project preparation due to lack of experienced staff
and of funds to finance studies, as well as inadequate supervision by for-
eign consultants, have caused severe underestimation of investment costs,
difficulties with SEP and BAD in obtaining agreement on adequate financial
plans, and poor planning of implementation *chedules resulting in lack of
coordination with domestic and foreign suppliera. In addition, SNMC had ad-
ministrative difficulties with internal traasportation problems and, finally,
adequate financing often took long to obtain, causing delays. SNMC claims
1/   In this project, the term "construction materials subsector" does not
include glass or cement industries which consist mainly of large units
of production.



- 10 -
that all the above problems have seriously affected not only its current ope-
rations 1/, but also its investment record.
3i.07     The Algerian authorities and SNMC/SNMetal have indicated their
awareness that these problem areas are serious constraints to economic devel-
opment. The authorities hope that, with the 8trengthening of BAD, discussed
in Chapter IV, BAD and SNMC/SNMetal would cooperate to mitigate some of these
difficulties, and that the new approach to project preparation, with the Bank's
technical assistance, will penmeate SNMC/SNMetal and BAD as a whole, and help
avoid the repetition of past mistakes. Two areas where BAD can indeed play
a role are the preparation of feasibility studies, and the improvement of
financial planning. These matters are dealt with in paras. 4.17 et seq.
B.   The Demand for Construction Materials in Algeria
3.08      So far, as shown in Annex XI, domestic production of construction
materials has been inadequate to meet demand. Large quantities of materials
were imported in the course of the First Plan. The level of demand is expect-
ed to increase substantially in the immediate future. Annex XI, para. 2,
indicates the magnitude of the gap. Translated into surfaces to be built,
minimum targets to overcome Algeria's most urgent construction problems are
about 25 million square meters to be constructed during the 1974-77 Plan and
another 38 million sq.m. in the following three years. Such large construc-
tion programs stem, on the one hand, from the country's very acute shortage of
housing, schools, hospitals and other social buildings. Algeria's high rate
of demographic growth (3.5% net p.a.) is a major parameter in this respect.
On the other hand, the large industrial investments foreseen by the current
Plan will also require a huge construction program (surfaces to be built by
1980 are estimated at over 12 million sq.m.).
C.   Assessment of Supply Potential and Prospects
3.09      State Enterprises.  The aim of Algeria's planners is to reach, by
1980, a substantial equilibrium between domestic supply and demand for each
product (Annex XI, paras. 8-10). Compared to investments in the course of
the 1970-73 Plan, which amounted to about DA 1 billion for construction
materials projects, new investments in the 1974-77 Plan are expected to
amount to at least 7 times as much. In terms of value added, SNMC alone is
expected to more than quadruple by 1977, compared with 1973, and the entire
branch is expected to triple in the same period. No one can say at this stage
to what extent targets will be met. Past experience suggests that there will
1/   At end-1973 SNMC had a negative working capital of DA 103 million, and
bank overdrafts of DA 140 million. The poor financial performance of
SNMC durlng the first four-year Plan period la largely due to Government-
imposed prices on SNMC's sales of both domestically produced and imported
materials.



- il -
be bottlenecks resulting in slippages of 2-3 years. 1/ But there is evidence
that a huge effort is underway to equip the country with the facilities to
produce the construction materials needed for the housing and public buildings
programs, as well as for the industrial development programs underway. The
main focus right now is on cement plants 2/ (over one half of SNMC's investment
programs) but major efforts are also taking place in other fields.
3.10      According to the original Plan, scheduled investments of SNMC are
expected to amount to DA 4.3 million in non-cement projects to be launched
in the course of the 1974-77 Plan, of which DA 3.5 billion should be invested
before 1977 and the balance in the period 1978-80. Over the same period,
SNMetal plans to invest DA 1.0 billion in construction material plants.
These estimates are likely to be exceeded by as much as 50-75% due to price
escalation. SNMC's current investments program also includes the completion
of projects started in the course of the 1970-73 Plan. The major projects
scheduled in SNMC and SNMetal investment program are listed in the table below.
1/   Project implementation schedules in the current four-year Plan are in
fact more realistic than in the previous, 1970-73 Plan. Underestimation
of investment costs remains, however, a serious problem. The Plan is
now in the process of being revised in view of cost escalations and
taking into account the increase in oil prices.
2/   The Bank is currently appraising SNMC in the context of the construction
of a new cement plan at Saida with a capacity of 500,000 t.p.y. and an
estimated project cost of about $158 million.



- 12 -
SNMC and SNMetal Investment Programs for Production Units
(other than Cement Plants)
Estimated
Number of Units                             Cost of Projects
Second   First Plan                              (DA millions)
Plan   Projects to    Unit's Yearly        Total To be invested
Type_of Project    Projects be Completed Production Capacity Cost  before 1977
A. SNMC
Plaster produc-
tion              4            -       180,000 tons            237         200
Quickline pro-
duction           4            -        90,000 tons            295         295
Bricks and tiles
factories        31            5       45-90,000 tons        1,534       1,250
Ceramic tiles
factories         ,            -       900,000 m2              293         288
Sanitary ceramic
factories         2            2         9,000 tons            167         167
Asbestos-cement
prod.             3            -        45,000 tons            300         300
Agglomerates
units            22            3       90-180,000 tons       1,093         560
Concrete pipes
units             3            1       50-68,000 meters         80          76
Aggregates         32             8      300,000 - 1 million   333           325
quarries                                 tons
Total      108           19                            4,332       3,461
B. SNMetal
Metallic
Carpentry         4            -       10-15,000 tons          600         450
Boilers             3            -       2,500-7,000 tons        225         175
Small hardware      2            -       3,500-6,000 tons         80          60
Total        9                                           905         685
In addition, SNMC and SNMetal plan to jointly invest in an overhaul of the
construction materials distribution network, the rationalization of which is
currently under study.
3.11      The Regional Industrial Development Program (RIDP).  As already
noted, this program has been conceived as an instrument to encourage the in-
dustrialization of the least advanced provinces, the creation of industrial
jobs away from the three major industrial centers of the country, and the more
rational ut.lization of available human and natural resources for the satis-
faction of local needs. The original RIDP, as presented in the Plan, encom-
passed 504 projects to be launched, under the sponsorship of the Ministry of



- i3 -
the Interior, by local enterprises in the period 1974-1977. Foreseen invest-
ments totalled about DA 1 billion (Annex VI). The implementation of the RIDP
has been delayed, among other reasons, because of Algeria's administrative
reorganization in mid-1974, when tae number of Wilayate was increased from
15 to 31. Sixteen of the Walis have only recently been appointed, and are
still in the process of organizing their administrations. The Ministry of
the Interior has conducted, in early 1975, a survev of the status of local
administrations, and has concluded that only those wh4ch were already estab-
lished before the recent administ,ative reform are in a position to undertake
right now significant industrial initiatives.  In  the other Wilayate, projects
would have to be delayed at least by a year, if not more. The program itself
is being reviewed on the basis of studies conducted by the Ministry. Although
the total investment cost for RIDP is likely to remain close to DA 1 billion,
as originally planned, the number of projects in the program has been drastic-
ally reduced to about one half of the original 504, with average sizes of
individual projects often enlarged in order to meet better economic and or-
ganizational criteria. The sectoral orientation of the program--which already
at the beginning attributed a predominant weight to the construction material
subsector--has been further moved towards projects to supply the raw materials
for local public works enterprises and for housing construction programs.
3.12      In practice, the preparation of the RIDP projects has been confided
to two institutions: INPED, an agency of the Ministry of Industry (para. 4.30
and Annex III), which has set up a special department for the needs of local
enterprises under the RIDP, and SEZID, an agency of the Ministry of the
Interior 1/ offering industrial consultancy services to local administrations.
Following Algeria's administrative reorganization and the creation of 16 new
wilayas, SEZID or INPED have assumed for a number of RIDP projects the role
of main contractors. At a later stage, local administrations are expected
to appoint their own project managers. Few turn-key operations are foreseen
in the RIDP. The projects which are already at an advanced stage of prepara-
tion include:
-    30 sand and gravel quarries, for 15 of which, in the western
part of the country, the work is practically completed, while
for the other 15, in the East, implementation is about to begin
on the basis of already completed geological surveys. The es-
timated cost of these projects is roughly DA 150 million (DA
*4-7 million per unit). Once ready to operate, the quarries
will be turned over to the communes where they are located.
-    10 bricks and tiles factories, with a capacity of 30,000
tons/year each, and costing an estimated DA 10 million each.
1/   SEZID (Societe pour l'Equipement des Zones Industrielles Decentralisees)
is a mixed ownership corporation, 2% of its shares still belong to its
original sponsor, France's Caisse Centrale pour la Cooperation Economiqtue
(CCCE) which still has close links with SEZID. The Company is in the
process of being transformed into a State Enterprise.



- 14 -
-    10 concrete pipes and supports factories, 7 of which will have
a capacity of 50,000 tons/year and will cost approximately DA
10 million each; the other three plants will be smaller units
costing DA 10 million altogether. These factories will be
expanded later to include facilities for the production of
concrete tiles.
-    Other projects of RIDP which are at a less advanced stage of
preparation, but which are expected to be launched within the
Plan period, include: 15 general wood carpentry units; 2-3
small plaster production units: 10-15 units for the production
of prefabricated housing elements; a number of units for the
production of furniture for schools; several plants producing
plumbing elements and insulation products, etc.
3.13      All these projects are characterized by their limited size (not ex-
ceeding DA 20 million in investment costs) and their relative labor intensity
(the average cost per job created will amount to the equivalent of US$15,000
compared to an average of over US$125,000 for industrial investments of State
Enterprises), and by their ability to serve local consumption needs using lo-
cally available supplies of raw materials.
D.   Summary Conclusions on the Outlook for the Construction Materials Sector
3.14      The extremely large increase in non-cement construction materials
production capacity foreseen in Algeria's 1974-77 Plan (Annex XI, para 10)
is fully justified on the demand side. Geological surveys have established
that Algeria is rich in the necessary raw materials (clay, lime, gypsum, etc.)
to enable the projected output from local resources. On that basis alone, the
Plan can be supported. There are, however, constraints. Demand for construc-
tion materials does not derive immediately from demand for construction; it
must be filtered through the country's capacity to build. While, for the
construction of rural dwellings, the local availability of construction
materials is virtually the sole constraint, conversely, for high rise build-
ings and sophisticated industrial construction, specialized and experienced
contracting firms are needed. A substantial part of new buildings are con-
tracted to foreign builders, including the numerous industrial projects which
are to be delivered by foreign suppliers under turn-key arrangements. Second-
ly, most large State Enterprises have their own civil construction units, which
are being strengthened in view of the Plan's ambitious investment programs.
Thirdly, the central and local administrations have relatively important con-
struction enterprises of their own: more than 300 were already in existence
at the beginning of the Plan period. Already in 1973, the construction in-
dustry employed more manpower (over 130,000) than any other branch of the in-
dustrial sector. Reportedly, however, this is insufficient and adds to the
uncertainties as to whether Algeria will be able to build the 26 million
square meters of new surface foreseen for the period 1974-77, and the 38 mil-
lion square meters foreseen for 1978-80 (Annex XI, para. 7), even if the in-
vestment programs for the construction materials industry were carried out
on schedule. At any rate, it is reasonable to assume that slippages will
occur on both sides of the supply/demand schedule.



- 15 -
E.   Economic Justification for Bank Lending to the Sector
3.15      The construction material subsector stands as one of the key prior-
ity sectors in Algeria. Despite serious uncertainties as regards the possi-
bility of achieving the Plan's targets, there will for man,y years be an unful-
filled priority demand.  Dwellings, schools and industrial buildings are es-
sential to Algeria's economic and political future.  Efforts to improve the
situation should be supported, provided that sound economic criteria are
applied to the use of resources for the expansion of the construction materials
industry and that more attention is given to the availability of qualified
management.
3.16      A major characteristic of the construction materials industry is
that many of the most basic products cannot be imported either because there
is not an international market for them, or because it is not economical to
transport them over any but short distances. This is true of clay bricks and
tiles, asbestos-cement products, agglomerates, cement pipes and, of course,
sand and gravel aggregates, for which there is no import alternative. Aside
from a certain degree of interchangeability between locally produced bricks
and normally more expensive imported cement, for the other materials mentioned
above, the only alternative to the local availability of adequate supply is
the potential construction activities foregone, with the attending loss of
national income. It is important to note that over three quarters of the
entire investment program of SNMC, excluding cement (para. 3.10), and all the
RIDP projects at an advanced stage of preparation (para. 3.12) fall under the
category of projects to produce non-importable items.
3.17      Another reason to support Algeria's investment program in the con-
struction materials industry is that the projects in this subsector (espe-
cially, but not exclusively, those of RIDP), are generally of smaller size,
more labor intensive, and geographically more decentralized than those of
other industrial branches. As many other developing countries, Algeria relies
heavily on "self-construction", i.e. rural workers building their own tradi-
tional one-floor dwellings whenever bricks, aggregates, quicklime and plaster
are available.  The sheer force of rural underemploynent coupled with the acute
housing shortage, will permit the absorption of whatever supply of cheap, basic
construction materials will become available in the rural areas. The possi-
bility of utilizing under-employed manpower is in itself an attractive feature
of this type of construction. Generally, the economic characteristics of con-
struction materials are such that production plants must be close to the
source of raw materials as well as to their marketing area. Furthermore, the
technology of construction materials (aside from cement) is relatively simple
and does not imply economies of scale beyond a certain limit. Lastly, for
several of the production units in the subsector under consideration (typical-
ly, wood and metallic carpentry plants), prcduction cannot be fully standard-
ized, but must be adapted to the specific requirements of each construction
project for which they are intended.  For all these reasons, most investment
projects in the subsector will be expected to yield a high economic return.
Though the economic merits of each individual subproject can only be assessed
on a case by case basis -- and this will be a primary function of the projects
appraisal and supervision Unit to be set up within BAD -- a cursory review oc
a large sample of sub-projects now under preparation indicate that their
economic return should, prima facie, be good.



- 16 -
F. Subproject Eligibility for Bank Financing, and Size of the Proposed Loan
3.18      Under the proposed loan, Bank funds would be made available to BAD
for the financing of subprojects in much the same way as in typical DFC-type
operations. A special characteristic of this loan, however, due to the
special nature of BAD, as mentioned in Chapter IV, would be the more precise
definition of the range of subprojects eligible for financing with the pro-
ceeds of the Bank's loan. The loan would be directed to the construction
materials subsector, i.e. projects of SNMC other than basic glass and cement
plants, metal frame and boiler projects of SNMetal and generally all construc-
tion material projects in the RIDP (i.e. excluding projects such as tourism,
textiles and food processing).
3.19      Since this sector definition includes two major institutional com-
ponents, the production units of State Enterprises and the provincial enter-
prises under the RIDP, the question arises of how to distribute Bank funds
(and the assistance related to such financing) between these two groups of
projects. On the one hand, the RIDP displays certain characteristics (decen-
tralization, labor intensity) which are, economically and socially, highly
desirable. On the other hand, the substantially more capital-intensive
subprojects of State Enterprises are included in this project for three main
reasons. It is important to provide BAD with direct experience in the ap-
praisal and supervision of investment projects of State Enterprises. More-
over, BAD's project appraisals should serve as examples to induce State
Enterprises to apply better criteria to all their projects whether or not
financed with Bank funds. Thirdly, if projects of both Wilayate and State
Enterprises are covered in this operation, a more positive interaction be-
tween the two groups of projects can be expected, with RIDP benefitting to
the maximum possible extent from the experience, studies and assistance of
SNMC and SNMetal, and from a better market distribution of investments.
For these reasons there will be given approximately equal weight in the
proposed loan to projects of State Enterprises and projects of the RIDP.
Additionally, as regards SNMC, the prospect of further Bank assistance to
that enterprise through a loan, now under discussion, to finance a large
cement plant, would, if consummated, lead to a very close association be-
tween the Bank and one of Algeria's largest State Enterprise. This combined
direct and indirect relationship would help all parties concerned to test in
more depth the impact Bank practices and methodology could have on such enter-
prises.   -
3.20      Paragraph 3.12 lists the RIDP projects which have attained an ad-
vanced enough stage of preparation to be launched within the period during
which the proposed loan will have to be committed (mid-1975 to about end 1977).
For all these projects the availability of suitable management is given prime
attention by the authorities, including the expansion of training programs to
project managers and skilled workers. Excluding the 15 quarries already com-
pleted, there remain about 30 projects, the total investment cost of which is
estimated at DA 280 million, or US$70 million. A certain number of slippages
will unavoidably occur but other projects for which studies are underway are
also likely to be ready for financing in a year or so. Assuming that the



- 17 -
foreign exchange component of these projects' investment costs will continue
to represent 40-50%7 of the total 1/, the imported portion of these investments
should amount to about US$25-35 million, as a minimum.
3.21      The foreign exchange needs for SNIC or SNMetal projects (other than
cement) are estimated at about US$400-600 million over the Plan period within
the construction materials subsector. Given the manpower and expertise con-
straints of BAD's appraisal Unit, no more than, say, 10 projects of large
State Enterprises should be considered for the first Bank loan to BAD. State
Enterprises have easier access to other sources of external financing (e.g.
suppliers' credits) to cover at least part of the foreign exchange component
of their investment projects. In determining the size of the proposed loan
and the size of individual subprojects to be financed under the loan, the
following factors were considered: The aim of the project being to provide
BAD's Unit with as wide an experience as possible in project's appraisal, there
should be at least 5 subprojects sponsored by SNMC and SNMetal, and 10 subproj-
ects with the RIDP over the two-year period of the loan. Such a program should
be feasible given the expected processing capabilities of BAD's Unit. Given
also the characteristics of possible projects (para 3.10 for SNMC/SNMetal and
3.12 for RIDP), the proposed loan should have the following modalities:
a.   Though large in absolute terms, in the context of Algeria's
industry medium size subprojects would normally be considered as:
(i)  for SNMC and SNMetal:
projects with a total investment cost of less than
DA 100 million (about US$25 million).
(ii) for RIDP:
projects with a total investment cost of less than
DA 20 million (about US$5 million).
b.   Financing with Bank funds for each subpoject would be limited:
(i)  for SNMC and SNMetal:  to US$5 million.
cii) for RIDP: to US$2 million.
c.   About 50%O of the loan would be for subprojects of State
Enterprises and about 50% for RIDP, subject, if need be, to
changes in this formula as may subsequently be agreed upon
with the Bank.
d.   On balance a loan of US$40 million should be sufficient to
achieve the main purpose of this project, with an expected
commitment period of about two years.
1/   This ratio is mainly based on SNMC experience and projections.



- 18 -
G. Sectoral Problems Under the Proposed Loan
3.22      The two most serious problems which are expected to be encountered
by BAD's appraisal and supervision Unit in appraising projects for the pro-
posed Bank loan, will be project management and project preparation, tradi-
tionally the two weak spots of Algerian industrial projects. A third problem
which is discussed in para. 4.24 is price controls:
a.   Due to the novelty of the program, and to the lack of expertise
in industrial activities of the local administrations expected
to sponsor these projects, the difficulty of securing adequate
top and middle management for new enterprises will be especially
serious for RIDP projects. BAD has already made arrangements to
obtain assistance from INPED for the training of managers and
skilled labor of the projects to be appraised by the Unit (para.
4.27). Similarly, SEZID, (para. 3.12), intends to set up a
management training school in the near future.  Both INPED and
SEZID plans would be barely enough to cope with training needs
but they are steps in the right direction.
b.   As for project preparation, the Enterprises will need specific
assistance from the authorities to finance feasibility studies
which they cannot undertake themselves (for want of staff or of
specific expertise). During negotiations, the Government has
agreed, in principle, to make adequate funds available to State
Enterprises for the preparation of feasibility studies for
projects, at the joint request of BAD's Unit and the enterprise
concerned. This understanding has been recorded in a Supple-
mentary Letter to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements.
IV. THE PROJECT -- PART 2: INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
4.01      There is considerable scope to increase BAD's role as a responsible
partner in the investment decision-making process and to enable it to provide
its independent opinion and recommendations on specific investment proposals.
In so doing, BAD would, for the first time, look at projects in their totality
and assess their merit on that basis. Though BAD would assume its new role
initially only for a small part of its total financing, the ramifications of
this important -- and difficult -- change of approach could eventually go far
beyond small projects of the construction materials subsector. In a sense,
it is an experiment which, if successful, could gradually result in a strength-
ening of BAD's involvement with the whole industrial investment process.
4.02      In appraising BAD for the proposed loan, the Bank concluded that
BAD would not be able to discharge effectively its new responsibilities with-
out the support of a substantial technical assistance arrangement. Before
outlining this arrangement (paras. 4.25 et seq.) and in order to give a per-
spective to its features and scope, a summary description of BAD follows.  A
more detailed description is given in Annex VII.



- 19 -
A.  Summary Description of BAD
4.03      By any standard, BAD is a very large financial institution, with
total assets of about DA 9 billion (US$2.3 billion) and a lending program for
the period 1974-77 well in excess of one billion US dollar equivalent per
annum. With a staff of only 75 professionals, and a relatively thin manage-
ment structure, BAD cannot look into all the details of such a large invest-
ment program. Until recently, top management was overburdened and could not
devote sufficient attention and time to matters of policy, training and or-
ganization. Increasingly, however, middle management (mainly eight Assistant
Directors) has been able to take a more active and responsible role and the
management situation is improving. Nevertheless, BAD's staff has little ex-
perience in project appraisal and supervision. There are no engineers and no
market analysts, and expertise in financial analysis requires strengthening.
Since 1973, BAD has been increasingly concerned with training its staff in
project appraisal and financing matters. Several training programs have re-
cently been conducted. In addition, BAD is looking for assistance from the
Bank Group. It has benefitted from EDI courses held in Algiers and in
Washington.
4.04      Operations.  BAD's operations since the 1971 reform (paragraph 2.11
to 2.14) have closely coincided with the investment projects of public enter-
prises undertaken under the four-year Plan. In the period 1972-74, 80% by
amount of the investment financed by BAD were for 30 large projects costing
over DA 100 million each, the remaining 20% being distributed among almost
150 smaller projects. BAD's long-term investment loans generally provide
about 40% of the cost of industrial investments. Another 30-35% is made up
cf medium-term loans provided by the primary banks while the balance (25-30%)
is financed with foreign suppliers credits obtained through -- and generally
guaranteed by -- BAD or the primary banks. Over 50% of BAD's lending is
directed to oil, natural gas and steel mills; these major subsectors are fol-
lowed by the electrical and the construction material industries. Besides
manufacturing industry, BAD also finances other sectors, such as mining,
transportation, marketing, electric power and gas supply, agro-industry and
fishing.
4.05      Profitability.  The Government's and BAD's policy of holding the
latter's interest rate spread to a low level of about 0.75% results in a low
profitability as gauged against the size of BAD's loan portfolio. BAD's bor-
rowing and lending rates are both fixed by the authorities with a view to
keeping financial charges as low as possible. Net profits cannot therefore
be used as a parameter to judge BAD's performance. Any income in excess of
what is deemed necessary for short-term liquidity requirements is turned over
to the Treasury in the form of contributions to the State's Budget, as is
cash surpluses of all other State Enterprises in Algeria.
4.06      Financial Structure.  The financial structure of BAD, excluding the
funds it manages on behalf of the Treasury, is essentially made up of its
borrowings from the Treasury (DA 7.2 billion at June 1974), on one side, and
of outstanding long-term loans made since 1971 (DA 8.4 billion), on the other.



- 20 -
Liabilities at June 1974 also include foreign borrowings of DA 802 million,
of which DA 570 million represents a loan obtained fromi a consortium of
American banks against the Government's guarantee. BAD's equity amounts to
only DA 213 million.  The "Permanent Advance from Government", amounting to
DA 1,031 million at June 1974, represents the outstanding balance of BAD's
current account with the Treasury, related to the public funds managed by
BAD on behalf of the Treasury as remnants of Algeria's pre-1971 financial
set-up. 1/ BAD's current ratio !- very comfortable, being well above 2:1.
The debt service ratio is roughly .t the 1:1 level, which follows logically
from the fact that the amortization schedules of BAD's loans closely match
the maturities of BAD's borrowings from the Treasury. 21
4.07      Quality of Portfolio.  Total arrears of principal and interest over-
due by more than six months on BAD's own portfolio amounted to DA 106 million
(1.3%) at June 1974. By amount, the portfolio affected by these arrears
amounted to DA 0.8 billion or a notionally high 9.7% of the total portfolio
outstanding.
4.08      The level of arrears, however, does not provide a fair indication
of BAD's exposure to risk. Profits and losses of State Enterprises in Algeria
are not always a sufficient indication of the efficiency or quality of the
enterprise since, in many cases, enterprises are not free to price their out-
put. Moreover, profits or losses do not accrue to the enterprise itself, but
to the State. When losses occur, rescheduling or restructuring procedures
(Annex VII, para. 34) are intended to offset their effect. However, the ad-
ministration of these procedures is time consuming. It may take months, or
at times more than a year, before a loan in arrears in BAD's portfolio is
rescheduled or other measures are taken by Government decisions. Under this
system, arrears in BAD's portfolio are more a reflection of administrative
bottleneck than of BAD's exposure to real risks. BAD, as far as its fiduciary
creditworthiness is concerned, carries practically no risk.
4.09      Controls and Audit.  BAD is audited by the Inspectorate of the
Ministry of Finance. As long as BAD's risks are borne by the Government, and
as long as losses or liquidity problems of borrowers do not affect the qual-
ity of BAD's portfolio, the auditing concepts appropriate to BAD are likely
to be different from the ones required for risk-taking financial institutions.
However, BAD, the Government, and other creditors need to know that:  (i) BAD's
accounts are properly and accurately kept and are organized to provide the
economy with an efficient information system on investment financing; (ii) funds
channeled through BAD are used in accordance with investment decisions, with
careful control of disbursements and of the progress of project implementation;
1/   The Government plans to convert, in 1975, the outstanding Treasury
advances into regular long-term loans, along with corresponding addi-
tional obligations of BAD to the Treasury.
2/   The terms of BAD's loans determine in general the terms of the Treasury
loans to BAD, so that, in general, maturities of loans and debts coin-
cide.



- 21 -
(iii) debt repayment by enterprises is carefully monitored and that remedies,
in line with Algerian policies, are provided promptly. The last aspect entails
that BAD and its auditors should have a good knowledge of the financial sit-
uation of the borrowers. So far, BAD's accounts have not been subjected to
in-depth audits along these lines because the inspectors of the Ministry of
Finance are overburdened.
4.10      Recognizing that the proposed loan to BAD is based predominantly on
the creditworthiness of Algeria, there remain nonetheless strong reasons to
improve financial controls (or audits as defined in the preceding paragraph)
over BAD as an institution. An accurate and well organized information system
in BAD would benefit the country's financial system as a whole, and the policy
makers in supervising the investment process. Also, a scrutiny of BAD's fi-
nances and operations is important to BAD itself in view of its new appraisal
and supervision objectives, which will require BAD to be more concerned with
the real financial situation of its clients. Therefore, BAD and the Govern-
ment have agreed during negotiations to have the inspectors of the Ministry
of Finiance audit (in the sense used above) BAD's financial accounts once a
year, and assess the following four points:
-    quality and accuracy of accounting methods;
-    proper use of funds;
-    status of arrears and remedies to be applied;
-    financial situation of borrowers.
Given the size of BAD's portfolio, as regards the last two points, the auditors
will focus, in their report for the Bank, on the financial situation of enter-
prises financed with Bank funds. Though this review will cover only a very
small portion of the entire portfolio, it is considered by the Algerians and
the Bank as a major step to familiarize, for the first time, BAD and its
auditor with the objectives of an audit conducted in accordance with generally
accepted accounting princinles. The Government and BAD are also aware that
the Bank will monitor closely the audit of BAD, and expects the Bank to advise
BAD and the Ministry of Finance on auditing matters. There is agreement, that
the Government will, upon the Bank's request, endeavor to take such corrective
action as niay be necessary. For this purpose, an amount of US$100,000 from
the proceeds of the loan would be made available to BAD, with the Bank's ap-
proval, for the financing of foreign technical assistance in this respect.
The Bank also intends to provide technical assistance on auditing matters
to BAD and to the Government when needed.
4.11      Interest Rates.  The Government controls the interest rate structure
and credit terms in Algeria. A detailed breakdown of the interest rate re-
gulations currently applied is given in Annex X. Until now, the Government's
position has been that the level of interest rates should not affect resource
mobilization and allocation. BAD's long-term industrial dinar loans are made
at 5.75% p.a., for up to 20 years. Rates for foreign exchange loans granted
from foreign credit lines are usually related to the actual cost to Algeria,
plus a small margin to cover BAD's administrative expenses. The Government is



- 22 -
not prepared at present to modify its policy, as long as the Plan remains the
main instrument of resource allocation and as long as available resources are
sufficient to finance the Plan. Thus, the Bank loan under consideration would
not have a significant influence on the Government's overall interest rate
policies. However, on the principle that no subsidv should apply to the use
of Bank funds, an agreement has been reached by which Bank funds will be lent
by BAD to sub-borrowers (State Enterprises or Wilayate) at a minimum of 10%
p.a. As is standard practice in Algeria for foreign lines of credit, the
sub-borrower would bear the foreign exchange risk on the use of the Bank funds.
This rate will enable BAD to cover its administrative expenses under the loan.
At this level of interest, sub-borrowers would have access to external re-
sources at a cost which approaches the rates now prevailing in international
capital markets.
B. Role of BAD and the Proposed Loan
4.12      At the request of the Government, the Bank has agreed to grant the
loan directly to BAD, which will serve as an intermediary for the extension
of credit to enterprises in a specific industrial sub-sector of high economic
priority. While the loan would not support a typical DFC operation, it has
similarities, such as:
a.   The creation within BAD of a Unit capable of sound and
proper appraisal and supervision of projects would set
the stage for the gradual strengthening and restructuration
of the institution.
b.   The agreements reached in this respect should assure the
economically sound use of Bank funds, under close supervision
by Bank staff.
4.13      BAD is a Government agency and, as such, to a large extent the ad-
ministrator of Algeria's capital budget in areas outside agriculture. It is
frequently used as the Government agent for overseas borrowing. The proposal
to lend to BAD is not intended to bestow a seal of good housekeeping on the
institution as an autonomous bank or a DFC; rather it arises from the Bank's
desire to have as close a relationship with the executing agency as possible.
Lending directly to BAD would certainly strengthen our ties with the institu-
tion which, in turn, may help to bring about a number of changes in the insti-
tution as well as reinforce the work and status of its appraisal and supervi-
sion unit.



- 23 -
4.14      The intentions of the Government to turn BAD into an effective ap-
praisal and supervision center will not be fulfilled rapidly. The recruiting
and training aspects associated with the appraisal of an investment program
such as BAD's pose formidable problens. In addition, BAD will have to prove
to the decision makers, and to the State Enterprises, that its taking up the
role of a development bank is beneficial to the whole economy and that it is
not counterproductive to the Plan's objectives.
4.15      In a first stage, rather than attempting a complete reorganization
of BAD, a more limited approach has been adopted. It consists of the training
of a selected team of BAD's staff and the adoption of specific policies for a
small portion of BAD's activities (i.e. small and medium-sized projects mostly
in the construction materials industry as described in Chapter III), which
would meet Bank standards as well as the Government's objectives.  For this
purpose, a special department, or Unit, with a clearly defined scope within
BAD's financing activities has been forned. At the beginning, the Unit will
limit its role to the appraisal and supervision of projects financed by the
proposed Bank loan. As soon as possible, BAD's Unit should aim at expanding
its role and action to other industrial subsectors.
4.16      In addition to BAD's internal constraints in moving in the direction
of a development bank in the full sense of that term, the established planning
and decision process in'Algeria, as well as the organization of the economy and
In particular of the State or Wilayate Enterprises, are important factors.
Three major issues in this respect are discussed below:
a.   Investment Decision Process
4.17      As outlined in Annex IV, the decision to invest ("individualization")
has often been taken by SEP on the basis of feasibility studies of uneven qual-
ity, usually prepared by the State Enterprises and reviewed by their parent
Ministry (generally, the Ministrv of Industry and Energy). Once the "indivi-
dualization" decision had been taken by SEP, BAD and the banking sector were
under the obligation to provide financing without evaluating the project's
characteristics.
4.18      The inherent weakness in this system had its roots mainly in the
lack of available expertise in the banks of which the Government was very much
conscious. In fact, the regulations approved since 1971, and reaffirmed in
1974 decrees, clearly called for an active participation of the banks, espe-
cially BAD, in assessing projects before the SEP's decision. One of the prime
objectives of the Government in its request for Bank assistance to BAL is pre-
cisely to enable BAD, now, to fulfill gradually its obligation to appraise the
projects it finances. For that purpose, and as first step, the Government has
assured BAD, and the Bank, that, at least fcr projects to be appraised by BAD's
Unit, BAD's appraisal of and recommendations on a project will be made before
a project is presented to SEP for "individualization". This understanding,
reached during negotiations would permit BAD to assume full responsibility
for the appraisal of these projects.



- 24 -
4.19      This system will apply equally to projects of State Enterprises,
and of the RIDP, but for the latter, it is likely to have even a vider impact
than for State Enterprises, since the loan will cover-a larger number of RIDP
projects than projects of SNMC and SNMetal. Moreover, the decision process
for the RIDP is still new and under review. For RIDP projects, there will be
a de facto delegation of project planning and projects decision to the Wilayate,
whose Technical Committees consider, and recommend on, these projects.  Assist-
ance from the Ministry of Interior will nevertheless remain an important feature
of the RIDP; the Ministry issues instructions, administrative decisions, guide-
lines and advice to the Walis. Finally, since BAD chairs the Technical
Committees, it should be in a position to ensure that projects have been pro-
perly studied before they are passed on for final approval to SEP. Through
the planned establishment of branch offices in the Wilayate, and through coop-
eration with the Credit Populaire d'Algerie, which has agi extensive network
of branch offices (para 2.18), BAD will keep in close touch with local invest-
ment planners, and will endeavor to ensure that feasibility studies and project
appraisals (the latter by the BAD Unit) are carried out before the Technical
Committee recommends on particular investments.  Only thereafter will SEP be
called upon for the final decision.
4.20      Obviously, in Algeria's centrally planned economy, the Goverment is
free to make its investment decisions irrespective of BAD's opinion. As a
consequence, SEP might, at times, oblige BAD to finance subprojects that have
been previously rejected by BAD's appraisal IUnit. Such subprojects, in any
event, would not be eligible for Bank financing. During negotiations, an
agreement was reached with the Governnent that BAD's position on projects
appraised by the Unit, would be given careful consideration by SEP. BAD's
position on such projects would be decided on by a Technical Committee of BAD.
b.   Importance of BAD's Decision
4.21      Under the proposed loan, and more generally under the objectives
which have led the authorities to request Bank assistance for this project,
BAD should be able to exercise, through its project appraisal and loan super-
vision, a direct influence over its sub-borrowers. It should ensure that the
sub-projects it finances are well conceived and economically justified, and
it would have to satisfy itself that conditions leading to these results are
agreed upon with sub-borrowers. There is clearly a question as to whether BAD
will be able to stand up professionally to and exert any degree of real in-
fluence over the powerful and very large State Enterprises. The Unit's task
will not be easy, because (i) BAD has to establish its professional credibility
as a sound appraisal center, and (ii) though the projects to be financed under
the loan will not be very large, as compared to other investment of SNMC or
SNMetal, they will require a special effort from these enterprises. This
issue is complicated by the fact that what would be required by BAD on certain
projects would not apply to other projects. At the beginning, BAD's request
might even be considered as inconsistent with the general practices and poli-
cies applying to the bulk of investments. However, on the basis of statements
made in Algeria by the State Enterprises themselves, as well as by their
parent Ministry (Industry and Mining), the Ministry of Finance, and SEP, the
Bank has reached the conclusion that BAD, with the avowed support from the



- 25 -
Government and from the Bank, should be able to hold its own and exert con-
siderable influence over investment decisions also for subprojects, appraised
by BAD's Unit, of large and powerful State Enterprises, such as SNMC and SNMetal.
4.22      The intention of the Government to permit BAD's Unit to exercise its
appraisal and supervision of projects in an independent manner have been con-
firmed during negotiations. In addition, in order to assist the Unit in its
initial stages, BAD will inform investors, their parent ministries (Industry,
Interior) and the Walis of the new responsibilities given to BAD and its Unit;
BAD will explain its new role and seek the cooperation needed from all parties.
c.   Appraisal Criteria
4.23      In Algeria, the law compels public sector enterprises to finance
the totality of their investments through credit. As a result, the notion
of equity in State or Wilayate Enterprises is not considered important. The
adopted economic and financial thinking in Algeria is that public sector en-
terprises are fully integrated with the State and that their creditworthiness,
debt liabilities and risk-taking are integral parts of the State's financial
structure. In such a system, financial discipline consists mainly of various
administrative controls whose efficiency varies. Although the Algerian au-
thorities have means of controlling the financial situation of enterprises
(the Plan, the approval of enterprises' budgets, the control by the banks
over the enterprises, etc.), the current system does not provide the safe-
guards which are characteristic of risk-taking enterprises. The only cri-
terion presently supported by the Government, and consequently by BAD, is the
requirement that enterprises be able to repay their debt on time. Because of
the general weakness of project appraisals, including the uncertainty affecting
debt service projections, and due to the existence of tight price controls,
many public sector enterprises have been facing considerable financial diffi-
culties. Ultimately, the Government bails out such enterprises, but the li-
ability of the Government in this respect is becoming very large (over DA 5
billion in subsidized, long-term loans were granted by the Government in 1974
to improve the financial structure of State Enterprises, about half of which
in industry and mining).
4.24      It is not easy against this background to make specific recommenda-
tions as to the criteria BAD's Unit should use in assessing the financial
situation of the enterprises it finances. New methods would have to be tested
against actual experience over some time. In the meanwhile, to establish
some form of financial discipline within the constraints of the existing
system, BAD's Unit will attempt to assess the financial viability of sub-
projects on the basis of the financial return on total capital invested, cal-
culated after the exclusioni of possible government subsidies. The effects of
price controls on the project's profitability will be analyzed by the Unit;
when severe distortions derive from price controls, BAD should review with
the Government the sale price of products and make recommendations aiming at
protecting the project's financial viability. Furthermore, the Unit will en-
sure that all projects meet sound liquidity and debt-service criteria. Final-
ly, in the Algerian system, a key consideration in the appraisal of a project



- 26 -
would be its economic return, as well as its qualitative economic and social
benefits. BAD's Unit will attempt to adapt the Bank's guidelines for calcu-
lation of economic rates of return on DFC subprojects to country circums-
tances. The Bank and EDI will actively assist BAD's Unit in developing a
methodology in this respect. The Policy Statement of the Unit (Annex VIII)
includes the following benchmarks to be used, at least initially, by the Unit
as project selection criteria: projects should =normally yield a minimum fi-
nancial rate of return of 9% p.a., and a minimum economic rate of return of
8% p.a.
d.   Procurement
4.25      A commission formed by BAD, the primary bank, the relevant Ministry,
the Plan, a representative of the President's council and, in special cases,
the State Enterprise itself, is responsible for obtaining bids, reviewing
them and selecting the best offer. Procurement is regarded as an important
aspect of the investment process in Algeria. In the future, BAD's responsibil-
ity to appraise all aspects of the projects it finances would include BAD's
passing judgment also on the effectiveness of procurement procedures.
C. BAD'S New Appraisal and Supervision Unit
4.26      The project appraisal and supervision Unit created within BAD will
be similar in many respects to the projects departments of conventional de-
velopment banks. The Unit, though small at the beginning, will be staffed
with economists, engineers and financial analysts of sufficient experience or
training. In addition, and following a request from the Governiment, two
experienced staff members of IBRD will be seconded to BAD and assigned to this
Unit to help in appraising projects, to advise on methods and policies and to
train staff. These two persons neither could nor should appraise alone the
projects financed under the proposed loan. However, with proper guidance from
them, a number of BAD's professionals can attain, over a year or so, the pro-
fessional standards required. Six of them have already participated in proj-
ect appraisal courses sponsored by EDI in November-December 1974. Further
training is underway or planned so that, by mid-1975, a Unit of about twelve
qualified or semi-qualified professionals could be in place. Further expan-
sion, training and recruiting for the Unit is envisaged (paras. 4.28-4.34).
All in all, the Unit, so staffed, should be able, with the advice and part-
icipation of the Bank staff seconded, to produce appraisals of adequate
quality for Bank financing shortly after the loan becomes effective. Monitor-
ing of these appraisals would remain with the Bank, in a way similar to sub-
projects financed under Bank loans to development finance companies. There
would be no free limit. In the process of supervising its loan to BAD, the
Bank would pay special attention to the organization, training and efficiency
of the Unit, the support it receives from BAD's management and its success in
dealing with the Government's decision makers as well as with BAD's potential
borrowers.



- 27 -
4.27      Selection of Subprojects.  One of the first tasks of the Unit will
be to organize a work program for appraising projects in an efficient and
orderly manner. Project selection will require not only BAD's attention but
should be undertaken in close coordination with the Ministries of Industry
and Interior, the Wilayate, INPED and CPA (para. 2.12). As a part of its
reporting obligation s to the Bank, BAD should prepare, by September 1, 1975,
a work and lending program of sub-projects to be examined by the Unit, under
the limits defined in para. 3.21) and covering the operations of the Unit
until June 30, 1976. The Unit's work program will be regularly updated at
the beginning and in the middle of each fiscal year and will be communicated
to the Bank. BAD agreed during negotiations to undertake this planning ex-
ercise.
4.28      Establishment and Staffing of the Unit.  During negotiations, BAD
confirmed that it has already created.at present a unit of 10 staff. The
Director of the Unit, as well as the other staff, have been recruited among
BAD's most experienced and capable staff. The staff include six professionals
having been exposed to EDI training. In addition, BAD has agreed to recruit
at least one experienced engineer to become a member of the Unit. The Bank and
BAD are currently searching for qualified candidates. BAD will expand the
size of the Unit as operations dictate.
4.29      Bank Staff Secondment.  Two Bank staff members with considerable
expertise in project appraisals and finance will be seconded to BAD to help in
the Unit's operations and in training the staff of the Unit to undertake sound
appraisal and supervision of projects. Their secondment to BAD would be con-
tracted for a two-year period. During that period, these staff would be fully
responsible to BAD. Administratively they would be considered by BAD as
Technical Advisors, but BAD has agreed, during negotiations, that they will
be given clear responsibility for establishing guidelines and work programs
within the Unit, according to their experience and in line with the policies
of the Unit (para 4.33). The financing of the salaries and associated cost
for staff secondment (including the engineer if expatriate) will be proposed
to UNDP. There are already informal indication that UNDP financing can be
secured. In such a case the Bank will be the Executing Agent.
4.30      Association with INPED.  In its appraisal of investment subprojects
financed under the proposed loan, BAD will have to analyze and pass judgment
on all aspects of these projects, including the managerial, technical and
market aspects.   The lack of experts in Algeria in these fields is a serious
constraint and severely limits BAD's possibilities to hire experts in these
disciplines. The authorities have assigned to INPED (Annex III) part of the
task of studying the technical and market aspects of projects in the Wilayate
industrial program and other sectors, as well as to provide technical assist-
ance for training the middle and top management for enterprises. INPED, which
receives massive foreign technical assistance and has sufficient experts to
accomplish a useful role, has agreed to assist BAD in the technical/market/
training appraisal of subprojects to be financed by the Unit. At least, over
a reasonable period, such an arrangement would allow BAD to divide its work,
and to proceed with the training of its own staff without embarking upon an



- 28 -
over-ambitious hiring plan. In appraising this project, considerable atten-
tion has been given to INPED's qualifications as a supporting agency to BAD.
Our assessment is threefold. First, INPED seems to have the means, and is
acquiring the experience, to provide good quality technical advice on projects;
most of INPED's engineers come from reputable foreign companies.  Secondly,
INPED management seems determined to run INPED in an efficient manner and is
willing to cooperate with BAD. Thirdly, the alternative of having BAD hiring
all the technicians it would need or passing a technical assistance contract
with foreign firms does not seem a practical solution.
4.31      An agreement has already been signed between INPED and BAD, estab-
lishing a cooperation program according to which INPED would provide BAD
(without charge) with the assistance needed to (i) define the technical as-
pects of subprojects, (ii) evaluate the market, and (iii) train management
and other experts especially for Wilayate enterprises, as needed, in light
of BAD's appraisal of subprojects under the proposed loan. BAD, not INPED,
will be in control of the Unit's appraisals. The Unit should be able, on
the strength of its own staff, to monitor the technical work assigned ini-
tially to INPED. This is one of the main reasons for the requirement that
the Unit include at least one experienced engineer.
4.32      Association with the Credit Populaire d'Algerie (CPA).  CPA is the
appointed primary bank for Wilayate enterprises; it has an extensive network
of branches across the country. CPA is currently studying the impact the RIDP
would have on its organization and finances. It is too early to have a clear
picture in this respect but, obviously, CPA will play an important role in the
day-to-day operations of Wilaya enterprises and, lndirectly, on the Bank proj-
ect. For example, CPA would have to arrange for frequent supervision of the
enterprises it finances with medium-term or working capital loans. Also, BAD
and CPA will closely cooperate in the implementation of investment projects
since CPA will maintain and monitor the accounts of the Wilaya enterprises.
CPA will also be associated with BAD in the supervision of the construction
of projects as well as, later on, the operation of these enterprises. CPA
has already indicated that it will provide BAD with the assistance needed to
achieve the purpose of the proposed Bank loan. Though it is not recommended
here to formalize the relationships between CPA and BAD in the context of this
project, it would be useful, to the extent possible, to continue the dialogue
between the Bank and CPA, through BAD, so that CPA would be well informed of
the Bank project and able to provide maximum cooperation to BAD in the day-to-
day performance of this project.
4.33      Policy Statement of the Unit. The Unit's operations and performance
will be functions of (i) the quality of the staff assigned to it, (ii) the
advisory role of Bank staff seconded to it and their acceptance by BAD and by
the Unit, and (iii) the support received by the Unit from BAD's top management.
A Policy Statement establishing the Unit as a structured group with clear
guidelines regarding staffing, advisorv support, training, organization,
operational objectives, basic approach to project appraisal and supervision
including methodology, is an essential part of the proposed loan. It is
attached in Annex VIII. During negotiations, BAD agreed that this Statement
be incorporated in the Loan Agreement (Schedule III thereof).



- 29 -
4.34      Further Training.  Further outside assistance would be required to
enable the Unit, and BAD as a whole, to make progress in its project appraisal
expertise. There are two areas where the Bank Group can continue to assist
BAD. First, further training through EDI and specific training within the
Bank would continue both in the field and in Washington. Second, the Bank
should be prepared to accommodate requests to associate BAD staff to Bank
appraisal missions in Algeria for projects, for which the local currency fi-
nancing is provided by BAD (i.e. all projects in the productive sectors ex-
cluding agriculture). In this process, a number of BAD staff could be ex-
posed to the appraisal methods of the Bank in large projects. This would
help BAD in its work under the proposed loan; it would also pave the way for
BAD's undertaking sound appraisals of large projects in the longer run.
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Recommendations
5.01      A Bank loan to BAD of US$40 million equivalent is recommended to
finance part of the import component of construction materials subprojects
financed by BAD. These subprojects would have been fully appraised by BAD's
Unit according to the Statement of Operations and Policies of the Unit (Annex
VIII) and would be submitted to the Bank after approval by BAD's Board and SEP.
In line with the Bank's and BAD's experience with the type of projects included
in this loan, subloans should be repaid over a maximum period of 15 years from
the date of the loan; grace periods of 1-4 years are normally to be expected.
The terms of the proposed loan, will be determined on the basis of the aggre-
gate maturities of BAD's subloans; however, the total term will not exceed
15 years. There would be no free limit. The Bank will provide technical
assistance to BAD through the secondment of two qualified Bank staff over a
two year period. As explained in para. 4.10, a portion -- up to US$100,000 --
of the proposed loan would be available to BAD, with the Bank's approval, to
finance part of the foreign technical assistance to improve BAD's audit.






ALGERIA
SELE'TED DEVELOPPE:T INDIq' TORS
Actual    Est.                       Prolected                             Growth rates
1973-    1975-    1980-
1973     1974      1975      1976      1977      1980     1985      1977      1980      1985
A.     NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(DA billions; 1973 prices)
1.  Gross domestie produet                   31.2      33.3     35.4      39.9      43,0      53.5      75.9       8.3       8.6       7.2
2.  Gains from TT                             -         7.4       6.0      6.7       6.1       8.5      11.7
3.  Gross domestic income                    31.2      40.7      41.4     46.5      49.2      62.0      87.6      12.1       8.4       7.2
4.  Imports                                  11.1      14.5      16.8     18.1      18.9      21.8      29.5      14.2       5.4       6.2
5.  Exports - volume                          8.6       7.8       7.5      8.8       9.7      13.6      18.0       3.1      12.6       5.8
6.  Exports - TT adj.                        -8.6    -15.2    -13.4    -15.4    -15.8    -17.4    -29.7           16.4       5. 4     11.3
7.  Resource gap - TT adj.                    2.6    - 0.7        3.4      2.6       3.1    - 0.3    - 0.2
8.  Consumption                              21.7      25.4      27.2     32.1      34.2      40.2      58.6      12.0       8.1       7.8
9.  Investment, inci. stocks                 12.0      14.7      17.5     17.0      18.1      21.5      28.8      10.8       4.2       6.0
B.     BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
($ millions; current prices)
1.  Exports, incl. NFS                      2,057    4,918    4,813    6,017    6,662   11,517   21,696           34.2      19.1      13.5
(Hydrocarbon exports)                 (1,489)  (4,348)  (4,164)  (5,282)  (5,829) (10,255) (18,871)   (40 8)   (19.8q)   (13-0)
2.  Imports, incl. NFS                     -2,669   -4,700   -6,015   -7,045   -7,974  -11,370  -21,524           31.8      13.6      13.6
3.  Resource balance                        - 612       218   -1,201   -1,027   -1,312         147       172
4.  Net factor service income                 105       142       130       47       -38    - 154    - 1l6
(Interest receipts)                      ( 19)    ( 84)    (110)    (101)    (113)    (149)    (256)
(Workers' remittances)                   (214)    (241)    (266)    (290)    (313)    (387)         (543)
(Interest payments)                      (-79)   (-130)   (-195)   (-280)   (-395)   (-730)   (--74)
(Other, net)                             (-49)    (-53)    (-50)    (-6 )    (-70)    (-6()         (-91)
5.  Net current transfers                      84        95        95        95       95        95        9-
6.  Balance on current account              - 423       4S6    -976    _ &.   -1,255           -18       101
7.  Private direct investment                  48        5S        64       74        84       104        (9
8.  Official capital grants                   -37       -76         0         0        0         0         0
9.  Public M+LT loans, net                    912       162       751    1,059    1,395        223       365
(Disbursements)                       (1,066)    (470)  (l,032)  (1,508)  (2,051)  (1,696)  (2,6'14)
(Amortization)                        (- 154)  (- 632) i/(- 281)  (- 449)  (- 656) (-1,473) (-2,249)
10.  Capital transactions, n.e.i.               73       277        13        10         9       13        23
11.  Change in reserves (-   increase)    - 573    - 550           147    - 258    - 232    - 322    - 579
12.  Net reserves
- amount at year's end                 1,100    1,650    1,504    1,761    1,993    2,842    5,381
- equivalent in months' imports           4.9      4.2       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0
C.     EXTERNAL DEBT
1.  Loan commitments ($ million)            2,112       156       902    1,380    2, 23      1,769    2,712
(Commercial banks)                    (1,301)        344/  (415)    (90)  (1,606)         (79)  (1.415;)
2.  Debt service: %; of exports              11.3       8.5 -    9.8      12.1      15.8      19.1      14.4
3.  Debt outs. and disb. ($ million)        3,164    2,851    3,584    4,643    6,037    7,986    9,427
1J  Including advance repayments of commercial bank loans totalling $344 million.
/ Excluding advance repayments from debt service.
-  nil or less than half of unit shown
not applicable                                                                                                                             H
Details may not add up to totals due to rounding.
EMENA IC&DFC
March 1975



ANNEX Il
Page 1
BANQUE ALGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
The Banking System of Algeria - A Summary
1.        The Credit Council, established in 1971, is the highest nionetary
authority; it examines and advises on all matters related to monetary and
credit policy, particularly in the volume and cost of credit. The Technical
Committee of Banking Institutions was set Up at the same time as the Credit
Council to study the problems of the banking system and propose measures for
improvements.
2.        The Central Bank was established in December 1962 and commenced
operations in 1963 by assuming the functions formerly undertaken by the
French nationalized bank, Bank of Algeria. It has the usual instruments of
monetary policy such as open market operations, discount rate changes, redis-
count ceilings, and liquidity ratios but relies primarily on rediscount ceilings.
It is administered by a Governor, a Director General and a Board of Directors.
Both the Governor and the Director General are appointed by Presidential Decree
and are permanent members of the Board cf Directors. The Board has broad
powers over credit and monetary policies and decisions are taken by simple
majority.  The Central Bank receives deposits from the Government and makes
payments on its behalf in its role as a banker and financial agent for the
Government. As banker to the primary banks and other specialized credit
institutions (BAD), the Central Bank accepts deposits and provides credit
mostly in the form of short-term rediscounts of commercial paper and treasury
bills. Medium-term credit may be rediscounted to the primary banks and to
other specialized financial institutions (BAD, CNEP) to help finance invest-
ments provided in the Plan and for housing construction.  These medium term
credits are granted for an initial period of three months and renewable up to
five years, but after three years they have to be financed in full by the
primary banks. In principle, the commercial banks are required to hold the
equivalent of 60%o of their short-term assets in short-term liabilities.
3.        The three state-owned primary banks conduct all banking activities
and, together with the Postal System, handle all external financial transac-
tions. They are allowed to carry out foreign exchange operations but they are
required to transfer daily their foreign exchange balance to the Central Bank.
Individuals and private enterprises may have as many accounts in as mïany
primary banks as they choose. Public enterprises are assigned to one primary
bank in which they are permitted two accounts; one for current operations and
one for capital investment. Primary banks are permitted to borrow abroad on
a long-term basis in order to fund some of the foreign exchange needs of the
public sector enterprises assigned to theri, and thev can also issue guarantees
on foreign borrowings of those public enterprises which have sufficient standing
to top the international capital market on the strength of their own name
(i.e., SONATRACH). All foreign borrowings are channelled through BAD. In
general, the primary banks cannot make long-terr loans; exceptions are long-
term loans out of resources obtained from foreign long-term borrowings, or
loans made to agriculture by BNA.



ANNEX Il
Page 2
4.        A summary of the main features of each of the three primary banks
follows:
(i) The Banque Nationale d'Algerie (BNA) established in July
1966, had 3,300 employees, and assets of DA 7.3 billion
at end 1972. It had 155 branches throughout the country
by the end of 1974. It is the only bank which has access
to Treasury loans for medium and long-term investment credit
to agriculture. It also finances agricultural crops and
their marketing from its own resources; it is in fact in-
volved in the appraisal of agricultural projects starting
from the local level and all the way up to final Government
approval. Besides having a monopoly in agriculture, it has
30 State Enterprises assigned to it, some of them in
agriculture-related fields such as food processing, textiles
and wood industries. It has also AIR Algerie, mining com-
panies and metal transformation industries. Twenty percent
of BNA's operations are still done with private investors.
(ii)  The Banque Exterieure d'Algerie, (BEA) established in 1967
through the nationalization and amalgamation of five foreign
banks operating in Algeria initially handled all foreign
operations of the Algerian banking community. It had 1,400
employees and assets of DA 3.8 billion at end 1972, 24
branches in the main cities of the country. Today it handles
about 60% of the banking business generated by State Enter-
prises since it is the primary bank for SONATRACH and SNS,
the two largest State Enterprises in the country. It also
has other State Enterprises in the chemical, constrution
materials, shipping, paper and electricity sectors, among
others.
(iii) The "Credit Populaire d'Algerie" (CPA) was also established
in 1967 and it has about 50 branches throughout the country.
It had about 1,300 employees and assets of about DA 1.8 bil-
lion at end 1972. It handles more business with private
investors than the other two primary banks but no exact
figures were available. It was originally supposed to
be the bank for small and medium-size enterprises but it has
gradually diversified its business with large enterprises in
the public sector, particularly construction, transport and
tourism. In November, 1972, CPA was appointed the primary
bank of Wilayate and Commune enterprises.
5.        Other financial institutions in Algeria include the National Savings
Fund (CNEP), which was formed in 1966 and mobilizes small savings of both
individuals and local communities and provides them with housing and mortgage
loans; the Postal Checking System, which accepts deposits; and two state owned
insurance companies which have the monopoly of all insurance operations in the
country, as a result of their assuming since 1966, the activities of a number
of insurance agencies, most of them branches of foreign companies.
EMENA
IC/DFC Division
August 1974



ANNEX III
Page 1
INSTITUT NATIONAL DE LA PRODUCTIVITE
ET DU DEVELOPPEMENT INDUSTRIEL
(INPED)
1.        INPED was created in August 1967 as a public sector agency under the
Ministry of Industry. Headquarters are in Boumerdes, about 50 miles east of
Algiers.
Objectives and Purposes
2.        To assist in the industrialization of Algeria, INPED's main func-
tions and roles are defined as follows:
(a) Train management of industrial enterprises in business
administration 
(b) Provide technical assistance to State Enterprises in
organization and management problems;
(c) Provide general consulting services to State Enterprises;
(d) Prepare feasibility studies and/or appraise the technical
and marketing aspects of projects for State Enterprises;
(e) Provide assistance to communes and wilayate in regional
development programs, including project identification,
appraisal of projects and training of managers and skilled
labor.
3.        With the growing demand placed on INPED for technical assistance and
appraisal services by the Ministry of Industry, the State Enterprises and
wilayate, INPED is now organized in four departments, as follows:
(a) Organization of Enterprises and management problems, (DOG)
which provides consulting services for organization of State
Enterprises. Over 50 consulting contracts have been signed
to date. INPED has a team of Algerian and foreign experts
for this activity.
(b) Management training. This department organizes courses and
seminars in business administration and various specialized
topics. INPED courses are in large part organized and run
under Canadian Technical assistance. At present about 600
students are trained every year.



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) Technical and market appraisal of new industrial projects of
State Enterprises. For this task, INPED has contracted with
several large engineering and consulting firms in Europe from
where it can draw expertise on a case by case basis. For this
activity, INPED is opening two branches in 1975, in Oran and
in Constantine.
(d) Regional Development Department. This department which is
relatively new is expected to acquire considerable importance
in the near future. Its role would be essentially to estab-
lish a link between the objective of the Plan and its actual
implementation. This department would be involved with the
sectoral identification of projects, market studies, feasibility
studies, technical and market appraisals of specific subprojects
as well as training of staff. INPED has negotiated substantial
technical assistance contracts in Europe to provide this Depart-
ment with the expertise in engineering and marketing needed for
this program.
STATEMENT OF AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
BANQUE ALGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (BAD)
AiD
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF PRODUCTIVITY AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT (INPED)
Prefatory Statement
The cooperation between Algeria and IBRD is bound to materialize
with IBRD extending to our country a line of credit intended to finance
medium sized projects related to the Wilayate.
Within this framework, BAD, which is responsible for the promotion
of investments in Algeria, plans to set up, with the cooperation of INPED,
the means necessary for the appraisal and implementation of these projects.
. For this purpose, a project appraisal Unit has been created within
BAD, with IBRD's technical assistance. The Unit is in charge of studying and
appraising projects selected for financing under the loan extended by IBRD.
Before a planned investment is implemented, it is important to
undertake a feasibility study covering all aspects of the project.
To this end, INPED is called upon to cooperate with BAD, and speci-
fically with its projects appraisal Unit, by contributing its expertise in
those areas in which the Unit is deficient, namely, in technical, economic,
and engineering studies.



ANNEX III
Page 3
Since INPED is the organization which the Ministry of Industry has
put in charge of promoting medium scale enterprises, its contribution is
useful in view of its role and of the means available to it.
The present agreement has the purpose of defining the modalities on
the basis of which the two institutions will cooperate, their common goal
being the development of the country.
Article 1
BAD and INPED vill join efforts to select, study, and formally
appraise, projects likely to be financed under the IBRD line of credit, in
order to meet all conditions necessary to implement the planned investments.
Article 2
The cooperation between INPED and BAD will pertain to the following
aspects:
- project selection
feasibility studies
- technico-economical studies
- engineering studies
- organization and management studies.
Article 3
Projects likely to benefit from IBRD financing may be chosen among
those which the Wilayate have requested INPED to study.
Article 4
INPED will provide, under its authority, the necessary staff in
number and in quality, to perform the tasks which will be confided to it.
Article 5
BAD's appraisal Unit shall prepare, with the collaboration of INPED,
all the necessary studies relating to the selected projects.
Article 6
The two institutions shall work in close cooperation, beginning from
the project selection phase, until the project's implementation. During this
process the two institutions shall consult with each other, and shall exchange
all information on each project.



ANNEX 111
Page 4
Article 7
For each project, BAD shall commit to INPED specific tasks through
formal requests made in accordance with this Agreement.
Article 8
The two parties reserve the possibility of concluding new agreements
in order to better specify the terms of their cooperation, and to adapt them
to each particular case.
Article 9
This Agreement applies especially to BAD's and INPED's intervention
in the following industria.l branches:
- construction materials
- metal frames
- wood and metal general carpentry
- prefabricated construction
- general mechanics
- small hardware for the construction industry
- food processing and chemical industries.
Article 1U
After having been studied and appraised, the projects shall undergo
the procedure foreseen by the State Secretariat for Planning and by the Minis-
try of Finances concerning the financing of local economic units.
Article Il
This Statement of Agreement is prepared in two copies, eacri of which
shall be regarded as equally authentic.
Article 12
The present Agreement shall become effective on the day w..en it is
signed, and shall remain in effect indefinitely.  However, each o0  t;he parties
shall be entitled to terminate it by advising the other party by rtzistered
mail at least two months in advance.
Algiers, February 17, 197Y
Signed:
for INPED                                       for BAD
The Director                        The President Director General
EMENA
IC & DFC Divisions
March 1975



BAN4UE ALERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEYENT
The Indu strial Inveatient Decision Process Stop by Stop - A Sumary
Institutlons alhose     Type                   InatitutUon
vieie are sought        of                     Responaible          Inatitutiona
and/or which           Outcome /              for                 Idvised
participate in          Decision               Outcomse             o of
Stage          Mnin Purpose             the discussions                                Decision             Decision
Plan 4eetings  Discuesion of            SEM, PBs, Ministries, Det-ermination of         SEP                PBa, Minzatriea,
the 4-year              BAD, CB, SNs           tentative amriunts                          BAD,, CB, SNe
investment                                      o! investsents
program by                                     envisaged for
Sector/sub-                                    the h-year Plan;
sector/ enter-                                 definition of a
priee                                          framework of
activities
Tentative      Define the need          SEP, PBs, Min-         Identification of        Min Induatr7       SEP, BAD
stucy for      for a specific           Industry, BAD,         a project on a           upon the re-
Identifica-    project within the       SNs                    tentative basis          queat of the
tion of an     framework provided                                                       SN
industrial 1/  by the Plan
project
yeasibility     Study of technical    2SP, Minlndustry,        Produce a feasi-         SNs, under         PBa, BAD, SU
study together  market, and ec nomic   SNs, BAD                bility report            Min Induatry'a   Min Finance
with a request  aspectso. à project                            substantiating            lqua-lity"
to "individual- with preliminary                               the request to           control  2/
-ze" the project  financirg plan                               "individualize"
pa  coject
!rydv&iLk' i - -  7   4ecidc or the     SEP, Milind2stry       Decisi.r. to -o          SEP upon PMU      ? PBa, N±nSxba-try,
tiir: Decision    mrin aspects                                 ahead with a             Industry's        BAD, MinFinance
(DI) together    Justifyir.g a spe-                            project within the       recomwndationm
w.t' "technicaL  ci2ic project                                 context defined by
card" 'F.T.)                                                   the Plan
lnnual  Trarc9he   To consclidate the   SEP, MinFinance,       Definition of the        BAD'a Board       PBa, MinInduetry,
o- Ihnvestmer.ts   tert-ttive financial  BAD                   total investment          (Minpinanoe/     CB, SNa
pl'ns _ each one of                          needs for a year          SEP issue
the projects whose D.I.                      on the basis of           formally)
h as already been taken                      the tentative fin-
ancing plans of the
erterprises and
the investment amounts
reraînainfln  unallocated
from previous years
F1n3ncing        To produce the         BAD, PBs, SNs          Provide a project         BAD's Board      PBs, MinIndustry,
P?mn :or a        financing plan                               whose D.I. has          (MinFinance        SEP, CB, SNs
project on. a     hest suited to                               already been taken       authorizes
final  basis     the project's                                 with authorization       foreally)
neecs according to                          for a given financing
the availability                             plan.  3/
of t.he Country's
financial resoa.rces
Convertion        To agree on the       BAD, PBs, SNs          Cosmitment of the SN    RAD, PBa, SNs    MinIndutry,
or sign3ture of   commitments defining                         to carry out the                           MinFinance
the loan/s         the specific terms                          project and of the                         CB
approved by the   of the financirg                             financial system to
financing plan    authorized                                   provide it with the
as authorized                                                  approvea financing  LV
or a final basis
Pootnotesa See page 2
ImmR IC&LWV
t 197i&



ANNU IV
Page 2 of 2
Footnotes to Page 1
1/  Industry in a wide sense; productive activities.  The process is the same for other type
of projects but the role of each institution varies slightly (i.e., MinIndustry, would be
substituted by MinAgriculture in the case of an agriculture project).
2/  The quality control consists basically in the checking of the study' e main features as
against the "Manuel d'evaluation des Projets" which is kept and updated regularly by the
SEP on the basis of the experience gained by the overalll system in project appraisal.
3/  Financing Plan is prepared on a pluriannual basis but there is only a comnitment to provide
financing in a one given year; the plan being gradually reviewed in light of:  1) overruns
of any type and, ii) resource availabilities.
h/ Up ti May 197h, the convention was only on an annual basis, after that date convention is on
a project basis, that is to say, it gives a commitment on a pluriannual basis.



ANNEX V
BAiQUE ALGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Charte de le Gestion des Entreprises Socialistes
1.        Based on "Ordonnance" No. 71-74 of November 16, 1974, the 'Charte'
applies to all Socialist Enterprises, which are defined as financially auto-
nomous institutions whose assets are fully owned by the state. A Socialist
Enterprise may comprise one or more Units.
2.        The worker's General Assembly is elected by the workers for a three
year period. It consists of 7 - 25 members and meets twice a year or when
exceptional circumstances call for it. The Assemblv has the right to be
informed of all activities of the enterprise and produces an annual report
giving an opinion on the management of the enterprises. It also gives its
view on the investment program, budget, financial statements and Auditor's
report. It is associated with management in elaborating personnel, training
and workers promotion policies of the enterprise, and it is to be consulted
by management on every important reform which affects the situation of the
workers as well as on each structural change of the enterprise. It decides
also on the allocation of the enterprise's profits within the existing legal
framework. The Assembly operates on the basis of the work done by specific
commissions on economic/financial, social/cultural, personnel/training, dis-
cipline and hygiene/security affairs. The Assembly's decisions are always
taken by the majority. The Assembly can be dissolved, if important opera-
tional deficiencies occur, under the initiative of the Unions, the Party or
the relevant Ministry.
3.        The Management Council is presided by the General Manager and in-
cludes an undetermined number of his immediate associates and one or two
workers' representatives elected by the Assembly. The composition of the
Management Council has to be officially announced by the relevant Ministry.
It meets at least once a week and every time the General Manager so wishes.
The council is kept informed by Management on the general activities of the
enterprise and, specifically, on what Management proposes regarding invest-
ment programs, sales, production, expansion, resources, salaries and organi-
zation of. the enterprise.
4.        The General Manager is responsible for the operations of the enter-
prise and "hierarchically' exercises his authority over the personnel. The
General Manager is nominated by Presidential Decree under the proposal of the
relevant Ministry and is dismissed following the same legal procedure. The
General Manager proposes his management team to the relevant Ministry for its
official nomination.



ANNEX VI
Page 1
REGIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (RIDP) FOR
MEDIUM AND SMALL-SIZE INDUSTRIES
A. Background
1.        Since Independence, regional disparities in Algeria have been of
concern to the Government. Before Independence, Algeria's commerce and in-
dustry were concentrated in four large cities, and agriculture was limited
to low, rich lands. Distortions were aggravated during the war by destruc-
tions in a number of specific zones.
2.        During the first Four-Year Plan (1970-73), growing emphasis was put
by the Government and the Plan on decentralization of investments. This policy
was carried to some extent by State Enterprises which established units of
production in new urban centers. The growing allocation of equipment credits
to agriculture, handicraft, as well as the launching of special programis to
reconstruct the poorest areas of the country, have also been an incentive for
regional development.
3.        At the end of the last Plan (1973), 300 small-scale enterprises had
been created and were run by local governments.  These included 45 enterprises
under the administration of the Wilayate, mostly handicraft centers, but also
in construction and public works, transportation and urban development. The
annual turnover of these enterprises reached nearly DA 300 million in 1973.
B. Regional Industries in the Second Plan (1974-77)
4.        While exceptional investment procedures continued to apply after
1973 for the financing and management of special development programs approved
for the 200 poorest communes of the country, as well as for the modernization
of 33 urban centers, the Plan (1974-77) promoted a new program of investment
to create small- and medium-size local industries to benefit about equally
all Wilayate in the country.
5.        This program is only one part of a general decentralization program.
The promoeion of regional industries which would be, in large part, directed
to the production of building materials, also foresees the establishment of
developed structures for agriculture, a strengthening of the local governments
and local administration and rapid growth and modernization of local public
works enterprises. These objectives would take place under the framework of
development plans designed and run by wilaya or communes themselves.
6.        In the industrial sector, the program has two objectives:  On one
hand it aims at exploiting local resources, including raw material, agriculture
products, labor, and at meeting local demand for priority products. On the
other hand, this program should allow a gradual balance in industry with large
State Enterprises and discharge the latter from supplying local demand which
can be accommodated cheaply by the regions thenselves.



ANNEX VI
Page 2
7.        The regional industrial program is quite substantial.  Investment
credits foreseen by the Plan should reach at least DA 910 million, including
DA 164 million for projects under construction and DA 746 million for new proj-
ects. This represents about 2% of net total industrial investment foreseen
in the Plan. This program covers about 800 projects including 300 handicraft
units (see above) already in operation which are being reorganized as coopera-
tives.
C. Characteristics of the Program
8.        The instructions of the Plan regarding small- and medium-size regional
industries are as follows: "The Plan gives absolute priority to the broadening
of the production capacity at the regional level. In this context, sponsors
will promote rapidly investments related to housing and building construction,
such as building materials plants. Investors will also aim at creating pro-
duction units such as metal industries, carpentry, wood processing, etc. In
addition, an essential objective of the development of regional industries
being a better balance of employment, sponsors will pay particular attention
in designing the investment to employment factors. The choice of technology
and methodology should aim at maximum labor intensity."
9.        The details of the Plan follow very precisely the objectives stated
above. The regional industrial Plan include investment projects in three
areas: (i) construction materials; (ii) general mechanical and metal process-
ing, (iii) various medium size industries taking account of local resources,
such as food processing textile, handicraft etc.
10.       The table below shows the list of RIDP projects as originally fore-
seen in the Plan. This table should only be considered as a first approximation
of the scope of the program. After further studies conducted by the Ministry
of Interior, the conclusion has been reached that the overall size of RIDP will
remain close to what was originally planned in terms of total investment cost;
conversely, the number of projects to be implemented during the Plan period
will be drastically reduced, to about one-half. The size and investment cost
of individual projects, especially in the construction materials subsector, will
be vastly increased compared to original estimates. This follows, on the one
hand, from the more accurate cost estimates, taking into account international
price increases for the equipment, and, on the other hand, from size optimiza-
tion as well as organizational and distribution considerations. Though somewhat
outdated, however, the list of original projects shown in the table is still
useful because it indicates the direction in which RIDP will develop.



Page 3
REGIONAL INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Construction mate-    No. of  Capacity   Investments   50% in foreign currency
rials                Projects per unit   (DA million)           (DA million)
- Bricks                   32   15,000 t        144.0                   72.0
- Roof tiles               15   10,000 t3        45.0                   22.5
- Cement granite tiles   56  100,000 m          112.0                   56.0
- Composite material
tiles                  47  150,000 m3         94.0                   47.0
- Concrete products        35   15,000 t         52.5                   26.2
- Plaster                  11   15,000 t          33.0                  16.5
- Gypsum quarries           3   10,000 t           6.0                   3.0
- Quicklime                10    8,000            25.0                  12.5
209                   511.5 /a               255.7
Metal working industries
- metallic carpentry       il      -             33.0                   16.5
- mechanical industry    20        -              30.0                  15.0
- Subcontracting for
heavy industry        6       -             30.0                   15.0
- Other metal working    30        -             79.0                   39.5
67                   172.0                   86.0
Wood and Paper
- carpentry                39      -              56.0                  28.0
- other                    10      -              14.0                   7.0
49                    70.0                   35.0
Food processing            13      -              26.0                  13.0
Textiles                   10      -              24.0                  12.0
Chemical products           8                    22.0                   11.0
Traditional handicraft   12                       36.0                  18.0
Maintenance work shops   30                       30.0                  15.0
Tourism projects          106                    112.0                  56.0
TOTAL               504                   1003.5 /b               501.7
/a   Average investment cost of construction materials projects:  DA 2.5
million or $0.6 million.
/b   Average investment cost per project:  DA 2.0 million or $0.5 million.



ANNEX VI
Page 4
D.  Sample survey of the lWi-laya program
11.       The appraisal mission visited several Wilayate and Wilaya projects
which are already in operation.  Some of the findings related to two repre-
sentative cases follow:
SOCOHYD
12.       This is a pharmaceutical product factory (medicinal cotton-wool
gauze) located in Issers, Wilaya of Tizi-Ouzon (east of Algiers). The project
of DA 6 million was financed by grants from the Government channelled through
BAD.
13.       SOCOHYD is an industrial complex already in operation and which,
when completed, will consist of four sections:
(j) manufacture of absorbent cotton-wool for medical use and non-
absorbent cotton-wool for other purposes (investment 6 million DA)
(ii)  gauze dressings manufacture with imported gauze (this section is
now being started, investment 4.5 million DA)
(iii)  gauze weaving for dressings (realization not yet started;
investment 20 million DA)
(iv)  spinning the yarn for the gauze manufacture (in planning stage,
investment 20 million DA).
14.       SOCOIIYD is a legal entity acting under the sponsorship of the Minis-
try of the Interior, the technical guidance being assured by the Ministry of
Industry and Energy and the Health Ministry. It is managed by:
(i) the Assembly of the Workers (General Assembly)
(ii) the legally constituted Supervising Board, of which the
members are:
'the Governor of the Wilaya (Wali), president,
1 director of the Wilaya,
1 director of the Ministry of the Interior,
1 director of the Ministry of Industry and Energy,
1 director of the Health Ministry,
3 members of the Wilaya Assembly,
the General Manager as reporter.
This Council has no direct managerial power.
(iii) the General Manager



pANWEX VI
(iv) the Managing Board constituted by the General Manager, the
Section Chiefs (production, maintenance, commercial, personnel),
the Secretary General of the Trade Union Section and a member
of the Workers' Assembly.
Overall, the organization of SOCOIYD is very similar to that of a joint-stock
company (Societe anonyme); as such it gives the impression of being quite
complicated for a relatively small enterprise. In reality, the day-to-day
management is in the hands of the General Manager who, assisted by the senior
staff, is responsible for the orderly functioning of the plant.
15.       Only general bookkeeping is done by the erterprise.  As to the
bookkeeping of the production costs, the enterprise relies upon the National
Institute for Prices, the necessary basic information being supplied by
SOCOHYD. The General Manager appears to be competent and quite able to manage
a plant of this size. The composition of the staff of 80 is adequate.
16.       As to profitability SOCOHYD, is starting to show a small profit.
But the accounting of the production costs and the pricing policy which is
under the control of the Institute of Prices create a problem. The Institute
is unable to keep a sufficiently close contact with all the enterprises it
controls. In addition, the Price Institute watches rather carefully that
enterprises make as little profit as possible. Thus, the situation of this
enterprise remain marginal. Making higher profit should, however, be possi-
ble. This is a matter of policy linked to the establishment of a pricing
mechanism which would adequately reflect efficiency of enterprises not only
for the distribution of the Wilaya divident, but eventually for the creation
of a reserve fund.
Achievements and Prospects in the Wilaya of Tlemcen
17.       The wilaya of Tlemcen has created and developed several enterprises
in the framework of regional development as follows:
-    Public works equipment and material
-    Public works (SOTRAWIT)
-   *Water supply and sewage (SOGERWIT)
-    Center for Silk (CETS)
-    Four agriculture or agro-industry units.
18.       The silk center is an interesting project which aims at developing
production, processing and spinning of silk. Already 1000 hectaresof mulberry
trees have been planted and the mill is under construction. In a first phase
this project will employ 700 people. This project would serve as a test for
the creation of similar project wherever mulberry trees can be cultivated.
It appears to be a very promising example of integrated agro-industry.



ANNEX VI
Page 6
Two of the other industrial enterprises are described below:
(a) Public works' equipment and material
19.       This enterprise was created in 1971.  The objective was to build
up a stock of equipment, vehicles and parts for public works in the Wilaya.
Such equipment could be rented to users. From this initial objective, essen-
tially based on leasing, the enterprise has started to undertake itself public
works, such as roads, heavy works, navvying, embankinent, etc...  By the end
of 1974, the enterprise employed 450 people, including 10 engineers, divided
in four departments:
-    public works
-    purchase and leasing of equipment
-    repairs and workshop
-    quarries
20.       At its inception the enterprise received a government grant of
DA 10 million which was used for the purchase of equipment. During the first
two years, financial controls have been very loose. Accounting and finance
were organized in 1973 leading to a situation which appears quite sound (sales:
DA 14 million in 1974.
(b) Public works (SOTRAWIT)
21.       Also created in 1971, its first contract was the construction of a
school which opened in September 1971. This enterprise has developed very
rapidly but cannot meet all demand. In 1974 it employed 1,150 persons. The
enterprise is organized in two main departments:
Engineering - which organizes and controls civil and public works
projects. It includes 3 engineers, 2 architects,
2 quantity surveyers, 2 draftsmen, etc.
Production   - organizes various activities needed for the work
program of the enterprise such as wood, mechanical
work, paint, plumbing, construction materials, etc.
22.       The financing of SOTRAWIT included a government grant of DA 0.5 mil-
lion, and a Treasury loan of DA 2.0 million. The Public Work's Equipment and
Material Enterprise provided considerable assistance in leasing equipment and
providing Treasury facilities. The turnover of the company has grown rapidly
from DA 7 million in 1972, to DA 14 million in 1973 and 1974. Starting 1973
SOTRAWIT had to have recourse to bank credit.
23.       SOTRAWIT has good top management.  It is however handicapped by the
lack of middle management. They are planning to create a new unit for pre-
fabricated lodging with financing from BAD.



ANNEX VI
Page 7
Prospects and planning for the Wilaya of Tlemcen
24.       The small- and medium-size industrial program for the Wilaya of
Tlemcen includes 51 projects, 21 from previous programs and 30 entirely new
projects. 22 out of the 30 new projects are purely industrial in their con-
cept and include 13 projects in construction materials, 4 in metal processing,
3 in wood processing, 1 textile project. Construction materials, wood and
metal represent respectively 50, 17 and 9% of total investment cost of the
program, which totals DA 64 mîllion. In discussion with responsible officials
in the Wilaya, two remarks were made regarding the Plan. First, there is
considerably enthusiasm for Government support, both in finance and technical
assistance. But at the same time the local government believes that the
program itself is not always correctly tailored to the specific needs of the
Wilaya. In the Wilaya of Tlemcen, such doubts are raised as regard the
production of bricks for example which is already produced in this area by
SNMC. The local authorities would like to put more priority on the creation
of processing industries related to construction and industrial equipmnent,
such as metal processing, electrical equipment, prefabrication of housing and
buildings etc. The dialogue between the Wilaya and the Central Government is
only starting and it will be as a result of this dialogue that details of the
Plan itself are likely to evolve to meet better the regional needs of the
Wilaya.
EMENA
IC & DFC
January 21, 1974



ANNEX VII
Page 1
Description, Activities and Prospects of
Banque Algerienne de Developpement (BAD)
(as of end 1974)
A. Establishment, Ownership, Legal Status and Functions
1.        Banque Algerienne de D.eçloppement (BAD), a State Enterprise fully
owned by the Algerian Government, was created in 1963 under the name of
Caisse Algerienne de Development (CAD). 1/ Its purpose was and continues to
be to participate in the financing of productive investments, to implement
the investment programs of the Algerian Government and to assure adequate
term financing for all approved investments undertaken in Algeria.
2.        Before 1971, BAD was merely for administrative purposes, a channel
between the Treasury and the State Enterprises. The 1971 reform gave BAD an
essential role in the allocation of resources to investment. 2/
3.        BAD's main functions at present are as follows:
a.   To prepare the financial plan for investment projects approved
by the Plan. These financial plans are based on technical and
market appraisals prepared by the State Enterprises and their
parent ministry. In drawing these plans, BAD takes into con-
sideration the nature of the investment and the expected cash
generation of the project. BAD is responsible to prepare fi-
nancial plans into annual tranches for each type of financing:
long- and medium-term loans, as well as external credits to fi-
nance imports.
b.   To provide the long-term financing requirements of the produc-
tive investments according to the plan as defined in (a) above
(medium-term financing is assured by the primary banks).
c.   To make available foreign credits needed to finance the foreign
exchange component of projects either by mobilizing foreign
lines of credit on its own account, or guaranteeing foreign
exchange borrowings or suppliers' or buyers' credit obtained
by the primary banks or by State Enterprises, and managing
bilateral governmental credits.
d.   To supervise the implementation of the investments (especially
as regards disbursements) and to agree to restructure the debt
servicing of the enterprises if their financial equilibrium is
endangered.
1/   Law 63-165, May 7, 1963.
2/   The law creating BAD was amended by "Ordonnance" 71-43 of June 30, 1971
and by "Ordonnance" 72-76 of June 7, 1972.



ANNEX VII
Page 2
e.   To grant the benefits of the Investment Code to private enter-
prises.
f.   To manage budgetary operations and Government grants for the
Treasury. BAD acts in this case as the controller and dis-
bursing agent for the Treasury. Beginning 1974, BAD is gra-
dually phasing out of these functions.
B. The Board
4.        BAD's Board consists of its President-General Manager, its Deputy
General Manager (both nominated by Presidential Decree), the Director of the
Treasury, a representative of the Central Bank, one of the Plan, one of each
of the three primary banks, and a representative of the parent Ministry of
the enterprise whose financing is to be discussed at a given meeting. The
Minister of Finance can send his own personal representative to any meeting
of BAD's Board.
5.        The Board's functions are determined by the Ministry of Finance.
It meets, under the Chairmanship of BAD's President, as often as needed, but
at least once every two months. Extraordinary meetings can be called by BAD's
President or by the Ministry of Finance. Decisions are taken by simple major-
ity. The Board's role is that of an administrator, not of a policy maker;
the latter role rests with the Ministry of Finance. The Board has three main
functions: (i) it is responsible for the preparation of annual tranches of
investment approved by the Plan; (ii) it plays a decisive role in consolidat-
ing the financial situation of State Enterprises in difficulties through re-
scheduling of loans; and (iii) it decides on the financing of investment
projects already authorized by the Plan. BAD's Board does not approve or
reject projects per se but only their financing. The authorities have re-
cently agreed that the Investment and Financing Decisions are to be taken
simultaneously in the near future. Under this system, BAD's Board will be
given the opportunity to comment on a project's merits before the Investment
Decision is taken and this should give BAD and its Board more responsibility
in the investment decision process.
6.        Within the framework of Algeria's regional decentralization and or-
ganization of the regional investment programs (RIDP, Agrarian Revolution
and other special programs), the Government is promoting some decentraliza-
tion, or at least branching, of the banks in the regions. For industry,
mining, tourism and other sectors covered by BAD, both BAD and CPA would be
associated in financing Wilaya and Commune Enterprises. In the same way
as for the Board, but at the Wilayate level, BAD will chair Regional
Technical Committees composed also of representatives of the Wali, the
Commune, the Treasury, CPA and the Central Bank. This committee will have
the power of BAD's Board over the financing of RIDP projects. BAD, however,
will remain fully responsible for its financial assistance to projects.



ANNEX VII
Page 3
C. Management Staff and Organization
Management
7.        Mr. Mustapha Ali Kara has been BAD's President-General Manager since
May 1973. Until then, he had been for several years Algeria's Executive
Director at the African Development Bank. BAD's President is responsible for
BAD's operations and for implementing the Board's decisions. Mr. Nader Nouioua,
BAD's Deputy General Manager, has been with BAD since 1970 and was previously
with the Central Bank. The Deputy General Manager is responsible for the in-
ternal organization and the day to day management of the operations of the
bank. Both the President-General Manager and his Deputy General Manager
are nominated by Presidential Decree on the Minister of Finance's proposal.
Staff
8.        BAD's staff was 225 at the end of 1974, of which 75 can be consid-
ered professionals. l/ Twenty-five professionals hold college degrees, mostly
in law and business. Six professionals attended a course in project appraisal
sponsored by EDI in November-December 1974. Twenty-one more are at various
levels of graduation. Salaries are at the same level as in commercial banks,
but about 15% below the industrial sector. 2/ Turnover has been kept below
10%.  Department Heads or a Section Heads have been in BAD on the average 5 to
6 years. Most of the professional staff have had more than five years ex-
perience in banks and administration prior to their coming to BAD. Neverthe-
less, BAD's professionals have little experience in project appraisal work
or supervision. There is no engineer, no market analyst, and expertise in
finance itself, which should be the strong point of BAD, appears to require
considerable strengthening. The rather large number of clerical or semi-
clerical staff (113) is explained by the rale BAD had been performing as
controller of disbursements made for investments.
9.        Shortage of qualified staff is an acute problem in Algeria.  A
special program to train 26 undergraduates was started by BAD in mid-1973.
All 26 have joined BAD after a year of formal education in finance and ac-
counting. A similar program involving 25 trainees is now underway. For
its day to day operations, BAD relies heavily on its middle management
(Department and Section Heads).  Most Department Heads seem well aware of and
in control of the business of their departments. Their qualifications and
experience, as well as their professional capabilities, seem well geared
towards the type of work BAD has been performing so far.
1/   Management team not included.  At the end of 1971, there were 169 staff
employed in BAD of which 42 professionals, about the same proportion
(20%-25%) throughout the period.
2/   A National Commission has been created under the Ministry of the Interior
to try to equalize salaries between industry, the civil service and the
banking system.



ANNEX VII
Page 4
10.       With the prospect of considerable growth of business over the per-
iod of the new Plan (1974-78), together with the increasing pressure put on
BAD to become more involved with appraisal and supervision of the projects
it finances, BAD will continue over the next two or three years to suffer
from a very tight staff situation. BAD and the Ministry of Finance, are
keen on finding a solution to this problem.  They have asked the Bank to
help but technical assistance alone will not be sufficient to strengthen
BAD to a level commensurate with its expected role.
11.       BAD's organization is described in Attachment 1.  As shown in the
organization chart and its description, the span of management is too large
at present; among various alternatives there seems to be a good case to pro-
vide BAD with a Director of Credit and a Director of Finance and Administra-
tion to cover respectively the credit departments on one hand and the other
departments on the other hand.
D. Policies and Procedures
12.       Policies.  BAD's statutes are very broad.  They allow long-term
loans, guarantees and participation in loans granted by other institutions,
equity investments, discounting, underwriting, rights offering, promotion of
enterprises and of financial syndicates and preparation of studies to that
effect, creation of subsidiaries, holding shares, giving concessions, form-
ation of holding companies, holding foreign exchange, etc. BAD has no Policy
Statement to regulate its operational policies. When basic policy decisions
regarding BAD are to be made, the policy changes are defined in Presidential
decrees under the proposal of the Minister of Finance.  BAD's operations are
not limited by specific financial criteria.
13.       Procedures.  BAD's role in project appraisal is limited:
(i) Appraisals of projects are generally prepared by the State
Enterprises and their parent ministry, with the assistance of
suppliers, or of consulting firms. Technical aspects seem to
be the main focus. BAD plays virtually no role. 1/
(ii) BAD's financial appraisal of a project is limited to the
determination of the terms of the financing requested by
the State Enterprise after it has been approved by SEP
("individualization"). The objective is to establish a
financing plan ensuring that the enterprise would be able
to repay its loan. Deeper financial analysis of the valid-
ity of the projects is scanty. In fact, inadequate atten-
tion is devoted to the assessment of contingencies, working
1/   The State Enterprises do not really expect BAD to contribute at this
stage. Many do not even send BAD a copy of their feasibility studies.



ANNEX VII
Page 5
capital needs, etc. Increased sophistication in the finan-
cial analysis and a better evaluation of the total cost of
the project are the two areas where improvements in the
quality of financial appraisals seem to be inost needed.
14.       Follow-Up.  BAD is responsible for the follow-up of the investment
projects it finances. BAD's supervision activity is supported by the primary
banks. BAD is specifically respcnsible to the Ministry of Finance and SEP
to ensure that the enterprises' drawings on investment accounts match
the financing plans as approved by BAD's Board and reflected in the Plan's
annual tranche.
15.       To that effect, the primary banks submit to BAD quarterly reports
on disbursements by enterprise, project and type of investment. When, as a
result of overruns, the enterprises increase their demands for funds, BAD
cannot authorize supplementary disbursements, and a new Investment Decision
is called for. BAD does not supervise the physical implementation of projects
nor the operations of enterprises from a managerial, technical or market point
of view. BAD compiles statistics on how the project is being implemented
based on quarterly disbursements data.
16.       Disbursements.  BAD's disbursements are made through the primary
banks. For each disbursement State Enterprises must provide adequate documen-
tation to the primary bank, including BAD's specific approval of the expendi-
tures to be financed. BAD's President, Deputy General Manager and the Credit
Department Heads authorize these disbursements by granting their "visa"; this
takes an inordinate amount of time of BAD's management, and creates adminis-
trative bottlenecks. BAD's and the primary banks' control is basically of
an administrative/accounting nature; in this respect it is satisfactory.
E. Operations
17.       Up to and including 1970, BAD's major activity consisted of transfer-
ring Treasury funds to State Enterprises at no risk to itself. These opera-
tions did not appear in BAD's financial statements. BAD's assets consisted
mainly of. relatively sizable current assets, and a small portfolio of term
loans and equity investments which the institution financed mostly out of its
own funds. As of end-1970, BAD's balance sheet showed no outstanding long-term
borrowing, aside from a substantial amount (DA 227 million) of Government ad-
vances.
18.       BAD's pre-1971 equity investments portfolio was made up of 10 parti-
cipations in mixed-ownership companies, or cooperative partnerships, in which
BAD was a minority shareholder (7% to 40%). The book value of these shares



ANNEX VII
Page 6
amounted to DA 25 million, but the amount actually paid up by BAD was about
DA 17 million.  The field of activity of these companies ranged from hotel
construction to the production of shoes. Following the evolution of the
Algerian economic system, which tended to leave relatively little scope for
the private sector, it became apparent that most of these companies would
either be liquidated or turned over to public enterprises. As a consequence,
beginning in 1970, BAD made large provisions against most of its equity port-
folio, considering that out of BAD's ten participations, seven had lost vir-
tually all their value. The three remaining active companies include a shoe
manufacturing business, a small textile complex, and a household appliances
imianufacturer. By the end of 1973, the net value of equity investments had
been reduced to about 1 million dinars in BAD's balance sheet. BAD does not
intent to invest any more funds in private sector stocks and expects to li-
quidate its existing portfolio in the near future.
19.       BAD's lan portfolio evolved in the opposite direction from the equity
investments portfolio after the 1971 reform of the financial system. At
December 31, 1970, outstanding long and medium-term loans made by BAD to the
productive sector amounted to DA 138 million; they grew to DA 1.6 billion in
1971 and to DA 8.4 billion as of June 30, 1974. Direct lending to enterprises
represented a side line activity for BAD before 1971. The 1971 reform of the
financial system established the principle that all investments of productive
enterprises would be financed through term loans, and that long-term loans to
the productive sector would be the monopoly of BAD. As a result, BAD's lending
activity after 1970 became directly tied to the entire program of productive
investments of the Algerian economy. A summary of the investments authorized,
and BAD's commitment and disbursement in 1971-74 is shown in Attachment 2.
20.       Aside from its main function of lending long-term funds to produc-
tive enterprises, BAD continues tu operate, on an interim basis, as a cashier
for the Government, directly disbursing Treasury funds to designated reci-
pients. Such disbursements are not recorded as BAD's own operations, and
appear in separate accounts, distinct from BAD's own financial statements.
Tihe bulk of the funds managed by BAD on behalf of the Treasury are disbursed
in the form of advances of grants, though a significant portion of them took
the form of "budgetary loans" in the past. It is foreseen that a part of the
advances and of the budgetary loans now administered by BAD on behalf of the
Treasury will be turned into normal lending operations of BAD's (i.e. loans
to State Enterprises covered by Government loans to BAD), while the outright
Government grants will eventually be handled by the Treasury directly, so
that by 1975-76 the dualistic nature of BAD's functions will be superseded
by a definitive allocation of distinct functions between BAD and the Treasury.
Characteristics of BAD's Lending
21.       Algeria's economic development strategy has relied heavily on the
implementation of very large investments, mainly in heavy industry, oil,
mining and infrastructure, having generally a nationwide scope. Thus BAD's



ANNEX VII
Page 7
lending in recent years was concentrated mostly in large projects of the State
Enterprises. About 80% of the total investment cost of all projects approved
for BAD's financing in 1972 through 1974 was absorbed by 24 large projects
costing more than DA 100 million (US$25 million) each. The remaining amount
of the total authorized investments was subdivided among 150 smaller projects
in the three year period (Attachment 3).
22.       Long-term loans to the private sector have been discontinued since
1971. Even before, BAD's financing of the private sector has only been marginal
and limited to a small percentage of BAD's loan portfolio. BAD still has five
loans to mixed-ownership or private companies in its portfolio, which date
back to the late 60's; their outstanding amount (about DA 2.5 million out of
a total portfolio of over DA 7 billion) accounts for less than 1/2 of 1 of
total loan portfolio.
23.       Within the public sector, BAD's lending is limited to the productive
enterprises, excluding agriculture per se, and housing construction. The de-
finition of "productive", however, is not precise. BAD's borrowers include,
besides the manufacturing industry, mining, transportation enterprises, market-
ing concerns, electric power and natural gas production and distribution, agro-
industries, fishing, etc. A breakdown of BAD's outstanding portfolio by econ-
omic sectors as of end-1973 is given in Attachment 4, which shows that the
sectoral distribution of BAD's lending closely reflects the general economic
development strategy decided by the Algerian Government, and set forth in the
first 4-year Plan (1970-73).
24.       The effect on BAD's lending operations is that over 50% of BAD's
total outstanding loan portfolio was made up of loans to the oil and natural
gas industry (32%) and steel mills (28.5%), which are followed by the mecha-
nical and electro-mechanical industry (8.4%) and the construction materials
industry (7.1%).
25.       With regards to import substitution, and export oriented indus-
tries, it is somewhat surprising that textiles and leather (traditional han-
dicraft), and tourism, appear to have had a relatively low priority. This is
only partly explained by the fact that private investors have been especially
active--and successful--in these branches.
26.       The geographic distribution of BAD-financed projects is also deter-
mined by the Plan. A recent development of Algeria's strategy is the attempt
to decentralize industry out of the capital city areas in order to provide
employment in Algeria's less advanced regions. Some success has been achieved
in this respect, with the creation of two industrial poles in the eastern and
western regions of Algeria. While Algiers still absorbs about 40% of the total
number of workers employed in industry, some of the newer industrial plants
(steel works, petrochemical plants, mechanical industry) have been set up in
the Constantine-Annaba-Skikda area, in eastern Algeria, while in the West,
petrochemical and mechanical plants have been established in the Oran-Arzew-Sidi
Bel Abbas industrial triangle.



ANNEX VII
Page 8
27.       Self-financing of investments is discouraged, if not prohibited
in Algeria; therefore, the only sources of funds for the implementation
of industrial or tourism projects of the public sector (which accounts for
90% of industrial fixed capital) are: (i) BAD's long-term investment loans;
(ii) medium-term loans extended by the primary banks; and (iii) externat
financing of the foreign exchange portion of the projects' cost. As a
result, BAD's long-term investment loans accounted for about 40% of the
total investments in the industrial and tourism sectors in the period 1971-73;
the primary banks' medium-term. loans accounted for 30%-35%, while the balance
was financed with foreign exchange credit obtained abroad.
28.       External financing, even when not obtained directly by BAD for the
recipient, must be channelled through BAD, and in most cases, is guaranteed
by BAD. BAD exercises, therefore, some control not only on the local currency
long-term financing to productive enterprises, but also over most of the ex-
ternal financing, and over a portion of local medium-term credit. In any
event, all financing plans for industrial investments are elaborated as pack-
ages, by BAD's staff, and must be approved by BAD's Board.
29.       Foreign currency requirements for the implementation of industrial
projects are generally met through the use of suppliers' credit; only for a
small proportion of imports the Central Bank and the Ministry of Finance au-
thorize payment in convertible dinars (subject to BAD's control and endorse-
ment).  Sources of foreign exchange funds that BAD can channel to the public
enterprises, aside from BAD's own borrowing abroad (which has been very limited
up to now) are the following: (a) suppliers' credit extended directly to the
enterprises, which either BAD or the primary banks must guarantee and for
which BAD's approval is in any event required; (b) bilateral intergovern-
mental agreements which are only usable for imports from the country sign-
ing the agreement and are often linked to specific projects: BAD partici-
pates in the negotiations of these agreements, and administers the use (and
the repayment) of the funds available under them; and (c) foreign banks' open
lines of credit (accords-cadres) which consist of pre-negotiated conditions
for the extension of credit in foreign currencies to the enterprises, with
the guarantee of BAD and under BAD's control. It appears from the above that
BAD exercises a direct control over the use of available external resources
by nationai enterprises.
F. Financial Situation
Resource Position
30.       BAD's equity as of June 30, 1974 was made up of capital, amounting
to DA 100 million, endowed by the Treasury and fully paid up in 1966; a
small additional endowment fund of DA 5 m41llion; reserves and accumulated
profits of approximately DA 77 million. The "Permanent Advances from the
Government" amounting to DA 1,031 million, which represent mainly the net
balance of BAD's account with the Treasury arising from BAD's management of
public funds on the Treasury's behalf, may be considered as quasi-equity.



ANAEX VII
Page 9
31.       BAD's only othier source of local currency rc ources are the Treasury
loans made each fiscal year to ma-ch the amount of tlhe yearly "tranche" of the
Plan allocated to productive invcstments, and to be dis! ursed by BAD. These
treasury loans began in 1971, when the present system of investment financing
was started. The rate of interest of the Treasury loans is fixed at 5% p.a.,
and their maturity is generally linked to the average eco"omic life of the
projects they are intended to finance, i.e., between 7 -- 20 years including
grace periods of between 2 and 6 .ears. Treasury loans ,ade to BAD outstand-
ing at June 10, 1974 amounted t. . 7.2 billion; no repai-ment has been made
yet since all loans are still wilain their respective grïce periods. Accrued
interest payable on these loans, amiounting to DA 132 million, represents the
largest single item in BAD's current liabilities.
32.       By mid-1974, BAD had received four foreign loans aggregating DA 802
million outstanding. They included one loan of DA 570 million from a group of
American banks (headed by First National City Bank), which BAD contracted
jointly with BEA (which borrowed a like amount) on behalf of the Treasury.
The proceeds of the loan, as well as all attending repayment obligations,
were immediately passed on to the Treasury. BAD's foreign liabilities also
include DA 18 million representing outstanding drawings from two lines of
credit obtained by BAD from the African Development Bank, and from Lloyds
Bank of London, respectively, on behalf of two state-owned enterprises
(ONALAIT and SONAMA). The total amount of the two lines of credit is equiv-
alent to DA 109 million. The proceeds of drawings on these lines of credit
are passed on by BAD to the final recipients, together with all contractual
conditions, including foreign exchange risk. BAD's role in mobilizing for-
eign resources has been, up to end-1973, simply that of a passive intermediary.
In 1974, BAD contracted three more foreign lines of credit; one of these lines,
from SUMITOMO Bank of Tokyo, of which DA 214 million was outstanding at June
30, 1974, also falls in the category of operations for which BAD simply acts
as an intermediary. The other two lines of credit contracted in 1974 were ob-
tained from KfW. The loans were guaranteed by the Government as all other
foreign resources of BAD. The proceeds of the first KfW line, amounting to
DM 138 million (interest rate 2-3% p.a.) have already been earmarked for proj-
ects agreed upon by BAD and KfW; the interest charged by BAD is the usual
5-3/4% rate. The foreign exchange risk is with the final recipients.
Quality of Portfolio
33.       At mid-1974, BAD's loan portfolio arising from the institution's
own operations (i.e. excluding disbursements made on behalf of the Treasury)
amounted to DA 8.4 billion of which 95%, or DA 8.0 million, vas made up of
long-term investment loans extended to public enterprises in the period
June 1974. The rest of BAD's loan portfolio (DA 429 million, or 5% of total)
includes (i) a small amount (DA 0.6 million) outstanding on old CEDA 1/ in-
dustrial loans transferred to BAD; (ii) direct long-term loans (DA 60 million)
1/   CEDA (Caisse pour l'equipement et le developpement d'Algerie) was a
French DFC operating in Algeria during the French administration of
the country. After Algeria's independence, CEDA's assets and liabil-
ities have been passed on to CAD (as BAD was previously known).



ANNEX VII
Page 10
and medium-term loans (DA 58 million) made by BAD to productive enterprices
out of BAD's own resources before 1971; and (iii) long-term "restructuration"
credits, amounting to DA 310 million, extended by BAD in 1973 to productive
enterprises, in accordance with the legislation regulating financial assist-
ance to public enterprises experiencing liquidity difficulties.
34.       The procedures set forth in the finance laws of 1970, 1972 and 1974
for the "restructuration" (debt rescheduling) and "assainissement" (reorgani-
zation) of public enterprises, and for the extension of low-interest, long-
term loans to finance their working capital requirements, are intended to solve
any financial problems that public enterprises are likely to incur, by inject-
ing fresh liquidity, under various forms, in the budgets of ailing firms.
Such injections of liquidity are directly or indirectly financed by the Treasury.
The bankruptcy of a public enterprise is virtually unthinkable in the Algerian
system, although the possibility cannot be excluded from a purely legal point
of view.
35.       A summary of the arrears situation of BAD as of December 31, 1973
is shown in Attachment 5. The arrears of overdue principal and interest pay-
ments that do appear in BAD's financial statements represent mostly the re-
sult of delays in the carrying out of refinancing procedures. Total arrears
of more than six months amount to DA 115 million at end 1973, and DA 106 mil-
lion at June 30, 1974, (1.4% of total assets), of which DA 48 million (0.7%
of loan portfolio) represent overdue principal repayments and DA 58 million
are past-due interest payments. Provisions against doubtful loans and past-
due interest cover the entire amount of DA 106 million, but do not cover the
portion of the portfolio affected by these arrears which has not yet matured.
Outstanding loans affected by arrears of more than 6 months amounted to DA
0.9 billion (12.4% of total loan portfolio) at end-1973.
36.       Aside from loans, BAD has also a small portfolio of ten equity par-
ticipations, mostly in cooperative enterprises and mixed-ownership companies
(para. 4.02). The gross value of BAD's equity investments, at cost, is DA
16.9 million; specific provisions amount to DA 15.7 million, which leaves
a net book value of equity investments in BAD's balance sheet, of DA 1.1
million (0.01% of total assets). The risk seems therefore to be adequately
covered.
Financial Performance and Position
37.       BAD's Balance sheet and Income Statement are presented in Attach-
ments 6 and 7. BAD's performance is a function of the Government's policies.
Interest rates are fixed by the Government in such a way as to reduce to a
minimum financial charges for investments. The Government does not expect
BAD to be highly profitable. Break-even point is considered a sound objec-
tive. On the other hand, BAD's financial position cannot be judged on the
basis of its capital structure. It is the Government's decision and objective
that operations of the State Enterprises, including banks, should rely basi-
cally on a continuous flow of long-term Treasury loans. BAD's domestic cur-
rency borrowings come exclusively from the Treasury and external borrowings
are all guaranteed by the Government. Some degree of financial discipline is



ANNEX VII
Page 11
considered important however. In this respect, the major criteria for BAD
is debt service coverage which is virtually guaranteed not to exceed 1:1, by
the very close coincidence of the amortization schedules of its borrowings,
with those of its loans.
G. Prospects
38.       Basically, BAD's forecast of operations is the translation of the
Plan into effective financial decisions and physical implementation. The
uncertainty of BAD's projections is also a reflection of the Plan. BAD is
expected to disburse between DA 3 to 5 billion every year in long-term finan-
cing. A forecast of BAD's balance sheet and income statement for 1975 is given
in Attachments 8 and 9. These projections are based on a recent review of
the implementation of investment proj-ects under way. Projections for sub-
sequent years are more subject to uncertainties, particularly as regards
the type of resources BAD would secure to finance its program. Obviously,
as in the past, BAD's resource mobilization effort would not be separate
from the Government's strategy and the management of Algeria's budget.
Nevertheless, at present, wide variations of estimates in Algeria's rev-
enues from oil may have considerable implications, one way or the other,
on Algeria's borrowings abroad and, consequently, on BAD's foreign resources.
Tentative projections based on the Plan, discussions with BAL and other
sources over the period of the current Plan (74-77) appear in Attachments
8 and 9.



BANQUE ALGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
|        r r  Al N al       | r                                                         
O___        __      _      ___ES    __         __rOeSENllLMaA
O r r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rrrr,  rCrr,r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Orrrrrr  rrrrhr.r     5%'AL rrrr                                               CNAE  rrrr                           ES                        THEr  GNEA Brr                      NErr,,rr
|  rrCC'ON                       BSCr  55s2                  SESSIO5b 1N        |         |SES  SSSO Nrr        |        | bSrCC   rErîE TAT SNOSCCS |                                   5C|CS SOC'S                                                           rOISON;    eT N ;; 1F   ;;
1 <       1           |    ~~~~~~ErESNOCTRIC TVOOiSSESCCSO<ECCCNES                                                                                   SESSEESSCOTS,  ES  |                                                                                 ETO
|   F   Es   zIh   l   l   M   rharlT  l  l  l  l  H  rarlh  |  f A Hs A s l l l   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r






ANNEX VII
Attachment 1
Page 2
Organization
Since the end of 1973, the General Manager has three assistants
performing a coordinating role with BAD's Departments. Specific tasks are
assigned to them on a case by case basis. BAD has 12 Departments, two of
which are the Regional Offices of Oran and Constantine. Most Departments are
organized in Sections (32 in total). The functions are summarily described
as follows:
i.   The three Credit Departments are basically in charge of the
preparation of the appraisal reports to be presented to BAD's
Board for the approval of the financing of specific projects.
They also are mainly responsible for all the other technical
functions for which BAD's Board is in charge in the context
of the Algerian system (i.e; annual tranches, supervision of
the financial situation of State Enterprises, etc.). The three
Departments specialize in different productive sectors of the
economy. "Hydrocarbons" includes chemical, energy, textiles,
leather and food products. "Iron and Steel" covers also metal-
lurgy, mechanical, electricity, construction materials, and other
industries, and "Primary/Tertiary" takes care of public works,
mining, tourism, transport, distribution/commercialization and
agriculture light equipment. Three Departments heads and fourteen
sector heads carry out within the three Credit Departments the
bulk of BAD's operational work. Credit Department heads are
authorized to approve payments to be made by the primary banks
to the enterprises requesting disbursements out of the invest-
ment accounts allocated to them in the Annual tranches. Although
this function favors decentralization and increased responsibil-
ity it seems to take an inordinate amount of the Credit Depart-
ments Head's time.
ii.   The Follow-up and Control Department is in charge of controlling
the implementation of the projects financed as well as their
follow-up from a statistical point of view. The control work
consists basically in checking that disbursements are made ac-
cording to the authorization as they appear in the Annual Tranche.
No supervision of operations from a managerial, technical or
market point of view is carried out. In addition, the Department
supervises the few equity investments BAD undertook in the past,
both in private and public companies and the Department Head re-
presents BAD on the Board of these companies. A final responsibil-
ity of the Department are the legal aspects, mostly related to the
possible implications of bad loans under litigations.



ANNEX VII
Attachment 1
Page 3
iii.   The Studies Department was, until recently, part of the Inter-
national Financial Relations Department (see iv below) and is
therefore, still at an early stage. It will carry out economic/
statistical studies for projects as well as centralize the
statistical information of interest to the other Departments.
The Department is also responsible for keeping the documentation,
archives and publications. It is not clear what BAD management
expects this department to develop into, but it carries little
weight in today's BAD.
iv.   The International Financial Relations Department is responsible
for mobilizing resources abroad, and for managing the external
funds obtained by the Algerian Government and some of the State
Enterprises.
v.   The Finance Department keeps the books and manages the local
currency resources obtained by BAD from the Government in the
form of long-term loans from the Treasury, as well as the dis-
counts and guarantees.
vi.   The Administration Department is responsible for the administra-
tion and personnel matters. Regarding the latter, the Department
designs the recruitment and training programs. Recruitment for
management positions is handled by the Director General and his
Deputy; the administration Department carries out the selection
process and interviews candidates.
vii.   The Public Equipment Department handles the Treasury allocations
of funds to public enterprises (managed funds) for the account
of the Treasury. The Department is not operational and is
presently being restructured.
viii.   BAD's representative at the investment commissions, both at the
National and Regional level has the rank of Department Head but
has no professional staff with him. The two Regional offices
rank also as Departments. No specific autonomy of functions
have yet been determined for BAD's Regional offices.



ANMEX VII
Attachment 2
1/
BÂ:*iQL'- ALGERIENN;E DE DEVELOPPEMENT
VOLUME OF OPERATIONS 1971 - 1974
(millions of Algerian Dinars)
1971         1972        1973     197ù
`'pproved projects (individu'alizations) 1/         n.a, 2/       8,228      4,881     n.a.
Comriitments for the year (conventions) 3/          1,520         2, 0&j     3,o85    5,53h
Disbursernents (utiliv,tionc) - /                   1,539         1,,9°23    2,971    L,569
1/  The Prnount of proposed financing identified in the "dezisions d'individua-
lization " includes not only the long-term funds to be provided by VPAE, but
a.so proposed medium-term loans to be made available by the primary banks,
and external foreign exchange finan-.ing.
2/  For 21?71, the first yenr in which the reformed system went into effect,
newly-identified projects are not distinguished frori proje2ts identified in
previouc yem'rs :nd not yet -ompleted.
3/  B3ADTs rommitments conteined in the annual "conventions" with borrowing
enterprises refer only to one fiscal year, not. to the entire duration cf
proie'ts' implementption period.
L/  'Risbursements' represent amount actually withdrawn by enterprises from
their investmnent         -wcojnts with the primary banks.
EMENA IC&DFC
March 1975



BANQUE ALGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
Breakdown of Identified Projects by Size of Proposed Financing
1972                                    1973
Number of      Proposed Financing       Number of       Proposed Financing
Size of Investment               Projects       (DA millions)            Projects        (DA millions)
More than DA 100 million            9                 7,506                 9                  3,895
DA 50 - 100 million                 8                    503                4                    202
DA 20 - 50 million                 18                    576               15                    532
Less than DA 20 million            30                   242                26                    251
65                 8,827                5h                  h,880
1/ The amount of proposed financing identified in the "decisions d'individualization " includes not only the
the long-term local currency funds to be provided by BAD, but also proposed medium-term loans to be
made available by the primary banks, and external foreign exchange financing.
EMENA IC&DFC
August 1974
,. F-



leSUE .U0lZrIBNE DE D2SELOPPEIIEHT
8r.a«m  of 1973 lWo  Portfolio Dy 5coeuic S0eor  e4d
Ry T7.gs of Ins
(Data in Millin.  of Algoan Diar.)
booTs 0..;tandling. t De.msber 31. 1973
Lgng.lem                    £50tct                         bos taSor D.bt       ?o¶4 i@tg  et
X'estment Louis                                            Reot.uibiri66        O.tst9 dt4 4 ,
MoNoMC 2E3yA91     .93                                         ocT~              idlas-Tu.           (1(3              b
Hydroc4rbou                               2,2te                                                                         2,266               32.0
Other H)Uztg                                112                                                                           112                1.6
Poo.r and Oui Ojisatyb iU                   367                                                                           367                5.2
tgr2oldustry ar4 2lcliîg                      Wô                                                                           48                0.7
lw.0anUetuo.c 16durtry                     3,38)              38                   9                 310                37. ?r.?
- 9tiol                             (i,8o5)                                                    (222)              (2,027)             (28,5)
. Cho'8.cs>                           (105)              (7)                                                        (112)             ( t 61
- mer8ani,ol aod Eletric              (565)             (2h)                 (5)                                    (593)             ( 41.)
-   ' Sttff                           (101)              (5)                                                        (106)             ( 1.fl
- £onitruction I8ateroalo             (503)              (1)                 (1)                                    (504)             t 7.1>
- Teatileo                             (1)               (1)                 (2)                (ha)                (175)             1 2.5
- bêt.6,                                (6)                                                                           (6)               9,¶
- Wo,4 and P5oer                      (175)                                  (1)                (40)                (213)               3,1
T.oitjox  liator                            395                5                                                          41 
-  Towi.io                            (l9S)              153                                                        (19s5)              2i.13
- frading Eiiu,                         (9)                                                                           (9,
- Traispert by Road                     (1)
R-1w.y.               (115)                                                                         (11%)
F.ea                   (5S}(11                                                                      (96)               ,l
Other S.ctorso                               123                7                   S                 _                 _13d          `       .0
TOTAL LOANS                               0,095               50                  23                 310                7,ûd3              tOO.O
I/ ToClude- a s osO  SoW  (DA 0.6 xillio) of indratris:L lo Is                     RArD -s rred to 2AC r0tF.e oneie,t CE3)A    portfs3io.
j `Ibs ï-t   I   os). E fw   IfrE8tAtCteIr4 loges =eh  s au       st6ra otate, s8dpy.rds, t. J,icostiosu, w6t.r
:upply.
EJINA rht3C&
August 197L



; ANQUE AWE}RIENNE DE DEVELOPPMe-T
Sjtuatiori of Airrenrs Pas of De'^ember 31, 1973
(Values in li unds of Algerian lanars)
Long-Termn            Pre-1971 Direct Loarns
Investtment loar. ,
(1971 - 1973)    Lor-g-To-rr.  lMlediiinr-Termn   A1l Loars
Overdue principal repayments                                              L,-65         12 5'dL       33,273          50,12
Interest payrient- overdue by more than 6 moriths                        5L,599            8611         5.0Lo         6!,503
Total arrenrs for wbiqih provisioris ;re mnade                           58g,96,        17, ).3        38j313        111>715
Provirions                                                               5P,9 e1!       17,e1 38       38,313       ]J-liii715
errour.t of  ffe;er Joan- o'-tst'indrt, net of prcvî-o,ri              6'97, 0f1 1,,595               L2,!Ro         78li,159
Interest overcbixe b-" less than 6 months                                5(0, C;Oc         195            177         -0,371
Amourft of' loanrs ouitstndi,ig affe;ted by arrenrs cf
less tharn 6 month                                               2P 255,6f6              -          3,53       2,259,301
Total interest nrrears                                                 1h oJQ1           5,059          5,?37        1l ,e77
Totc2. arrenrs (princ,ipa1 and interest)                                lOF,9(6         17(,l33        38 1 90       16,089 
Loan portfo:Lio affectecd by arrears                                  2,952,752         blv595         )l,0i3     --0:?,Sc
EMENA IC&DFC
August 197h



ANNEX VII
Attachment 6
BANQUE ALQERIEINE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
INCOME STATEMETS 1971 - 1973
(Thousands of Algerian Dinars)
IN(IM OE                                             1971         1972         1973
Interest and CommissIons                            38,560      212,572       272,261
Charges on discount and guarantee operation!s        3,1436        6,225        7,808
Other charges on banking services                    4,171         2,051        4,670
Profits carried forward                             _475          22,652        1,357
Total Income ****@*@-.*,*-D**-  46,642           2143,500      326,096
EXPENSES
Personnel and training                               2,509         3,096         4,L87
Indirect taxes                                         111           119          179
Interest and oCommissions paid                         357      13lî,863      206,834
Provisions                                           5,551        72,219       7h4,149
Depreciation                                           234           2L48         277
Losses carried forward 
Contribution to Government's Budget                  6,000         6,000        8,500
Other operating expenses                               31di          383           562
Total expenses . ..*.......         15,106       216,928      294,988
NET PROFITS                                         31,536       . 26,572      31,108
EMENA IC&DFC
August 1974



ANNIE VII
AKttachueint 7
BANQUE ALGEBIENNE DE DEVEI,PPE34ENT
Balance Sheets at Denumber 31, 1970-1973
and provisional balance sheet at June 30,1974
(la Tousnds of Algerian Dlinars) -
Jane 30
ASS ErS                                                         1970           1971            1972            1973          1974
Current Assets
casn, Treasury, Central Bank and postal Giro-Accounts (                     110,561          62,î93         72,263        78,721
Banks                                                   <   252,033          93,103         101,561        126,465
Bills discounted                                       (                     25,440          21,236          1,545         1,440
Current interest receivable                                    8,430          7,473         Ild,713        158.3?        124,315
Past-due interest receivable                                                                _É46;72         6503          58239
Total Gurrent Assets                                        260,513         236,577         351,330        423,104       262,715
Long-term Loans                                                 n.a.      1,643,340       3,725,039      7,132,967    8,391,391
minus: provisions for possible losses                     n.a.           5 923          29 754         jO,212        47 956
Net long-term loans                                    137,913       1,637,7        3,695,335       7,032,755    t,343;h35
Advances to Treasury and others                                   --         51,113         100,060        612,600       802,783
Managed Accounts and Sundry Ituis                              9,979          3,544           7,d23           7,054        7,054
Fixed Assets
Equity portfolio                                               n.a.            n.a.            n.a.         lo,366        16,866
Provisions for possible losses                           n.a.            n.a.            r..a.        15 ;4O        15 740
Net equity portfolio                                    1,d17             927             1          1               TsT2
Buildings and materials, net  (                                               2,172           2,296          2,249         2,429
Other fixed assets, net        (                               2,314             63              41              41           41
TOTAL ASSE1S                                                  U       lii     9 =,)                        3,12,929    9,M19,583
LIABILITfI
Current Liabiliti es
Interest and other charges, payable                            n.a.              32         1l3,02         13,132         70,169
Other accounts payable                                          n.a.            325             326          1,306           978
Provision against past-due interest receivable                  n.a.             --          4ri,972        64,5C3        58 239
Total current liabilities                                       T,              7           1 9J9          199,991 
Long-teren Borrowing
TronTreasury                                                     --       l,433,00C,                    .,141,65       7,220,397
from foreign and international institutions                       --             --             5232       531,00             63
Total long-term loans                                             --      1,453,00o       2,933,5d2      s,729,66C    8,022,560
Managai locounts and Sundry Items                             l0, 3c2        10,342          10,013          9, 6          9,646
Provision for Personnel Pension Fund                             i,"2           760                             762          762
Permanent Advances from Government                          276,574         311,670         32',W22        975,560    1,030,702
Equity
Legal, statutory and voluntary reserves (,734                                                15,15           `3,167       23,167
Profits carried forward                  (                     5,o96         13,379          35,455         56,055        85,163
Additional endowment fund                                      4,930          4,980           6,930           4,930        4,980
Paid-in capital                                             100,000         10100,000
Net profits of tne year                                       14 013         32 536          26,572         Il 1,)3       13 217
Total equity                                                1261, û94       I:5 9           162,202        213 ,31
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                             Zr2,537        739            4,5,6          3,123,929    9,419,583
EHNNA IC&FC
January 1975



ANNEX VII
Attachment 8
BANQUE AIGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPE!-TENT
ProJected Income Statements  1974 - 1977
(Millions oft lgerian Dinars)
INCOME                                  1974       1975      1976      1977
Interest and Commissions                  414       475       505        591
Charges on discount, guarantee and
other banking services                   12        15        20         22
Other and extraordinary income            18         20         h        18
Total Income . . . . . . . U4        510        529       631
EgXPESE
Personnel and training                      5         6         6          7
Interest and Commissions paid            270        340       h20       500
Indirect taxes depreciation and
other administrative expenses             2         3         3         h
Provisions                                120       120        55        60
Contribution to Government's budget         9        10        12         15
Total Expenses . . . . . . 406       479        496       586
NET PROFITS                                38        31        33         45
EMEA IC&DFC
Janary 1975



ANNEX VII
Attachment 9
BANQUE ALGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
ProJected Balance  heets 1974-1977
(In Millionq of Algerian DînarsJ
ASSETS                                   1974         -975       1976      1977
Current Assets
Liquid Assets                           150          150        160       170
Accounts receivable                     170          195        210       230
Past due interest receivable            125          175        200       220
Total Current Assets                    445          520        570       620
Long-term Loans                       9,660       12,721     15,800   19,200
minus: provisions                  110          180        210       250
Net long-term loans        7W 531                       15,590    B1,950
Advances to Treasury and others         802          802         700      600
Sundry items                              7            5           5        5
Fixed assets, net                         3            3           3        3
TOTAL ASSETS                         10,07        13,871     16,868
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities                     170          260        280       300
Accaunts payable                        170          260        280       3°°
Provisions against past due
interest receivable                   125          175       -200       220
Total current liabilities               215                               52 0
Long-term Borrowing
from Treasury                         8,406       11,495     14,027   16,173
from IBRD                               -              3         36        95
from other foreign sources              815          846      1 300    1 800
Total long-term loans                 9,221       12,344     15,363   1 ;068
Managed Accounts, Sundry items and
Personnel Pensions Fund                10           10         10        10
Permanent Advances from Government   1,030           800        700       600
Equity
Capital and endowment fund              105          105        105       105
Reserves and accrued income             10          146        177       210
Net profits of the year                  38           31         33        45
Total E;quity                          25 1 2S3
TOTAL LIABILITIES                    MMT07       1T77 3Ô,j              19,558
EMENA IC&DFC
January 1975



ANNEX VIII
Page 1
Statement of Policy for BADIs Unit
(The statement is an annex (Schedule 3) în the Loan Agreement).
SCHEDULE 3
Policies and Operations for the Project
A.   Composition of the Unit
1.        The Unit shall consist of at least ten members appointed by the
Borrower, including a director responsible for the Unit, and, not later than
December 31, 1975, or such other date as shall be mutually agreed, an expe-
rienced engineer.  The staffing of the Unit will vary in order to meet its
workload.
B.  Functions of the Unit
2.        The Unit will be primarily engaged in the selection, appraisal,
preparation and supervision of projects to be financed under the Loan.  The
Unit's scope of activity may be expanded to the appraisal and supervision of
other projects.
3.        For subprojects to be financed under the Loan, the Unit
(a) shall review each Investment Project and related application
or request for a sub.-loan on the basis of a detailed appraisal
of the Investment Project prepared by the Unit, including:
(i)  the technical feasibility of the Investment Project;
(ii) the marketability of the proposed production;
(iii) the financial and economic justification of the Investment
Project, on the basis of realistic assumptions; and
(iv) the creditworthiness of the Investment Enterprise and
its management of the Investment Project.
(b) shall, after its review, make recommendations to the Borrower on
each Investment Project and related sub-loan as to its conformity
to the Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project set
forth in Part D hereof and make any recommendation to achieve
such conformity;



ANNEX VIII
Page 2
(c) shall establish and maintain appropriate records and accounts
as provided for in Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement, forward
to the Bank periodic statements and reports thereon, in such
detail as the Bank shall request, and all such other informa-
tion as the Bank or the Borrower shall from time to time
reasonably request;
(d) shall propose to the Borrower's management appropriate time
schedules and procedures for supervision and evaluation of
each Investment Project, shall assist the Borrower's other
departments in carrying out such supervision and evaluation,
and shall review and comment on supervision and evaluation
reports so prepared by such departments; and
(e) shall maintain on behalf of the Borrower close relation with
the Bank and assist the Bank representatives in any inspection
of Investment Projects and in exchanges of views with the
Borrower on matters relating to the Loan and the Project.
C.   Review of Investment Projects
4.        The Borrower shall review each Investment Project on the basis of
the appraisal report prepared by the Unit and shall state its acceptance or
rejection of such Investment Project.
D.   Operations and Policies for the Project
5.        Investment Projects and subloans for Investment Projects, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, shall conform to the following criteria:
(a) Investment projects, shall be either:
(i)  construction material projects sponsored by SNMC or
SNMetal, or
(ii)  industrial projects sponsored by the Wilayate, Dairate
or Assemblees Populaires Communales in Algeria, in the
framework of the development of regional small- and
medium-size enterprises, in the following sub-sectors:
construction materials, wood processing, metal process-
ing, and other sub-sectors as the Bank and the Borrower
may agree from time to time.
(b) The aggregate use of the Loan for each of the two categories
mentioned above shall be not more thar $20,000,000 each.
However if such amount cannot be fully utilized under cat-
egory (i), the parties may affect a higher amount to category
(ii).



ANNEX VIII
Page 3
(c) Investment projects shall be limited to small- and medium-sized
subprojects defined as follows:
(i)  for SNMC and SNMetal:
projects with a total investment cost of less than
DA 100 million;
(ii)  for RIDP:
projects with a total investment cost of less than
DA 20 million.
Proceeds of the Loan shall be used for each Investment Project
generally up to a maximum of:
(i) for SNifC and SNMetal: US$5 million,
(ii) for RIDP: US$2 million.
(d) Investment Projects should provide satisfactory financial and
economic rates of return, on the basis of detailed and realistic
estimates of costs, revenues and benefits, in addition to meeting
normal criteria of technical feasibility of the project, market-
ability of its production and creditworthiness and managerial
competence of the Investment Enterprise. Unless a special jus-
tification is provided: (i) projects with an internal finan-
cial rate of return of less than 9% will be excluded; for the
purpose of calculating the said financial rate of return,
Government subsidies, if any, shall not be included; and (ii)
if the economic rate of return is calculated to be less than
8%, the Investment Project shall normally be rejected.
(e) In its appraisal of the financial aspect of a subproject, the
Unit shall ensure that the projected results of the operations
are sufficient to maintain an adequate net working capital
throughout the subproject's economic life and to cover the
service of the debt incurred to finance the subproject. If
the projected cash flow of a subproject is not sufficient to
ensure the maintenance of an adequate working capital and the
'service of the debt due to Government-imposed low sale prices,
the appraisal report of the Unit should proposed solutions to
ensure financial equilibrium.
(f) Sub-loans for Investment Projects shall be made for a term
consistent with the requirements of the Loan Agreement and
related to the debt servicing capacity of the Investment
Enterprise bu:t in no case to exceed the useful life of the
assets financed. Sub-loans shall be repayable in the same
currencies as the corresponding principal amount of the Loan
used for the purpose and shall carry interest, payable in
the same currencies as the principal, at an annual rate of
not less than 10% of the principal amount outstanding.



ANNEX VIII
Page 4
(g) Each Investment Project shall be subject to close supervision
by the Borrower in accordance with the procedures proposed
by the Unit until the date on which the loan agreement for
the sub-loan shall terminate. Such supervision would be or-
ganized by the Unit or under the Unit's responsibility.
EMENA
IC & DFC
March 1974



ANNEX IX
ALGERIA - BANQUE ALGERIENNE de DEVELOPPMENT
Interest Rate Structure
Commercial Banks                                         Interest Rate (in %)
Demand Deposits                                               1.125
Time Deposits
between 2 and 12 months                                     2.6-3.6
between 12 and 2h months                                    3.8
more than 24 months                                         4 5
Deposit Certificates
6 months duration                                           3.2
12 months duration                                          3.8
24 months duration                                          h.5
CNEP
Savings Deposits                                              3.5
Governuent Equipment Bonds /1
1 year maturity                                             h.0
2 years maturity                                            4.5
3 years maturity                                            5.0
h years maturity                                            5.5
5 years maturity                                            6.0
10 years maturity (reimbursable aXter 8th year)             8.0
Central Bank Discount Rate                                    2.75
Commercial Banks Loans
Short-term
Overdrafts                                                 4.5-5.0
Discounts (rediscountable commercial paper, export
financing credits relating to Government contracts,
etc.)                                                    4h0-h475
Discounts (non-rediscountable commercial paper,
direct credits, prefinancing of Govermnent
contracts)                                               6.0
Medium-term
Industrial and Commercial                                  5.5
Agriculture                                                3.5
Long Term to Agriculture (BNA)                              2-3
Development Banks (BAD)
Long-term Industrial Loans                                  5.5
/1 Issued by the Treasury and reimbursable.
EMENA IC&DFC
February 1975



ANNElX 3
BA~JQU3 A1; RIENNE DE DEVELOPPEM¢``TT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed Bank Loan
(in Thousands of  US$)
1976      First Quarter                       500
Second Quarter                   1,000
Third Quarter                    1,500
Fourth Quarter                   1,500
1977      First Quarter                     2,000
Second Quarter                   3,000
Third Quarter                    5,000
Fourth Quarter                   7,000
1978      First Quarter                    7,000
Second Quarter                   5,000
Third Quarter                    2,000
Fourth Quarter                   1,000
1979      First Quarter                     1,000
Second Quarter                   1,000
Third Quarter                    1,000
Fourth Quarter                     500
h0,000
Assumptions
1.  BAD is expected to commit $12 million in the second part of
FY75 and the whole FY76, $22 million in FY77, and $6 million
in the first half of FY78.
2. Commitments and disbursements (in accordance with the provisional
amortization schedule in Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement) are
estimated as follows: 20% for loans of 5 years without grace
period, 50%, 8 years including 2 years of grace, 20%, 10 years
including 3 years of grace, and 10%, 12 years including h years of
grace.
EHOENA IC&DFC
June 1975



ANNEX XI
Page 1
ALGERIA
CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS (EXCLUDING CEMENT)
DEMAND AND FUTURE OUTLOOK
Background
1.        At end-1973, the construction materials industry's capacity was in-
adequate to meet the country's demand. A large portion of the needed con-
struction materials had to be imported during the 1970-1973 Plan period (e.g.;
20% of the total consumption of quicklime; almost one half of all ceramic
tiles, 46% of cement and 100% of sanitary ceramics). In addition, many con-
struction materials (e.g. clay bricks and tiles, asbestos-cement products,
agglomerates, concrete pipes, sand and gravel) are not internationally traded
goods: they simply cannot be imported. As a result, the supply deficit has
become a major bottleneck for the construction and public works industry
itself, or has led to the replacement of certain materials with expensive
imported substitutes (typically, clay bricks, and also quicklime, which could
be cheaply produced locally, may be substituted for with cement, in certain
cases).
2.        The following table shows the production capacity of Algeria in
general, and of SNMC in particular, for each of the basic products in the
subsector in 1973, excluding cement which is outside the scope of this study.
The table also shows the gap, in percentage terms, between domestic supply of
each product, and the estimated potential demand in 1973.
Deficit of
Domestic Supply
Production in 1973         over Demand
Products                  Unit      SNMC      Total Algeria            %
Clay bricks and tiles       1000 tons       453          618               -51%
Plaster                          "           62           84               -72%
Quicklime                        fi          16           40               -25%
Sand and-gravel aggregates    "           1,327        8,000               -11%
Agglomerates                                 34          500               -43%
Cement pipes and supports 1000 meters    78               99               -32%
Asbestos-cement products  1000 tons          34           34               -45%
Cerarnic tiles              1000 square   600            600               -76%
meters
The gap between supply and demand of construction materials is bound to further
widen in the course of the 1974-77 Plan, in spite of ambitious plans to expand
production capacity in this sector. The rate of expansion will be by far ex-
ceeded by the expected growth in demand for new construction.



ANNEX XI
Page 2
Hiousing
3.        There remained a considerable housing shortage at the end of the
first 1970-73 Plan, partly due to the delays encountered in implementing the
construction programis of the Plan itself. Existing dwellings at end 1966
(latest census) were estimated at about 2 million, which could be considered
satisfactory, given that Algeria's total population was 12 million (average
density: 6 persons per dwelling). Between 1966 and 1973, only 60,000 new
dwellings were completed, while the country's population grew by 2.9 million
in the same period.  Thus, at the same persons-per-dwelling ratio (6) a short-
age of over 420,000 dwellings had developed by 1974. In addition, the lack of
construction materials led to a general deterioration of existing dwellings
which have not been properly maintained. It is expected that Algeria's pop-
ulation will be 16.9 million by 1977, 18.7 million by 1980, 20 million by 1982
and over 22 million by 1985. In order to make up for the backlog of housing
construction, and to maintain an averàge density of 6 persons per dwelling,
which is a declared objective of Algeria housing policy, the country would
have to build over one million new dwellings by the end of the decade, and
over 1.6 million dwellings by 1985. Such a construction program is a for-
midable task and has binding constraints, both in the available supply of
construction materials, and in the capacity of the local construction indus-
try. Considering these constraints, the Algerian planners have set the fol-
lowing timetable to meet the growing demand for dwellings: 1/
-    The construction of 100,000 new urban dwellings (typically
4-room apartments in 4-5 floor, 8-10 apartment buildings) will
be undertaken in the course of the current Plan; taking into
account the construction already started, 90,000 new urban
dwellings should be delivered by end-1977.
-    The rate of construction of new urban dwellings should increase
after 1977, to reach 100,000 new dwellings per year by 1980,
and 200,000 per year by 1985.
-    In the rural environment, the construction of 300 new villages
will be undertaken in the course of the current Plan, within
the framework of the "Agrarian Revolution" (the program fore-
sees the construction of 1000 new villages, by 1980).
-    All in all, 100,000 rural dwellings will be started in the
course of the Plan, and 90,000 rural dwellings should be
delivered by end 1977. (In the rural environment, the Plan
counts on the initiative of the villagers to build their own
housing by themselves, under "self-construction" programs).
1/   The average surface of an urban dwelling is assumed to be 85 sq.mt.,
while the surface of a rural dwelling is assumed to be about 50 sq.mt.



ANNEX XI
Page 3
In the short run, it seems that the above program represents the
bare minimum that Algeria should aim for. It is difficult, however, to pass
a judgment on whether these targets are realistically attainable - too many
uncertainties remain as regards the Plan itself. One area in particular
where information is scanty,is the geographic distribution of demand
for housing. While it is known that the present population is about evenly
distributed between the country's urban areas and rural areas, with housing
shortage being especially serious in the urban areas, the data on the degree
of shortages in the various cities and among the 31 wilayate have not been
updated since 1966. As a result there is no clear picture of the geographic
distribution of demand. This is a serious problem since the location of pro-
duction plants in relation to demand is a determining factor in the evaluation
of the economic merit of construction materials projects. This problem is one
that the proposed Bank loan would cause BAD to raise when individual construc-
tion material subprojects would come for appraisal by its Unit. With adequate
project preparation substantial progress could be made at a relatively small
cost to optimize investment implementation in function of geographic demand.
Schools
4.        School construction represents the largest requirement of new social
buildings, in line with the Government's massive effort to reduce and eventually
eradicate illiteracy 1/ and to increase the availability of skilled workers and
trained technicians. The current Plan foresees the building of 8,000 class-
rooms for elementary schools, in order to accommodate an increase of 90,000
primary school children per year over the plan period; in the subsequent three
years (1978-80) another 7,600 primary classrooms should be built according to
the Plan's estimates. For secondary education, 380 new high schools and voca-
tional schools are to be built within the Plan period, accommodating between
600 and 1000 students each, and including dormitory facilities for 25-30% of
the students. A similar construction program should be completed in 1978-80.
Finally, new buildings are needed in universities and technical colleges
(30,000 additional students per annum over the next 6 years). Translated
into surfaces to be built, the total education program is summarized in the
table below (thousands of square meters):
Surface to be built during:
1974-1977         1978-1980         Total
Primary education                        1282              1221           2503
Secondary education                     1382               1443          2826
Superior education                       360                361            721
Other, and athletic equipment             25                 30             55
Total construction for education        3050              3055           6105
1/   At end-1972, Algeria's population in the primary school age group (aged
6-13) was 3.3 million, of which only 2/3 were attending school.



ANNEX XI
Page 4
Public Health
5.        For the period 1974-77, the Plan foresees the construction of 30 new
community hospitals (of which 11 were already under construction at end 1973)
with a capacity of between 120 and 240 beds each; two university hospitals with
1000 beds each; 150 clinics, and 300 rural emergency wards. A further devel-
opment of public health facilitie- of similar size is expected to take place
in the period 1978-80. In terms of surface to be built, the program foresees
the construction of 738,000 m2 by 1977 and of another 755,000 m2 by 1980.
Industry
6.        The cost of new industrial buildings is expected to amount to about
DA 1l billion during the Plan period, and to about DA 8 billion in the sub-
sequent 3 years. With an average cost of industrial construction in Algeria
of roughly DA 1500 per square meter, 7.3 million square meters of industrial
construction are expected to be added by 1977, and a further 5.3 million
square meters in the period 1978-80.
7.        In summary, the housing, education, health and industry programs
planned in Algeria until 1980, call for the construction of 64 million sq.
meters of new surfaces, as follows (in million sq. mt.):
Surface to be built
1974-1977       1978-1980      TOTAL
Housing                                 13.5             28.0          41.5
Education                                3.0              3.1           6.1
Health                                   0.7              0.8            1.5
Industry                                 7.3              5.3          12.6
Other                                    1.2               1.0          2.2
Total conptruction                      25.7             38.2          63.9
8.        Using past experience and standard criteria normally used in the
construction industry the Ministry of Industry and the S.E.P. have arrived
at the following estimates of the theoretical demand of key construction
materials (excluding cement)expected to be generated by such a construction
program:



ANNEX XI
Page 5
Unit of Yearly production capacity needed
Measure     by 1977               by 1980
Plaster                              1000 tons       430                   700
Quicklime                            1000 tons       112                   178
Clay bricks and tîles                1000 tons    1,680                  2,720
Ceramic tiles                        1000 sq.mt.  4,500                 6,000
Sanitary ceramic                     1000 tons        26                    32
Agglomerates                         1000 tons    1,600                  2,800
Asbestos-cement products             1000 tons        92                   120
Concrete pipes                       1000 meters    225                    283
Aggregates                           1000 tons   17,200                 28,000
For metallic frames produced by SNMetal, the Plan estimates a potential
demand, based on the need to complete the programs described above, of
690,000 tons, during 1974-77. Only 43% is likely to be satisfied by
domestic production, while the balance would have to be imported.
Outlook
9.        The response of the Algerian planning authorities to the projected
increase in demand for construction materials is a large investment program
affecting SNMC, SNMetal and also the decentralized Wilayate Enterprises to
be set up under the RIDP. The investment program is discussed in the main
text of this report (paras. 3.10 to 3.13).
10.       The table below shows the overall supply of each product in the
construction materials subsector that should be available at the completion
of the current 4-year Plan (end 1977), and at the time when all projects
launched in the course of the Plan are expected to have started operations
(end 1980). The table also shows what portion of total foreseen supply will
be provided by SNMC, and, in the last column, the estimated percentage deficit
(or surplus) of demand over supply of each product, based on a comparison be-
tween future production capacity and estimated future demand.



ANNEX XI
Page î
Percentage              Percentage
deficit or              deficit or
Estimated      surplus of   Estimated surplus of
production capacity domestic       produc-   domstic
in 1977       supply over    tion    supply over
Unit of TOTAL       of which demand in    capacity  demand in
Measure               SNMC       1977      in 1980       1980
Plaster          1000 tons   344           322      -20%         804        +15%
Quicklime        1000 tons   199           178     +78%          399        +124%
Bricks and
tiles         1000 tons 1,892          1,681     +13%        2,902        + 7%
Ceramic tiles   1000 sq.  2,605          2,605     -41%        6,050        + 1%
mt.
Sanitary
ceramic       1000 tons    19             19     -24%           27        -16%
Agglomerates    1000 tons 1,245          1,060      -22%       2,880        + 2%
Asbestos-cement 1000 tons   102            102     +11%           157       +31%
Concrete pipes  1000 mt.    134            134      -41%         264        - 7%
Sand and gravel 1000
tons   20,400         7,800     +19%       28,000        + 9%
Metallic car-
pentry &
Boilers       1000 tons   150            -       -35%          280        - 7%
The large overcapacity for quicklime as shown in the table is only apparent,
since a large part of quicklime production will be absorbed by other branches
of the economy, such as agriculture and steel mills. The slight overcapacity
shown in the table for other products (bricks and tiles, asbestos-cement,
and aggregates) is due to the fact that plants are planned according to
standardized optimal-size models, which may create some overcapacity in
certain locations. One should keep in mind, however, that these over-
capacities would occur only if all investment programs were completed on
schedule, which is doubtful.



