CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1158 AL
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANQUE ALGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DATED SEPTEMBER 4, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1158 AL
Loan Agreement
(Industrial Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANQUE ALGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
DATED SEPTEMBER 4, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 4, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANQUE ALGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT (hereinafter called
the Borrower), a development bank established and operating under the laws of
the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria (hereinafter called the Guarantor).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
*       Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project.
(b)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan.
(c)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan.
(d)   "Algerian Dinars" and "DA" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(e)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Guarantor.


﻿4
(f)   "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower dated May 7, 1963,
as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(g)   "Statement of Policy" means the Policies and Operations for the
Project set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
(h)   "subsidiary " means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more subsidiaries of the Borrower
or by the Borrower and one or more of its subsidiaries.
(i)   "Unit" means the Unit established by the Borrower in accordance with
the provisions of Section 3.05(a) of this Agreement.
(j)   "SNMC" means Societe Nationale des Matiriaux de Construction, a
societe nationale established under the laws of the Guarantor.
(k)   "SNM6tal" means Soci6te Nationale de Constructions Mtalliques, a
societe nationale established under the laws of the Guarantor.
(1)   "RIDP" means the Regional Industrial Development Program of local
administrations of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to forty million dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) An amount of the Loan not exceeding the equivalent of
$100,000 may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of the foreign
exchange cost of consultants with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank, which the Borrower may employ, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank, to assist the Borrower in
developing its accounting and internal auditing procedures.
(b)   The amount of the Loan not withdrawn pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section may be withdrawn from the Loan Account:


﻿5
(i)         for amounts expended by the Borrower for an Investment
Project or, if the Bank shall so agree, for expenditures required
to be made by the Borrower for an Investment Project, to
finance the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods (except
in the case of goods purchased as described in clause (ii) of
this sub-paragraph) and services required for the Investment
Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested; and
(ii)       the equivalent of seventy-five per cent (75%) of the invoice price
paid for goods previously imported into Algeria through normal
trade channels or goods produced in Algeria to a substantial
extent from components or raw materials so imported and
purchased by Investment Enterprises to carry out Investment
Projects (such percentage being the price of such goods net of
(A) taxes now imposed under the laws of the Guarantor, or
laws in effect in its territories on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply of such goods or their components, and
(B) the value locally added to such goods), provided, however,
that if, as a result of any modification of the elements of such
invoiced price, the incidence of such taxes and locally added
value on such invoiced price shall significantly vary, such
percentage shall, at the request of the Bank or the Borrower,
be adjusted to the extent required to ensure that no proceeds
of the Loan shall be withdrawn on account of payments for
such taxes and locally added value; provided, however, that no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan unless the
sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval, if such
expenditures shall have been made before the date of this Agreement or more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect
of such sub-loan the application and information required by Section 2.03(a) of
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) When submitting a sub-loan to the Bank for approval, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form agreed upon between
the Bank and the Borrower, together with a description of the Investment Enterprise
and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) the


﻿6
recommendations of the Unit and the proposed terms and conditions of the
sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan and such other
informatJlon as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section shall
be submitted to the Bank on or before December 31, 1977.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or such other
date as shall be determined by the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this Section, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance with the
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required to: (i)
conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to sub-loans which have been approved for withdrawals from the Loan
Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and (ii) take into account any
cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments
made by the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that
repayments due hereunder shall be made on May 15 and November 15 in each
year. Such amendments of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the table
of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b)  The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan shall provide
for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of this
Agreement, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
S


﻿7
(c)   The principal amount of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section
2.02(a) of this Agreement shall be repaid by the Borrower to the Bank in thirty
equal semi-annual installments starting November 15, 1976.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)   If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the Borrower in
advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall
promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following interest
payment date, together with the premiums specified in Schedule I to this
Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08(a) of this Agreement,
the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such sub-loan or
part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b)   Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by the Bank,
to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts corresponding to the
outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan so repaid or
disposed of.
(c)   Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions shall not apply
to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
financing such productive facilities and resources in Algeria as will contribute to
the economic and social development of the country. The Project consists in the
financing of specific development projects in the industrial sub-sectors set forth
in paragraph D(5)(a) of the Statement of Policy through loans to enterprises in
Algeria in furtherance of the statutory purposes of the Borrower and in accordance
with the Statement of Policy.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency, in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
personnel, and in accordance with the Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan will be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate


﻿8
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
including, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to
carry out and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and
to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased at a reasonable price,
account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and
spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence
of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment Project,
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv) require that:
(1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and maintain such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice;
and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
marine, transit and -other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, for its prior approval, any
substantial changes proposed to be made by the Borrower in respect of the
repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof,
the amount of financing provided by the Borrower, disbursements, repayments,
interest and other charges on such financing, including the sub-loan therefor) and
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the Unit


﻿9
and its procedures, operations and records, the Investment Enterprises, the
Investment Projects, and the sub-loans.
Section 3.04. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any subsidiary, the
Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of
the Borrower hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 3.05. (a) In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall maintain
the Unit with such composition and functions as set forth in the Statement of
Policy.
(b)   The Borrower shall employ and assign to the Unit two internationally
recruited technical advisors and one experienced engineer.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices consistently applied,
the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in sucn detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt, except as otherwise
currently reported or disclosed in writing by the Borrower to the Bank, and
undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not to grant any such
lien, provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as


﻿10
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing
not more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Borrower which would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall -be necessary to
protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including Algerian Dinars) used in its operations.
Section 4.06. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
eventual subsidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and such subsidiaries.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   a change shall have been made in the Statutes which will materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the Borrower;
(c)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of the Borrower; and
(d)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would


﻿11
adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial
situation or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)
of Section 5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date of December 3, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INTBAFRAD                                440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Banque Algerienne de Developpement
38 Ave. Franklin Roosevelt
Alger
Algerie


﻿12
Cable address:                         /Telex:
BAD                                     BAD Alger 52529/
Alger
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / M. P. Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANQUE ALGERIENNE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
By   /s /  Ali Kara-Mustapha
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)**
November 15, 1976                                      770,000
May 15, 1977                                           805,000
November 15, 1977                                      835,000
May 15, 1978                                           875,000
November 15, 1978                                      910,000
May 15, 1979                                           950,000
November 15, 1979                                      990,000
May 15, 1980                                         1,030,000
November 15, 1980                                    1,075,000
May 15, 1981                                          1,120,000
November 15, 1981                                    1,170,000
May 15, 1982                                         1,215,000
November 15, 1982                                    1,270,000
May 15, 1983                                         1,325,000
November 15, 1983                                    1,380,000
May 15, 1984                                         1,440,000
November 15, 1984                                    1,500,000
May 15, 1985                                         1,565,000
November 15, 1985                                    1,630,000
May 15, 1986                                         1,700,000
November 15, 1986                                    1,770,000
M1ay 15, 1987                                        1,845,000
\ovember 15, 1987                                    1,925,000
May 15, 1988                                         2,005,000
November 15, 1989                                    2,090,000
May 15, 1989                                         2,180,000
November 15, 1989                                    2,275,000
May 15, 1990                                         2,355,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿14
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09(a)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                1-1/2%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                               2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                               5-3/4%
More than cieven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                   7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                               8-1/2%


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)   Section 9.02 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data: The member of the Bank
which is the Borrower or the Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request with respect to financial
and economic conditions in its territory".
(2)  The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application of such
prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.05."
(3)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(4)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (b) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Bank
in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall
have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests
or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Policies and Operations for
the Project
A.    Composition of the Unit
1.    The Unit shall consist of at least ten members appointed by the Borrower,
including a director responsible for the Unit, and, not later than December 31,
1975, or such other date as shall be mutually agreed, an experienced engineer.
The staffing of the Unit will vary in order to meet its workload.
B.    Functions of the Unit
2.    The Unit will be primarily engaged in the selection, appraisal, preparation
and supervision of projects to be financed under the Loan. The Unit's scope of
activity may be expanded to the appraisal and supervision of other projects.
3.    For subprojects to be financed under the Loan, the Unit
(a)   shall review each Investment Project and related application or request
for a sub-loan on the basis of a detailed appraisal of the Investment
Project prepared by -the Unit, including:
(i)         the technical feasibility of the Investment Project;
(ii)        the marketability of the proposed production;
(iii)       the financial and economic justification of the Investment
Project, on the basis of realistic assumptions; and
(iv)        the creditworthiness of the Investment Enterprise and its
management of the Investment Project.
(b)   shall, after its review, make recommendations to the Borrower on each
Investment Project and related sub-loan as to its conformity to the
statement of Operations and Policies for the Project set forth in Part
D hereof and make any recommendation to achieve such conformity;
(c)   shall establish and maintain appropriate records and accounts as
provided for in Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement, forward to the
Bank periodic statements and reports thereon, in such detail as the


﻿17
Bank shall request, and all such other information as the Bank or the
Borrower shall from time to time reasonably request;
(d)   shall propose to the Borrower's management appropriate time schedules
and procedures for supervision and evaluation of each Investment
Project, shall assist the Borrower's other departments in carryi,g out
such supervision and evaluation, and shall review and comment on
supervision and evaluation reports so prepared by such departments;
and
(e)   shall maintain on behalf of the Borrower close relation with the Bank
and assist the Bank representatives in any inspection of Investment
Projects and in exchanges of views with the Borrower on matters
relating to the Loan and the Project.
C.    Review of Investment Projects
4.    The Borrower shall review each Investment Project on the basis of the
appraisal report prepared by the Unit and shall state its acceptance or rejection
of such Investment Project.
D.    Operations and Policies for the Project
5.    Investment Projects and subloans for Investment Projects, unless the Bank
and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, shall conform to the following criteria:
(a)   Investment Projects, shall be either:
(i)         construction material projects sponsored by SNMC or SNMetal,
or
(ii)        industrial projects, sponsored by   the Wilayate, Dairate or
Assembl6es Populaires Communales in Algeria, in the framework
of the development of regional small- and medium-size
enterprises, in the following sub-sectors: construction materials,
wood processing, metal processing, and other sub-sectors as the
Bank and the Borrower may agree from time to time.
(b)   The aggregate use of the Loan for each of the two categories mentioned
above shall be not more than $20,000,000 each. However if such
amount cannot be fully utilized under category (i), the parties may
affect a higher amount to category (ii).


﻿18
(c)   Investment Projects shall be limited to small- and medium-sized
subprojects defined as follows:
(i)         for SNMC and SNMetal:
projects with a total investment cost of less than DA 100 million;
(ii)        for RIDP:
projects with a total investment cost of less than DA20 million.
Proceeds of the Loan shall be used for each Investment Project
generally up to a maximum of:
(i)         for SNMC and SNMetal: US$5 million;
(ii)        for RIDP: US$2 million.
(d)   Investment Projects should provide satisfactory financial and economic
rates of return, on the basis of detailed and realistic estimates of costs,
revenues and benefits, in addition to meeting normal criteria of
technical feasibility of the project, marketability of its production and
creditworthiness and managerial competence of the Investment
Enterprise. Unless a special justification is provided: (i) projects with
an internal financial rate of return of less than 9% will be excluded;
for the purpose of calculating the said financial rate of return,
Government subsidies, if any, shall not be included; and (ii) if the
economic rate of return is calculated to be less than 8%, the Investment
Project shall normally be rejected.
(e)   In its appraisal of the financial aspect of a subproject, the Unit shall
ensure that the projected results of the operations are sufficient to
maintain an adequate net working capital throughout the subproject's
economic life and to cover the service of the debt incurred to finance
the subproject. If the projected cash flow of a subproject is not
sufficient to ensure the maintenance of an adequate working capital
and the service of the debt due to Government-imposed low sale prices,
the appraisal report of the Unit should propose solutions to ensure
financial equilibrium of the enterprise.
(f)   Sub-loans for Investment Projects shall be made for a term consistent
with the requirements of the Loan Agreement and related to the debt


﻿19
servicing capacity of the Investment Enterprise but in no case to exceed
the useful life of the assets financed. Sub-loans shall be repayable in
the same currencies as the corresponding principal amount of the Loan
used for the purpose and shall carry interest, payable in the same
currencies as the principal, at an annual rate of not less than 10%
of the principal amount outstanding.
(g)   Each Investment Project shall be subject to close supervision by the
Borrower in accordance with the procedures proposed by the Unit
until the date on which the loan agreement for the sub-loan shall
terminate. Such supervision shall be organized by the Unit or under
the Unit's responsibility.


