                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 31000

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (IDA-27040)

                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 40.0 MILLION

                              TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                COTE D'IVOIRE

                                    FOR A

                          MUNICIPAL SUPPORT PROJECT




                               December 29, 2004




Water and Urban 2
Country Department 11
Africa Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                 Currency Unit = CFA Franc

                                       FISCAL YEAR


                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFVP      Association Française des Volontaires du Progrès
BNETD     Bureau National d'Etudes Techniques et de Développement
CAA       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CCG PACOM Comité de Coordination et de Gestion du Programme d'Appui à la Conduite d'Opération
          Municipales
COIC      Contrat d'Opérations d'Intérêt Communal
CRAM      Compte de régie d'avance municipale
DCGTx     Direction et Contrôle des Grands Travaux
DGCL      Direction Générale des Collectivités Locales
DGI       Direction Générale des Impôts
FPCL      Fonds des Prêts aux Collectivités Locales
ILO       International Labor Organization
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
MACOM     Mission d'Appui à la Conduite d'Opérations Municipales
MDP       Municipal Développent Project
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NGOs      Non Governmental Organizations
PAQSE     Programme d'Amélioration des Quartiers Sous-équipés
PASI      Programme d'Appui au Secteur Informel
PMEs      Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
QAG       Quality Assurence Grup
RCI       République of Cote d'Ivoire
SIGFIP    Système Intégré de Gestion des Finances Publiques
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UVICOCI   Union des Villes et Communes de Côte d'Ivoire




                               Vice President:     Gobind Nankani
                            Country Director:      Mamadou Dia
                              Sector Manager:      Inger Andersen
                          Task Team Leader:        Alicia Casalis

                                       COTE D'IVOIRE
                                  MUNICIPAL SUPPORT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            15
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P037575                                                  Project Name: MUNICIPAL SUPPORT
Team Leader: Alicia B. Casalis                                       TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MUNICIPAL SUPPORT                                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-27040
   Country/Department: COTE D'IVOIRE                                                      Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (29%); Other social services (29%); General
                            water, sanitation and flood protection sector (25%); Sub-national
                            government administration (14%); Micro- and SME finance (3%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Municipal finance (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (P); Other urban
                            development (P); Pollution management and environmental health
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/30/1987                                     Effective: 09/27/1995                09/27/1995
     Appraisal: 05/30/1994                                         MTR: 06/30/1998                  06/22/1998
      Approval: 04/13/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV'T OF RCI/MIN. OF INTERIOR
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Mamadou Dia                                    Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Inger Andersen                                 James O. Wright
Team Leader at ICR:             Alicia B. Casalis                              Jean Mazurelle
ICR Primary Author:             Gerhard Tschannerl; Alicia B.
                                Casalis


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objectives of the Municipal Support Project (Projet
d'Appui à la Conduite d'Opérations Municipales; PACOM) were to: (a) improve the welfare of the
population in urban areas by increasing urban incomes and improving urban services; (b) improve living
conditions of low-income groups in urban areas; (c) improve the national and local governments' capacity
to implement and sustain urban services through the establishment of improved systems for financing and
management, including an increase in local resource mobilization; and (d) contribute to sustained
development through environmental improvement and protection.

This was the first IDA credit extended to the urban sector in Côte d'Ivoire. Four IBRD loans had preceded,
three of which focused on land development and major urban infrastructure in Abidjan and the last one--the
Municipal Development Program (MDP), Ln. 3128-IVC, approved in October 1989--was a first attempt to
assist municipalities. The implementation of the MDP proved to be problematic. Only 72 % of the Loan
were disbursed by the time it closed in December 1994 without an extension and restructuring, as proposed
by the Government. The MDP was rated unsuccessful because its supply-driven nature and its centralized
implementation hampered its execution and sustainability. These findings comforted the conclusions of the
Urban Sector Strategy Review, which had been carried out in 1993-1994 with a strong participation of
local stakeholders. In addition, PACOM was prepared shortly after the 1994 devaluation of the CFA
Franc. Although the devaluation was globally beneficial, there were concerns about its impact on the
revenues of the urban population and urban poverty had increased in the prior years.

The project's objectives were in line with the objectives of the Country Assistance Strategy for the Côte
d'Ivoire at that time. It responded to the Government's newly-introduced decentralization policy, which
formed the subject of the Letter of Sector Policy from the Government, appended to the SAR. The
Government's commitment to poverty alleviation and the creation of a regulatory environment to foster
sustainable urban development was confirmed in the course of the Sector Strategy Review.

The multiplicity of objectives evidenced the complexity of the project, which was not questioned at that
time. Moreover, the formulation of the objectives over-stated, to some extent, the more modest intent of the
project, given the limited experience with decentralization and the demand-driven role for local governments
in the Côte d'Ivoire. Finally, three of the four project objectives contain cause-and-effect statements, which
made it difficult to identify a set of Performance Indicators for impact that would address all the objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not formally revised.


3.3 Original Components:
The project had two main components and eight sub-components, as follows.

Component A ­ Priority Urban Works (US$41.7 million). This component focused on improvements in
basic urban infrastructure, including priority works for small municipalities, service improvement in
low-income urban areas, and loans to municipalities for revenue-earning investments. The eligibility
criteria for a municipality to participate in one or several of the programs and for the choice of sub-projects
were specified in the SAR. The sub-components included:

(1) Minimum Infrastructure for Small Municipalities (PEMPC- US$18.7million). Basic social and
economic infrastructure for municipalities that had limited resources or access to government grants. The
planned range of investments included roads, drains, public latrines, water supply, street lighting, and
rehabilitation of public buildings. The choice of investments was to be made according to a set of



                                                       - 2 -

eligibility criteria. Only municipalities with less than 25,000 inhabitants and a budget of less than
US$120,000 were originally eligible to participate.

(2) Pilot Operation in Squatter Settlements (PAQSE- operations pilotes. Total PAQSE operations
pilotes + operations libres - US$19.3 million). Four of the poorest and most densely populated squatter
settlements in municipalities with more than 25,000 inhabitants were initially chosen as pilot areas, namely
Bardo in San Pedro, Banco in Bouaké, Grand Campement in Abidjan, and PK18 in Abidjan. The
minimum population density for eligibility was 200 inhabitants per hectare (ha) for Abidjan and 60
inhabitants per ha elsewhere. Preparatory economic and physical studies were contained in the poverty
chapter of the Government's urban strategy. Beneficiary participation, works identification, and
implementation were to be tested through these pilot operations before being replicated in the lower-income
areas rehabilitation program.

(3) Rehabilitation of Low-Income Areas (PAQSE- operations libres). Rehabilitation of select squatter
settlements, including drainage and water supply along primary roads and small-scale infrastructure. The
eligibility requirements for population density were the same as for the Operations pilotes; otherwise, the
sub-project selection criteria and procedures used for Sub-component 1, Minimum Infrastructure for Small
Municipalities, applied.

(4) Loan Fund for Local Governments (FPCL- US$3.7 million). The Municipal Development Fund
had been established in 1989 under the preceding Municipal Development Project (MDP), to provide
long-term loans to municipalities. PACOM was to continue to fund such investments under the criteria
contained in the operating manual. The only change between the MDP and the present project, described in
the SAR, was the narrowing of eligible sub-projects to those that are income-generating, such as markets,
slaughterhouses, and transport terminals.


Component B ­ Municipal Capacity Building (US$7.0 million). This component included training to
assist municipalities with the planning and implementation of micro-projects; support to MACOM (the
implementing agency); enhancement of local resource mobilization to plan and implement investments;
cadastres to enhance local resource mobilization; and provision of small loans to micro-enterprises in
low-income areas, managed by local NGOs.

(1)     Training (US$1.4 million). In the first phase, an existing unit in the Direction Générale des
Collectivités Locales (DGCL) was to provide training to municipal officials to develop managerial,
financial, and technical capabilities, thus enabling local officials to propose and supervise investments.
The training activities would consolidate the ongoing actions of the Unité d'Aide au Développement
Communal managed by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the UNDP. The second phase of
training would be directed at elected officials jointly with the Alliance of Mayors and the population
involved in a beneficiary participation process.

(2)      Operation of MACOM (US$3.2 million). MACOM was to provide coordination, support to
municipalities and other agencies involved, accounting and monitoring and reporting for project
implementation and to act as Secretariat to the Project Coordinating Committee (CCG-PACOM).

(3)      Local Resource Mobilization (US$1.1 million). This component aimed at increasing the yield
from two kinds of transferred central government taxes: land property tax and business tax. The measures
for the property tax would be reforming the existing regulations to simplify tax billing and collection,
reducing fiscal pressure, increasing the number of tax payers, and expanding the fiscal cadastre. For the
business tax, the existing regulations were to be updated, and billing and collection improved. The planned
outputs were tax preparation studies, development of a simplified fiscal cadastre in about 30 towns, and



                                                      - 3 -

strengthening of the Directorate of Taxes (DGI). The Government was also to submit a timed action plan
by the time of the Mid-Term Review for streamlining the allocation of resources between the central
government and the municipalities.

(4)      Support to Micro-enterprise (US$1.3 million). This component was intended to expand the
support provided under MDP for economic activities in low-income areas, such as food and craft
production, catering, and sewing, to towns in the interior of the country and with more responsibility to
local NGOs for managing the loans.

3.4 Revised Components:
         The components were revised several times in order to (i) take care of unfinished business under
the MDP; (ii) accommodate Government requests to enlarge the audience of participating communes; (iii)
expand support to institutions involved in capacity building; (iv) adjust the scope of the pilot operations;
and (v) include a HIV/AIDS awareness program. In addition, substantial changes and a complete project
restructuring were considered after September 2002, to assist the Government in dealing with the
consequences of the crisis. The subsequent course of events and the suspension of disbursements prevented
their materialization. The main actual revisions are listed below.

l Immediately after effectiveness, the Bank agreed to include in the PACOM the activities that were part
    of the MDP, but that could not be completed before the closing date of December 31, 1994. They
    consisted of (i) twenty-one subprojects for sanitation, water supply, and solid waste collection
    equipment (US$2.90 million), and (ii) works contracts for the seven loans under the municipal loan
    scheme (FPCL; US$2.55 million).

l In June 1996, a sub-component was added at the request of the Borrower and with the consent of the
    Bank, called Programme d'Urgence (PU) and consisting of basic infrastructure for the 61 new
    municipalities (communes) created in 1995. Each of them was to be provided with a standard set of
    basic infrastructure, consisting of a furnished municipal office building, office equipment, a final
    disposal site for refuse, and a tractor and 2 trailers for refuse collection. This program was centrally
    administered by MACOM, unlike the rest of the infrastructure program, which was implemented by the
    municipalities.

l Following the November 1998 mid-term review (MTR) of the project, several changes were introduced
    in an amendment to the DCA, which became effective on December 6, 1999:

   o     The condition that restricted the participation of communes to the ones with a an annual budget of
         less than CFAF 60 million (US$120,000) was abolished.

   o     To cope with the incremental workload and tasks generated by the assistance to municipalities, the
         sub-component of support to MACOM was expanded to include to additional institutions, which
         participated in the Steering Committee, namely the Directorate of Decentralization, BNETD, and
         UVICOCI (the Mayors' Association). This project-related support was specified in the annual
         agreement between the Government and BNETD for project implementation services (see Section
         4.5).

   o     The number of areas under the Pilot Operation in Squatter Settlements (PAQSE- operations
         pilotes) was reduced from 4 to 2, that is Banco in Bouaké and Grand Campement in Abidjan. The
         rationale was to phase the program by concentrating first on 2 pilot areas for the development of
         the methodology, and then to expand it through other projects.

l In 2000 the project joined the fight against HIV/AIDS, which was not prevalent at the time of project
    preparation. The close working relationship with the mayors of the municipalities and their



                                                       - 4 -

    organization, the Alliance of Mayors (UVICOCI), was built upon the will to carry out several public
    awareness campaigns on HIV/AIDS in the municipalities.

In December 2002 the Government requested the Bank's assistance with the resettlement of an estimated
40,000 homeless people in Abidjan who had been driven from slum areas that were considered a threat to
security in the aftermath of the attempted coup of September 2002. The Bank agreed to provide this
support through PACOM in October 2003 after receiving assurances from the Government that there
would be no future slum clearing. The population to be resettled was to be identified through a census, and
the areas that had been identified for the resettlement were to be freed of encumbrances. The resettlement
was to be planned and carried out under the project. A homeless people census was finalized in June 2004,
the information were assembled in a data base and synthesized in various documents and CD.

In parallel with the discussions about the resettlement, the Bank was considering how to re-engage after the
coup attempt by restructuring the portfolio in response to the situation of the de facto division of the
country in two parts, one held by the Government and the other by the Forces nouvelles, the former
insurgents, and how to respond to the rehabilitation and construction needs. PACOM was to be part of the
emergency program, with about US$8 million undisbursed balance in mid-2003. The proposal of the
Country Team included a restructuring, extension of the closing date, and a supplementary credit for the
project. However, when it became clear, in the spring of 2004 that the political situation had not markedly
improved and that disbursements had to be suspended because of the arrears, the proposal was abandoned
and the project was closed on June 30, 2004 (five years after the original closing date).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory, based on (i) not having taken the lessons of the MDP
sufficiently into account, particularly by duplicating the complex design of the previous project with
multiple components and implementation arrangements that required the cooperation of a large number of
institutions, and (ii) the over-reliance on the Government's commitment to decentralization. While these
two issues were identified at the time of appraisal, their treatment was not far-reaching enough. Too many
activities were either carried forward from MDP or added to PACOM under the general heading of urban
development and decentralization, which resulted in a variety of sub-components that were loosely related
to one another. Several sub-components lacked the institutional backing for a successful implementation
and failed to meet their expectations, particularly the revenue-earning investments, support to
microenterprises, and the local resource mobilization, which had problems right from the start. In
hindsight, it is also likely that the perspective of having access to IDA funds was an important factor in the
Government's decision to close the MDP, beyond the official commitment to a new decentralized and
demand-driven approach.

No quality at entry review of PACOM was carried out by QAG. However, the quality of supervision
review that QAG undertook in 2000 faulted the project design for being too complex.

The SAR identified two major risks, namely (i) insufficient capacity at the municipal level, and (ii) the
complexity of the implementation arrangements. However, the project design did not go far enough in
mitigating these risks, thereby repeating shortcomings of the previous project. The risk of instability due to
elections and the decline in the economic conditions were underestimated.

The newly-created project implementing unit had little experience in decentralized project preparation and
implementation. About a year was spent on preparatory activities before the selection of participating
municipalities and subprojects could start in earnest. Many of the procedures that were developed during
project preparation had to be revised on the basis of the early implementation experience. Other
institutions were also unfamiliar with decentralized project management and needed time to reorient their
approach.



                                                       - 5 -

Another shortcoming in the project design was the lack of agreed-upon monitoring indicators for impacts
and outputs, which was not a Bank requirement when the project was approved. Only performance
indicators of the speed at which various steps of implementation were carried out were provided. The
project was retrofitted with performance indicators following the logframe approach, and these were refined
over the course of implementation, but never became the guiding measures of success of the implementing
agency, which preferred to measure progress in terms of commitments and expenditures.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory.

The evaluation of the impact of the project is hampered by the fact that the project objectives were very
broad, making it difficult to choose appropriate performance indicators. Measures of outcome such as
welfare, income, and living conditions, which are part of the project objectives, relate more to higher-level
objectives as they depend on the effectiveness of other inputs, which are outside the scope of the project. In
any case, the project did not reach the targets set for the three performance indicators of impact (see Annex
1).

It should be recognized that PACOM, in spite of the country challenges, made a real contribution to the
urban decentralization agenda which was being pursued by the government during this period. As such,
PACOM supported the decentralization process, promoting the decentralized delivery of urban services and
introducing a financing procedures of paying for infrastructure works by the municipalities. However, these
advances in the decentralization process were brought to a standstill after the 2002 crisis (see Section 5
below). A sizable amount of assets created by the project was lost or fell into disuse after the attempted
coup in September 2002 and the de facto division of the country in two (see Section 4.2 below). There had
been widespread looting in the war zones, particularly of schools, hospitals, and government buildings.
Some works in the zone held by the Forces nouvelles were not started or were left incomplete, and the
decentralized implementation mechanism, including the newly introduced financial procedures of paying for
infrastructure works by the municipalities, which was introduced in about half the municipalities, had to be
abandoned.

The achievements on the four parts of the objectives are as follows:

a.       The objective of improving welfare of the population in urban areas by increasing urban incomes
and improving urban services is rated as unsatisfactory. This objective comprised three levels of
cause-and-effect relationships, the first two of which are higher-level objectives that go beyond the capacity
of the project. No urban income surveys have been carried out in recent years as the northern half has been
under the control of the Forces nouvelles since September 2002, but other economic surveys have shown a
sharp decline in income. The performance indicator for impact of the percentage of sub-projects for urban
infrastructure agreed to in the Municipal Contracts (COIC) that are completed and in use has not been
met (see Annex 1).

b.       The objective of improving living conditions of low-income groups in urban areas is rated as s
atisfactory. More than 800,000 inhabitants of high-density urban settlements have benefited from the
project through their participation in the planning and carrying out of improvements in their communities.
The areas included three communities in Abidjan and more than ten poor neighborhoods in the
Municipalities of Agboville, Anyama, and Abengourou. The two pilots for slum upgrading have
demonstrated that this approach is viable and replicable, and that a significant impact on improving the
living conditions in the community can be achieved through local initiative. However, with the bad
economic situation in the country at present, any future comprehensive slum improvement program will



                                                      - 6 -

depend on external assistance.

c.       The objective of improving the national and local governments' capacity to implement and sustain
urban services through the establishment of improved systems for financing and management, including an
increase in local resource mobilization is rated as unsatisfactory (see Section 4.5 Institutional development
impact)

d.       The objective of contributing to sustained development through environmental improvement and
protection is rated as unsatisfactory. The project--which belong to Environmental Category B--complied
with the Bank's safeguard policies relating to OD 4.01 Environmental Assessment and OD 4.12
Involuntary Resettlement. An environmental assessment was included with every application for a
sub-project as well as a resettlement plan, where applicable. These were vetted as part of the sub-project
approval process. The follow-up was, however, insufficient, as a series of crisis situations diverted
attention away from the environment to other, more pressing issues of project implementation. Less than
half of the planned improvements in solid waste management were achieved, as few of the final refuse
disposal sites and tractors and trailers for refuse collection are in use.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component A ­ Priority Urban Works (Actual cost US$29.8 million)

The output of the component is rated unsatisfactory. Only three out of the six performance indicators for
output have been met (see Annex 1).

As the project was demand-driven, no output targets for the investments had been specified during project
preparation, making it impossible to quantitatively compare the planned outputs with the achievements. It
has been noted however, that the number of municipalities that participated in the Minimum Infrastructure
Program far exceeded the original expectations, which is an indication of the success of the approach. The
global demand of investments by municipalities amounted to three times the allocation of project funds. On
the other hand, the small size of the sub-projects ­ suited to the financial and administrative capacity of the
municipalities, and the large number of municipalities - made the task of the central support agencies more
complex than expected. A total of 132 municipalities carried out 142 programs, including the 76
Municipal Agreements (COIC). The programs contained 459 sub-projects, of which 371 (or 81%) were
completed, 48 partly completed, and 40 not started (see Table A.1.3 of Annex 1) . The 459 sub-projects are
distributed in the following sectors: Administration and socio-cultural (35%), Economic (6%), Education
(9%), Environment (35%), Habitat (9%) and Health (3%). The output indicator of the percentage of
planned sub-projects for small municipalities completed, which aimed at of 100%, was not met. All 88
sub-projects that were not started or have not been completed are located in the zone controlled by the
Forces nouvelles, which contains about half of all the sub-projects.

Two technical audits that were completed in June 2004 revealed that a significant portion of the works and
equipment provided are of poor quality and/or are not in use.

The first audit covered the 59 participating municipalities that are located in the government-controlled
southeastern part of the country. It showed that, of 217 sub-projects audited, 89% have been completed
and handed over at least provisionally; and that all the sub-projects are being used, except for 22% of the
engineered refuse disposal sites and one slaughterhouse. However, a number of structural problems have
been found and no systematic maintenance is taking place. (Bureau VERITAS, Rapport sur la Mission
d'évaluation des Travaux Urbains Prioritaires du PACOM, Vols. 1 & 2, June 2004).

The most frequent technical problems highlighted by the audit were: (i) weak structure, resulting in cracks
in 42% of schools, 12% of municipal office buildings, and 8% of multipurpose community centers (foyers



                                                       - 7 -

polyvalents); no evidence of materials testing; (ii) water leaks, sometimes due to the wrong roofing material
used (not according to standard), sometimes due to surface cracks as a result of poor quality of material
used; (iii) bad carpentry workmanship (not according to standard), allowing rain water to enter through
doors or windows; and (iv) inundation in a few cases due to low ground level of the building. Due to the
lack of the use of fungicide, 58% of the latrines had mildew.

The engineered refuse disposal sites have generally been well constructed, but their operation poses serious
problems, as 52% of the 23 disposal sites constructed are inadequately maintained, and 13% are
improperly used. The municipalities were not provided with any equipment to manage and maintain the
disposal sites, neither were they given any guidance or training on how to operate an engineered disposal
site. As a consequence, the refuse is dumped in an unplanned fashion, creating problems similar to those
found in unregulated landfills. It was observed that 12% of the drains that were built along the urban roads
had faults stemming from design problems. Finally, as no effective spare parts acquisition system exists in
the municipalities, nearly 20% of the tractors and 32% of the trailers have broken down and are out of
service. The office furniture has generally been put to good use.

The survey identified the following systemic problems, which have prevented their rectification in many
cases before the final hand-over:

l No authoritative monitoring institution has been involved in the supervision of the sub-projects;
l The consulting firms engaged for the supervision of the works have in some cases failed to perform as
     expected, such as abandoning the construction site or only doing irregular supervision;
l The project design was not verified according to the stipulated technical specifications. No such
     authorization could be found;
l In the case of building construction, no proper insurance policy had been submitted by the contractors
     to cover the required rectification of faults during the guarantee period;
l Key clauses for the effective management of contracts were not invoked, concerning the required
     qualification of the personnel, the abrogation of the contract in cases where the contractor defaulted,
     lack of performance guarantees, and withholding up to the final hand-over.


The second technical audit, carried out around the same time in the northwestern part of the country
controlled by the Forces nouvelles, covered 65 municipalities and 273 sub-projects (BNETD, Rapport
d'Evaluation des réalisations du PACOM, June 2004 ) The status of completion is shown in Table 1
above. The survey found that 80% of the buildings constructed through the project are in acceptable
condition. Common problems are fissures in the masonry and foundations (40%), failure to keep water out,
and attack of wood by insects. The faults are mostly due to poor workmanship. Sixty percent of the
furniture is still in place, but none of the refuse disposal sites are in use as they are overgrown with
vegetation and the access roads are impassable. The report noted surprisingly that over half the works and
equipment was unaffected by the war situation. Other items, such as electric installations and fittings in
buildings, and particularly electronic equipment, were stolen or looted. Virtually no maintenance has taken
place, resulting in the deterioration of the urban roads and drainage built. Eighty percent of the tractors and
trailers supplied for refuse collection are out of order. All the engineering services in the municipalities
have been closed since the attempted coup. Only about half the files and records are still intact.

Against this background, the assessment of the output of the various sub-components is given below.

1.       Minimum Infrastructure for Small Municipalities (PEMPC; actual cost US$10.0 million).
Unsatisfactory
The 59 municipalities (communes) that participated in the program signed 69 Municipal Agreements
(COIC), containing 168 sub-projects, out of which 140 have been completed, 20 were incomplete as of the
closing date, and 8 were cancelled due to the war situation. The completed sub-projects consist of 7


                                                        - 8 -

municipal office buildings, 21 schools, 4 health centers, 11 cultural centers, 13 markets, 21 toilet blocks, 8
water supply schemes, 15 km of roads, 40 km of electricity networks, 18 km of water pipes, 3 playgrounds,
5 transport terminals, 14 sets of tractors and trailers for refuse collection, and 4 refuse disposal sites (see
Table A1.3 of Annex 1).

2.       Basic Infrastructure for 61 New Municipalities (PU; actual cost US$10.1 million).
Unsatisfactory
All the planned equipment had been delivered: 61 tractors, 122 trailers, and office furniture. The
construction of the 61 engineered refuse disposal sites was divided into two contracts. One of them was for
29 disposal sites in the southern part of the country and was completed. The other contract for 31 sites,
mostly in the north, was abrogated due to the failure of the contractor to perform. The works were
contracted out to other companies, but as they had not started before the outbreak of hostilities in
September 2002, the contracts were cancelled by declaring force majeure. Altogether, 39 municipal office
buildings and 29 refuse disposal sites were completed (see Table A1.3).

3.        Pilot Operation in Squatter Settlements (PAQSE- operations pilotes, actual cost US$2.0
million). Satisfactory
Two Municipal Contracts (COIC) were signed for Grand Campement in the municipality of Koumassi
(Abidjan) and Banco in the municipality of Bouaké to finance a total of 7 sub-projects, consisting of roads
and drains, water supply, electric lines, street lighting, market platforms, and sensitization of the population
against environmental degradation. Six sub-projects were completed and are in use. The remaining one is
situated in Bouaké, which lies in the zone controlled by the Forces nouvelles. This contract has been
terminated. The performance indicator for output of percentage of sub-projects for squatter settlement
pilot operation and low-income area rehabilitation completed was nearly met. The improvements were
right from the start based on strong community participation with the support of the local administration.
The infrastructure improvements chosen responded to the local needs and priorities. In some squatter
settlements, notably Grand Campement in Abidjan, houses were realigned with the cooperation of the
residents, so that streets and drains could be built, accompanied by the issuing of property titles to the
residents.

4.       Rehabilitation of Low-Income Areas (PAQSE- operations libres; actual cost US$3.2 million).
Satisfactory
Five Municipal contracts (COIC) were signed with 5 municipalities for 17 sub-projects, consisting of roads
and drainage, water supply, primary schools, youth clubs, public squares, and playgrounds (see Table
A1.3).

5.       Revenue-Earning Investments (FPCL; actual cost US$2.0 million). Unsatisfactory
This sub-component was a failure, as no further loans were made by PACOM on top of the seven loans
that had been inherited from MDP. The seven sub-projects that were financed under those loans
(Commune: Bondoukou, Divo, Ferkessedougou, Gagnoa, Guiglo, Tiebissou, Zuenoula) were completed
and handed over. An additional loan application was made, but was not approved. The performance
indicator for output of Planned revenue-earning investments made had not been met. The committee for
the municipal loan scheme that was created in 1989 continued to manage this program. A study was carried
out on how to improve the program and was reviewed during the MTR. It identified the relatively high
interest rate as a constraining factor and recommended a long list of further studies, which were never
carried out. While MACOM had little interest in the component, the Borrower did not agree to repeated
suggestions by the Bank to terminate the component and to close the Special Account, because CAA, as the
responsible sector institution, was still hoping to resurrect the scheme under modified terms. Too many
divergent interests of different institutions and low priorities prevented a meaningful review and revision of
the program. The recovery rate of the loans has been only 5.4%, which makes the scheme unsustainable.
The expected revenues from the investments have either been late in coming or not realized at all, largely


                                                       - 9 -

due to the series of crises that has plagued the country (see Sections 5.1 and 5.2).

6.       Items Inherited from MDP (actual cost US$2.3 million).Unsatisfactory
These items consisted of the completion of 21 sub-projects in 14 municipalities for sanitation, water
supply, and solid waste collection equipment. Twenty of these have been completed and the contract for the
remaining one, which lies in the zone controlled by the Forces nouvelles, was abrogated (see Table A1.3).

7.       Resettlement of the Population Displaced from Slum Areas in Abidjan (actual Cost US$0.19
million). Satisfactory
Following the urgent need for the resettlement of people who were driven from slum areas in Abidjan
following the events of the attempted coup in September 2002, MACOM coordinated the preparation work
up to the time of the closing of the project. A total of 46,935 displaced people from 16 squatter settlements
in the District of Abidjan were identified, vetted, and registered as eligible for resettlement. Eight possible
sites for resettlement were originally identified, mostly on the periphery of greater Abidjan, which were
reduced to 3 sites after a thorough study of their suitability. A program of site acquisition, analysis, design,
social and economic assistance to the settlers, and modality of implementation of the resettlement self-help
scheme was developed. IDA was to validate and confirm (a) the list of beneficiaries, (b) the choice of the
sites and (c) carry out technical resettlement studies but these activities could not be carried out before the
project closed.

Component B ­ Municipal Capacity Building (Actual cost US$12.5 million).

The output of the component is rated unsatisfactory. The training targets were not met, the local resource
mobilization was a failure from the start, and the micro-enterprise support - which revolved around
micro-credits - had to be restructured.

1.       Training (actual cost US$0.75 million). Unsatisfactory
A well-planned and -executed training program was carried out up to the time of the reorganization of the
Ministry of the Interior in 2000, with additional assistance from ILO and UNDP. Since then, only a small
amount of sporadic training has taken place, with no overall plan. Several events coincided to bring the
training to a halt: (i) the end of support for decentralization training from ILO and UNDP; (ii) the moving
of the implementation responsibility for training to the Local Government Directorate in the Ministry of the
Interior; and (iii) the appointment of the training manager to the position of project manager. In all, training
was provided to some 1500 participants (elected municipal officials, municipal staff, and consulting firms),
on 14 subjects. In spite of numerous programs, the mayors, the municipal officials, the DDLG staff, and
contractors were poorly prepared to play their roles in the implementation of the project. It is difficult to
assess to what extent the performance indicator for output of the Training program carried out for
municipal capacity building has been met since no numerical target was set, but one can conclude that it
has not been met.

2.       Institutional support (actual cost US$8.7 million). Satisfactory
The revised component financed principally the operation of MACOM as the agency implementing unit of
the project and supported the municipalities in the planning and implementation of micro-projects.

a.       Operation of the PIU (MACOM; actual cost: US$7.75 million.). Satisfactory. The budget was
agreed upon annually between the Government and BNETD, which administered the independent unit (see
4.5- The PIU). It was accompanied by an agreed work program and financed salaries of the unit,
equipment, operating expenses, and those studies that were carried out by BNETD. The performance
indicator for output of Training program of project management staff carried out has been substantially
met. The unit published 6 issues of a newsletter on the project and a newsletter was published (see 7.6
Implementing Agency).




                                                      - 10 -

b.       Directorate of Decentralization (DGDDL; actual cost: US$0.7 million). Unsatisfactory. The
originally agreed upon financing of an assistant for decentralization for the project was expanded to include
equipment, consultants' services, and 5 issues of a bulletin.

c.       Alliance of Mayors (UVICOCI; actual cost: US$0.2 million). Satisfactory. The financing of a
liaison officer included (i) personnel and equipment support, (ii) an extension of the period of employment
of the liaison officer as assistant to the Secretary General of the Alliance, and (iii) the publication of 14
issues of the bulletin.

3.       Local Resource Mobilization (actual cost: US$0.9 million). Unsatisfactory.
Only a small part of what had been planned was carried out. The performance indicator for output of
Fiscal cadastres produced to improve local resource mobilization has therefore not been met. The
cadastres were completed in 19 municipalities as planned for the first phase. The second phase, to complete
37 cadastres in all, was not done. The main difficulties encountered were (i) underestimation of the number
of plots and the paucity of available data, (ii) low capacity of the consultants specialized in surveys to
prepare the needed maps in limited time, and (iii) the low capacity of the Directorate of Taxes (DGI), which
implemented the sub-component. The number of registered plots in the 19 municipalities increased from
84,661 in 1996 to 237,291 in 2002. The tax base increased by about 240%, but the collection rate increase
only by 140%, without considering inflation.

A report on the fiscal reform for local governments was published in 1996. During a workshop in 1997 to
review the conclusions, in which the Bank participated, a steering committee was appointed under the
leadership of the Directorate for Decentralization to implement the recommendations. The committee met in
the beginning of 1998, but has been inactive ever since. The apportionment of financial resources between
the center government and the local governments has been a controversial issue and involves a wide range
of decentralization questions, which are outside the scope of the project. Subsequent legal reforms on the
financial structure and the creation of a tripartite commission involving the municipalities have undoubtedly
benefited from the findings of the fiscal reform study and workshop.

The institutional strengthening of the Directorate of Taxes (DGI) consisted of vehicles, information
technology (a server), and operating costs.

4.       Support to Micro-enterprises (PASI; actual cost: US$1.9 million). Unsatisfactory.
This sub-component was carried over from a previous project (PDU, Loan 2789-IVC) for the support of
the informal sector (PASI). A monitoring committee had been created in 1991 to review applications for
sub-loans, with financing from IDA, the French Cooperation, Belgian Cooperation, and the Government.
A French NGO, AFVP, administered the component in the same way it administered micro-projects in
several other francophone African countries. In 1999, the Government decided not to extend the further
contract with AFVP and to bring it under national administration instead. A year later the Bank's
microfinance specialists carried out a review and urged that the loan scheme be transformed into a credit
union (mutuelle) without further subsidies. This recommendation was based on the experience with
microfinance projects in other countries. The Government agreed to this change and requested support for
the transformation. During the turbulent period in the country that followed, this assistance could not be
provided when needed, and the component was de facto dropped from the project. However, the program
was eventually transformed into a credit union (La Fédération des Mutuelles de Crédit et d'Epargne du
Secteur Informel- MUCEP-CI). 2,000 members have reportedly paid in CFAF10,000 each, forming a
total capital of US$0.40 million.

By the closing date of the project, the program had financed 4,260 operators with a total amount of US$
7.2 million. The outstanding credits amounted to US$1 million for 1,100 active credits. The recovery rate is
reported to be 91%, which exceeds the target of 85% in the performance indicator for output of Recovery


                                                       - 11 -

rate of micro-projects loans, but this information is unaudited. 75% of the beneficiaries of the credits were
women, receiving 70% of the financing, and the purpose of the loans was mostly for commerce. The micro
credit scheme had supported various revenue-earning activities, notably handicrafts, processing industries,
trade, agriculture, and animal husbandry. A beneficiary assessment, which was carried out in June 2000,
showed that more than 6,400 jobs were created through the scheme, that 68% of the beneficiaries doubled
their net income, and that 11% of the beneficiaries had been able to diversify their economic activities.

5.       Fight against HIV/AIDS (actual cost: US$0.3 million). Satisfactory.
Through the initiative of the Alliance of Mayors (UVICOCI), municipal committees for the fight against
HIV/AIDS were established in 24 municipalities with 85 members, which established action teams. The
teams were trained and worked across sectors and with the population, which gave a new impetus to the
fight against HIV/AIDS. During the second phase, the program that had emerged from the participatory
training sessions was implemented. The support that was provided to the Club AIDS Stop, membership of
which is open to secondary students as a way to motivate them in their studies, provided a greater
participation for young people in improving their knowledge and practice of health-related issues. In July
2003, a pilot project to form Municipal HIV/AIDS Information Cells under the direction of the
municipalities was officially launched. The main function of these cells is to bring the plan of action in the
fight against HIV/AIDS closer to the communities.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No economic analysis was carried out at the time of appraisal. The SAR only stated that an economic
analysis of the proposed sub-projects would be carried out, "taking into account quantifiable and
non-quantifiable benefits." A minimum rate of 12 percent was stipulated for the economic and financial
rates of return for sub-projects costing more than US$300,000. The Bank verified the economic evaluation
of sub-projects on a sample basis during the start-up phase of the project and found it satisfactory. The
Borrower, however, found it impossible to do a quantitative analysis of the sub-projects in the absence of
reasonably reliable data on the municipal level. A qualitative analysis of the proposed sub-projects was
therefore carried out, which also took social and environmental factors into account.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was computed during appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as modest. In the process of carrying out the tasks of
preparing priority sub-projects, doing procurement and contract management, and making the payments,
the municipalities improved their capacity for decentralized service provision. The ceiling for the
procurement of contracts by local governments was increased in 1995 from US$0.05 million to US$0.12
million, which allowed the participating municipalities to procure and manage more than 310 contracts
with a total value of US$12.6 million in collaboration with the Prefectures.

A manual of administrative and financial procedures was prepared over a period of a year jointly between
MACOM and CAA to decentralize the making of contractual payments to the municipalities, within the
system of the Government's financial controls, thereby drastically reducing the number of authorizations
required for a single payment. Previously all payments were made by the CAA from Abidjan. The
Government decree was signed by 3 Ministers in 2000 and piloted in about 20 municipalities. The new
procedures also allowed the Bank replenishment of the municipal advance accounts (CRAM) from the
credit on the basis of contractual obligations under the Municipal Agreement (COIC). The payments were
made locally and checked ex-post by MACOM and the central government accounting agencies. The
procedure was highly successful in speeding up the payments to contractors - and consequently the



                                                     - 12 -

completion of microprojects ­ and was used in half of the participating municipalities before it had to be
abandoned due to the 2002 conflict and its aftermath. The performance indicator of impact of the
Percentage of the participating municipalities that are making direct payments to contractors on
contracts financed under the project, which aimed at 30%, has therefore not been met (Annex 1).

The mayors, who are elected, have increasingly relied on their infrastructure improvement program as part
of their election campaigns, advancing it as a measure of success of their leadership. Various workshops
have brought the mayors together for a common purpose. UVICOCI has been strengthened significantly
through the project, with the expansion of its offices in Abidjan, computers, and support for the issuing of
their bulletin.

The municipal officials, in spite of the numerous training programs that had been conducted under the
project, were poorly prepared to play the role of the local project manager, especially the heads of the
engineering services, but were familiar with consulting services and the bidding process, with the exception
of the financial controllers, who were better able to perform their required functions in the project. The
technical audit that was completed in the Government-controlled zone in June 2004 found that nearly 40%
of the municipalities do not have the heads of the engineering services and financial services in place; they
are supposed to be the main partners of the project on the local level. Those heads of service that were in
their posts participated actively in the project. The local officials lacked the needed equipment and
technical documentation for the project.

The Directorate for Decentralization and Local Government in the Ministry of the Interior, which
was the project's lead agency, benefited little from the institutional support that had been provided through
the project because of frequent reorganizations and the various crisis that diverted the attention of the
officials to more immediate issues.

The contractors, who were mostly small to medium-sized, had great difficulty in the implementation of the
project, for the following reasons:

a.       Most of the consulting firms and contractors had only recently been created and were poorly
equipped;
b.       The contract prices were in general very low;
c.       The actual length of execution of the contracts involved additional costs, which were difficult for
the firms to absorb.
The technical audit concludes that in the overall, the project has contributed significantly to the capacity
building in the municipalities and in the consulting firms. The inclusion of less experienced consulting
firms in the procurement had at times adversely affected the quality of the work, but had served to
strengthen their capacity by allowing them to gain experience. As a result, some of the consulting firms
have been able to compete in the West African market.

The PIU, MACOM, has become an experienced project implementation unit, capable of taking on other
tasks as well, as demonstrated after the attempted coup when it became the central agency to prepared the
census of the population that had been driven out of unauthorized settlements near government
installations. The staff of MACOM was under contract with BNETD on terms which are better than those
in the civil service, but not as good as those in the private sector. The need for clarification of the place
and the role of BNETD in the institutional arrangement of the intervention of PACOM has been raised by
IDA on many occasions. This should have been done through the revision of the decrees no. 94.367, of
July 1, 1994, concerning the creation of the MDP, and no. 95.107, of February 10, 1995, which did not
indicate the existence of PACOM or the CCG-PACOM (Note de synthèse des négotiations pour la Revue
à mi-parcours du PACOM, June 1998). Consequently, this decree was not in accordance with the credit
agreement. In the institutional arrangements, CCG-PACOM was the steering committee of the project and
PACOM was the PIU. BNETD was a member of CCG-PACOM and participated in the definition and the


                                                      - 13 -

orientation of the CCG-PACOM policy. Although the Manual of procedures of execution stated that
BNETD was in charge of the execution through MACOM, this text was the origin of divers dysfunction
and institutional conflicts throughout the entire implementation of the project.

The question of making MACOM a permanent unit for project implementation has arisen at various times,
including at the MTR, but was rejected by the Government because of the unevenness in remuneration.
The alternative of moving the project implementation to the Government, possibly to the Directorate of
Decentralization, has likewise been rejected as this department is too weak even to carry out its normal
functions.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project environment worsened markedly after the mid-term review, with two coups d'état, one
successful in December 1999 and one attempt in September 2002, which resulted in the occupation of half
of the country by the Forces nouvelles. This led to a deterioration of the social and economic conditions of
the country with a negative impact on growth, poverty, public finances and the financial relations with the
Bank--resulting in two suspension of disbursements: one from October 2000 to January 2002 and a second
one starting on June 15, 2004. The major impact of those country circumstances on the implementation
and outcome of the project is documented in Section 5.2 below.

This begs the question whether the project could have avoided being brought into the crisis environment by
being implemented as expected at the time of appraisal (i.e. by the initial completion date of December 31,
1999). The answer is a qualified no, as the SAR expectations were clearly over-optimistic in regard of the
complexity of the project.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Financial management policies. After a slow startup period--during which standard documents were
prepared, information was disseminated to municipalities, agreements with municipalities were reached,
and contracts entered into-- disbursements, accelerated in mid-1998. Half a year later they stagnated again
due to a combination of factors: the proliferation of sub-accounts to the Special Account had to be
curtailed; a new government budgeting and accounting system ­ SIGFIP ­ was introduced that did not
cater sufficiently to externally assisted projects; there was a lack of national leadership for decentralization;
and the project manager who had left the project to take employment elsewhere was not replaced for over
half a year. Project implementation was rated unsatisfactory and an action plan was agreed on to address
these issues. In January 2000, the implementation of the action plan resulted in a renewed acceleration of
disbursements. In 2000 the project tried to pioneer a scheme of special checks to overcome the shortage of
counterpart funds (20% of project cost) impeding project implementation, which in turn deprived the
government of the value added tax from these contracts (also 20%). The proposal (see Annex 7) was
accepted in principle by the Minister of the Budget, but it was never actually implemented. Instead, the
Bank continued working with the Government to explore various solutions for making SIGFIP work for
externally assisted projects.

Dealing with the consequences of the September 2002 conflict. Since the attempted coup in September
2002, the northwestern half of the country has been under the control of the Forces nouvelles and largely
inaccessible to government officials and their representatives. More than half the participating
municipalities are located there. As the financial controllers left their positions in the zone, the Ministry of
Finance, in agreement with the Mayors, decided to close all the corresponding sub-accounts and to open an
account (budget line) in CAA for the central payments of activities in the affected municipalities; only 62%
of the works in this area could be completed. This allowed payments to be made to contractors and


                                                      - 14 -

suppliers who had completed certified works or deliveries before the start of hostilities. Those contractors
that abandoned the construction sites were not paid, and their contracts elapsed. The government did not
terminate their contracts, as they should have done, in the hope that the work would resume after the crisis
had passed. This created difficulties and potential claims, as no price adjustment clauses had been
provided for, and as the funds withheld as performance guarantees could not be released. It was reported,
however, that contractors desisted from taking drastic actions and were willing to accommodate in
recognition of the adverse overall conditions in the country. In August 2003 a new sub-account (effectively
a budget line) was opened in CAA to settle the outstanding performance guarantees.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
MACOM staffing was stable throughout the project, and the unit had qualified staff for its functions. The
fact that project implementation was carried out by a semi-independent agency and not by the Government,
proved to be an advantage during the periods of crises, when MACOM continued to function even though
the government was in turmoil. This was in contrast to some other projects in the Bank's portfolio that
came to a virtual standstill during the crisis situations. Ultimately the project was also severely affected by
the upheavals.

The implementing agency is partly responsible for the poor quality of the works (see Section 4.2). Too
little systematic monitoring and evaluation was carried out. In spite of recommendations by supervision
missions to measure the progress in terms of the usable outputs, progress was measured largely in terms of
budget commitments and expenditures.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project cost, as projected in the SAR, was US$ 48.7 million. The IDA credit was to provide US$
40 million (82%), while beneficiaries, municipalities, and the Government were expected to contribute US$
8.7 million (18%). The final costs were US$ 42.4 million (87% of the SAR estimates). IDA actually
contributed US$ 34.2 million (86% of SAR estimates). The beneficiaries, the municipalities and the
Government contributed US$8.5 million (97% of SAR estimates) of which US$ 3.8 million were provided
by the municipalities. This is a remarkable achievement. The final disbursement rate of the IDA credit is
92.2%, as the value of the SDR declined against the US dollar.

The most significant change in the actual project expenditures is the final cost of the capacity building
component (US$12.5 million, i.e. 178% of the original estimate). This overrun is due particularly to the
institutional support needed for the four additional years of implementation.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is rated unlikely for two reasons.

First, the sharp deterioration of the economic and social situation in the country in recent years has
undermined the institutional preparedness and financial base needed for the operation and maintenance of
the investments that have been created under the project and for an effective management of municipal
services. This is evidenced by the following:

l the reduction of Government revenues since September 2002 has substantially decreased the potential
     of fiscal transfers to local governments, which, in turn are unable to finance the necessary O&M and to
     sustain the program of infrastructure investments on their own;
l a portion of the investments have been lost in the war zones and the zone controlled by the Forces
     nouvelles, and are not likely to be restored without renewed external assistance;
l the administration (Prefects and Sous-prefects) has not yet returned to the zone controlled by the



                                                       - 15 -

    Forces nouvelles, nor have the technical services and most of the elected mayors of the municipalities,
    without which there cannot be an effective management of project facilities;
l in the present climate of instability and uncertain financing,, improvements in infrastructure services
    will receive a low priority. The current trend is geared towards increased centralization (e.g. the
    appointment of a Governor of Abidjan above the mayors of the different districts of Abidjan) rather
    than to further decentralize investment and financial responsibilities.

Second, due to inadequate supervision on various levels, many of the works that were created are of poor
quality, and some have not been put to use. A recently-completed technical audit revealed that virtually no
maintenance is being provided for the investments made under the project. Moreover, the recurrent costs
for the use of the investments are not always included in the municipal budget (see 4.2 Outputs).


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Under the present circumstances of the continued de facto division of the country into two zones and the
precipitous decline of the economic and social conditions, a self-sustained program of urban infrastructure
improvements in a decentralized manner is virtually impossible. Only once the situation has substantially
improved and the urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation is under way can a resurrection of the program
be considered, albeit with external assistance.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance was unsatisfactory. Even though a substantial piece of ESW was
produced beforehand, the project appears to have been hastily prepared to provide a continuation of the
urban program support after the closing of MDP. As mentioned above, the Quality at Entry was
unsatisfactory.


7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance was marginally satisfactory over the lifetime of the project.

A Quality of Supervision assessment was carried out in 2000, which rated the overall performance of the
Bank's supervision as satisfactory. The Quality and Realism of Reporting was rated as marginally
satisfactory and the assessment recommended improving the quality of PSR reporting, expanding the
coverage and explanation of DO impacts, and filling in and updating the impact and key performance
indicators. The QAG assessment also noted that the MTR did not reduce the complexity of the project.
Actually, the follow-up of the MTR recommendations was ineffective. The MTR was held in June 1998 as
originally scheduled. It identified a number of key issues, including the probable cause of delays, the role
that key institutions should play in project implementation, the need for a follow-up project to deal with the
demand, and the need to continue financing the operations of MACOM. It did little, however, to resolve
these issues. There are indications that the Aide Memoire of the MTR was not agreed on with the
Government, and the latter issued its own report on the proceedings entitled Summary of Negotiations for
the MTR of PACOM (Annex 7). The follow-up studies to the MTR also did not bring about an agreement
on key issues, which contributed to the subsequent unsatisfactory performance of the project. Among the
studies was a satisfaction survey, administered through a questionnaire, which yielded important
conclusions, only few of which were incorporated in the Amendment of the DCA in December 1999.

The QAG assessment indicated that greater attention should have been given to environmental aspects.
While good plans were made during project preparation for the compliance with the safeguards (see 3.5
Quality at entry), there was not sufficient monitoring of environmental and social safeguards during



                                                    - 16 -

implementation. As the project moved from one crisis situation to another - and was rated unsatisfactory
for a good part of the time ­ other aspects of project implementation preoccupied the supervision missions.
The revised implementation manual was silent on EA or environmental screening procedures, and the
revised performance indicators should have incorporated environmental aspects.

The DCA provided for sub-accounts (Régies d'avance) to one of the Special Accounts, to be opened by
participating municipalities. When some 120 municipalities had qualified for participation within a year of
effectiveness and had opened sub-accounts, the Bank informed the Borrower that this was not an
acceptable practice, as the sub-accounts were too numerous. It took more than a year to come to an
agreement about an alternative disbursement procedure, whereby the contracts specified in Municipal
Agreements (COIC) would serve as a basis for disbursements to the municipalities.

On several occasions a long interval between formal supervision missions occurred (see Annex 4). This
was partly justified by periods of severely curtailed project implementation activities due to the suspension
of disbursements or other countrywide factors that affected the entire portfolio. A number of "reverse
missions" of project management staff to Accra also took place. The Bank's country office in Abidjan also
provided supervision on procurement, disbursement, and financial management as part of its periodic
portfolio reviews. However, two areas of weakness endured during supervision: (i) the lack of technical
supervision of sub-projects and (ii) the lack of continuity of expertise in the task team on municipal
management and municipal finances , given the central importance of improving local institutions. There is
no doubt that budget constraints led to spread resources too thinly across specialties, considering the
multi-disciplinary nature of skills needed for the project.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall rating of the Bank's performance is unsatisfactory. The Bank's performance in preparing the
project was unsatisfactory, and the Bank was unable to generate a proactive response of the Borrower to
the key issues identified at the MTR.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation is rated satisfactory. An Urban Sector Review was finalized in
1994. Successes and shortcomings of decentralization process were reviewed by mayors and by central
and local administrations. The broad process of stakeholders consolidation concluded with detailed
recommendations for the PACOM project.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated as unsatisfactory, as it did not play the
coordinating and supporting role in relation to the municipalities that was envisaged in the project design.
This was in large part the result of a preoccupation with the various political crises and the frequent
reorganization of the Department of Decentralization and Local Government and changes in leadership. In
particular, the Government failed to mentor and monitor the municipalities in their planning and
implementation of the subprojects and in improving the systems of municipal service provisions in a more
sustainable manner. In addition, until 2003 the Government was unable to make the new system of public
expenditure management (SIGFIP) work for externally-assisted projects. However, the Government and the
municipalities should be credited with the timely provision of counterpart funds (see section 5.4).


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency's performance was rated as satisfactory in 70% of the PSR based on (i) the
ability to overcome bureaucratic obstacles; and (ii) the continued implementation of the project objectives



                                                     - 17 -

as well as possible given the factors that were out of its control. At the beginning, the performance of
MACOM was affected by the tutelage of DCGTx (presently BNEDT) and a delay in the nomination of a
new Director. The skills of the MACOM staff were comprehensive, as it included architecture, urban
planning, procurement, contract management, CDD, training, and financial management. In addition, staff
turnover was minimal and efforts were made to maintain frequent contact with the participating
municipalities, over 131 in number. This effort was aided by a system of zonal coordinators who were
stationed in their zones up until the attempted coup in September 2002. Due to the complexity of the
project, the PIU was spread over too many activities, and thus was unable to perform all its tasks
adequately. The main shortcomings were its ineffectiveness in monitoring outputs and its inability to
improve the quality of the works.

The Bank periodically carried out procurement post reviews. The latest was done in February 2004, which
rated the performance as average-to-good. The only Insufficient rating was given for contract
management, where delays and expired deposit dates frequently occurred. The report acknowledged,
however, that this is a country portfolio problem and not specific to the project. A review of expenditures
under IDA-financed projects in the Côte d'Ivoire was carried out in April 2004, which assessed the
performance of the entire portfolio on procurement, financial management, and disbursement. For
PACOM, the reviewers were satisfied with the institutional capacity of MACOM, but identified a number
of instances of deviations from good practice in all the fields that were reviewed.

The monitoring of the compliance with the environmental and social safeguards (see Quality at entry) was
insufficient. No environmental specialist was appointed to MACOM as stipulated in the SAR, and very
little environmental monitoring of the compliance with the environmental action plans in the subprojects
took place. The situation worsened when the zone controlled by the Forces nouvelles became inaccessible
in 2002.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated as unsatisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

a. The project design should be simplified, focused, and include only organically-linked components. The
inclusion of other components is likely to result in the neglect or mismanagement of some of the
components. This project covered the whole country and included slum improvements, municipal service
provision, infrastructure for new municipalities, a municipal loan scheme, and a microfinance scheme. The
attention paid to each of these sub-components varied considerably, to the extent that the municipal loan
scheme was virtually abandoned, but never formally closed. The project involved a wide range of
institutions, which did not all share the same priorities in relation to the project objectives.

b. A decentralized approach requires a strong commitment of all stakeholders and the responsibilities of
each institution involved in the implementation of the project have to be clearly distributed (central
government, local governments, and PIU). In this project, the relationship between BNETD and MACOM
was never clearly defined and this was the origin of various dysfunctions and institutional conflicts
throughout the implementation of the project.

c. Periodic technical audits are absolutely critical when implementing sub-projects scattered across country,
particularly when supervision consultants are inexperienced.

d. Supporting measures in terms of management of facilities and maintenance are needed to accompany



                                                      - 18 -

investments programs. The financing of the project was followed by a contract (COIC) between the
municipality and the government. This document was rarely evaluated and did not include any municipal
obligation (i.e., maintenance), conditionality, or supporting measures to accompany the physical
investments (delivery of works, putting into service the new infrastructures, such as markets or schools).
Also, the COIC needs to have clear procedures for the selection, validation, and arbitration of local
sub-projects; this is necessary in order to ensure ownership and commitment of local governments and local
beneficiaries.

f. Elected heads of local governments are a strong driving force in the decentralized provision of
infrastructure services. In this project - as compared with similar projects in neighboring Ghana, where the
local officials are appointed rather than elected - the mayors were the main driving force after they realized
that their constituents judged their performances partly by how well they succeeded in providing the
essential infrastructure services.

g. A Steering Committed can overcome to a limited extent the weaknesses of the participating government
institutions. MACOM, as the implementing unit, often took issues to the Steering Committee (
CCG-PACOM) when it failed to resolve them with the agency concerned with a sub-component. The
Steering Committee also served to reaffirm the common project objectives and to check the tendency of the
participating institutions to make commitments under the project without authorization.

h. The project design should take into account the risks of the ups and down of the institutional and
economic development of the country. The PACOM and MDP were designed to be implemented in a
growth and stable institutional environment.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's ICR is provided as Annex 8 to this report.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Percentge of subprojects for urban          95%                                        65%
infrastructure agreed to in the Municipal
Contracts (COIC) completet and in use.
2. Percentage of participating municipalities  30%                                        25%
that are making direct payments to
contractors on contracts financed under the
project
3. Recovery rate of microproject loans (PASI) 85%                                         91%




Output Indicators:
                                                                               1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Percentage of planned subprojects for       100%                                       81%
small municipalities completed
2. Percentage of subprojects for squatter      100%                                       86%
ssettlement pilot operation and low-income
area rehabilitation program implemented
3. Planned revenue-earning investments         Yes                                        No
made
4. Training program for municipal capacity     100%                                       80%
building carried out
5. Training program of project management      100%                                       96%
staff carried out
6. 37 fiscal cadastres produced to improve     37                                         19
local resource mobilization

1End of project
Table A1.3. Status of Completion of Subprojects

                                                   Area controlled by the       Area controlled by the Forces  TOTAL
                                                   government                   nouvelles

Completed                                          222                          149                            371

Partly completed                                   0                            48                             48

Not started                                        0                            40                             40

TOTAL                                              222                          237                            459



Table A1.4. Project Outputs by Subcomponent

      Subcomponent                         1              2            3 & 4           5                6
      Type of Subproject               Minimum          Basic           Pilot    Revenue-Ear         Items           Total
                                     Infra-structur Infra-structur Operation in      ning        Inherited from
                                      e for Small    e for New        Squatter    Investments         PDM
                                     Municipalities Municipalities  Settlements
      French abbreviation              PEMPC             PU           PAQSE         FPCL              PDM
 1    Municipal office building,           7             39              0             1                0            47
      furniture and office
      equipment
 2 School                                  21             0              1             0                0            22
 3 Health center                           4              0              0             0                0             4
 4 Cultural center                         11             0              1             0                0            12
 5 Market                                  13             0              1             6                0            20
 6 Toilet Block                            21             0              0             0               34            55
 7    Borehole, pump and water             2              0              0             0                0             2




                                                                 - 20 -

      tank
 8    Well with and pump                 6               0                0                0                  1               7
 9    Urban road with drains, km        14.6             0               24.0              0                  0             38.6
10    Electric lines, km                39.7            2.6              11.2              0                  0             53.4
11    Water pipes, km                   18.4            0.5              23.8              0                 7.3            50.0
12    Playground                         3               0                1                0                  0               4
 13 Transport terminal                    5              0                0                0                  0               5
14    Tractor and 2 trailers for         14              61               1                0                  5             81
      refuse removal
15    Refuse disposal site               4               29               0                0                  0             33

Note: the table includes only completed subprojects, except for roads, electricity and water distribution, for which the completed length is
shown




                                                                 - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
A. Priority Urban Works
(i) Municipal Operations Support Program                    28.49          27.86               98
(ii) Revenue-earning investments                             2.93            2.02              67
B. Capacity Building
(i) Training (UNDP-ILO)                                      1.02            0.75              74
(ii) Support Unit MACOM, UVICOCI, DGCL-                      2.48            8.66             348
(Consultants, Studies,..)
(iii) Local Resource Mobilization                            1.00            0.90              89
(iv) Informal Sector                                         1.00            1.86             186
(v) Fight agaisnt HIV/AIDS                                   0.00            0.33

Total Baseline Cost                                         36.92          42.38
 Physical Contingencies                                      5.25
 Price Contingencies                                         6.57
                         Total Project Costs                48.74          42.38
                   Total Financing Required                 48.74          42.38


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category          ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            41.48         0.00         0.00         41.48
                                  (0.00)          (33.12)      (0.00)         (0.00)      (33.12)
2. Goods                           1.26             0.35         0.25         0.00          1.86
                                  (1.26)           (0.35)      (0.25)         (0.00)       (1.86)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         4.77         0.00          4.77
and Training                      (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.50)         (0.00)       (4.50)
4. Project Management              0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.63         0.00          0.63
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.52)         (0.00)       (0.52)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
    Total                          1.26            41.83         5.65         0.00         48.74
                                  (1.26)          (33.47)      (5.27)         (0.00)      (40.00)




                                                - 22 -

    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                           Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                 Other
    1. Works                                 4.85              18.50              0.55             0.00             23.90
                                            (3.94)            (14.80)            (0.44)            (0.00)           (19.18)
    2. Goods                                 4.45               0.95              1.65             0.00              7.05
                                            (3.66)             (0.76)            (1.42)            (0.00)           (5.84)
    3. Services                              0.13               3.65              0.65             0.00              4.43
    and Training                            (0.10)             (3.00)            (0.52)            (0.00)           (3.62)
    4. Project Management                    0.00               0.00              7.00             0.00              7.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.60)            (0.00)           (5.60)
    5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                            (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
        Total                                9.43              23.10              9.85             0.00             42.38
                                            (7.70)            (18.56)            (7.98)            (0.00)           (34.24)

      1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

      2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
        of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
        managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
         Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Component A - Priority
Works
(i) Municipal Support           30.37         7.67                    22.19         5.57                  73.1      72.6
Operations
(ii) Revenue-earning             2.94         0.72                     1.60         0.42                  54.4      58.3
Investments
Component B - Capacity
Building
(i) Municipal Capacity           4.18         0.35                     7.43         1.88                  177.8    537.1
Building
(ii) Local Resource              1.19         0.00                     0.90         0.18                  75.6      0.0
Mobilization
(iii) Informal Sector            1.31         0.00                     1.86         0.36                  142.0     0.0
Support
(iv) Fight against               0.00         0.00                     0.26         0.07                   0.0      0.0
HIV/AIDS




                                                            - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              5/1994                    8    SR. URBAN FINANCE SPEC
                                             (1); SR. TRANSPORT SPEC (1);
                                             CONSULTANTS (4); LEAD
                                             ECONOMIST (1) SR URBAN
                                             ECONOMIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/1994                   8    SR. URBAN FINANCE
                                             SPEC (1); SR. TRANSPORT
                                             SPEC (1); CONSULTANTS
                                             (4); LEAD ECONOMIST (1)
                                             SR URBAN ECONOMIST
                                             (1)


 Supervision

              06/30/1995                1    SR. URBAN FINANCE SPEC           S               S
                                             (1)
              10/07/1995                2    SR. URBAN FINANCE SPEC           HS             HS
                                             (1); CONSULTANT (1)
              02/02/1996                2    CONSULTANT (1); SR.              HS             HS
                                             URBAN FINANCE SPEC (1)
              07/09/1996                3    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);          S               S
                                             CONSULTANT (1); URBAN
                                             FINANCE SPEC. (1)
              11/10/1996                1    URBAN FIN. SPECIALIST (1)        S               S
              02/21/1997                3    SR. MUN. FINANCE SPEC. (1);      S               S
                                             SR. MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                                             (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
              07/09/1997                7    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             ENGINEER (1); AUDIT /
                                             ACCOUNTING (1);
                                             LOW-INCOME SPECIALIST
                                             (1); MUNICIPAL FINANCE (1);
                                             MICROFINANCE (1);
                                             COMPUTER SPECIALIST (1)
              02/11/1998                7    SR. URBAN PLANNER (1);           S               S
                                             TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             MICROFINANCE SPEC (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             AUDIT/ACCOUNTING (1);
                                             LOW-INCOME SPECIALIST
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1)



                                              - 25 -

               07/04/1998              7   TTL; TRAINING SPECIALIST           S    S
                                           (1); MUNICIPAL FINANCE
                                           SPECIALIST; TEAM
                                           MEMBER; ENGINEER;
                                           PROGRAM ASSISTANT;
                                           PROCUREMENT
               05/19/1999              5   NEW TEAM LEADER (1);               U    U
                                           NEW CLUSTER LEADER (1);
                                           ENGINEER (1); PROJECTS
                                           OFFICER (1)
               10/08/1999              4   TTL; FMA (1);                      U    U
                                           PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           OPERATIONS (1)
               03/10/2000              5   LEADER, ENGINEERING (1);           S    S
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                           MICROFINANCE (1);
                                           OPERATIONS ASSISTANCE
                                           (1)
               12/02/2000              5   TEAM LEADER, ENGINEERG             S    S
                                           (1); ENGINEERING (1);
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYSIS (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT (1); TEAM
                                           ASSISTANCE (1)
               12/02/2001              2   LEADER, ENGINNERING (1);           U    U
                                           OPERATONS (1)
               11/21/2003              1   TTL (1)                            S    U
               01/31/2004              1   TTL (1)                            U    U

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           15.90                        52,654
  Appraisal/Negotiation                10.30                        32,432
  Supervision                        218.59                        431,138
  ICR                                   1.62                         4,293
  Total                              246.41                        521,154




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.      Audit des textes législatifs et réglementaires en matière de décentralisation et d'aménagement
        du territoire et consititution d'un recueil de mise à jour - Juine 200
2.      Elaboration de dossier types de consultation de Bureau d'études pour la confection des dossiers
   d'appel d'offres - Décembre 1999
3.      Diagnostic et recommandations pour la mise en service des équipements communaux - Avril
   2000
4.      Etude pour la reforme de l'impôt foncier et réaménagement de la patente - Juillet 1997
5.      Etude des conditions de pérennisation du FPCL et séminaire sur la fiscalité locale - Mai 1998
6.      Diagnostic externe et identification des populations déguerpis des quartiers précaires du district
   d'Abidjan - Juin 2004
7.      Capitalisation des expériences de stabilisation des chaussées au supersol et élaboration d'un
        guide de mise en oeuvre et d'entretien des chaussées stabilisées au supersol à l'usage des
        communes - Juin 2004
8.      Etude des conditions de réalisation de l'information des communes - Juin 2004
9.      Réalisation de logiciel de gestion d'appel d'offres pour les communes - Juin 2004
10.     Audit technique et opérationnel - Juin 2004
11.     Elaboration de documents de base sur:
        - Occupation des trottoirs et des délaissés de lottissement - Mars 2004
        - Occupation spontanée des réserves administratives, des zones d'extension et des zones
inconstructibles - Mars 2004
12.     Elaboration de documents de base sur:
        - Cadre juridique et réglementaire
        - Rôle des intervenants dans la gestion urbaine ( Mars 2004)
13.     Elaboration de documents de base sur: Solution alternatives pour l'installation des populations
vulnérables dans le tissu urbain - Mars 2004
14.     Evaluation des réalisations du PACOM en zone contrôlée par les forces nouvelles - Juin 2004



Abbreviations and Acronyms




                                                      - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR

Introduction

Le Projet d'Appui à la Conduite d'Opérations Municipales (PACOM) a été financé conjointement par
l'Etat de Côte d'Ivoire et la Banque mondiale pour appuyer la politique de décentralisation mise en oeuvre
par le Gouvernement Ivoirien depuis 1980. L'Accord de Crédit a été signé sous le numéro 27 04 IVC, le
12 mai 1995 pour un montant de 27 milliards de XDS. La mise en vigueur du projet est intervenue le 27
septembre 1995. Initialement prévue pour une durée de 5 ans, la clôture du projet est intervenue après
quatre ans de prorogation, dû au contexte sociopolitique difficile1 et aux différentes suspensions des
décaissements2.

La politique de décentralisation mise en place pour servir de socle au développement durable a connu
cependant une évolution remarquable3. Aujourd'hui, la Côte d'Ivoire compte 198 communes auxquelles
sont venues s'ajouter de nouvelles collectivités territoriales, les départements et les districts. La commune,
maillon essentiel de la cohésion du tissu social est chargée des activités de proximité.

Ce projet de développement municipal devait développer des activités pour donner une réponse nationale
pour appuyer la politique de communalisation mise en oeuvre par le gouvernement ivoirien.

Le présent rapport d'achèvement résume les principaux résultats et impacts du projet et fait des
recommandations sur les montages institutionnels et de mécanismes opérationnels pérennes à adopter dans
le cadre d'une prochaine opération en appui à la politique de décentralisation et de développement urbain
du Gouvernement.


Rappel des objectifs du projet

Le Projet d'Appui à la Conduite d'Opérations Municipales (PACOM) s'est fixé pour objectifs :

     (a) d'accroître le bien-être dans les zones urbaines en augmentant les revenus et en améliorant les
             services municipaux ;

     (b) améliorer les revenus et les conditions de vie des catégories à bas revenus de la population
             urbaine ;

     (c) accroître l'aptitude de l'administration centrale et des collectivités locales à mettre en place et
             assumer des services municipaux en établissant les meilleurs mécanismes de financement et de
             gestion ;

     (d) contribuer à un développement durable en améliorant et protégeant l'environnement.


Justification des objectifs du projet

Les objectifs du PACOM s'inscrivent dans le contexte économique et institutionnel de la Côte d'Ivoire à
savoir :

     (a) le développement de l'économie locale ;

     (b) le renforcement des moyens d'actions et des capacités des acteurs locaux ;

l'amélioration des conditions de vie des populations les plus pauvres et l'implication des différentes
couches sociales dans la gestion de leur développement. Ils sont également conformes à la stratégie d'aide à



1Depuis  les élections générales de 1995, de nombreux troubles sociaux ont abouti au coup d'état de 1999 et la guerre de septembre
2002.
2 Cette situation politique difficile a occasionné une récession économique avec un problème d'endettement extérieur élevé. Le projet
a connu pendant sa durée de vie plus de deux suspensions de décaissements pour une durée cumulée de deux ans à cause des impayés.
3 De 136 communes (y compris la ville d'Abidjan) au début du projet, 61 nouvelles communes ont été créées en octobre 1995, faisant
passer le nombre total à 197 communes dirigées par des conseils municipaux élus au suffrage universel direct à la proportionnelle.




                                                                                                 - 30 -

Les composantes du projet

Pour atteindre ces objectifs, les activités du projet ont été subdivisées en plusieurs programmes répartis
suivant deux grandes composantes : (a) les travaux urbains prioritaires ; (b) le renforcement des capacités
institutionnelles.

a) Les Travaux Urbains Prioritaires devait permettre de réduire le déficit d'infrastructures et d'équipement
de base nécessaire à la productivité urbaine dans les communes. Elle se subdivise en quatre sous
composantes :

Le Programme d'Equipement Minimum des Petites Communes (PEMPC) destiné à financer les
infrastructures et les équipements sociaux ou économiques dans les communes de petites tailles et dont les
ressources sont limitées, ou qui ont un accès réduit aux subventions de l'Etat. Au 30 juin 2004, 73 Contrats
d'Opérations d'Intérêt Communal (COIC) ont été approuvés par le Comité de Coordination et de Gestion
du PACOM (CCG-PACOM) dans 59 communes, permettant la réalisation de 168 sous projets d'un
montant total d'environ 6,17 milliards de FCFA. La totalité des contreparties communales a été mise en
place, représentant 617 millions de FCFA. A cette date, 140 sous projets sont achevés, 20 sous projets en
cours d'exécution et 8 sous projets non encore démarrés ont été interrompus par la guerre. Le montant
total décaissé pour cette sous composante est de 6,135 milliards représentant 99,90% des engagements1.
Le Programme d'Urgence des 61 nouvelles communes (PU) : a financé la réalisation de 4 sous projets2
dans chacune des 61 nouvelles communes crées en 1995, à la demande du CCG PACOM et approuvé par
l'IDA en juin 1996. La totalité des contreparties estimée initialement à 534 millions de FCFA a été
mobilisée depuis 1997. Les marchés pour la fourniture des tracteurs, du matériel et mobilier de bureau ont
été exécutés sur la totalité des 61 nouvelles communes pour un montant global de 2,2 milliards de FCFA.
Les 29 décharges situées dans la zone sud ont été entièrement exécutées et réceptionnées avant la clôture
du projet. Les travaux des 31 décharges du nord n'ont pas pu démarrer avant le début de la guerre. Ces
marchés ont été résiliés pour cas de forces majeures. A ce jour, 34 hôtels de ville et services techniques sont
achevés et réceptionnés provisoirement dont cinq dans les zones occupées par les forces nouvelles. 27
marchés des hôtels de ville non achevés ont été résiliés dans les communes occupées. Le PU a atteint un
taux d'exécution de 88, 237 %.

Le Programme d'Amélioration des Quartiers Sous-Équipés (PAQSE).7 Contrats d'Opérations d'Intérêt
Communal (COIC) ont été approuvés par le Comité de Coordination et de Gestion du PACOM (CCG-
PACOM) dans 7 communes pour financer la réhabilitation de treize (13) quartiers sous-équipés pour un
montant de 3,2 milliards de FCFA qui profitent à plus de 800 000 habitants constitués des populations
pauvres vulnérables répartis comme suit : (i) Deux quartiers ont été financés dans le cadre des opérations
pilotes ;3(ii) et 11 quartiers ont été approuvés dans cinq communes dans le cadre des opérations libres.4 A
la clôture du projet, 20 sous projets sont achevés et mis en service5. Le montant total décaissé pour cette
composante s'élève à 3, 322 milliards soit un taux d'exécution global du PAQSE de 99,88 % par rapport
aux engagements.

Le Programme d'assistance aux déguerpis des quartiers précaires d'Abidjan a financé le diagnostic
externe pour l'identification des 46935 personnes déguerpies réparties dans 9265 ménages, de 16 quartiers
précaires du District d'Abidjan. Cette étude a débouché sur la définition d'un programme d'insertion
économique et sociale des




1 Les engagements tiennent compte des résiliations qui soldent le montants des marchés aux montants effectivement exécutés.
2 (i) une mairie, (ii) du mobilier et du matériel de bureau, (iii) une décharge publique, et (iv) un tracteur pour la collecte des ordures.
3 Financement de 7 sous projets pour un montant global de 1,226 milliards, répartis à hauteur de 847 millions F CFA à Grand
Campement dans la commune de Koumassi et 251 millions à Banco Bouaké, 146 millions pour la convention AFVP choisie dans
l'accord de crédit pour démarrer la MOS.
4 Les sous-projets financés comprennent: (i) des équipements communautaires (écoles primaires, foyers des jeunes, places publiques,
aire de jeu) ; (ii) des infrastructures (voirie et drainage, adduction d'eau potable) dans les communes d'Anyama, d'Attécoubé,
d'Abobo, d'Abengourou et d'Agboville.
5 Les travaux de voirie prévus dans le quartier précaire de Banco dans la commune de Bouaké ont été interrompus par la guerre.




                                                                                   - 31 -

déguerpis1. Le montant total engagé dans ce programme s'élève à 115,443 millions de F CFA, soit 9 % par
rapport aux allocations évaluées à 1,220 milliards.

Le Fonds de Prêts aux Collectivités Locales (FPCL) (1,239 milliards F CFA). 7 Contrats d'Opérations
d'Intérêt Communal (COIC) ont été approuvés par le Comité de Coordination et de Gestion du PACOM
(CCG-PACOM) pour octroyer des prêts à 7 communes pour la réalisation de 7 sous projets marchands pour
un montant total des engagements de 1, 239 milliards des FCFA.

Ces requêtes ont été soumises sous le PDM. La convention de l'accord de prêts de la commune de Danané
obtenu dans le cadre du PACOM n'a jamais été signée. Le montant des prêts octroyés à ces 7 communes
est de 1,037 milliards. La totalité des contreparties évaluée à 225 millions de FCFA a été mise en place.
Le montant cumulé des remboursements effectués par les 7 communes financés est de 30,9 millions, pour
plus de 567 millions d'échéances échues, soit 5,44 % de recouvrement. Cette situation est due à la mise en
service tardive des équipements financés à cause des longs délais de réalisation. Le taux d'exécution de
FPCL est de 94 %.

Le Projet de Développement Municipal (PDM)(1,418 milliards de F CFA) a financé l'achèvement dans 14
communes des 21 sous projets hérités du PDM pour un montant total de 1,418 milliards de FCFA. A cette
date, 20 sous projets sont achevés2. Le taux d'exécution du PDM est de 98,31 % par rapport aux
engagements.


b) le Renforcement des capacités est réalisé à travers 4 programmes :

La formation chargée de renforcer les capacités administratives, financières et techniques des autorités et
cadres municipaux pour leur permettre de proposer et superviser les investissements s'est traduite par une
campagne d'information et de sensibilisation menée par la DGDDL avec le concours de l'UVICOCI et la
MACOM auprès des élus et responsables des services municipaux nouvellement en fonction, et                                          les
sessions de formation sur la maîtrise d'ouvrage et maîtrise d'oeuvre des investissements de fonction locale.
Plus de onze thèmes principaux, d'un coût total d'environ 295 millions a été dispensés, avec plus de 1500
acteurs locaux formés. Ces activités ont porté leurs fruits et atteints les résultats. L'engouement des
communes pour le PACOM n'a cessé de croître avec le temps, créant du coup un déficit de crédit pour
financer les demandes à partir de 2000. Les actions de formation ont été suspendues suite à l'arrêt de la
cellule de Coordination du programme de renforcement des capacités volet Décentralisation financés par le
BIT et le PNUD en 1999, bien que les principaux membres de l'équipe aient intégrés la Direction Générale
de la Décentralisation et du Développement local. Le montant total décaissé pour la formation s'élève à
458,615 millions de FCFA soit un taux d'exécution de 99,76 % par rapport aux engagements.

Les appuis ont été apportés aux structures institutionnelles en charge de la gestion du projet dont les
principales sont:

(i) La Mission d'Appui à la Conduite d'Opérations Municipales (MACOM) constituée au sein du Bureau
National d'Etudes Techniques et de Développement (BNETD) à partir de spécialistes ivoiriens pour
coordonner et superviser les activités du Projet. Le PACOM a financé sur la base de programme d'activités
annuel, les salaires, l'équipement et le fonctionnement de la MACOM, dont les rapports d'activités
trimestriels ont été produits jusqu'au 30 juin 2004 indiquant les différentes actions menées. Six numéros du
bulletin semestriel « Les Nouvelles du PACOM » ont été édités. Le montant total des conventions de la
MACOM s'élève à 3,827 milliards de FCFA; soit 14 % du coût total du projet. La prorogation de la durée
du projet de plus de 4 ans a contribué à augmenter les charges de gestion.

(ii) la Direction Générale de la Décentralisation et du Développement Local (DGDDL) est chargée
d'appuyer les collectivités décentralisées dans leurs tâches quotidiennes. Dans le cadre du projet, elle a
assuré les missions de sensibilisation, d'appui conseil et contrôle des activités des communes. La DGDDL


1 Reconversion des déguerpis, définition des activités d'assistance humanitaire (vaccins et campagne de prévention sida, nutrition, kits
scolaires) et la mise en place du mécanisme de contribution financière des populations au relogement sont en cours.
2 Le marché de construction du canal de Ferkessédougou dont l'exécution a été interrompue par la guerre pour un montant de 311
millions de FCFA a été résilié.




                                                                              - 32 -

Directeur Général des Collectivités, les équipements (82,663 millions), les diverses études et travaux de
consultants (246,280 millions) et l'édition de cinq numéros du bulletin trimestriel «le Territorial »

(iii) l'Union des Villes et Communes de Côte d'Ivoire (UVICOCI) est une plateforme importante pour les
concertations et les échanges entre communes. Elle a participé à la sensibilisation qui a créé l'engouement
des communes pour le projet. L'UVICOCI a bénéficié de l'appui du projet à hauteur de 133,107 millions
pour financer les prestations de l'Assistant PACOM, l'édition de quatorze (14) numéros du bulletin « La
voix des Communes, les séminaires d'information et de formation, l'étude de travaux du centre de
documentation, la refonte de son site internet. Cet appui a contribué à renforcer les moyens logistiques et
l'existence d'une permanence technique à l'UVICOCI chargée de coordonner les activités du PACOM. Les
difficultés rencontrées concernent le manque de programme d'activités prévisionnelles et d'un                                 plan
d'action pour le renforcement des capacités des Maires. Le taux d'exécution de convention d'appui à
l'UVICOCI est de 96,25 % ;

(iv) la Direction Générale des Impôts (DGI) qui assure une responsabilité importante dans la mobilisation
des ressources à mettre à la disposition des communes, ne pouvait efficacement assumer ces fonctions sans
le minimum d'équipements nécessaires. Cette structure a bénéficié d'un appui du projet pour l'achat de
véhicules, des équipements informatiques et assurer certains frais de fonctionnement pour un coût de
82,155 millions F CFA.


La Mobilisation des ressources locale est mise en oeuvre autour de :

(i) la confection de cadastres fiscaux simplifiés pour 37 communes1 pour un montant de 355 990 000
FCFA TTC, qui s'est soldée par un accroissement des ressources de plus de 139 % sur une période de
quatre ans2 ; (ii) l'étude de la reforme de la fiscalité locale dont le rapport final a été remis en novembre
1996. Le comité de pilotage, présidé par la Direction Générale de la Décentralisation et du Développement
local du Ministère en charge de la Décentralisation, mis en place en 1998, pour préparer la mise en oeuvre
des mesures et plans d'actions pour la réforme de la fiscalité locale, est resté en panne. Des textes de loi
relatifs au régime financier, fiscal et domanial des Collectivités Territoriales inspirés par les
recommandations de l'étude commanditée par le PACOM ont été pris par le gouvernement, ainsi que la
création d'une commission tripartite composée de la Direction Générale des Impôts (DGI), de la Commune
au niveau local et de la Direction Générale du Trésor et de la Comptabilité Publique (DGTCP) .

(ii) Le Programme d'Appui au Secteur Informel (PASI) a permis de collecter et sécuriser l'épargne des
opérateurs du secteur informel et de mettre des crédits à la disposition des opérateurs qui n'ont pas accès
aux structures bancaires classiques. A la clôture du projet, le PASI a financé 4 258 opérateurs pour un
montant global cumulé de 3,6 milliards de FCFA, pour une mise initiale de 1,142 milliards de francs CFA.
L'encours de prêt se situe à 500 millions FCFA pour 1100 prêts actifs, soit un montant moyen par prêt de
454 545 F.CFA. Le taux de remboursement s'établit à 91 %. L'encours des dépôts des opérateurs s'élève à
130 millions FCFA. Les prêts bénéficient à 80 % à des promoteurs féminins et en majorité pour des
activités commerciales. La Fédération des Mutuelles de Crédit et d'Epargne du Secteur Informel (MUCEP
­CI) a été mise place pour pérenniser les acquis du PASI, avec la participation de 2 000 promoteurs actuels
du PASI qui ont libéré en totalité leur part sociale (5000 FCFA) et droit d'adhésion (5000 FCFA) donnant
la somme totale de 20 millions de FCFA dont la moitié renforcera le capital social de cette Mutuelle.


Gestion du Projet :

Pour se prémunir des risques associés à ce projet, à savoir (i) la possibilité d'une capacité insuffisante de
préparation à l'échelon local des investissements par les services municipaux, (ii) et le choix possible des
programmes

1 19 communes seulement ont été couvertes par le financement à partir de l'option de réalisation cadastres normaux par la DGI, en
remplacement des cadastres simplifiés.
2 Le nombre de parcelles est passé de 84661 en 1996 à 237 291 en 2002 soit 180% d'évolution, les émissions sont passées de 17,289
milliards en 1996 à 59,269 milliards en 2002 soit une évolution de 242%. Le recouvrement est passé sur la même période de 11, 838
milliards FCFA à 28, 336 FCFA, soit un taux de croissance de 139 %.




                                                                              - 33 -

d'investissement politique par les élus, des dispositions ont été mises en place par l'emprunteur pour
minimiser ces risques et atteindre les objectifs fixés :

La création du Comité de Coordination et de Gestion du PACOM (CCG-PACOM), à qui est confié le
processus de prise de décision relatif aux sous projets d'investissement locaux. Le CCG-PACOM est
composé des principales institutions (DGCT, BNETD, Cabinet Ministère des Finances, TRESOR, DGI,
CAA, DIP, DMP et L'UVICOCI)1 concernées par la décentralisation et le développement urbains. Le
CCG a fonctionné et assuré régulièrement ses missions de coordination, de suivi et de supervision du projet
avec au total 46 réunions tenues depuis la signature de l'Accord de Crédit, soit une fréquence bimestre.

La Mission d'Appui à la Conduite d'Opérations Municipales (MACOM) a été constituée à partir de
compétences pluridisciplinaires nationales et logée au sein du BNETD. Elle a assuré la gestion quotidienne
du Projet, conformément aux clauses définies dans la convention MACOM passée entre le Ministère en
charge de la Décentralisation, et le Bureau National d'Etudes Techniques et de Développement (BNETD).
La MACOM s'est chargée de la sensibilisation et la vulgarisation des dossiers types auprès des acteurs
locaux, de superviser la programmation, les procédures de passation de marchés et la mise en oeuvre des
projets.

Les services techniques municipaux et les bureaux d'études constituent le dispositif de gestion des
investissements au niveau local. La gestion des programmes d'opérations communales (POIC) est
transférée aux services techniques municipaux qui contractualisent avec des bureaux d'études chargés
d'assurer par délégation la maîtrise d'oeuvre des sous projets. Les dossiers d'appel d'offres et les rapports
d'analyse ont été entièrement préparés par les bureaux d'études et les services municipaux sous le contrôle
technique de la MACOM.

Pour pallier aux difficultés rencontrées par les bureaux d'études, (i) des rencontres de sensibilisation des
bureaux d'études ont été organisées, (ii) la sélection des bureaux d'études sur la base de leur domaine de
compétences à partir du registre déjà approuvé par la Banque, et (iii) le financement de séminaires de
formation, (iv) la transformation des contrats de suivi et contrôles des travaux en contrat au temps passé.
Ce dispositif a été évalué à la fin du Projet, depuis l'adoption des nouvelles procédures administrative et
financière2 en Septembre 2001.

Le Manuel d'Exécution du projet. Un Manuel d'Exécution du Projet a été mis en place et a subi plusieurs
modifications approuvées par l'Association et concernant, les critères d'éligibilité de certains programmes
(PAQSE, PEMPC), leur mise en oeuvre pour permettre à un plus grand nombre de communes de bénéficier
des financements du projet3. Ces modifications qui ont permis d'assurer la couverture de toutes les
communes ivoiriennes à partir du PEMPC et le PAQSE à hauteur respectivement de 80 % et 20 % a
facilité la compréhension des critères par les acteurs locaux (élus et leur association) et un développement
de leur engouement.

Les procédures de passation des marchés. Des dossiers d'appel d'offres type approuvé par l'IDA ont été
utilisés par le projet pour contracter des engagements évalué à 19,860 milliards répartis comme suit : (i) 5,
77 milliards des marchés de travaux et fournitures passés par appel d'offres international (soit 30 %) ; (ii)
12,066 milliards de marchés par appel d'offres nationaux (64 %) et 6 % par les autres méthodes (cotation,
entente directe).

Au niveau des appels d'offres nationaux, l'arrêté n°149 en date du 21 février 1995, fixant le seuil des
marchés communaux de fournitures, prestations ou travaux soumis au code des Marchés Publics des
dépenses communales, a permis aux communes de passer en toute autonomie des marchés pour la



1 Le CCGPACOM a été créé en application du décret n° 94-367 du 1er juillet 1994, tel que modifié par le décret n°95-107 du 10
février 1995
2 Cette disposition a limité les avis de non objection de l'IDA et les vérifications à priori de la MACOM pour accélérer la mise en
oeuvre des projets.
3 Pour tenir compte de l'évolution significative des budgets des communes bénéficiant de contrat de financement (COIC), il a été
convenu que l'expression « Petites Communes » qui désignait précédemment les communes dont la population est inférieure à 25 000
habitants et le budget annuel inférieur à 60 millions de FCFA, désignerait désormais les communes dont la population du chef lieu est
inférieure à 25 000 habitants. Les seuils de passation et de revue ont été révisés pour accélérer l'exécution du projet.




                                                                                         - 34 -

bureaux d'études techniques, a été fait conformément aux procédures approuvées par l'IDA1. Les
difficultés rencontrées dans l'application de l'Accord de Crédit concernent le dépassement des cumuls
indiqués dans l'Accord de Crédit sont liées au caractère décentralisé du projet2.
L'existence de contribution des communes et de la population et leur versement effectif. Afin de s'assurer
de l'existence des contreparties communales et de leur versement effectif, les dispositions suivantes ont été
prises: (i) l'ouverture d'un Compte Spécial d'Investissement et de Paiement des Intérêts (CSIPI) pour
toutes les communes; (ii) la prise en compte de la contrepartie dans le budget communal, avant l'instruction
de la demande de financement ; (iii) le versement effectif de la contrepartie communale dans le CRAM3
avant le début des études techniques financées sur les fonds du Crédit. Le montant total des contreparties
communales mises en place s'élève à 1,916 milliards de francs CFA. La mise en place de ces contreparties
s'est fait dans un délai moyen de 185 jours environ 6 mois. Le mécanisme de la Maîtrise d'Oeuvre Sociale
(MOS) a permis d'obtenir l'adhésion des populations bénéficiaires et leurs contributions financières4.
Cependant, à la lumière des expériences vécues dans les quartiers, la contribution communautaire nécessite
de longs délais d'organisation des populations, de mobilisation de leur contrepartie, pouvant pénaliser la
réalisation des équipements. Nous préconisons de limiter les fonds de contrepartie desdites populations aux
projets sociaux et aux dépenses liées à la mise en service et éventuellement à la gestion des équipements.

Comptes spéciaux, audit annuel des comptes du Projet et des relevés de dépenses. Trois Comptes spéciaux
ont été ouverts à la BNI ex CAA pour faciliter les décaissements pour les travaux des communes, la
MACOM et le FPCL. Les dispositions de l'annexe 5 de l'Accord de Crédit qui affecte les comptes
spéciaux à des dépenses autorisées a restreint le champs du Compte spécial COMMUNES aux dépenses
relatives aux travaux de génie civil, créant des difficultés d'équipement dans les communes5. Ces dépenses
ont faits l'objet de paiements directs ou payés à partir du compte spécial MACOM qui s'est trouvé très
souvent limité au regard de l'avance consentie par l'IDA. L'application des dispositions du § 4 de l'annexe
1 de l'Accord de Crédit, autorisant les retraits de Compte sur la base de relevés de dépenses pour des
dépenses au titre de marchés d'un montant égal ou inférieur à 120 000 dollars, n'a pas été mise en oeuvre
par l'IDA en ce qui concerne les travaux et les fournitures.

Les comptes du Projet ont été audités et certifiés chaque année depuis le 30 septembre 1996, dont le
dernier concerne l'exercice clos le 31 décembre 2003. Les réserves significatives émises concernent
l'incertitude sur le statut juridique du PACOM au regard de l'Accord de Crédit et des différents textes
légaux qui le régissent6. Selon l'auditeur, les contradictions ci-dessus relevées font peser sur le PACOM,
une incertitude juridique relative à son existence et au bon fonctionnement de son agence d'exécution
qu'est la MACOM. La situation institutionnelle et fonctionnelle de la MACOM a maintes fois fait l'objet
d'interrogation par l'association et les auditeurs. Ces questions doivent être réglées dans le cadre du
prochain projet.

La supervision et contrôle de l'Association (IDA). Des activités de supervision ont été menées par l'IDA
pour s'assurer que le projet est géré dans le respect des procédures contenues dans les Directives, le manuel
d'exécution


1 Pour pallier aux difficultés relatives aux délais importants mis par la Banque mondiale pour approuver les dossiers, il a été convenu
(voir IDA référence IN/ du 06/11/97) que l'Association n'effectuera désormais qu'un contrôle à posteriori pour les études dont le
montant estimé est inférieur à 50 000 dollars EU et qui devront être lancées conformément aux Directives en la matière.
2 L'exécution des COICs par les communes ne peut être synchronisée. Il est impossible d'associer des travaux éparpillés sur toute
l'étendue du territoire et qui sont de nature différente pour les grouper en appels d'offres internationaux. Les faibles montants
intéressent très peu les entreprises étrangères. Les travaux de natures identiques tels que les décharges, le mobilier, les tracteurs ont
fait l'objet d'appel d'offres international géré par la MACOM.
3 Compte de Régie d'Avance Municipale (CRAM) ouvert pour chaque commune à cet effet à la Banque Nationale d'Investissement
(BNI) ex-CAA.
4 A titre d'exemple, nous pouvons citer les communautés de KOUMASSI Grand Campement, d'ABOBO Baoulé et de BOUAKE
Banco, qui ont respectivement financé l'aménagement de leur quartier à hauteur de 300 millions, la réalisation de voirie pour un
montant de 100 millions et la construction d'un marché à hauteur de 16 millions.
5 Les investissements tels que le matériel de collecte d'ordures ménagères, mobilier d'école, matériel de première nécessité de certains
centres de santé ne peuvent être financés, laissant certaines opérations inachevées ou difficiles à mettre en service.
6 En dehors de l'accord de crédit, il n'existe pas de texte de loi adopté par la Côte d'Ivoire qui consacre l'existence juridique du
PACOM comme le fait le décret 94-367 pour le PDM.




                                                                                   - 35 -

et l'Accord de Crédit. Ces activités ont été intenses au début du projet dans le but de renforcer les capacités
de la MACOM et des acteurs municipaux. Des allégements ont été effectués à partir de la revue à mis
parcours pour accélérer la mise en oeuvre du projet.


Résultats obtenus

Les Réalisations

Le Développement des infrastructures et des équipements dans les communes

Grâce à la formule inédite de financement régie par la demande, le PACOM a permis de financer plus de
459 projets dans 132 communes réparties à travers les 16 régions du pays réduisant ainsi de façon
substantielle, le déficit en infrastructures et équipement de base dans nos communes à partir des Travaux
urbains (TPU) représentant 70 % des coûts de base du Projet, soit 19,5 milliards de FCFA. Le TPU a
réalisé des travaux prioritaires dans les petites communes (67% des investissements), amélioré les services
de base dans les zones urbaines sous-équipées (18,08 % des investissements), fournit des prêts aux
communes pour leur permettre de procéder à des investissements générateurs de revenus (6,92 % des
investissements), achevé ceux des équipements initiés dans le cadre du PDM (8 % des investissements).
Ces investissements sont répartis à hauteur de 34,64 % pour le secteur administratif et socioculturel, 5,66
% pour les activités économiques, 35,08 % pour l'amélioration et la protection de l'environnement, 9,15 %
pour le secteur de l'habitat, 9 % et 3% pour les secteurs respectifs de l'éducation et de la santé. Le montant
des contrats d'études s'élève à 1, 044 milliards de FCFA, soit environ 10 % du montant total des travaux
urbains prioritaires. A la clôture du projet, 371 sous projets sont achevés1, 48 chantiers interrompus et 40
non démarrés situés dans les zones de conflits. Ces performances sont remarquables en terme de répartition
spatiale (65 % des communes couvertes) et par rapport à sa diversité. Le montant total décaissé est de 17,06
milliards représentant 88,35 % des engagements.

Le Renforcement des Capacités de l'administration nationale, des collectivités locales et des communautés
a été financé à hauteur de 4,49 milliards FCFA. Le PACOM a permis aussi de tester le dispositif local pour
la gestion des problématiques de la lutte contre la pauvreté, de la gouvernance participative et de la
maîtrise d'oeuvre locale. Les outils et méthodologies développés par le PACOM permettent aux différents
acteurs institutionnels de jouer un rôle utile dans la mise en oeuvre de la décentralisation, et fait jouer le rôle
central aux acteurs locaux, que sont les services municipaux et les populations bénéficiaires. Cette
participation nécessaire à l'affirmation et à la consolidation de la démocratie au niveau local s'est exprimée
à travers la mise en oeuvre de programmes qui ont conduit à la réalisation d'actions de développement
durable sur le plan économique, social et technique.

(i) La participation institutionnelle de l'union des villes et communes de Côte d'Ivoire (UVICOCI) au CCG-
 PACOM, l'organe de décision du PACOM a permis aux représentants des maires, d'apprécier de façon
 pratique, et d'intégrer les critères d'éligibilité et les procédures du projet ;

(ii) le relèvement du seuil des marchés passés en communes et la mise en place de Commissions Locales
d'Attribution des Marchés (CLAM) a permis aux services municipaux de passer en toute autonomie plus de
310 marchés et contrats au niveau local pour un montant total de plus de 6, 7 milliards, soit en moyenne
plus de deux marchés par commune bénéficiaire. La Commission Locale d'Attribution des Marchés
(CLAM) est présidée par le Maire pour les marchés inférieurs à 25 millions de F.CFA et par le Préfet pour
les marchés compris entre 25 et 60 millions de F.CFA ;

(iii) l'ouverture de comptes communaux et la mise en place de fonds d'investissement ont renforcé de façon
importante les moyens d'actions des services municipaux. Le principe de l'unicité de caisse ne
responsabilisait pas de façon pleine et entière les acteurs locaux sur la gestion des ressources locales. La
possibilité de création de comptes communaux a libéré les communes des contraintes lourdes du budget de
l'Etat ;




1 222 sous projets en zone gouvernementale et 149 en zone des forces nouvelles.




                                                                               - 36 -

les fiches de suivi d'exécution des projets, ont permis le renforcement des capacités de gestion
administrative, financière et technique des services communaux ;

(v) la mise en place des procédures de Suivi et évaluation des projets locaux, avec la formation de plus de
trente bureaux d'études, qui appuient actuellement ces acteurs (initialement les conseils municipaux et
maintenant les conseils généraux) dans la mise en oeuvre de leur programme de développement. Le projet, a
fait l'objet de mesures adéquates de suivi et de contrôle (missions d'évaluation et audit, rapprochement
bancaire et avis de non objection) tout au long de son exécution au niveau des communes, afin de garantir
non seulement le respect des directives de la Banque Mondiale, mais aussi la transparence des procédures
et la bonne utilisation des fonds.

(vi) l'implication des communautés bénéficiaires par la méthode participative afin qu'elles s'approprient
la mise en oeuvre de leur développement par la maîtrise d'oeuvre sociale dans le cadre (PAQSE), a permis
de favoriser l'adhésion et la responsabilisation des habitants à la gestion des équipements, tout en créant un
esprit de citoyenneté au sein des communautés de base. Elle a en outre permis de former des opérateurs
locaux qui organisent les populations en groupements de travail et d'amélioration de quartier (GTAQ)
évaluent l'implication des populations aux programmes des collectivités.


L'impact du Projet

Le PACOM a favorisé la réduction de la pauvreté à partir du développement de l'économie locale et de
l'aide à l'insertion sociale. Les activités des travaux urbains prioritaires ont permis de faire travailler
plusieurs centaines de PME1 et d'offrir plus de 3 millions de jours de travail au niveau local pour un
investissement global de l'ordre de 20 milliards de francs CFA. Le PAQSE a permis l'amélioration des
conditions de vie dans les quartiers défavorisés. Ce Programme a mobilisé et formé des compétences au
sein des communautés de base qui initient des activités économiques à partir des ressources locales au
profit de leurs habitants. Le PEMPC a permis d'améliorer l'accès des populations pauvres aux services
essentiels au niveau social et économique dans 59 petites communes. Globalement les Travaux Urbains
Prioritaires ont doté les communes de plus de 38 kilomètres de voirie et de drainage, 50 kilomètres de
réseaux d'adduction d'eau, 53 kilomètres de réseaux électriques, 22 écoles primaires, 81 équipements de
collecte des ordures ménagères, 32 décharges contrôlées et 41 hôtels de ville. Le PASI a contribué à
l'amélioration des revenus des catégories de la population urbaine à faibles revenus et à un certain nombre
d'opérateurs qui ont diversifié leurs activités dans l'artisanat, les activités de transformation, le commerce,
l'agriculture et l'élevage, créant plus de 6 400 emplois2. Des ressources supplémentaires ont été mobilisées
au niveau local grâce à la stratégie mise en place pour accroître l'assiette fiscale et reformer la fiscalité.

La lutte contre le VIH SIDA a trouvé un nouveau souffle, avec le soutien apporté à l'Alliance des maires et
à l'UVICOCI pour l'installation de comités municipaux de lutte contre le VIH SIDA dans 24 communes et
la formation de 85 membres des équipes communales ainsi que l'installation des Cellules d'Informations
Municipales (CIM) VIH/SIDA au sein des municipalités, impulsant une nouvelle dynamique basée sur la
multisectorialité et la participation des populations. L'occasion a été également offerte aux jeunes (couche
vulnérable) d'accroître leur participation aux politiques de la lutte contre le VIH/SIDA et de leur santé3.
Le montant total du financement accordé est de 201,267 millions de F CFA .
Des améliorations ont été apportées au cadre de vie et à l'environnement grâce à la réhabilitation de
quartiers précaires et sous équipés qui bénéficient à plus de 800.000 habitants ayant participé eux-mêmes à
la réalisation et à l'assainissement de leur quartier4. Pour donner une réponse aux problèmes posés par la
gestion des déchets, 32


1 140 entreprises utilisant la main d'oeuvre locale.
2 Une étude portant sur la trajectoire des bénéficiaires, réalisée en juin 2000 a montré que 64000 emplois ont été créés grâce au PASI.
68% des personnes bénéficiaires ont doublé leur bénéficie net .
3 Appui apporté au club SIDA STOP constitué d'élèves du secondaire dans une campagne de sensibilisation en milieu scolaire
4 Ces actions ont été menées dans trois quartiers défavorisés de la ville d'Abidjan: Agban village dans la commune d'Attecoubé pour
un montant de 239 400 439 francs CFA et Grand Campement à Koumassi à hauteur de 847 000 000 de francs CFA, Abobo Baoulé
(Abobo) pour un montant de 565 millions et dans plus de 10 quartiers pauvres des communes d'Agboville (2) 265000 000 F CFA,
Anyama (4) 400 000000 FCFA, Abengourou ( 4) 400 0000 000 F CFA .




                                                                                     - 37 -

décharges contrôlées ont été financées, plus de 122 remorques et 81 tracteurs ont été également livrés pour
le ramassage des ordures. Par ailleurs, plus de 38 000 mètres linéaires de voirie équipée de réseau de
drainage comprenant caniveaux, des buses et des dalots ont été réalisés. Des actions sur l'amélioration de la
gestion des espaces publics ont été initiées et des propositions de solutions de gestion efficace et
d'installations de nouveaux ménages ont été faites.


Evaluation des performances

Les indicateurs contenus dans le manuel d'exécution ont été actualisés pour mieux caractériser les
performances générales du projet. Au niveau des outputs1, les activités d'achèvement des sous projets
initiés n'ont pas été satisfaisantes à 100 % du fait de la situation de guerre. Pour les indicateurs d'impact,
le taux d'augmentation de l'assiette fiscale et le taux de recouvrement des prêts PASI, ainsi le nombre de
communes utilisant les nouvelles procédures reste satisfaisant. Le taux de mise en service reste encore
faible par rapport aux objectifs fixés principalement pour les sous projets du PU (hôtels de villes et
Décharges contrôlées).

Au niveau des acteurs du projet, la MACOM a fait ses preuves dans l'encadrement des communes pour
planifier, programmer et gérer les investissements pour éviter les dérapages. Elle a aussi géré directement
les marchés dans certaines communes qui n'avaient pas de services techniques ou dans les nouvelles
communes qui étaient peu capables d'assurer le rôle de maître d'ouvrage dans la conduite d'opérations
municipales. Malgré quelques difficultés rencontrées2, la MACOM est parvenue à constituer une équipe
cohérente, motivée, efficace et fiable, capable de mettre en place un mécanisme pérenne pour appuyer la
Décentralisation et le Développement local.

Les entreprises au nombre de 140, ont participé à la réalisation des travaux de 379 sous projets financés
par le projet. 117 entreprises ont effectivement achevés leur marché, par contre 23 entreprises ont subi une
résiliation pour exécution non satisfaisante des travaux. Les meilleures performances sont obtenues pour les
marchés de travaux compris entre 25 et 60 millions représentant 43 % du montant investi. La plus mauvaise
performance est obtenue pour les marchés de moins de 25 millions de F CFA. Cette tranche concerne 29 %
des entreprises et 13 % des sous projets représentant 4 % du montant investi.

De façon générale, les procédés de construction et les matériaux utilisés sur les chantiers ont produit
beaucoup trop de réserves, lors des réceptions provisoires, dues aux vices de construction                                      et autres
malfaçons. La performance des entreprises s'est améliorée à partir de l'amélioration du circuit de
paiements.3 23 sociétés ont été retenues pour fournir 347 équipements entièrement livrés. Le montant total
investi est de 3,470 milliards qui ont été entièrement décaissé. La performance générale des sociétés a été
satisfaisante.
Les Bureaux d'études agrées et formés par le Projet sont au nombre de 22. Ces bureaux d'études appuient
les acteurs locaux (les services municipaux, élus) dans la mise en oeuvre de leur programme de
développement. Le montant cumulé des honoraires perçus par ces opérateurs s'élève à 894 millions de F
CFA. La performance des bureaux d'études; pour la plupart très jeunes s'est améliorée au fil du temps
grâce à la série de formations financée par le projet pour l'amélioration de leur capacités à mieux cerner
leur coût d'intervention, à savoir se préparer pour répondre à des consultations et mieux organiser leur



1 Sur neuf indicateurs d'output évalués quatre ont été satisfaits à 100% ; avec le PEMPC pour 67%, le PQASE à 50% (opérations
libres achevées), le PEMPC PU (33%) fourniture de mobiliers et du matériel d'ordures ménagère.
2 L'évolution des performances de la MACOM et du projet a connu deux phases (i) du démarrage du PACOM (1995) à 1997 ; divers
facteurs ont entravé la bonne marche du projet : (i) mise en place tardive des fonds, (ii) des problèmes institutionnels relatif au
fonctionnement de la MACOM du à son positionnement au sein des services du BNETD, (iii) manque d'expériences de l'équipe pour
la gestion de activités complexes du Projet et (iv) le renouvellement des équipes municipales en 1996 ; (ii)- de 1997 à la clôture (juin
2004) avec (i) la démission et le recrutement d'un nouveau chef de projet approuvé par l'IDA, le rattachement de la MACOM à la
Direction Générale avec une certaine autonomie de gestion, le renforcement de l'équipe (recrutement d'un spécialiste en passation de
marchés, d'un coordonnateur PAQSE, d'un chargé de reporting et d'assistant chargé du décaissement) pour accroître la taille de
l'équipe.
3 Nomination d'un régisseur au sein du Projet pour effectuer les dépenses à partir de la mise en oeuvre des nouvelles procédures
administratives et financières




                                                                                   - 38 -

ne sont pas fréquentes. Les contrats de type forfaitaire prévus au début du projet, pour des délais de six
mois au maximum ne sont pas adaptés. Des contrats au temps passés ont été proposés à partir de 2002 et
ont permis d'améliorer les prestations.

Les Communes ont obtenu leur meilleure performance au niveau de la programmation des investissements
et la gestion financière des projets. Les demandes exprimées par elles, ont permis de réaliser avant
l'épuisement du crédit près de 19,5 milliards F CFA d'investissement. Par ailleurs la MACOM a
enregistré, plusieurs mois avant la fin des engagements, plus de 20 milliards de F CFA de demandes
nouvelles auxquelles, elle n'a pu donner de suite favorable. Les services financiers maîtrisent parfaitement
les procédures, aidés dans leurs tâches par les trésoriers municipaux. Des délais record de sept jours ont
été observés au niveau des paiements des dépenses. Les contres performances sont au niveau de la gestion
des contrats et marchés, et du suivi et contrôle des travaux.


Leçons apprises au cours du projet

L'absence d'une planification stratégique justifiant l'opportunité des projets au regard du profil et de
l'identité de la commune. Cette lacune est à l'origine des changements des programmes formulés par les
équipes municipales d'un mandat à un autre et le mauvais fonctionnement des équipements une fois mis en
service. Il n'existe aucun lien entre les projets et les plans triennaux de développement conçus souvent
sans grand soin pour satisfaire aux exigences de contrôle de la tutelle. Il serait souhaitable dans ces
conditions que les projets découlent d'une mission d'identification qui procède d'une vision prospective et
partagée du développement local. Cela suppose que soient prise en compte les données historiques et
l'identité propre de la société et de l'espace communal concerné dans les dossiers d'identification des
projets soumis. L'absence d'une telle démarche est un fait couramment observé et est souvent prononcé par
des motivations partisanes.

L'absence d'un lien contractuel et d'un accompagnement touchant un spectre d'action plus large et
incluant des réformes d'intérêt local. Le contrat d'opération communal signé entre l'Etat et la Commune
comprend les dispositions pour la mise en oeuvre du programme financé.1 Ce document ne prévoit pas les
conditions de contrôles au niveau des autres programmes activités des services municipaux qui ont
nécessairement une incidence sur le développement de la commune. Le COIC fait rarement l'objet
d'évaluation mais ne comporte pas des dispositions en terme de conditionnalités ou de mesure
d'accompagnement indispensable à la mise en oeuvre des résultats physiques du projet. Ce contrat devrait
être alimenté par des rapports d'audits touchant à l'organisation (structure, personnel, ...), à la finance
locale (fiscalité, mobilisation) et aux aspects techniques de la gestion de la commune concernés dont
l'amélioration ou l'ajustement permettra une meilleure exploitation des résultats du projet. L'inclusion de
telles obligations assorties d'une évaluation de certains points du contrat par la population serait une
solution à privilégier dans la perspective d'un développement local durable.

L'absence de promotion de la qualité de service et de l'amélioration du cadre de vie. Les communes
considèrent que la mise en place des infrastructures urbaines est un problème majeur dont la résolution leur
apporte un crédit politique indéniable pour l'avenir. Cependant l'entretien des équipements et de la ville en
permanente expansion est en passe de devenir un problème plus grand encore qui dépasse en complexité
celui du déficit en équipements de base et de la collecte des ordures ménagères. Ainsi, bien d'ouvrages
d'utilité publique réalisés à grands frais dans les collectivités décentralisées sont abandonnés sans être mis
en service ou seulement après quelques années d'exploitation. Cette situation entraîne des pertes énormes
pour l'économie locale, et reste préjudiciable à leurs populations2. Les appuis doivent également porter sur
les conseils, la démarche et les précautions à prendre, avant,


1Le COIC porte sur la répartition du financement du programme d'opérations d'intérêt communales, les modalités de mise en oeuvre
des opérations (délais, passation des marchés, contrôle des travaux, les engagements de l'Etat en termes d'assistance technique). Il
comprend également les apports de la Mairie en terme de contrepartie financière, d'entretien des ouvrages et de participation des
populations. Les dispositions de gestion financière et du contrôle de l'utilisation des fonds y sont mentionnées.
2Les fonds engloutis sont immobilisés et ne servent pas à créer d'autres richesses. De plus le mauvais fonctionnement des ouvrages
existants crée des besoins nouveaux au sein des populations bénéficiaires auxquels la municipalité devra faire face avec des moyens
plus importants. Le manque de maintenance et d'entretien des réalisations, souvent justifié par l'insuffisance de moyens au regard des




                                                                                       - 39 -

pendant et après la réalisation les travaux pour réussir la mise en service et l'exploitation des
infrastructures et équipements et permettre aux communes d'offrir de façon optimale des services urbains.

La réduction de la pauvreté et le développement de l'économie locale ne se sont pas encore traduits au
niveau local par une prise de conscience des autorités sur la promotion de l'emploi, la participation du
secteur privé local et des populations aux moyens de gestion des collectivités décentralisées. Le PASI n'a
pas pu développer un ancrage institutionnel local auprès des services municipaux. Les collectivités n'ont
pas encore intégré la nécessité d'établir des partenariats féconds entre le secteur privé et la commune ou en
développant des mécanismes d'intervention du secteur privé local ou orienté vers les services urbains
essentiels dont la performance fait cruellement défaut et dont l'absence compromet la mise en service
durables des équipements.

La gestion participative des projets garantit des chances de succès et de pérennité des investissements au
niveau local. Les programmes1 du TPU qui ont entièrement appliqués ces dispositions ont eu les meilleures
performances en terme de délai d'exécution, de la qualité de mise en oeuvre et de la mise en service des
ouvrages achevés. Les autres programmes prédéfinis ont connu des dérapages dans leur chronogramme
d'exécution. De plus, la gestion administrative et financière de ces projets réalisée au niveau central a
rallongé les délais de traitement des dossiers2 et de paiement des dépenses. Ces programmes n'ont pas
permis d'engager les services municipaux et d'obtenir leur participation nécessaire dans les actions menées.

La nécessité de renforcer de façon continue les capacités du personnel municipal et des bureaux d'études
compte tenu du taux de rotation élevé. Les équipes municipales sont renouvelées à chaque mandat
municipal. De plus, la multiplicité des procédures auxquelles sont confrontés les services municipaux, ne
permet pas d'améliorer leurs capacités à partir des expériences vécues . Les bureaux d'études chargés de
leur encadrement sont des créations nouvelles et ont pour la plupart des moyens limités pour jouer
convenablement leur rôle. Il est, dans ces conditions indispensable, pour accroître les capacités et
l'efficacité des acteurs, de les appuyer de façon permanente à partir d'une structure pérenne qui se
chargerait d'uniformiser et de vulgariser les procédures.




1 La méthode participative est appliquée dans le cadre du PAQSE.
2 Le délai moyen d'approbation des marchés au niveau de l'administration est de 6 mois.




                                                                                  - 40 -

- 41 -

- 42 -

