Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2704 IVC
Development Credit Agreement
(Municipal Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D'IVOIRE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 12, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2704 IVC
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D'IVOIRE 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of 
the Project; 
WHEREAS (B) the Association has received a letter dated March 
14,1995, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives 
and policies designed to implement the Borrower's strategy in the urban 
sector (hereinafter referred to as the Program), and declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of such program; and
WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of 
Page  2
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development 
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"AFVP" means 
Association Française des Volontaires du 
Progrès, an international NGO operating in the Borrower's territory;
(b)
"BCEAO" means the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de 
l'Ouest, the Central Bank of the Borrower;
(c)
"CAA" means Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, a public 
financial institution of the Borrower;
(d)
"CFAF" or "CFA francs" means the currency of the Borrower;
(e)
"CCG-PACOM" means Comité de Coordination et de Gestion du 
Programme d'Appui à la Conduite d'Opérations Municipales, the Project 
management committee established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 
94-367, dated July 1, 1994, as amended by the Borrower's Decree No. 
95-107, dated February 10, 1995;
(f)
"FPCL Guidelines" means the guidelines referred to under 
Section 6.01 (a) and Annex 4 to this Agreement;
(g)
"COIC" means Contrat d'Opérations d'Intérêt Communal, an 
agreement to be entered into by the Borrower and the municipalities to 
finance Local Investment Subprojects pursuant to paragraph 9 of Annex 4 
to this Agreement;
(h)
"DCGTX" means the Direction et Contrôle des Grands Travaux 
of the Borrower;
(i)
"DGCL" means the Direction Générale des Collectivités 
Locales of the Borrower;
(j)
"DGI" means the Direction Générale des Impôts of the 
Borrower;
(k)
"DGP" means Direction Générale du Plan, a Directorate of the 
Borrower's ministry responsible for planning;
(l)
"FPCL" means the Fonds de Prêts aux Collectivités Locales, a 
municipal credit fund created pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 
89-962, dated August 30, 1989;
(m)
"FPCL Subloan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by 
FPCL to a municipality out of the proceeds of the Credit under Part A.2 
of the Project;
(n)
"FPCL Subloan Agreement" means the agreement between FPCL 
and a municipality for purposes of making a FPCL Subloan;
Page  3
(o)
"FPCL Subproject" means an income generating subproject to 
be financed under Part A.2 of the Project;
(p)
"Local Investment Subprojects" means the investment 
subprojects to be submitted by municipalities for financing under Part 
A.1 of the Project;
(q)
"Project Implementation Manual" means the manual referred to 
in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(r)
"MACOM" means 
Mission d'Appui à la Conduite d'Opérations 
Municipales, the technical secretariat of the CCG-PACOM referred to in 
paragraph (e) above;
(s)
"Municipalities" means the municipalities established 
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 80-1180 dated October 17, 1980, as 
amended by the Borrower's Law No. 85-578 dated July 29, 1985;
(t)
"Small Municipalities" means municipalities having a 
population of less than 25,000 habitants and an annual budget of less 
than CFA 60,000,000;
(u)
"Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b), (c) and (d) of this Agreement; and
(v)
"UVICOCI" means the Union des Villes et Communes de Côte 
d'Ivoire, an association of Ivorian mayors established pursuant to the 
Borrower's Law No. 60-315 dated September 21, 1960.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty 
seven million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
27,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A.1 of the 
Project, open and maintain in CFA francs a special deposit account 
(hereinafter referred to as "Municipalities" Special Account) in CAA on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the "Municipalities" Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A.2 of the 
Project, open and maintain in CFA francs a special deposit account 
(hereinafter referred to as "FPCL" Special Account) in CAA on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the "FPCL" Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts B.1, B.2 and B.3 
of the Project, open and maintain in CFA francs a special deposit account 
(hereinafter referred to as "MACOM" Special Account) in CAA on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments 
out of, the "MACOM" Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such later 
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn 
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of 
each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty 
(60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from 
the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may 
be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date 
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as 
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of 
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in 
the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time 
to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be 
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 
15, 2005 and ending February 15, 2035. Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on February 15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of 
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per 
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in 
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall 
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors 
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development 
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the 
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of 
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's 
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, 
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Page  5
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower, through the CCG-PACOM, shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the Project Implementation Manual.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX 
of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into 
account the Association's comments thereon.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
not later than June 30, 1998 carry out jointly with the 
Association a midterm review of the Project during which they shall 
exchange views generally on all matters relating to the progress of the 
Project and the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this 
Agreement and, in particular: procurement procedures, CCG-PACOM's 
decisions making process regarding the Local Investment Subprojects, and 
the availability and timeliness of municipalities' and local population's 
contributions;
(b)
based on the findings of the midterm review thereafter carry 
out such corrective or other actions as the Borrower and the Association 
shall determine in accordance with a time schedule satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(c)
in order to facilitate this review, prepare and submit to 
the Association, not later than four weeks before the scheduled date of 
this review, a report of Project activities of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
Section 3.05. On the basis of the studies referred to in Part B of 
the Project, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(a)
not later than April 1998, furnish to the Association for 
its review and comments an action plan describing a program of measures 
and actions, with a timetable, designed to streamline the allocation of 
resources between the Borrower and the municipalities;
(b)
exchange views with the Association on the content of said 
action plan during the midterm review referred to in Section 3.04 above; 
and
(c)
thereafter shall take promptly all actions and measures 
necessary for the execution of an action plan acceptable to the 
Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be 
maintained, records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the end of 
each such year, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, 
accounts and the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the 
Associa-tion has received the audit 
for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
Page  7
year, together with the proce-dures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Decree No. 94-367 dated July 1, 1994 of the Borrower, as 
amended by Decree No. 95-107 dated February 10, 1995 of the Borrower 
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of CCG-PACOM to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
Decree No. 94-70 dated February 23, 1994 of the Borrower 
enabling the municipalities to open investment accounts shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated or repealed so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the municipalities to perform any of their 
obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction 
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of 
CCG-PACOM or for the suspension of its operations.
(d)
The Borrower shall have amended, suspended, abrogated or 
repealed 
arrêté No. 149 dated February 21, 1995.
(e)
The FPCL Guidelines shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated or repealed without the approval of the Association.
(f)
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General 
Conditions, the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement 
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
FPCL Steering Loan Committee has issued the FPCL Guidelines 
under terms and provisions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
the Borrower has established procedures satisfactory to the 
Association for the accounting and consolidation of MACOM's and CAA's 
project accounts;
(c)
the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual 
satisfactory to the Association outlining the procurement, disbursement 
and other implementation arrangements for the Project including 
subprojects' and subloans' eligibility criteria and approval procedures; 
and
(d)
the Borrower has submitted drafts of standard bidding 
documents for the procurement of goods and works satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
Page  8
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible 
for finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
B.P.V 125
Abidjan
Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIN
23747 MINFIN
Abidjan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CÔTE D'IVOIRE
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ 
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  9
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so 
to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works:
(a)
Under Part
   19,060,000
100% of foreign
A.1 of the 
expenditures and
Project
80% of local 
expenditures
(b) Under Part A.2
    1,720,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Equipment and
    1,170,000
100% of foreign
Vehicles
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants services
    1,890,000
100%
and Training
(4)
Subloans under Part B.4
      910,000
90% of Amounts
of the Project
Disbursed
(5)
MACOM Operating Costs
      330,000
80%
(6)
Unallocated
    2,120,000
TOTAL
   27,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the 
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory of which 
goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such 
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)
the term "MACOM Operating Costs" means the incremental 
Project related costs incurred by MACOM on account of vehicles 
maintenance and the provision and maintenance of office supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
incurred under contracts not exceeding $120,000 equivalent, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Page  10
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve welfare of the 
population in urban areas by increasing urban incomes and improving urban 
services; (ii) improve living conditions of low income groups in urban 
areas; (iii) improve the national and local governments' capacity to 
implement and sustain urban services through the establishment of 
improved systems of financing and management, including an increase in 
local resources mobilization; and (iv) contribute to sustained 
development through environmental improvement and protection.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon 
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Priority Urban Works
1.
The carrying out of Local Investment Subprojects through:
(a)
The provision of basic social or economic infrastructure to 
Small Municipalities through, inter alia, the construction and 
rehabilitation of roads, drains, public latrines, and public buildings.
(b)
The implementation of priority rehabilitation operations in 
the following four squatter settlements: Bardo in the town of San Pedro, 
Banco in the town of Bouaké, Grand Campement and PK18 in the city of 
Abidjan; and
(c)
The rehabilitation of squatter settlements through, inter 
alia, the acquisition of small community equipment, construction of roads 
and drainage facilities, installation of potable water connections and 
public lighting along primary roads.
2.
Provision through FPCL of subloans to municipalities for 
income-generating subprojects such as construction and rehabilitation of 
markets, slaughterhouses, bus terminals and other economically and 
socially justified investments.
Part B:
Municipal Capacity Building
1.
Strengthening of the municipalities' managerial, financial and 
technical capacity to design and implement investments through the 
provision of training and technical assistance.
2.
Institutional strengthening of DGCL and MACOM through the provision 
of technical assistance, and the acquisition of vehicles, equipment and 
computers.
3.
Carrying out of tax reform preparation studies, development of a 
simplified fiscal cadastre and institutional strengthening of the DGI, 
through the provision of technical assistance and the acquisition of 
equipment.
4.
Provision of subloans to micro-enterprises intended to launch or 
sustain small economic activities.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  11
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following 
additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid 
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by 
the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation, obtain 
necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract. The bid 
validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding 
documents or the request for extension shall provide for appropriate 
adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for 
the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid 
price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With respect 
to each contract made subject to the Association's prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 (a) of this Section, the 
Association's prior approval will be required for: (i) a first extension 
of the bid validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) 
days, and (ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with 
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding 
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the 
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the 
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by 
the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Civil Works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $120,000 or less 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Goods and equipment, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent 
of $350,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of 
$250,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final 
contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $120,000 or more and to the three initial contracts awarded 
by each municipality and to be financed under Part A of the Project, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made 
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
Page  12
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the 
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to 
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the 
other information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not 
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the 
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of 
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by 
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 
(the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the 
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard 
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association 
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters 
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not 
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not 
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a 
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Project Management
1.
CCG-PACOM shall be responsible for the overall coordination, 
monitoring and supervision of the Project under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association.
2.
The CCG-PACOM shall include, inter alia, representatives of the 
ministries responsible for Interior, Economy, Finance and Planning, 
Construction and Town Planning, CAA, DCGTX, and at least three mayors 
Page  13
appointed by UVICOCI.
3.
The Borrower shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, 
MACOM with key staff whose experience, qualifications and terms of 
employment are acceptable to the Association.
4.
MACOM's primary functions will be to: (i) assist the CCG-PACOM in 
the preparation and implementation of its municipal investment strategy; 
and (ii) carry out the day-to-day management of the Project.
Part A.1
5.
The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Category (1) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to finance the Local Investment Subprojects submitted by the 
municipalities to the CCG-PACOM for approval.
6.
Proposals for Local Investment Subprojects shall be considered for 
financing only if they comply with the provisions and eligibility 
criteria of the Project Implementation Manual, including those related 
to: (a) the use of labor intensive techniques, beneficial impact on the 
environment and poverty alleviation, and local population's involvement; 
and (b) the conduct of environmental impact studies, the design of 
resettlement plans and the production of evidence of local population's 
consultation, all satisfactory to the Association.
7.
MACOM shall: (i) assist the municipalities to identify and design 
the Local Investment Subprojects; (ii) consolidate, every other month, 
the Local Investment Subprojects proposals; and (iii) communicate these 
proposals to CCG-PACOM for approval and to the Association for review.
8.
The CCG-PACOM shall promptly notify the municipalities, the 
Borrower and the Association of its rulings, provide the reasons for its 
rulings, and ensure that the rulings are published in the Voix des 
Communes, an information bulletin for mayors.
9.
For the execution of the Local Investment Subprojects, the 
Borrower, through its Ministry responsible for Interior, shall enter into 
a COIC agreement, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, with the municipality whose proposal has been approved by 
the CCG-PACOM.
10.
The COIC agreement shall provide, inter alia, for a detailed 
description of the Local Investment Subprojects, the nature and amount of 
the Borrower's contribution, the nature and amount of the municipalities' 
contribution, the nature and amount of the local population's 
contribution, the procurement methods and a schedule of payments.
11.
The Borrower, through MACOM, shall assist the municipalities 
implement the Local Investment Subprojects and ensure that this 
implementation conforms generally with the provisions of the Project 
Implementation Manual and in particular with its provisions relating to 
environmental impact studies, resettlement plans and local population's 
consultation.
Part A.2 of the Project
12.
In order to carry out Part A.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain until the completion of the Project:
(i)
the FPCL in CAA, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association; and
(ii)
the FPCL steering loan committee (hereinafter 
referred to as the FPCL Steering 
Loan Committee), chaired by 
the Director General of CAA, and consisting, inter 
alia, of representatives of the Borrowers's Ministries of Economy, 
Page  14
Finance and 
Planning, Interior, and the Director General of 
DCGTX.
13.
The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Category (1) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to finance the FPCL Subloans to the municipalities approved by 
the FPCL Steering Loan Committee.
14.
The FPCL Steering Loan Committee shall issue and apply, throughout 
Project's implementation, the FPCL Guidelines setting forth the general 
terms and conditions for the use by the municipalities of the proceeds of 
the credit.
15.
The FPCL Guidelines shall include, in particular: (i) the terms and 
conditions of FPCL Subloans applicable to the eligible FPCL Subprojects 
including interest rates, repayment terms and grace periods; and (ii) 
guidelines on FPCL Subprojects preparation, appraisal and implementation, 
and standard FPCL Subloans forms and FPCL Subloans agreements.
16.
No FPCL Subloans applications shall be considered for approval by 
the FPCL Steering Loan Committee unless they comply with the provisions 
of the FPCL Guidelines including: (i) the municipalities's financial 
eligibility criteria based, inter alia, on the municipalities's financial 
solvency; and (ii) the FPCL's Subproject's financial, technical and 
economic eligibility criteria based, inter alia, on the proposed 
investment's estimated rate of return and its income-generating nature.
17.
MACOM shall assist the municipalities to identify and design the 
FPCL Subprojects to be financed under Part A.2 of the Project and ensure 
the compliance of the FPCL Subprojects proposals and the FPCL Subloans 
applications with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and 
the FPCL Guidelines.
18.
The FPCL Steering Loan Committee shall: (i) decide promptly on the 
FPCL Subloans applications complying with the provisions of the FPCL 
Guidelines; and (ii) promptly informs MACOM of its rulings relating to 
FPCL Subloans applications.
19.
The Borrower, through CAA, shall enter into FPCL Subloan 
agreements, whose terms and conditions are conform to the FPCL Guidelines 
and satisfactory to the Association, with the municipalities whose 
Subloan applications have been approved by the FPCL Steering Loan 
Committee.
20.
MACOM shall assist the municipalities implement the FPLC 
Subprojects and communicate, on a quarterly basis, to the Association the 
consolidated reports on the FPCL Steering Loan Committee's activities and 
the status of approved FPCL Subloans.
Part B.4 of the Project
21.
In order to carry out Part B.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain, until the completion of the Project, the Monitoring Committee (
Comité de Suivi) chaired by the Minister responsible for Economy, Finance 
and Planning or his representative, and composed of representatives of 
AFVP, BCEAO, CCG-PACOM, CAA and DCGTX.
22.
The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Category (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
to finance subloans to micro-enterprises.
23.
No subloans applications shall be considered for approval unless 
they comply with the provisions of the Project Implementation Manual, 
including those related to the eligibility criteria of the 
micro-enterprises and the terms and conditions of the subloans.
24.
The Monitoring Committee shall: (i) set terms and conditions of the 
Page  15
subloans to micro-enterprises, including interest rates and repayment 
schedules, satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) adjust, if 
necessary, with the Association's prior approval the terms and conditions 
of subloans to micro-enterprises.
25.
The Monitoring Committee shall: (i) decide promptly on subloans 
applications submitted by micro-enterprises complying with the Project 
Implementation Manual's provisions; and (ii) send to MACOM for 
information quarterly reports on its activities and the status of 
approved subloans to micro-enterprises.
26.
The Borrower, through DGP, shall enter into subloan agreements with 
the micro-enterprises, whose subloans applications have been approved by 
the Monitoring Committee, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the following 
Categories as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement:
(i)
Category 1 (a) for the "Municipalities" Special 
Account;
(ii)
Category 1 (b) for the "FPCL" Special Account; and
(iii)
Categories 2, 3 and 5 for the "MACOM" Special 
Account;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) for the 
"Municipalities" Special Account, an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the 
"Municipalities" Special Account; (ii) for the "FPCL" Special Account  an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the "FPCL" Special Account; and (iii) for the "MACOM" 
Special Account an amount equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the "MACOM" Special Account. All 
deposits into any Special Account shall be in accordance with paragraph 3 
(a) of this Schedule.
(d)
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $1,000,000, 
$250,000 and $250,000 for the "Municipalities" Special Account, the 
"FPCL" Special Account, the "MACOM" Special Account respectively until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 9,500,000, SDR 850,000 and SDR 
1,700,000 respectively.
2.
Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that 
any Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation corresponding to that Special Account and subsequent 
Page  16
withdrawals to replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into 
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the corresponding 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of any Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for 
deposits into such Special Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into 
the corresponding Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of such 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of any Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the 
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) 
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for such Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories corresponding to such Special Account, minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with 
respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the corresponding Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
Page  17
corresponding to such Special Account shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in such Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure 
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide 
such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit 
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to 
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to 
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
