Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            rF L  E
Report No. P-2533-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
May 9, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =      Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1              =     Paise 100
US$1              =     Rs 8.6
Rs 1              =     US$0.1163
Rs 1 million      =     US$116,297.07
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate
is subject to change. As of April 23, 1979, the exchange
rate was Rs 8.29 to US$1.0).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
GOI     -   Government of India
ARDC    -   Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation
CEA     -   Central Electricity Authority
IDA     -   International Development Association
REC     -   Rural Electrification Corporation Limited
SEB     -   State Electricity Board
kV      -   kilovolt  =  1,000 volts
kWh     -   kilowatt-hour  =  1,000 watt-hours
MW      -   megawatt  -  1,000 kilowatts
Gwh     -   gigawatt-hour  =  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:           Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).
Amount:                US$175 million.
Terms:                 Standard.
On-Lending
Terms:               From GOI to REC, with repayment over 20 years, includ-
ing 5 years of grace, at 7.25% per annum.
Project
Description:          The project would support REC's overall lending program.
It would help finance rural electrification schemes
meeting agreed criteria. It would introduce improved
appraisal technqiues and assist REC in carrying out
pilot schemes. The risks involved are no greater than
can normally be expected with operations of this type.
Estimated Cost:                                             (US$ millions)
Item                     Local    Foreign   Total
Approximately 1,700
Schemes in Five
Approved Categories           196.0     135.0    331.0
Pilot Schemes, including         0.8       0.7       1.5
Technical Advisory Services
and Training
Price Contingencies             39.0      28.0      67.0
Physical Contingencies           0.2       0.3       0.5
Total Project Cost         236.0      164.0    400.0
Financing Plan:                                              (US$ millions)
Local    Foreign   Total
IDA                             11.0     164.0    175.0
GOI Loans                      113.0       -       113.0
ARDC                            56.0       -        56.0
Market Loans                    56.0       -        56.0
Total                    236.0      164.0    400.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated                                            (USS millions)
Disbursements:        IDA FY           FY81       FY82       FY83       FY84
Annual            34         99         38          4
Cumulative        34        133        171        173
Rate of Return:         About 407.
Appraisal Report:       No. 2413(a)-IN, dated April 26, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR A SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$175 million on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a project designed to support rural
electrification schemes, including two pilot schemes. These components are
part of the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program covering the
period 1980/81-1981/82. The proceeds of the proposed Credit would be on-lent
by the Government to the Rural Electrification Corporation at an interest rate
of 7.25% per annum with repayment over twenty years including five years of
grace. The exchange risk would be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 640 million people whose
average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector dominates the
economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and contributing over
40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides a fullsome
subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all families in
rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions, and many
who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on the means
of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough to bring
about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity and
rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as
a drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total,
but also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food.
Growth in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and
1975, but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can
be expected.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the M4aharashtra Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (Report No. P-2513-IN) dated April 18, 1979.



- 2 -
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly -- 5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.        India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods. Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.        India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of 126
million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains were
timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed both
lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricultural
production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions to
area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during



the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth is impressive,
particularly since it follows two successive years of very high growth--18%
in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption is now 75%
higher than it was in 1975/76. These rates of growth in agricultural inputs
and output are heartening evidence that the good harvests of 1975/76 and
1977/78 were not isolated peaks resulting from good weather alone but
represent an increased agricultural production capacity.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% or more but continuing shortages
in many States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand.
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77. Non-foodgrain imports rose
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhanced foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth
in 1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part of
the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion.
Development Prospects
11.       The circumstances that have brought about the currently favorable
economic situation hold the promise of continuing into the future given conti-
nued policy improvements. The faster growth of the recent past has been made
possible by the much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased
exports, workers' remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agri-
cultural performance; the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of
import controls; and expanded public expenditure on development programs.



- 4 -
Although sustaining the high growth rates of the recent past into the future
is by no means automatically assured, India has a level of resources with
which to manage the economy that had never existed before. The comfortable
foreign exchange position, the large foodgrain stocks and the absence of
strong inflationary pressures have eased the pressures to deal with short-
term crises and freed India's economic managers to plot a more ambitious
course for the economy. The policy improvements needed to achieve the better
performance now possible have begun in some important areas but in others
have yet to be initiated.
12.        The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant under-
employment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the poorest
sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of some of
the basic needs of the people in these low-income groups. While the Plan
recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.        In agriculture, the economic policies, development programs and
secular trends all seem favorable for a period of sustained high growth.
Fertilizer prices have been reduced progressively from their very high level
in early 1975 and despite some fall in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer:
foodgrain price ratio has fallen to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests
and higher farm incomes provide the money to finance higher fertilizer pur-
chases, creating something of a virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many
crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane, pulses and others--have concentrated recently
on supporting prices to maintain incentives to farmers rather than trying to
administratively control prices to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation
and rural electrification investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if
fully funded, will help provide the water control needed to increase yields
directly and to induce further productivity-increasing investments. The
highly effective reorganization of the agricultural extension service will
raise yields as it takes hold progressively across India in the near future.
Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain production: one
is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties of rice;
another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the traditional
wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends along with the
other favorable developments have caused rice production to rise impressively
in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain production is the



- 5 -
rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditionally rice areas (West
Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces along with adroit input supply
management should allow the industrial sector to continue to grow at the
improved rate of the recent past, at least for the near- and medium-term
future. Over the longer term, growth of industrial production at or above
the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g., 7% per annum during the last
four years--will require some changes in policy to induce a more efficient
industrial structure. Recent industrial policies have sent mixed signals
to private manufactures and investors. Some, such as reserving certain lines
of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibiting the location of new
firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive. Others have been stimula-
tive, such as the raising of tile exemption limit of industrial licensing for
capital investment or favorable adjustments in the pricing and production
controls in several major industries, including cement, steel, and textiles.
In addition the liberalization of import controls is of considerable benefit
to increasing industrial production. However, there are some worrisome supply
shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid industrial growth.
Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long as India maintains a
healthy foreign exchange position. however, two supply constraints likely to
persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and power -- cannot be eased
through imports. The new Plan contains a major power investment program to
increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment program is more modest.
Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and into most other major
sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to the good agricultural harvests.  Although its
effect has been delayed somewhiat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future as long as the growth
in agricultural output continues.  Another source of demand is public expendi-
ture on development projects, which has grown in a major way in the last few
years and is scheduled to continue to grow under the new Five-Year Plan.   A
third source of growth is export demand for industrial goods. There has been
a sustained growth in the export of manufactures suclh as engineering goods,
garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical products. This export
growth should continue in the future with proper policy support. A final
source of growing demand is private investment by both the household and
corporate sectors. There are as yet only a few signs of this growth, such
as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and increased use of
inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the other sources of
demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to constrain production in
inore industries. The net result of increasing demand should be continued high
growth in industrial production in the near and medium term within existing
policies.



- 6 -
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded.  Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of imports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/83),
foreign exchange reserves will have fallen to six months of imports, or less,
and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part of the
adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of imports; the
import bill need not grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to sustain the
target growth in GDP. Part of the adjustment must come from the achievement
of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in volune terms.
Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign exchange to
sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign demand and
competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally, part
of toe adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
rate to 33 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current low level. The
low performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth
control policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning perform-
ance has been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible
before it was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued
support for the program of family welfare, India's rate of population in-
crease should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by 1990.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-incoine groups. More
than one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the
Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small
farmers. The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these
families with more land are not good because of the virtual absence of un-
cultivated arable land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and
the limited amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried
out. Estimates of the amount of land that would be available if land reform
were carried out vary greatly. One estimate is that these would be about
9 million hectares available for distribution. This compares to roughly
45 million families in the two poorest groups in rural India: landless



- 7 -
families and families owing less than one hectare of land, whose average
holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to the amelioration of poverty more
promising than land reform is the creation of more employment opportunities
for thie landless and small farmers in rural areas. Although the basic thrust
must come from the market by a more rapidly increasing agricultural output,
there will be a role for employment-intensive rural works programs. The new
Plan provides for increased rural employment both through direct employment
schemes and through ambitious programs of investment in rural infrastructure
in addition to the more general rural development programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 56 loans and 113 development
credits to India totalling US$2,281 million and US$6,747 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$975 million had been
repaid, and US$2,806 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1979.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1979.
1979, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$64.0
million, of which US$15.9 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$33.6 million, US$25.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$8.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of April 30, 1979, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments have also
received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. -Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to pro-
jects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending



- 8 -
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank
lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was 12%
in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
March 31, 1979, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,331 million, of which
US$657 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$674 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
26.       The performance of the power supply industry and the economy at large
are closely linked, since the bulk of power generated is consumed in one of the
other productive sectors of the economy. Because power cannot easily be traded
internationally and because its use is instantaneous and it cannot be stored
readily, a shortage of power has an immediate effect on the rest of the economy.



- 9 -
Thus, economic growth in India depends critically on the development of the
power sector. As the Indian economy expands, demand for power grows at a much
faster rate.
27.       Shortages of power have been pervasive for the last several years.
India's total installed generating capacity as at March 1978 was 26,000 MW,
including 2,200 rMW of non-utility capacity, mostly thermal, owned by major
industrial consumers to meet their own needs. Of this total generating
capacity, about 60% is thermal, 38% hydro-electric, and 2% nuclear. Total
gross energy generated by utilities in 1977/78 was 99,000 Gwh. During the
five-year period 1978/79-1982/83, planned expansion of generating capacity,
which will be based mainly on coal and hydro power resources, is expected to
add additional new capacity of about 19,000 MW, and in 1983/84 power genera-
tion is expected to reach 176,000 Gwh. This would meet the forecast energy
requirements of the country in that year, but a small nationwide peak capacity
shortfall (about 600 MW, compared to about 1,600 MW in 1978/79) is expected
to remain.
28.       The institutional structure of the Indian electricity supply indus-
try is complex as electricity supply is within the concurrent jurisdiction
of the Central Government and the State Governments. The principal agencies
in the sector are: (i) the State Electricity Boards (SEBs), which are respon-
sible for the generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity within
each State, and for the control and regulation of private sector electricity
supply undertakings; (ii) the Central Electricity Authority (CEA); (iii) the
two central power corporations -- the National Thermal Power Corporation and
the National Hydro Power Corporation; and (iv) the Rural Electrification
Corporation (REC).
29.       State Electricity Boards.  Historically, the financial situation of
the SEBs has been weak; in particular, financial performance has been adversely
affected by inadequate tariff policies. However, there has been some progress
in recent years. Under the IDA-assisted power transmission projects, SEBs
were expected to work towards a rate of return target of 9-1/2% on the capital
base. An analysis of the power tariff structure of the State of Andhra Pradesh
was carried out in 1975; tariffs in the State have been increased and their
structure has been brought more closely in line with the study's recommend-
ations. Ten other SEBs have recently completed power pricing studies based
on marginal-cost-pricing principles and three are in the process of carrying
out such studies, following undertakings given under previous Credits. 1/
Thus, most of the States of India will have at their disposal basic data and
analyses needed for establishing improved tariffs. Furthermore, amendments
to the financial provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, were
enacted in 1978. The Act, as amended, requires among other things, that
tariffs be set to ensure that revenues will at least meet operating expenses,
depreciation and interest, and provide from internal resources a reasonable
contribution to capital investment. This is a significant step forward and
1/   Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat, Bihar, IJttar Pradesh, Rajasthan,
Punjab, Haryana, Delhi Electricity Supply Undertaking (DESU), Madhya
Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.



- 10 -
the actions being taken by State Governments and their SEBs to comply with
the amendments should contribute to the improvement of their financial per-
formance.
30.       Central Electricity Authority.  Power planning nationwide is
coordinated by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA). The CEA was set up
in 1950 to be responsible for developing a national policy for power devel-
opment and for coordinating the activities of the various planning agencies
involved in electricity supply. However, without any staff of its own and
with no clear and accepted functions to perform, it could not operate effec-
tively.  Following the establishment of the Ministry of Energy in 1974, the
functions of the former Central Water and Power Commission were divided,
with its power functions and staff transferred to the CEA, reporting to the
Ministry of Energy. The Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, was amended, with
effect from October 8, 1976, to assign to the CEA new functions, including,
in particular, the formulation of short-term and perspective plans for power
development, training of personnel, interconnected system operations, and
research and development; these are in addition to its general responsibility
for developing a sound, adequate and uniform power policy and coordinating
the activities of the planning agencies in relation to the control and
utilization of national power sources.
31.       With the rapid growth of the Indian power sector and with the
resultant increasing complexity of operation, the need for coordination at
the national level has increased. In recognition of this, the Government
has decided to pursue an integrated national approach to sector development.
The unified operation of power systems on a regional basis as the first step
has already commenced; the Southern Regional grid has been operating on an
interconnected basis at 220 kV since August 1972. Interconnection of power
systems in other regions is also progressing and will pave the way for
an all-India grid. IDA Credit 604-IN (Fourth Power Transmission Project)
includes provision to help finance the cost of consultants to study the
technical, economic and financial aspects of the long-term national plan
for power development in India. The work on 400 kV systems studies, which
are basic to the ultimate establishment of a national power system, is
progressing satisfactorily. CEA is also working on the development of a
15-20 year plan which would include, inter alia, detailed demand forecasts,
investigations of power generation schemes to meet load growth requirements,
determination of resource requirements and definition of responsibilities
and operation policies at the State, regional and national levels.
32.       Thus, the Government is demonstrating its commitment to improved
perforrnance in the sector.  As a first priority, the efficiency of operation
of existing facilities is being promoted by close monitoring of factors such
as capacity utilization, planned and unplanned outages, and fuel consumption.
In addition, the implementation of new power projects is being closely super-
vised to minimize delays in the installation of new capacity. The progressive
integration of the existing power system will also contribute significantly
to increased efficiency. These areas of concern and others -- organizational
structure, management practices, planning systems, and tariff structures --
are now being reviewed by a high-level committee which is examining all
major aspects of the power supply industry in India under comprehensive



- 11 -
terms of reference. The Committee is expected to report to the Ministry
of Energy by December 1979.
Rural Electrification
33.       While per capita consumption for electricity has been rising in India,
it still remains among the lowest in the world. It amounts to an annual per
capita consumption of about 140 kWh. Overall demand is dominated by industry,
which accounts for about 62% of all electricity sold. Agriculture (mainly
irrigation) accounts for another 14-15%. Growth of consumption has been par-
ticularly rapid in the rural areas, where more than 80% of the total population
lives. As of June 1978, about 220,000 or 38% of Indian villages were connected
to the grid, and 3.4 million irrigation pump and tubewells were electrified. By
the end of 1982/83, an additional 100,000 villages and 2 million pumps are
expected to be connected. There exists a large potential for further expansion;
there were an estimated 9.5 million private and public wells as of March 1978,
leaving a balance of about 6.1 million that are not electrified and need to be
operated by either diesel or animal power. In addition to this replacement
demand, new tubewells and open wells will require energization. The Government
is committed to promoting rural electrification in India as one of the most
promising instruments of rural development. The revised draft Five-Year Plan
1978/79-1982/83 provides for an annual expenditure of about US$470 million for
rural electrification, a substantial increase compared with about US$180 million
per annum during the early 1970s.
34.       To help SEBs undertake the enormous task of rural electrification,
the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), the beneficiary of the proposed
Credit, was established in 1969 under the Indian Companies Act, 1956 as a
public corporation, wholly owned by the Government. Its main institutional
objective is to finance rural electrification schemes throughout India,
functioning as a financial intermediary with technical expertise, and ensur-
ing the efficient on-lending of funds drawn primarily from GOI, by using
viability criteria to determine the eligibility of sub-projects or schemes.
In undertaking the task, REC is directed to coordinate its lending operations
with the activities of other agencies, such as the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC), which provide financing for rural development.
Although the amount of REC financial support is small in relation to total
SEB operations in the power sector, REC today supports more than half of
rural electrification expenditures. It is expected that REC will perform
an increasingly important role in the coming years in the light of the com-
mitment of GOI to the promotion of rural electrification. Most SEBs have
set up "RE Cells" within their organizations to deal with the identification
and processing of rural electrification schemes financed by REC and other
financial institutions, in order to facilitate the implementation and opera-
tion of rural electrification schemes.
35.       RFC is managed by a Board of Directors appointed by the President
of India. A new experienced Managing Director was appointed in January 1979.
REC's present staff strength of 713, including about 250 at regional offices,
and planned staff reinforcement is considered adequate to promote the on-
going and the proposed rural electrification schemes. The overall quality of



- 12 -
management and staff is satisfactory. REC places special importance on
training of SEB staff who would be involved in rural electrification schemes.
REC's link with the SEBs is maintained by secondment of senior staff to
REC.
36.       All individual rural electrification schemes or subprojects are
identified, prepared, and implemented by the SEBs, who finance their rural
electrification expenditure primarily through loans from REC and the State
Governments, both of which utilize GOI funds, and domestic financial insti-
tutions. The revised draft Plan 1978/79-1982/83 envisages that about 53%
of total rural electrification is to be financed through REC lending and 27%
out of SEB funds drawn from State Government loans, leaving the rest to be
financed by ARDC and domestic financial institutions.
Beneficiaries of Rural Electrification
37.       Farmers who irrigate land from tubewells or open wells are the main
beneficiaries of rural electrification in India. However, there are also
substantial indirect benefits arising from rural electrification which per-
meate the entire rural economy. This has led State Governments to charge
relatively low agricultural tariffs: revenues often cover less than the
financial cost of supplying agricultural consumers, and significantly less
than marginal cost.  The impact of this low agricultural tariff policy on the
SEBs' finances is cushioned by cross-subsidization by industrial consumers
(industrial tariffs are set at levels significantly above the cost of supply)
and direct subsidization by State Governments.
Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
38.       The Bank Group has extended nine Loans and eleven Credits to India
for power projects, amounting to US$334.5 million, and US$996 million,
respectively. Nine of the twelve loans and credits for generating plant
and the Beas project (Credit 89-IN) and the first three transmission projects
(Loan 416-IN and Credits 242-IN and 377-IN) have been successfully completed.
The Korba, Trombay and Ramagundam thermal power projects (Credit 793-IN, Loan
1549-IN and Credit/Loan 874-IN/1648-IN) are still at the early implementation
stage. The Singrauli thermal power project (Credit 685-IN) is progressing
satisfactorily; commitments to January 1979 were US$109 million. The ongoing
power transmission project (Credit 604-IN) and the first rural electrification
project (Credit 572-IN) are proceeding satisfactorily as well, notwithstand-
ing initial delays in implementation due mainly to the gradual increase in the
number of participating States, the shortage of aluminum for conductors,
and the time required for preparation of procurement documents. Commitments
through March 1979 under Credit 604-IN and Credit 572-IN totalled about
US$94 million and about US$48 million, respectively. Through these projects
the Bank Group has been involved in continuing efforts to improve the finan-
cial performance of SEBs. More recently, special attention has been paid to
planning and coordination at the national level.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The project was appraised by a mission which visited India in
October/November 1978. A report entitled "India - Staff Appraisal Report -
Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project" (No. 2413(a)-IN, dated
April 26, 1979) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1979. GOI and REC were repre-
sented by a delegation headed by Mr. S. Ramesh of the Department of Power,
Ministry of Energy. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex
III.
40.       The proposed project consists of:  (i) REC subproject expenditures
incurred over the two-year period 1980/81 and 1981/82 on about 1,700 schemes
of five selected categories approved by REC between April 1, 1977 and
March 31, 1981; and (ii) installation of a single phase pilot scheme in the
State of Rajasthan and a power factor control pilot scheme in the State of
Karnataka. The five eligible categories of rural electrification schemes
are: (i) Ordinary Advanced (OA) -- electrification of groups of villages in
economically advanced areas; (ii) Ordinary Backward (OB) -- electrification
of groups of villages in less advanced areas; (iii) Special Project Agricul-
ture (SPA) -- connection of irrigation pumps in groups of villages, co-
financed by other institutions; (iv) Special Project Industry (SPI) -- con-
nection of small and medium industry in rural industrial estates; and (v)
System Improvement (SI) -- capacity increase and reinforcement of distribu-
tion systems.
41.       The proposed project would support REC's overall lending program by
providing finance for rural electrification schemes meeting agreed criteria.
The project focuses on production-oriented and system-improving investments,
keeping in mind the major objectives of GOI in the sector -- i.e., to achieve
early economic results in terms of increased agricultural production through
greater efficiency of existing infrastructure. Only scheme categories with an
expected economic rate of return above 12% would be eligible for IDA support.
Apart from placing emphasis on economically viable schemes, the project is
designed to introduce, as part of institutional development efforts, improve-
ments in REC's and SEBs' appraisal methods, to carry out application research
on the pilot schemes for single phase distribution and power factor control,
to strengthen SEBs' staff capability to promote rural electrification and to
encourage REC to conduct research on agricultural tariffs with a view to
bringing about improvements in their structure and level.
Project Cost and Financing
42.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is esti-
mated at about US$400 million equivalent, of which about US$164 million
represents the estimated foreign exchange costs. The project cost estimates
are based on 1978 prices and include a price contingency averaging 6% per
annum for local and foreign costs. A physical contingency of 40% is included
in the cost of the two pilot schemes. The proposed IDA financing of US$175



- 14 -
million would provide about 44% of the total project cost. The proceeds of
the proposed Credit would be on-lent by GOI to REC at an interest rate of
7.25% per annum with repayment over 20 years including five years of grace
under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association (Section
3.01 (b) of Development Credit Agreement). This compares to current rate
of 6.0% for GOI on-lending to the Agriculture Refinance and Development
Corporation (ARDC). REC will in turn on-lend to the SEBs at its current rates
of interest of 7.0-9.5% per annum, with maturities of 15-20 years including
grace periods ranging from 2 to 5 years. These rates compare to current rates
of 6-7% for SEB borrowing from State Governments and 10.5% from other domestic
financial institutions. The ARDC and domestic financial institutions would be
financing US$56 million each of the project cost at 9% per annum for 10-15
years, including a grace period of two years, which would be identical to REC
lending for the co-financed schemes. The exchange risk will be borne by the
Government. The wholesale price index in 1977/78 increased by 5.4% and the
rate of inflation expected for the near future is 5-6% per annum.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.       All items financed under the proposed Credit would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guide-
lines, except for contracts for miscellaneous equipment and materials, which
would consist of a large number of small purchases that would be too low in
value to warrant the administrative complications and cost of international
bidding procedures. Contracts for such miscellaneous equipment and materials
-- e.g., insulated wire, air break switches, and lightning arresters -- with
an aggregate value of US$25 million, would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding using a standard procurement format to be prepared by REC
for eligible SEBs and approved by the Association. As in the previous Rural
Electrification project (Credit 572-IN), each SEB would invite bids for its
two-year requirements of materials. All contracts for equipment and mate-
rials of US$100,000 equivalent or more would be subject to prior review by
the Association. The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against the
cost of conductors, transformers, insulators, meters, switchgear, capacitors,
specialized equipment for the pilot schemes, and miscellaneous equipment and
materials associated with the eligible rural electrification schemes. Indian
manufacturers competing under international competitive bidding would be
granted a preference margin of 15% or the current rate of import duty, which-
ever is less, and are expected to win most of the contract awards.
Project Implementation
44.       REC will implement the project as part of its ongoing rural
electrification lending program. An acceptable procurement timetable and
implementation schedule for the proposed project, including the two pilot
schemes, has been prepared by REC and submitted to IDA. These were discussed
in detail and agreed upon during negotiations. REC has undertaken to prepare
and furnish to IDA a training program for the staff who would be involved in
implementation of rural electrification schemes (Section 3.05 of Project
Agreement). For designing, installation and monitoring of the pilot schemes,
RFC would assign qualified personnel and provide them with adequate training



- 15 -
satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.03 of Project Agreement). All
goods financed under the proposed IDA Credit are expected to be installed by
mid-1983. The eligible categories of rural electrification schemes under the
proposed project have been defined and agreed (para 40). The Government would
take all necessary steps to ensure adequate supply of raw materials (Section
4.02 (b) of Development Credit Agreement). As with the previous Rural
Electrification project (Credit 572-IN), for an SEB to be eligible for IDA
financing the State Government would have to undertake to subsidize its SEB's
rural electrification losses either fully, or to the extent that enables the
SEB as a whole to achieve a return on assets of 9.5%, whichever is less
(Section 2.04 of Project Agreement). Under this criterion 14 SEBs 1/, includ-
ing the newly participating Uttar Pradesh SEB are at present eligible for
IDA finance under the proposed Credit.
45.       REC's appraisal methodology has been subject to continuing review.
REC will implement a program to gradually introduce improved appraisal tech-
niques, including discounted cash flow and economic rate of return analysis for
appraisal of schemes (Section 3.04 of Project Agreement). REC will also carry
out, under agreed terms of reference, an analysis of various tariff questions--
e.g., block tariff for agricultural supply, metering versus flat rate and other
aspects of tariff structures as well as their effects on feasibility of rural
electrification schemes. The results of these studies would be communicated to
IDA for review by December 1981.
REC Finances
46.       REC's financial position is satisfactory.  Its loan portfolio
reached about US$585 million by March 31, 1978, after a high annual growth
rate of some 32% during the previous five years, and produced an improvement
in net earnings of about 14% per annum. At the same time, the long-term loan
and equity portfolio accounted for more than 90% of REC's total assets, and
the debt/equity ratio was about 1.8:1. Total loan commitments were US$965
million, US$601 million of which had been disbursed.
47.       Until 1982/83, a total disbursement target of US$1,372 million has
been set, bringing the loan portfolio up to US$1,810 million equivalent after
repayment of US$147 million, an annual growth rate of 25%. Net earnings are
expected to increase by about 22% per annum during this period, and the return
on total capitalization is projected to rise to 6%. The debt/equity ratio,
is expected to reach 5:1 in 1982/83 which is acceptable. The debt service
coverage ratio is expected to remain above 1.3 through 1982/83, which is
satisfactory. REC has agreed that it would achieve an operating cost ratio
of under 90% in any financial year (Section 4.03 of Project Agreement).
1/   Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Mladhya Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Orissa, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and
Uttar Pradesh.



- 16 -
Project Justification
48.       The project would benefit about 2.5 million households in about
15,000 villages and about 500,000 pumps will be electrified. The main
economic benefits would be cost savings accruing to the economy by using
electricity. Electric power was found to yield a clear cost advantage when
compared with other non-electric power sources for rural applications,
including irrigation pumping, domestic and street lighting, and approximate
equality of costs for small village industry such as flour mills. The pro-
posed project offers a number of socio-economnic benefits which cannot be
readily quantified and therefore are not taken into account in the computa-
tion of the economic rate of return. These include increased agricultural
output in the villages and improvement in the quality of life in the rural
areas newly connected to the electrification grid, which might reduce urban
migration. As rural electrification progresses, the benefits also accrue to
smaller farmers and small-scale rural industries.  Landless laborers would
benefit through an increase in employment opportunities generated by irriga-
tion induced double cropping. While there will be substantial variations
depending upon the types of schemes and the conditions prevailing in different
States, the weighted average economic rate of return is about 40% with about
18% for advanced area electrification schemes, 55% for pump connection schemes,
41% for distribution system reinforcement schemes, and more than 100% for
rural industrial estate connection schemes.
49.       There are no special risks involved in project implementation
as REC is well experienced in financing new rural electrification schemes.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUIENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Asso-
ciation, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and REC, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
51.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and REC
has been made an additional condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Section
6.01 of Development Credit Agreement).
52.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 17 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
53.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By I.P.M. Cargill
May 9, 1979






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                   la
LAND AREA (THIOUSAND S        37. -.1CM                                                                NF M RXT HESTHAR
TIOTAL   ~J                3267.6                                         SAME          sA4        NEILCIE
AGRICULTURAL              1818.3                        MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME           INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b  ESTIMATE Lb   REGION /c    GROUP {d        GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPIIA(US$)                        60,0        90.0     150.0         167.4        182.9           432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       142.0        181.0     218.0(76)     65.7          88.9          251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MED-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        434.9        547.6     631.7 If
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   17.6         19.5      20.6          12.B         15.0           24.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000
(MILLIONS)              973.0
STATIONARY POPULATION
(MILLIONS)             1643.0
YEAR STATIONARY
POPULATION IS REACHED  2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       132.0        167.0     192.0          85.2         46.8           42.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRlCULTURAL LAND     247.0        308.0     347.0         322.6        254.1           95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YPS.                           41.0        41.6      42.0(77)      44.0         43.6            44.9
15-64 YRS.                          55.9         55.3      55.0(77)     52.9          53.3           52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1         3.1       3.0(77)       2.9          2.9             3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.9          2.3       2.0           2.2          2.4             2.7
URBAN                               2.5/g        3.4       3.5           4.2          4.0             8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        44.0        40.0      35.0(77)      45.1         44.3            42.2
CPUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        21.0        17.0      14.0(77)      17.3         19.7            12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.2         2.9       2.4(77)       3.2          2.9             3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       3768.0    4518.0
USER (PERCENT OF RARRIED WOMEN)       ..         12.0      11.2          13.7         14.6            14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PEODUCTION              100.0       102.0     101.0          95.6         96.4           104.3
PER CAPITA (1969-71 = 100)
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF CALORIES
(PERCENT OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0         92.0      89.0         91.1          92.3           99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               51.0        53.0      48.0          49.6         50.0            36.8
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           19.0        16.0      12.6          12.6         13.9           17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        28.0        22.0      10.0           ..           ..              7.5
HEALTH
LIPE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       41.7        48.0      51.0(77)      43.1         45.8            53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THOUSAND)                        ..        134.0     134.0         99.5         102.7           82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION
TOTAL                                ,,         17.0      33.0          30.0         26.4            31.1
URBAN                                ,,         60.0      83.0          66.3         63.5           68.5
RURAL                               ,,           6.0      20.0          17.2         14.1            18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATIOE)
TOTAL                                ..         18.0      20.0          15.7         16.1            37.5
URBAN                                ..         85.0      87.0          66.9         65.9            69.5
RURAL                               ..           1.0       2.0           2.5          3.4            25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            5840.0/h    4890.0    3135.0(77)   8830.8        13432.7          9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       11590.0/h    5220.0    6320.0(76)   8479.3        6983.3          2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            2590.0ti   2020.0    1231.0(77)   1624.5          1157.6           786.5
URBAN                               ..           ,.        ..            ..         183.3           278.4
RURAL                                ..          ,.        ..            ..        1348.8         1358.4
ADMIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..         ..           ..          19.5            19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.2         ,.        5.2           ..           5.2
URBAN                               5.2          ,.        4.8           ..           4.8
RURAL                                5.2         ..        5.3           ..           5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.6         2.8       ..
URBAN                                ..          ,.        ..            ..           1.8             2.3
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..            ..          25.9            28.3
URBAN                               ..           ..        .             .
RURAL                               ,.           ..        ..            ..           8,7            10.3



ANNFX I
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET          Page 2 of 5
REFERENCE GROU PS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
INDIA                                                    /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME           SAME       NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      CEOGRAPHIC       INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b   ESTIMATE /b    REGION /c        GROUP /d      GROUP le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMAkY:      TOTAL                   61.0         72.0      79.0(76)        59.1            62.9         75.8
FEMALE                  40.0        55.0      63.0(76)        38.4            45.9          67.9
MALE                    80.0        87.0       94.0(76)
SECONDARY:    TOTAL                   20.0         29.0      28.0(76)        19.9            14.4         17.7
FEMALE                  10.0        17.0      18.0(76)         9.9             8.8          12.9
MALE                    30.0        39.0       38.0(76)
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)      8.0          6.0/j      ..             1.5             6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               29.0         38.0      40.0            38.2            38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                             16.0         17.0       ..             23.5            19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)            28.0         33.0      36.0            35.6            36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             0.7          1.0       1.2(76)         2.2             3.1          7.2
FADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             5.0         21.0      24.0(76)        14.9            31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             ..           0.1       0.5             ..              2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPLLATION                      11.0         16.0      16.0(75)         6.4             6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA       4.0          6.3       3.8             ..              1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        175000.0    218000.0  261000.0/k
FEMALE (PRRCFNT)                      31.3         32.6      32.2            21.3            24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 73.0         73.8      72.5            62.8            60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    10.4          9.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    43.0         40.2      39.2            35.8            39.8         37.8
MALE                                     57.1         52.3      51.3            52.4            53.3         50.3
FEMALE                                   27.9         27.1      26.2            15.6            39.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.1          1.1       1.1             1.3             1.3           1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       26.7         25.0/1       .            18.6            20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      51.7         53.1/1      ..            42.8            45.1         48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        4.1          4.7/1      ..             7.3             5.7          5.9
LOWEST 4L  PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      13.6         13.1/1      .,            19.3            16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USC PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           .        83.0(77)        80.2            88.5        155.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..       73.0(77)        67.2            71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       80.0(75)         ..            100.8 e43.7
RURAL                                  ..           ..       50.0(77)        39.8            42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       47.0(77)        50.3            46.0         22.9
RURAL                                  ..           ..       52.0(77)        44.6            48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/t  .nless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; fox 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   South Asia; /d Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976); /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);
/f  1978 mid-year population is estimated at 640.4 million; /g 1953-60;  /h 1962;  /i  1958;  /i  1967;
/k 1978 mid-year labor force is estimated at 261 million; /1 1964-65.
March, 1979



ANNX I
Page 3 of 5
Notes:  Althougo the cata are draw  tree 1-to'c  3Genarlly lodgod th,. mat sath.ritatie and reliable, it  h-Ild al.. be noted that they n.y  -o  h.  .t.teOs-
ztieally canp.r-Le bec.s   f che tack of st.Anddinsd dsfleitlsn   and tattopta teed by differet countrieS  L.  olste   th  date.  7ha data are.  --nehsIees
useful to describe ordrs of magnitude. idicat  ta..d", and cha.reacltize c..rtain ma5or di!ffereebewent.          -    -clwsie..
Th. adictoed  -roo -a-ruo      - fo . hoc  Lndi.t-  -t poptlatln-nfght-d ne-etic msean, *cclt.tLg th  e-tr-  -1-e  of the indic-t- and  he e-s  popuLatd
..ccte  in each fr-c.  B.. to tack of data, gtrop  Ivre   f aLl indicators fen Capital Sarpise Oil Epttpsoer  end -f Endictetca of Access to aeter and secrete
diopoa.  foc_atg. boon  dari-cib-i   and ?-latv for .the. conry group.  -r  popsl.tian-oslghtmd S.-tri. seea olthOtt auLuale  of the  .l extr                   . caue  ed
end onet populatd coutr.  Si...to -evr- -  o  cocrsaanoe the indi-eor  d-aemdn an  -wil.ilLtt  of data and  s not  .niform  -ation nut hn enrtia-d
n relaion averg-s of oeindicator to another. Th.ac  -avere     ane meetly osefal as aeramatciotso of "spescttd" oi1can whe  comoarion th. ve1ats of one
LAND ARtA (thouan  eq. be)                                                              Po:scltia- tsr eari.ia  - Pepnltlon dlolded by ntbr of pr.cticing phy.i-
Total. -IIota  surt-c  are  canprli.ig lsod area ad Inland amstr.                       cLa_  q_lfle  trna  m edical ..hool atuC        ett  te.-I.
Agritodltrl  -_ Moe  _trec t os timet. of erc           rts used tep-arily            P.opoatinn bet euceiee psarcn  - population divided by .-achr o,f pratctilnt,
or     _. p Intent  for croPs, paerren, eakie  and kitchen garden. or to             eale and fema  le ed-.t se-e. p                -.t...erae  an d annitII   _ n e..
lIde fatlo-                                                                        Pos.alatia. Mr h-eaital bed -  Itos. urbn  and rra  - Pepuletion (tota.1
t,.a, and '-*Irml)iidmd by their  -MnpetI-n csrof hospital bed.
cN? PIt CApiT   Uot) - Isp4 per -apita an     Ite t  -urset -Mrtt priose,                   altavle s L.pbltc and prIvate geneal and Specialeed hosPitatl bed   -
_alcolatmd by tan  conve-ion  ethod es World Bank Anise (1975-77 heala);             hebilluitate   centers.  OePitsl. ar  eet.bliah-ent  pesanmtly staffed by
1960. 1970,..ad 197) data,                                                           at leant a. phyitoiee.  statbllulmant. p-iodlg prj.incplly  -ustdial
er  sae aont incl.dd.  SIMIre  hopita1s, hOnseer, isslado heal th and -dL-
-NERG CLMO'P~O  PN  CAPITA : hnn"al  -onption of ce            rila.          (0.1.        .1I Mcerstr  not parseaninly etaffld by a pheca(otbaud1.    -
annd 1igniPTe, psnnL.-, Ma~sa nsa an d bydro;;-, nucear.ad ge..Msahest               notant. srane  m idetfe, etc.) ahich Offer Ia-pati-nt eonccdatlca  and
.ototrtcity) in hile.n- of coa  aquivalst pr capita.                                   rEids   iWmitd tenge ef sedic.1 faeilities
Ad.iscionse r hoseft.1 had - Ton-l nuaba  nd ade.icao     te o  hiich.rtee
POPUlti(0  A"t VETAL STATISTICS                                                          tree hmpitale divided by tho eanba  of bode.
Tota toolatoe   idy.yer 'nilllosa(  - As. of loty Il 1960, 1970, mad
U7rba. cualo   cre-    fttl  -lec R.ie of orhe  to total popultnia;                  Arnscico  hnsed (netsn pa ra  naah   ll-rttaet   n   ua 
dlfrot  oinilco  of_           tacnras oar affect conperabiLity of dsc.            A heuefeld   I.at  of a grop  f ind Iwduioohr    liobac
aaog  ootran                                                                           and their usa meal..  A boerder or tdg.r my or          bne   heinluded Ls the
PnL.tten Pr.i.ctlon.                                                                 h0eaSheld for statistical parpeeca.
PoulceC Lee- T020t  C-orr.ot population profcti.L   -r  based on              Ametm  Mer of anteou   seeroa  - Ltonl. ocban. and rural   Avsrg, sober.
1973  .tota  poultionbyIage and nec and their mortality and fertilitty               If peraso   pa-ra   .In al,   he, and tota  on-pi.d cnM-tiocel dwsitin.
rae.Projetion praret-tr  ler mortality ratee conprice of 3 Imne                  respeetively. Duelisee       Inclde  -a-pmaresnat ettcucte  ad oaccup ied peru.
aeaiglife ecetnyat birth incre...Ing with .oh.try's per capita                 Access to elenirici ty laoment of dwellings) - total, urban  and ruralI 
in--. level  an'd f-nate li e epntaCy- etaillsleg at 77.5 yusro.                     Conmnlna  duelligsg  sith ele-tricity In ltinig q-armr  ee percntage ot
Th. p-r-_er  -o  ftetilisy  ace a l.n hay- 3 Level  aa.omig deulen                    total, orha, a-d rua  doetliogn ra.pscti-.ly.
in fertility encordin  to ietm  leve  ad pant f-ily planning per-
foonnc.   ac  --utry In thee assigned  ne of thee. 9 cebLeatia.                  EDl!CATIOU
of  ortLity e   frtLity trentds for ploJ.toion parvpan.                           hlue arlentrt
statiostry Poruletton - In a Ittionry Population, then is Ino growth                  Prier, schoo -  etat mats ad fesl    G rane tera1, ule .od tona.  -nroll
cl...c he limbh rate in equaL to the dsoth rate, ed aloe the age                     net of all ages at cit Prfssry Isvet eP.r--ona,e  of tepti primary
u.trutra rnasis  -ontoen.  Tht. a i  ahievd only utter fertility -mte               ateo-h age pepulatla.; MWAtnlly lniodUae children aged h-li years hot
d   -ln   to  he re.plc-n-t le-1 of -ift set  eproduction raet, wha each         adjustd far different lengthe of primary education; for cootrtrl   with
gnnra_o ofIom_  replacoe itself  -notly.  The Stationary PoPulation                  aniwer-a  ed-ectio  anrllast may .oc-d ItO percent einc  eon  popila are
oli a.ce. asetiated on the haoJ. of the proJected chaactri.tice of the               helm  wr  b-  the officiaL enbhl ag..
cop1ulation I  che year 200t, and the rat  of decline o.f f-rtility rate            S..ca"das, h,o  - total mIs. end faale  - Compted as abov; .-o,day edtta
to _cpld aa   leowi.                                                                 cia regain  at te_st fear ysta of approved primary inetroctLo; previde
Yea  Staton=       Porolotio  Ua Reachd - Trhs year  hbsa Statienry Pnpela-            - - ga    -- raiana, or  thacht trainIng inatrottion  far pupil.  usually of
clot 010. be" bee  reched.                                                           12 te 17 Years If ege; trr=poedence ceuss  rco generall  -elded.
fpurlatlon dens.ity                                                                   VIoCstimal asrotWset (es-oet of  -ecodpry) - 'fncstia.I i.titutione include
Pot n.  -n  - Mfid-.r-a  Ppolplolat   pr aqare kllster (100 h-tr- re -                taMchoal, industrial, o- other progress which oprate ind.paxdently or us
of  tona  area.                                                                      dmprtet  of efoedary itetitution.
Pr ns  o.9eiculteral laed - Computed a. ab-. forarstr              lalend         PIPl  -tmahm r-i   rmr.ad aecondart - Total Itodant  sorled En
only                                                                                  peimae  adCeon_t  lee   dinde  by -%W-r of =ahera is th. cre
peoa Iona    sttcoo acet) - Ehtldrah (0-14 years), .vking-ag.                     epoeding I-vI..
(15-64 y--r), atd retired (65 years  nd ovr) ne per-etesM  of eLd                  AdaIt Lit=ac  rate far-at   - Lit-rat. edea  (able to red and write) 
year population,                                                                        P.entatg. of muil adult pnpulaion aged 15 yat.r  andovr
Ponelation ereth rate (P.-Int) -ttal, and rban - Compound  ..-Is
g;rextb cated of total aod -rbanId-ea  fo.ata    o  1950-60,
1961-71, ad1970-7.                                                                 U:=sme tare  .Per thousand uoculetinp) - Pessenger care cepris meter cars
Crode birth rats (rth .b..e.d) ~- cnl Live birche per tbonand of                        o.iglese then night M"-.ne  netludma                     h-lnee   er.aa and milItary
ai-yearpolain   19              a 17 nd t91? data,                                  vehicLes.
Cruds dat rt  fle thousad)  ~-oul d ...h. pnr thousad of aid-                        Radio = :ivere (fperthouand peoulatonh)   011l typt  of rece.iver  for radio
y    -I.opleto; 1960. 1970 and 1977 data                                        hrsta    to gmro  public par thoonnd of papuLstion; ..eclud.s omiL.cened
Trees  11rZprdotlIe rote _A- Aoreg  naber of d.aghtae a  a.-  ciil hear                 receiver  in toontrian and in years oha regitration of radIo sets ue.in
En her -on=.   nprnd.ccni- P.rtedifshbe epmrieuc  preett age-                        eftft; dst. fo  leantet yeere nay net be co-pereble eln  moss coonrim
epacific fsrtilty raens; usmlly five-year oargn   -4dig in 1960,                    ahattahd 1Lc-aIn.B
1970, a_d 1971.                                                                    10 recei-er far.th-saamd pnnltban) - TV rs-lvrer  for br-d .. t to ga.rL
F-ilv ntcIne-so         HEor   annal(rhotend.)- toat_  -lb"a of                           bin per fh_ eand Popelatia; euslodee onlloesd TV --nlver  InLe.
acoptre o  birth-cotrol dMvos  under aesplce  o  nationl  meily                       trim. amd in pa..e  be. rsgetration of 10 eaa us  in  Watnt.
piatg prog,ram.                                                                    Om ee   irculation  Ibe               gopea   enlti   h-Shn  the  org  nrea
-oil otnI-" tor  2(cercn et erred eat,) - Percetage  f                                 i f     diygnrlitntoeppr,dflesd ans                          eioia  pobli'
marrod w-S.o oldhein   g  (15-44 years) who  -s  birth-ootro1                       cation deoted primarily ta recordIng  earal ness.  It Iacnid.r.d to
dev ices to alt marrIed woa  in oa sea grap.                                         ha "daily" if it appears ur least tour tfo_  a wek.
CineIa eame  a1ttendance at oril  -c year - Bao..d on th. noMbe  of tIcket
000M it ElrrPTIdOf                                                                       tld  arigthe  Ier        nlede  eduacisa. to drm isonom-s sOd ubile
Insoo  fond' prdcion eon  "Pcill (l9h9 7le00) - Indam t.aeha  of pet                unIts.
cpta   -uI production of oILL food ca.ditia..
yer ,Lit  Iurnr .,f cao ic.-(tr t of re-uitese.t.1 - Ceepotd frane               EPOMr
-crgy equivalent of cnn Toed op c  avil.hle in oocetry per capita                  Intel labarforte(thesade) -  onmtly tiv- perema, ilelding atad
per day.  Acetllbl. oupplien conp,ise dnes to production, import  Lees               forcs  adoepldbt eecladiag h-etoeeie,  tndeets, arc.  Deii-
_cpornt, and thags. to et-k.  Net nppliee  -ucl4d  animal fend,  Mnde,                tins In varion   -ote        r  net tneprarbi..
fu_en tito  cued In food pronusing, andI- Lea .    distribution.  Rs-             reeamle (aroMti  P- e        labor faom  as percentage of total labor foc.-
qoira.nt'-ats  -simatd by FAo baead on physiological  sd. P- rno-                  hAri.ultop feceti           b"tho  farce in faim.2  f-atry. bunting end fishing
mel ac~tvty aod health t ideldeing anirunetel  tprtr,body                             .e percentage of tetl I abrt force.
,eights, age .nd t-  dtietob-nae of  .peplatiah, And alsiIng 10 pr-                Indutry (osr.-nt) - Labor factnaneg   atuto,  eoatrn  and
c Icowetu   housattld tea.                                                           elorcty atrad ga.prcetage of tot-l Labor fore
Tsr apia suoloof odaI (aen  vet day)- Prtei  contentfif per                   Patcttinrtmeecn -tetl. male. taed fausle - rTonal, male, end
capns  ct oppy  f lud  er  ay   Ne suplyof  en  I.defeedosfa.m  lborfare  e prtetaga  f thei  repetiv- popeletion; 190, 1970
o   Re.OqnIl-et. for all -outris, .atablished by USDA preside for                and 1975 data.  ThusM..a. FLO'S. edlond participation ratee  felmntimg ag5u
o tnmanoloen    f60gira. of to-a  protein per day asd 20 Sra.                   se   trntere of the poplation, and Lag9 time  -rd.
cc  nial ud .I::a  rteI.  ot  whIch 10 Srous should he animal proteI.            to-1ml deedeo  ratio - Retto of pmpcet io  under 15 and h5 so  -vm  to
.he.p  -tad.rde arIlne  thee thoca of 75 groen  of total prtaie adtelbsrfm   itn age goo .. o f 15-64 year.
27 arom   of sona   roee  aasaerg  for the eorld, propound by
Icl it  h,s Third WorLd roo  Stnve.                                              Itf~0iiEtI
?nr capita orecti ..o... o fran apiLea a- eul..        rte    .pply of food          P,ronc of erivea iLane  (,her  io ceh end kindI) I ...lied ho riches  5
dortead fro  anImaL. and pulses In  ras pe  day.                                      perent   rihsat  D0 pecn.P--e  00 pr-ent. and poores  40 veroan
Child bt    -4) -ortair rena.t (Pan t=oesd) - Anexua  deaths per th.on-                  f h-aushlda.
ond      g. group 1-h4eae  to children  in thie age group.
HEALTH                                                                                  'Et"tt4td eelt toort ica  le-1 fUll per -eita) - urban and total
Litecoetat,,, en birtl vess)   IAcrag  tanr of years of life re-eIn-                    Abetleto peverty tcces  lavel in that Int-   leve  ha.L- u.htrb e h     l
lge   irth; 1960, 19), and 1977dAta                                              nurItinalyaaot   itpceetnllnnfo   eornn                                   o
.nlo"t noraty rote fo-r th .... d) - A-eol deathe of infants  nder                     atfordbta
one year~t 4 ag  tr Thousad Ioe births                                             Estiate tclti- R bnttr mane leve 1)01nrh apt)  ra   and r-rl
hAcCes tun  loater -  pec-r ofOoo,tc f- t-ta. areb.. od rural -                        RIeltive Pworr  Lonn leve_l L  on-hrd of  ivra.pa   an  personL
Noner  f popl  Ioce, ocan  ad -ra, stch reasonable  -cc.e. to                I-ca  oftecItry
occut ncotdctnsc  00 r-ot fra  prtete It               eh   t.eram   bc,           rrl-Preto  population.urhan an  r                 "')ct are2 ,absoc.te poor.         I
ao  nn tot  ela  at. percnae  ofr  pberret ec-d c b poptlP.s.tou;.
tAnrban  re  o  uit outin or sondpoet located no-Ir  ta
200  fnt rsra   a  coe  a   ho-oido,rd as ooig olehin tnonat
t    t,h. c h., c.'     .      h.rou h1 ..e . rs nhlod aces   ool  ,Idpl
dtpuvrleP.-purrf the day          " ecino the foly'ntctt-dC                                                          Ioenoed lo-lot Dat  E,totut
cceo cc  -coz  djerp-ol ce--t of D. ntlatlonl              1 -    ttta,ura, an                                            (onno    ey.is  -ol Projection  Depertott
peot 0   trctocn-cf chicestc    ooa b_t..ltoteta 'd terrcu1a
_ta  brde .cc       ICtl Itt   nod dil....al, aith cc  itih... tr-o veent,
Ir7c-                                                               t



ANNEX I
goCwa4IC DV7SOMNT DA                        Page  4  of  5
!/
GNP   R CAPITA IN 1977: Ut# 150
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977/78                                                              JUDIUNAUL    F o R OMi   (% contgat pricesA
US BLn.      *1                                                1960/61-1964/65      1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1976/77
GNP at market Prices             101.47      100.0                                                   3.9                  3.8                 3.2
Gross Domestic Investm&nt         21.65       21.3
Gross National Saving             22.77       22.4
Current Account Balance  d/       1.4         1.0
Resource Balance   d/            - 0.31      - 0.3
OVFUI. LABOR FORCE AND PRoDWCTV1TY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln.         7                 Nil.       %                        % of National Average
Agriculture                        24.5           46.6               130.0     72.1             188              64
Industry                           11.8           22.3                20.2     11.2             582             199
Services                           16.3           31.1                30.2     16.7             542             186
Total/average                      52.6          100.0               180.4    100.0             292              100
COVERNET FINANCE                                                 /
General Goverrmet                                             Central Governmnt
Rs. Bln      _           of? Cts BIna                                               of GDP
1977/78       1977/78    1974/75-1977/78                          7         1S77/78      1974/75-1977/7
Current Receipts                  164.42         18.9           18.2                             95.62          11.0           10.5
Current Ixpendltures              157.29         18.1           16.5                             95.27          10.9            9=9
Current Surplus/Deficit             7.13          0.8            1.6                              0.35          n.&.            0.6
Capital Expenditures  f/           62.58          7.2            7.0                             43.31          5.0             5.0
xxternal Assistance (net)  B/       9.82          1.1            1.6                              9.82           1.1            1.6
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICKS             1970/71    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976177    1977/78       Septmber 1977       Seteoter 1978
(Rs Billion outstaading at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                 121.4       198.4      220.3      254.7       308.9      365.1           334.8            395.8
Bank  Credit to Govertmnt (net)        52.6       87.3        95.3      101.1       110.2      129.7           119.3            139.5
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector        64.6      107.0       126.7      153.9       185.1      210.0           195.3            223.5
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                               Januerv 1978      JanuarY 1979
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP      30.1       33.5        31.5       34.5        38.8        41.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                    100.0       139.7      174.9       173.0      176.6        185.8        ll4.5              184.6
Annal percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                   7.7        20.2       25.2      - 1.1         2.1         5.2           3.2               0.1
Bank Credit to Government (net)        10.8       12.3         9.2        6.1         9.0        17.7          13.4              16.9
Bank Credit to Comercial Sector        19.4       22.6        18.4       21.5        20.3        13.5          16.6               14.4
a! The per capita GNP estimate is at srket prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other convsersions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
b/ Quick Istiates.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of lieted period.
d/ World Bank estimates; not necessarily consistent with official National Account Statistics.
a/  Transfers between Centre end States have been netted out.
f/ A*1 loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
A/ Rxternal grants and loans, less principal repayments, as recorded in the Central Budget.



ANNEX I
Page 5 oif 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS             1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                   MERCHANDISE EXtORTS (AVERAGE 1975/76 - 1977/78)
(US$ million)                                                     EN $ Mln.          7.
Exports of Goods                  4,672      5,753        6,276        6,300               Engineering Goods               610         11
Imports of Goods                 -6,449    -5,928        -7,237       -8,400               Tea                             417          7
Trade Balance                    -1,777       - 175        - 961      -1,601               Gesa                            377          7
NFS (net)                            310        360          650         70u               Clothing                        331          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance          i/     -1,467         185        - 311      -9                            Froducts               278          5
i/                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jute Manufactures  267          5
Interest Payments (net)           - 216      - 180          - 50          -                iron Ore                        265          5
Other Factor Payments (net)           -          -            -           -                Cotton Textiles                 248          4
Net Transfers  j/                   470         730       1,400       1,300                Sugar                           244          4
Others                       2,530         45
Balance on Current Account       -1,213        735        1.039          400
Total                        5.567        loo
Official Aid
Disbursements                  2,341      1,953        1,628       1,805                EXTERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1978 h
Amortization                   - 531      - 560        - 645        - 725                                                     us$ illion
Transactions with IMF                242     - 337        - 330        - 158               Outstanding and Disbursed                 14.8
All Other Items                     - 45      - 216          384         205               Undisbursed                                4.3
Outstanding, including
increase in Reserves (-)          - 794    -1,575        -2,076       -1,527                     Undisbursed                         19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)         2,172      3,747        5,823        7,350                                                 h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  ki       1,365      3,276        5,668        7,35(0              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FVL 1977/78            15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                 18RD/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31, 1978
Imports                           1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                      us$ million
of which: Petroleum             1,417      1,581        1,817       1,980                                                   IBRD          IDA
Exports                              43          37           33       n.a.                Outstanding and Disbursed           613         3,864
of vhich; Petroleum                22         21           18        n.a.                Undiahursed                         615         1,992
Outstanding, including                  m/
Undisbursed              1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            uS$1.00 - R. 7.5
Es 1.00 = US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978               uS$1.00 = Rs 8.188
US$1.00 - Rs 0.122
h/ Estimated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major paymerts are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/ Figures given include workers' remittancea but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/ Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



4..    o-  04r-.o-..0o,-..- 000-004000444.0104004 0400000-00.00400l04O04O040000-.0OOOO401O04.0OOOOOOOOO04OOQO0000
004000.00404040004.00-0404 00-0404.401 00004000400040004.0004000004.0040-040, <04.000040000040010010 000000
040l''*'01O 0040404040400.040.04004 01100004.0001040010104404040110-040040040000 00004040.0404000-010-.C040.,n0 0.000 001
01-.-,                         0404000.0,.   04004040404.0  0404040400404040404  0.-j.-.004  000404000  040010400004011001.    0400004
001                                                      0    04          -,         0             04      0404          O''          04.-,
04                 -  10
004                 004
040,                                                                                                                                           0
040     .01  0004000   00000   0000-040    000000000                     004000  00000   0004  000    0000040   00000000   0000-0                      .0 41      .0
040                                                            .                                                                                        5          0-
10-0   0040.-.04.fl 04  04040-040 I 0-.04.004 I 440o004Oo0,  I I I 100004041040004.0' 004010-0.0, 1.00000010.004000404010.00-0  0                    0       .0
0-  I 004040404  0-010010-0404 I  00404004004  041,110040404   I 04.-0000  104040410.0   I 0400400404104004004040004100400 0           04
04                                              -04                04         04            04      0404         04040404        040-   04
0     04                                                                                                                                  0    .0
04
.0                        o           004                00000             0         04     o      Co            .0              o    00- 04  o  0
:11    100-I                 04004001:1   101111101  I 5i I oWi   iii   Si II   11110 Ii5                            '01
.01                                                                                     04                                              0410104    040
-0                  .                                                                                                                                    04  04     -
44  0                                                                                           .-0,                 101               010
0  0                                                           0                                00.                  0                  10   0,
10    .0                                                       C                                0104               1-0                  0,    0,
04    0                                                        0,.                              0401     0  0,     CO                   3  010,  04
0  04                                    04                    0                     .-,04      00       0    0    0                    0,    000  0
0                                          00        040,   040, --      Co                  0  0,0440
00  0                                     0                    0,          0         010        010    001  01     0                       .41-0,01
                             01      0,                               0          0101             0,0,0        001                 440104040
-013100,
101   0-                 01      0    0,.   44               000    4.     0         00         010    0,.-'    04  0.'  0,  44        01.,    100,040.1
04  0 0                   .-    0,   0044.,                  0      04   04040       04.0        -  01004  01    0101  3    04        .,  0401001
04 04                 4,   .01   0,010                   .'04,  0,    00         00,  04   040  00>  041   0,0,0040    0  01    C.    0,0  0404
04    4.,                          00.0  01.  0-0404       4.000    001  -00,0         014.040,00.  0,4 0,    01. .10100    0,01
0,. 0  -                  1-    10    ,                      0100401  01   4.0-    040,0,0,01    1-04  0>0004    C  00      04 ,, 1-. 01   0  04   10
04  .4 .,                0      0,   0040  0                -0100,00  0.->0    041-00301    010  00,  010    04001004    0001040   0,0-00            0
0     04                 04           040            4.,    0404o0    -.00,014   00      00.   01.4  000,00,    0101040,100  14  0,010    01  004  0,04.
00  0           0,4             04  0,0  04      0    00    1-040-0040,  0,0-       040404040   ..o  .4  1-001   .o.010004-01  .00,   0, 0,0,0,01
0  0 44        1               10 044.000  0  04  -.10   040040040.004  1-  0101010  04   01-0404-0010    0-04-04 0,.01000,C  0,00401    ...4
00          0         C     1-  040110., 101 04..  00,    040400040001-    0,0,0,1-040,0010400o0.10.00040    010040,03000100   001010.0041  0100           0404
0  04 04       00        4.-     0  0401-01  .0  0, 04004  0,0  000004004    00001000,41-00040404010400,-'0  040441000.0104   0  100401040401  0010
10      04        01    04  000...04.-.010,  .00,0400410-o70001  ..    .o040404100,o1-  01  OIo0,o-01o.oC01...b0..00400  040  0400401011-  0,0...       04104
00  0                     0      .000040040,011-00404.0  01101000,0  001.0004  001-104040401-04004404.000.0400 0400,044  0    10.01000,  100,041-0  10
0,04    01  10041-  1000,04,..010,0  000.01.o440o01001  010  0041  410,000010040040,10   040404010,04040040101000,00004  .01.010      04
00      000,44010   0410100010,0,0400,  010,01040,0,00  0040,0044404444  0,  001   014 010,0 00010104101-11004..0100.0 01 -100,0,0  F- 0404
04  04                 100      -0040,0401-  10q0.-000o0,. 100410040,  010  01  0,0004004100004000044 10<0l04Q4.00444,000,1-0104010440,01040400      0
0  04                   1.-C     1-000.004000004.04 001004001040010  00.01-04  44o,-.-.10C 0100401011-  1-040-.-. 01  1-441-0040,0011-00<           0,00,
0  0                 0000   0  0004000,0,0,0404           04-044,0411000,04    00004-,l1-040404..  >04..004   0101-0,01001010404001  0040410  0,  10100,
00 00oO 000,04000, 4410041004 040,o0 0404 010404004 04 0<00040 004 00441000,04004000.014410 04040100 040 0101
0<04.01-04<040,04044  44  00404I..0,0404040,04   0  0410        004040,    1-00044  04   00010410040-0,10100,  10   0101
04  04                     1004  0,00,0,.  040110040-040044040100004011-00000,1001100101000010   0,10000001  10  0  I 1001000010110440110  01 '50
00 00                   0040401  1-011001-0444441001-010,00001  44040-040,01-  00100400401-1-  0,00,0100400010004  011010011-00040101031000   0,1020
0  0                               00 00044.440100400040400414401.-0,0000010000,1-00000100,0,0100101-0,0,0.004410  001010,0,100,    040400144             10    01 10 01
04  00                                                                                                                                                     0,
00001010.-1000000 01010100000400001000001010100001010010000 000100101010-.0101010   10101000101001010100110100110010  44 10  44 44 04
0400404-0000-004-0040041-10.0004.0004-,,..-0-0-.-.0400-0 0o-01-0-0-oo.o-o-o-o-0---o0-0-00   o.ooo..,0...000000oo0.0..               0
1-      0001010104040100101010100001004040000101010101001010010100010010010101010040010401040010101001,40010101010101010101010101010104   00 01                0
1-    000000001000001000000400000000000000004000000000000001000000104010000000100010000000  0 .1                                                              0,
0       0404....040404040404040404040404.0404040040404,-0404040404040404040404040404..0404040404040404040404040.0040404040404040400404004040404040404,0040,   .01 01  44 0,44  01
010                                                                                                                                           001
0,                                                                                                                                   03  0               0
.0                                                                                                                                  04  04    C
0104040404040404040404004010400400011040404040400-0400 .0.00.0.0.01.0-040-10404040404 040-0-040-0-0.0000000000000000001001000  100-. 10 010. 10 10  0, 41
0.0.0-0-04040. 04040-0-040404040404040.0.0-040.04040-0-0-04040404040.04 040.040.0.04040-0.040.0-040-040-0-0-0-0-0-0-04 0-0-0-0.0.0-0-040-0.00.0.0-0-0-00  04 0  04
20, 0 0
01                                                                                                                                                       0,
5)  -.-                                                     04                :0                                                                            0.
04  01..                                                    0                 0                                                                             0.   0
0    00                                                                                                                  01      01010110                       0
00  1001  070004400040040000044- 04040404.0004040404000004040400000404040400oo0404040400000000404040404040000404004004000404                                 04 04
01-                                                                                                                             040 0 1-
010,      0.00404.00040040.00404040400404.000-040404040400.0 004004040400.040.040004040.004.00400404.00404.0004.0004 00404040400040404004.0
01.  004  44000404'0004-0040-0 004040404 0. 040040400000404440-0404000000.004040404040404040.04 00,10000000404004040000400.0040
000040404040404040040000400.04040404 0-00404040404040.0.0.040404040404.0.0.0000444040-040-0-     04040404040404040.0.0.0040000.00.00.000                     01 04



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                         Loan     Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5       -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4       -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7        0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.             11.8        1.4       13.2
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0       0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0       0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                            6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                4.0        1.4       5.2
TOTAL                               53.6       10.4       64.0
Less:  Sold                                  5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                              15.9         -        15.9
Cancelled                            6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                            25.6        8.0       33.6
Undisbursed                          4.5        0.6        5.1



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$496.4 million in FY78 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,806 million
as of March 31, 1979, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 (US$22.2 million) are also ahead of schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit investment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend tne closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Credit 715 is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
currently estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%.
Training programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for the Second Foodgrain Storage Project (Credit 747). The Second Project
is proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984
Credit 456 includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote mush-
room production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 to 10 packing and grading
sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and the equipment has been ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed. The Jammu Kashmir Horticulture
Project was declared effective on January 16, 1979.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Loan 1313 supports the expansion of the Indian telecommunications
system through the provision of funds for the installation of 220,000 direct
exchange lines and expansion of the trunk network. A second loan (Loan 1592)
continues support of the development of India's telecommunication system
through FY 1981 and as well contributes to the improvement of the Indian
telecommunication industry. Both projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$65 million had
been awarded by December 1978.  This Credit included a supplementary Credit
of US$30 million to meet increased costs of equipment scheduled under the
Third Power Transmission Project; almost all of this amount has also been
committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 598 is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
November 1978, the date of the last review, appraisals had been completed for
50, and loans approved for 49 markets. Construction had been completed for
19 and was in progress for 31 markets. Farmers and traders served by the 11
market yards now in operation report more efficient marketing activities and
improved farmers' terms of trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is
improving. As of October 1978, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion was underway for 36 of the 39 project markets. Plans and land acquisi-
tion are nearing completion at the remaining sites. Both projects are
expected to be completed by their closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended to June 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed. In order to continue the Bank Group's involve-
ment in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$9.6 million by the end of
March. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; (expected) Effective
Date: June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns
caused by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), re-
design of major project components and the addition of a supplementary study
on sewage disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing relatively well. All of
the major contracts will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of
additional water (455 mld) in the second quarter of 1979; completion of water
treatment works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically fore-
cast. Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has
allowed engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so
that completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for mid-1980,
two years later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the
project entity is satisfactorily. Credit 848 was declared effective on
schedule and preliminary work in connection with its implementation is pro-
gressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by December 1979. Credit
756 is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's admin-
istrative authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to reha-
bilitate and extend its urban service system.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
C1osing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 700 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and are
functioning satisfactorily. Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment
jointly with Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to
a recovery of considerable time lost earlier in the Karnataka project. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 252 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. The response of small farmers to the project is excellent.
GOMP has plans to cover all districts in the State. Technical services in-
vestments are being made. Contracts have been placed for livestock imports.
The Rajasthan project is also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed
and excellent progress has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
800 dairy cooperatives at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and
procurement is making adequate progress. Based upon the good results expe-
rienced, GOR is planning to expand the form of dairy development to all other
districts of the State.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements reached 60% of total credit amount as of
March 31, 1979.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)          Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129.0 million credit of March 30,
1979. Effective Date: July 3, 1979 (expected); Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date:  September 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 7,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of February 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
May 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects, totalling US$123 million, finance the reorgani-
zation and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of
adaptive agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early
and sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The projects' components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project is intended to strengthen the institutional framework
responsible for promoting and financing development of cooperatives, partic-
ularly village level multipurpose cooperative societies.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 mil-
lion credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
Jianuary 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273 supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now gaining momentum after GOI filled the two top posts
of the National Seeds Corporation which were vacant for several months. A
project supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit
816) is now effective.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for all 700 bus chassis and nearly all 700 bus bodies
to be procured under the project have been awarded and some 500 buses have
been delivered. Civil works contracts have been awarded for 8 bus facilities,
and 24 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are expected in implementing some
BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST workshop schemes although steps
are being taken to minimize such delays. Consultants in organization, admin-
istration, financial management systems, accounting and development planning
are at work assisting the Borrower, the Bombay Metropolitan Regional Develop-
ment Authority. Other beneficiaries of the loan, the Bombay Municipal
Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking, have
selected consultants in traffic engineering and operations and management
assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: September 19, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
These projects finance the construction of fishing harbors, seafood
processing plants and other facilities required to assist the development of
fisheries in the States of Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. The projects also
provide funds through ARDC to assist fisherman to purchase 9-15 meter vessels
and 9 meter canoes. Preliminary work in connection with implementation of
these projects is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbo-generators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements reached 46% of the loan amount on March 31, 1979.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project.
About one and a half years. This Credit is the
second Bank Group operation with the Rural
Electrification Corporation.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project.
Rural Electrification Corporation.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and the date
of the first mission to consider the project.
The project was first presented to the Bank in
May 1977; preappraisal mission visited India in
January 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission.
October 20, 1978.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations.
April 20, 1979.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
August 1979.
Section II:          Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:         Special Conditions
(a) GOI to on-lend the proceeds of the Credit to REC
at an interest rate of 7.25% per annum with re-
payment over 20 years including five years of
grace under a subsidiary loan agreement satis-
factory to IDA (para 42).
(b) REC to prepare a program for the training of staff
who would be involved in implementation of the
schemes (para 44).
(c) REC to ensure that the criterion for IDA financing
is an undertaking by the State Government to subsi-
dize its SEB's rural electrificition losses either
fully, or to the extent that erables the SEB as a
whole to achieve a return on dssets of 9.5%, which-
ever is less (para 44).
(d) REC to implement an agreed program for the intro-
duction of improved appraisal techniques, including
discounted cash flow and economic rate of return
analysis (para 45).
(e) GOI to ensure that REC's internally generated funds
in any financial year do not become less than 1.2
times its debt service requirements and that REC's
administrative expenses and interest payments in
any financial year shall not exceed 90% of the
aggregate interest charges received by REC (para 47).



.J X       J S S R         )       )                                           U S S. R.                                                      O
uS S 9? g--'                                 0                                               INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC                                                                                             CORPORATION PROJECT
OF                 3                            App- - o. L        --                 REC SCHEMES AND DEGREE OF ELECTRIFICATION
AFGHANISTAN    (                              -         Ao m
, 9              /Xw///X                         r                                                         Numbers of REG SchemeC per misenot, Macrc 1878
Ii -.                                                                                       BOG//REC Officee
Propotdf
E       *2x i/,t/////                                                             A       Hoodq-ottes
*      Eishie,g Offi-e,
H'                                 -                                       5 49 
\     i*,s   *2,                       ' v/ ,4                                       50-89%
P;  @;   *              *      .msv            01                              -~      8,, -180 l%
'360  fz,, fyttR                                                                  ts     Start CGpieals                                      3
-_bo                           >     & i9   t  * e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 02                                           R    N.ti nsl Ca5itlc
PA    K I S T A  N                 /                    -         '         .                                                       S...422- d Ititereool 8u or
,,  2,*4                    *2      ~   *7                     -v  Inertdnn                                               Btundar;t5  _
2 2   )  -ai>i t2                                     cV?-                                                      rt_
tv               SIOKIM '' /       2 1*@   ,\   &p4 '  ~ 'BHUTAN  0, EN
2gU  TTA'R   PRADESH                                     SIKKIMnok                      vo
(>                  *W     ~~~~~~~~~20   *1  2<     *2  * 2  pLcnt            4n-4                       <-4         pa
} ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~2 -_  *4 5, *<                    *X                                                                         "'--- M,                     N AMLAND
RAJATH-AN'                                              o                                                                     o
2 r*                                       M                          M iPUR
#2/                                                                                BA       A      -             foeoholNAA
10                -#to-,i,,'W-',,; - .  -i, fF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aoeo    0
*5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*
GUJARAT    ~ ~ * ~    4MADIYA RADESL3x*~GoeZ
JAR<:             ,,:: ve                                                                                                 ISLAND
houndtres shtwd dctd nd 'ht           LAN KA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLND
74F lwoadr 01 am dwsetd                                                                                                                                              :t:l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1  01
W   o8ooof C e rse o c,sp b oe ,o                                                                                                                                                             t  
SRIt 30  '                                                          fORIS
dot doononacoos  no's ano oro                                     LANKA~04                                                                                    A DAMA
t n o o o a n e a e o o e o e n o m , a , o 0 0                                                           9    0 8   2 9 0   3 9 8   4 9ND I C H E R-
nO ooe -ned0 on tOo 000 of etc                                                    __________________________                                     do~~~~~~~~~~~AN
0000  OaeO  cod fa  ott/dots,.  Seer                                                          OILO#OETERS                                         or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIOBA
,odeeeeoO Oot do otoer.,toe.eK oSLAND
&0 ..da~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                      11~~~~~~0  290   390   4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~90                 doO



