Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY   FILE  COPY
Report No. 2413b-IN
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 26, 1979
Regional Projects Department
South Asia Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =   Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1           =   Paise 100
US$1           =   Rs 8.6 1/
Rs 1           =  US$0.1163 1/
Rs 1 million   =   US$116,279.07 _/
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC-    -    Agriculture Refinance and Development Corporation
CEA       -    Central Electricity Authority
GOT1      -    Government of India
HT        -    High Tension
HP        -    Horsepower
ICICI     -    Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI      -    Industrial Development Bank of India
LT        -    Low Tension
MG        -    Mini-growth Scheme
MH        -    Mini-health Scheme
MNP       -    Minimum Needs Program
NHPC      -    National Hydro Power Corporation
NTPC      -    National Thermal Power Corporation
OA        -    Ordinary Advanced Area Scheme
OB        -    Ordinary Backward Area Scheme
RBI       -    Reserve Bank of India
RE        -    Rural Electrification
REB       -    Regional Electricity Board
REC       -    Rural Electrification Corporation Ltd.
SEB       -    State Electricity Board
SI        -    System Improvement Scheme
SPI       -    Special Project Industry
SPA       -    Special Project Agriculture
SU        -    Specially Underdeveloped Area Scheme
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
V         -    Volt
kV        -    kilovolt = 1,000 volts
kVA       -    kilovolt-ampere = 1,000 volt-amperes
MVA       -    megavolt-ampere = 1,000 kilovolt-amperes
kW        -    kilowatt   =  1,000 watts
MW        -    megawatt   =  1,000 kilowatts
kWh       -    kilowatt-hour  =  1,000 watt-hours
Gwh       -    gigawatt-hour  =  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1/   Since September 25, 1975, the Rupee has been officially valued relative
to a basket of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US$/
Rs exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at the long-term estimated rate of US$1 to Rs 8.6.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT II
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   POWER SECTOR            ............................................    1
Institutions .............. ........ ............ *.................    1
Supply and Demand . .............. ..  ................ .    2
Previous Bank Group Involvement ....................    2
II.   RURAL SUBSECTOR .......         ..................................    3
Background .......................................................    3
Present and Planned RE .............................    3
Previous Bank Group Involvement .....................    5
III.   BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES:  INSTITUTIONS AND
OPERATIONS....... .....  6
A.   Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) ............    6
-    Role in the Power Sector                                  6
-    Organizationi and Staff                                   6
-    Lending Procedure . ................ . ..........         7
-    Scheme Formulation and Presentation   .8
-    Appraisal and Approval                                    8
-    Monitoring      .     ..........    ..    ..              8
-    Disbursement        ......................9....           9
-    Technical Assistance to SEBs                              9
-    Record of Operations ... ................ .........   10
-    Record of Utilization of Credit 572-IN ........    11
-    Future Development of REC            .....................   11
B.   State Electricity Boards (SEBs)           ....................   12
-    Role in the Power Sector ...... ................   12
-    SEBs' Organization for RE         .....................   13
-    Eligibility for IDA Finance         ...................   13
-    RE Planning and Financing .....................   14
-    Scheme Formulation for REC and Non-REC Schemes    15
-    Implementation and Procure,nent .............. ..   16
-    Record of RE Operations        .......................   16
This project was appraised by Messrs. K. Jechoutek (Economist), B. Lynch
(Financial Analyst), W. G. Scott (Consultant) and E. Baranshamaje (Young
Professional)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2-
Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
Page N(
IV.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND PROJECT SELECTION ....           .............   17
Cost Comparison ....................................   17
Economic Rate of Return ............................   18
Beneficiaries ......................................   18
V.   THE PROJECT AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION ......................  20
Genesis ............................................   20
Definition of the Project ..........................   20
Project Costs ......................................   21
Procurement ........................................   23
Disbursement .......................................   24
Onlending Rates ....................................   24
Other Financing Agencies ...........................   24
VI.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......................................   25
A.   Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) ............  25
-    Operational Performance and Financial Condition   25
-  Quality of Portfolio .26
-    Projected Operational Performance and
Financial Condition .26
-    Earnings Forecasts and Debt Service Coverage            28
- Audit .28
-  Accounts Organizations .28
B.   Rural Electrification Scheme Analysis ...... ........   29
-    Financial Viability of Schemes ....         ............   29
C.   Rural Electrification Impact on State Electricity
Boards    ...................... .......................   30
-    Operating Performance .........................   30
-    Tariffs and Cost of RE Supply ....          .............   31
VII.   TECHNICAL ANALYSIS ......................................   33
Standards ..........................................   33
Power Factor Control ................................   34
RE System Improvements .............................   35
VIII.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS ....................................   37
ANNEXES
1.   Villages Electrified and Pumps Energized by 3/31/78                 38
2.   REC Organization Chart                                              39
3.   REC Staff Structure (11/6/78)                                      40
4.   REC Staff Strength in Regional Offices as on 3/31/78                41
5.   Types of Schemes Financed by REC                                   42
6.   Viability Criteria for and Terms and Conditions Applicable
to REC Loans                                                       44
7.   Installments in REC Loan Disbursement (in %)                       46
8.   Development of REC Lending Activity 1969-78                         47



-3-
ANNEXES                                                               Page No.
9.   Actual REC Scheme Connections as % of Forecasts                  48
10.   Performance of SEBs with Respect to REC-Financed Schemes    49
11.   Economic Analysis                                                50
12.   Estimated Project Cost                                           62
Statewise Requirements of Materials Procured under              63
the Project
Quantities of LCB Materials to be Procured under
the Project                                                     64
Schemes sanctioned by REC between 4/1/77 and 3/2/79             65
13.   Share of ICB Suitable Materials in Total Typical Scheme
Cost (%)                                                         66
14.   Pilot Scheme Cost Estimates                                      67
15.   Procurement and Implementation Timetable                         68
16.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule by Calendar Quarter              70
17.   Summarized Income Statements for FYs 1974 through 1978
(Actual) and FYs 1979 through 1983 (Forecast)                   71
18.   Summarized Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
for FYs 1974 through 1978 (Actual) and FYs 1979 through
1983 (Forecast)                                                 72
19.   Summarized Balance Sheets for FYs 1974 through 1978
(Actual) and FYs 1979 through 1983 (Forecast)                   73
20.   Assumptions Used in Financial Projections                        74
21.   Statement Showing Calculation of Debt Service Coverage
FYs 1974-78 (Actual) and FYs 1979-1983 (Forecast)                77
22.   Statement Showing Amount of Loan Sanctions, Disbursements
and Balance Undisbursed                                         78
23.   SEBs' Gross Fixed Assets at March 31, 1977 Analyzed
Between Rural Electrification and Other Operations               79
24.   SEBs' Capital Expenditure Cash Flow FYs 1976 and 1977            80
25.   Measurement of the Net Income Contribution from Rural
Electrification and Other Operations of SEBs Relative to
Total Average Capital Base                                      81
26.   Rates of Return Earned by SEBs' "RE Activity" and "Other
Operations" Relative to Their Own Capital Bases for
FYs 1976 and 1977                                               82
27.   Operating Performance of the RE Activities of SEBs for
FY1976                                                          83
28.   Operating Performance of the RE Activities of SEBs for
FY1977                                                           84
29.   Operating Performance of the RE Activities of SEBs for
1977 Relative to FY1976                                         85
30.   Increases in SEBs' Revenues for FY1977 Required (i) to
Enable Interest on State Government Loans to be Paid in
Full and (ii) to Produce a Self-Finance Ratio of 20%             86
31.   Effects on SEBs' Rates of Return and Self-Finance Ratios
of Increases in Revenues for FY1977                             '87
32.   Financial Analysis of Sample Schemes                             88
33.   Average Price and Cost of Electricity for Selected
Consumer Categories                                              90
34.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File   91
Map IBRD No. 14121






INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT II
I. POWER SECTOR
Institutions
1.01      Electricity supply is within the concurrent jurisdiction of the
Central Govermnent of India (GOI) and the State Governments. Principal agen-
cies in the industry are (1) the State Electricity Boards (SEBs), which are
responsible for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity
within each State and for the control and regulation of private sector
licensed electricity supply undertakings; (2) the Atomic Energy Commission
(AEC); (3) the Central Electricity Authority (CEA); (4) the National Thermal
and Hydroelectric Power Corporations (NTPC and NHPC); and (5) the Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC).
1.02      Although NTPC and NHPC were established by GOI in 1975 to construct
and operate large thermal and hydro power stations, this is principally to
augment the States' development programs. In most States, the SEB will con-
tinue to be the largest power undertaking, a situation which is unlikely to
change in the medium term.
1.03      Planning of generation, transmission, and distribution development
has traditionally been undertaken by each SEB for its own State rather than
on a regional or national basis. However, with the rapid growth of the power
sector and with the resultant increasing complexity of operation, GOI sees
the necessity for an integrated national approach to sector development.
1.04      A beginning was made with the creation of Regional Electricity
Boards (REBs) during the period 1964-66, with the objective of improving
collaboration between the SEBs and establishing power systems on a regional
basis. The general functions of the REBs are to plan the integrated opera-
tion of the constituent power systems in a region for the maximum benefit
of the region as a whole, coordinate maintenance and overhaul programs,
determine generation schedules to be followed and the power available for
transfer between States, and determine a suitable tariff structure for the
exchange of power within the region. Progress has been slow; collaboration
has been most successful in the Southern Region, where the regional load
dispatch center at Bangalore has successfully encouraged the exchange of
power between States and facilitated integrated operation of the power systems
in the region.
1.05      At the national level, CEA has started work on the development of a
15-20 year plan which should include, inter alia, detailed demand forecasts,
investigations of power generation schemes to meet load growth requirements
efficiently, development of primary grid configurations, coordination of
power sector plans with plans for other sectors, resource requirements, and
recommendations on responsibilities and needed operational policies at the
State, regional and national levels.



-2 -
1.06      The financial position of the SEBs has been the subject of con-
tinuing dialogue with GOI, and improvements have been effected through rate
of return covenants in connection with previous Credits. This dialogue
should be continued with particular emphasis on the steps which should be
taken to improve the financial condition of the SEBs, now that financial
amendments to the Electricity (Supply) Act have been enacted into law.
Supply and Demand
1.07      The total installed generating capacity for the whole of India
in March 1978 was 26,000 MW. This includes 2,200 MW of non-utility capacity,
mostly thermal, which is owned by major industrial consumers to meet their
own needs. The total generating capacity is shared as follows: 38% hydro,
2% nuclear, and 60% conventional thermal. Installed capacity by March 1979
is likely to be 29,500 MW. GOI is planning to expand generating capacity
during the five year period 1979/80-1083/84 by some 19,000 MW, bringing
installed capacity up to around 46,000 MW (utilities only) by 1983/84.
Additionally, the construction of some 16,000 km of high voltage transmission
line is planned. Total energy generated in 1977/78 was 98,686 GWh. In 1983/84,
this is expected to reach 176,358 GWh, an increase by almost 80%.  While the
energy requirement is expected to be met by this availability, a small nation-
wide peak capacity demand deficit of about 600 MW is expected.
Previous Bank Group Involvement
1.08      The Bank has extended nine Loans to India for power projects amount-
ing to US$334.5 million, and IDA eleven Credits totalling US$996.0 million.
US$870.5 million financed or is financing the construction of generating
plant, US$23 million financed the purchase of construction equipment for
the Beas hydroelectric project, US$380 million was for high voltage trans-
mission and US$57 million was for rural electrification. Nine Loans and
Credits for generating plant, the Beas project (Credit 89-IN) and the first
three transmission projects (Loan 416-IN, Credits 242-IN and 377-IN) have
been completed. The Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam, and Trombay thermal power
projects (Credits 685-IN, 793-IN, and 874-IN/Loan 1648-IN, and Loan 1549-IN)
which were approved between April 1977 and January 1979 are still in the
preliminary implementation stage. The fourth transmission project (Credit
604-IN) and the first rural electrification project (Credit 572-IN) are under
implementation and are now proceeding satisfactorily after initial delays.



-3-
II. RURAL SUBSECTOR
Background
2.01      The primary objective of the Government of India in its drive for
rural electrification (RE) is to ensure increased agricultural output by
providing reliable and economical power for irrigation pumps. Secondary
objectives are the provision of electricity for domestic, commercial and
small industrial consumers in the villages, in order to improve employment
possibilities and quality of life in rural areas.
2.02      Agricultural pumping demand accounts for approximately 15% of
India's total annual kWh demand. This represents a significant increase over
the last 10 years, up from a previous figure of about 9%. There is consider-
able variation among States in this respect, the share of agricultural con-
sumption ranging from 0.7% in Orissa and Assam to 30% and more in Uttar
Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana. Between 1968 and 1978, consumption for agri-
cultural pumping has been growing at an annual rate of about 15%, reflecting
the rapid increase in irrigation pumps connected to the grid. Connected
agricultural load is about 28% of the Indian total; again, as in the share
of energy demand, the percentage varies widely from 3-5% in West Bengal
and Orissa, to 40% and more in Tamil Nadu, Haryana, and Andhra Pradesh.
Non-agricultural rural consumption accounts for significantly less than
half of total rural consumption.
2.03      Electricity demand in the rural sub-sector is characterized by a
low annual utilization of installed capacity and peak consumption at system
peak times. The result, together with long distribution lines because of
scattered consumers, is a high cost of supplying electricity to rural areas,
both because of losses and because of the need to provide generating and
transmission capacity for demand with a low load factor (9% on average,
ranging from 3.5 to 17%). The reason for this feature of rural consumption
is the dominant share of small-scale irrigation pumping: the pumps are, on
average, operated for a few hours per day only, often at the time of the
system's peak demand.
Present and Planned RE
2.04      In June 1978, about 220,000 or 38% of the 576,000 villages in
India were "electrified", i.e., at least some initial consumer connections
had been established (Annex 1). The percentage varies from State to State:
Punjab, Haryana, and Tamil Nadu have reached almost 100%, while in Assam and
other northeastern areas only 10% of villages are electrified. For the next
five years, it is planned to electrify an additional 110,000 villages, and to
increase the number of connections in villages already connected. By June
1978, 3.35 million irrigation pumps were electrified in India. A further 2
million are projected to be connected and in operation five years hence.
2.05      The other major motive power for irrigation pumping is the diesel
engine. In March 1978, an estitnated 2.5 million diesel-powered pumps were in



- 4 -
operation in India, more than half of these in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat.
Since 1973, the number of diesel pumps has increased by 10% per year, while
the number of electric pumps has grown only at a rate of about 8%. This
relationship is expected to be reversed during the coming five-year period:
diesel pumps are expected to increase at an annual rate of 7%, while the
target for electric pumps is 10%, based on a policy of replacement of
diesel pumps by less expensive electric ones, and the intensification of
the RE effort.
2.06      The potential for expansion exists:  out of an estimated 7.7 mil-
lion private irrigation dugwells 1/ existing in March 1978, only about 1.5
million had electric pumps installed, the rest being worked with either
bullock or diesel power. In addition to this replacement demand, new wells
will be dug in areas with high groundwater potential.
2.07      The next Five-Year Plan (1978/79-82/83) provides for an expenditure
of approximately US$470 million per year for rural electrification. Included
in this sum are $60 million per year for village electrification through the
Revised Minimum Needs Program (RMNP), a system of soft loans for backward
area schemes in States with a low level of rural electrification. This total
planned expenditure compares to an annual average of about $180 million during
the early seventies. Estimated expenditure for 1978/79 is about $400 million.
The large increase in expenditure will require additional finance: the
capacity to implement the larger program exists.
2.08      Each individual RE project is formulated, prepared and implemented
by the SEB concerned in accordance with general GOI policy for rural develop-
ment. All RE investments and operations (both new schemes and intensification
of the density of consumer connections in electrified areas) in each State are
conducted and controlled by the SEBs. The SEBs finance their RE expenditure
from a number of sources, the major ones being the State government and REC,
both of which utilize GOI funds. Smaller sources of finance are the Agricul-
ture Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC, refinancing bank lending
to SEBs for irrigation pump connections), and the Agricultural Finance
Corporation (AFC, organizing bank consortia).
Table 1.1: PLANNED EXPENDITURE ON RURAL ELECTRIFICATION,
1978/79-1982/83
SEBs' Source of Finance          Rs Million     US$ Million         _
REC /a                            10,800           1,256           53
ARDC Ta                            2,400             279           12
Banks Ia /b                        1,500             174            7
State Governments                  5,600             651           27
Total                       20,300            2,360          100.0
/a   Includes Rs 1,200 million for each institution's share in the
participative pump connection program described in para 2.09.
/b   Estimated.
Source: Revised Draft Plan, REC, ARDC.
1/   1.8 million electrified public and private tubewells excluded.



2.09      ARDC schemes are concerned with the energization of agricultural
pumps exclusively, both for ARDC minor irrigation projects and independently.
A recent agreement between REC and ARDC allows ARDC finance for pump connec-
tions in REC scheme areas where the REC scheme as originally defined has been
completed. The RE program financed out of State funds does not usually com-
prise new self-contained schemes, but consists mainly of extensions in rural
areas already connected to the grid, to meet expanding demand. Recently, there
has been an agreement between REC, ARDC and the domestic banking sector to
share (one third each) the financing of a number of new irrigation pump con-
nection schemes. REC is to concentrate on long-term finance, the banks on
short-term finance, and ARDC on refinancing the banks.
2.10      REC's lending is steadily developing away from pure village electri-
fication. New GOI funds have been earmarked for the improvement of distribu-
tion systems that are in danger of being overloaded. Greater emphasis than
hitherto is being placed on REC's role in monitoring and promoting reliability
of rural electricity supply. Apart from the traditional REC scheme categories
of electrifying groups of villages in economically advanced (OA schemes), less
advanced (OB schemes), backward (SU schemes), and Minimum Needs Program areas
(MNP schemes), there are now a growing number of production-oriented schemes
such as the connection of irrigation pumps (SPA) or rural industry (SPI) in
an area, and system improvement (SI) schemes that reinforce local distribution
systems by increasing capacity. Details of REC scheme categories are provided
in Annex 5, with analysis of their economic and financial viability in
Annexes 11 and 32.
Previous Bank Involvement
2.11      A first IDA Rural Electrification Credit (572-IN, for US$57 million)
was extended to REC in July 1975, for the financing of the material component
of schemes connecting new groups of villages to State electricity grids. In
the first Credit, the criteria and methods used by REC in appraising RE pro-
jects were accepted as satisfactory at the time, and all categories of
schemes that had financial viability criteria or contributed to more efficient
operations were judged to be eligible for IDA finance. For schemes financed
by the first Credit, REC has introduced administrative procedures to comply
with international competitive bidding (ICB).
2.12      Thirteen SEBs (out of 21 SEBs and power departments in the country)
became eligible for IDA finance through REC under the first Credit (para
3.44). By March 31, 1979, US$22.2 million of the Credit had been disbursed.
2.13      Indirect support of ARDC's refinancing of irrigation pump connec-
tions to the grid has been extended in two previous ARDC projects (Credits
540-IN and 715-IN) as part of the total minor irrigation costs. Pump connec-
tion cost financed by IDA is not included in the proposed third ARDC project,
now being processed.



-6-
III. BORROWING AND EXECUTING AGENCIES: INSTITUTIONS AND OPERATIONS
3.01      The borrower is GOI who will relend the proceeds of the IDA Credit
to REC. REC, in turn, will onlend to SEBs to finance specific RE schemes
meeting its defined viability criteria. The proposed IDA Credit constitutes
part of ongoing GOI lending to REC, and of REC lending to the SEBs.
A. Rural Electrification Corporation (REC)
Role in the Power Sector
3.02      REC was incorporated in July 1969 under the Indian Companies Act,
1956, as a company wholly owned by GOI, under the general supervision of
the then Ministry of Irrigation and Power (now under the Ministry of Energy).
REC's chief objective is to finance rural electrification schemes throughout
India, acting as a financial intermediary with technical expertise, and admin-
istering funds received primarily from GOI. It is REC's function to ensure
efficient allocation of these funds by establishing policies, procedures,
and criteria for the formulation, approval and implementation of such schemes.
In doing so, REC is directed to adopt a "project approach," coordinating
electrification with other inputs in rural development in order to achieve
increased agricultural production and overall economic development. This
involves an appraisal of each scheme to confirm the availability of ground-
water and the existence of sufficient demand for electricity.
3.03      The impact of REC lending to the SEBs is large in the rural sub-
sector, although it is small in relation to total SEB operations. While
more than half of rural electrification financing is REC's responsibility,
REC provides only about 5-10% of total finance needed by SEBs for generation,
transmission, and distribution investment. REC, therefore, exerts more in-
fluence on the SEBs by persuasion and demonstration than by leverage, and
is providing valuable contributions to the training of SEB staff, methodology
of RE scheme appraisal, and local RE planning.
Organization and Staff
3.04      REC is headed by a Board of Directors, all of whom are appointed
by the President of India. At the time of appraisal, the Board consisted
of a part-time chairman with wide banking and financial experience, and five
other members, all of whom are officials of GOI or of public corporations.
The position of full-time Managing Director, who is an ex-officio member of
the Board, was vacant at the time of appraisal, but a senior Administrative
Service officer was appointed in January 1979, who has since also taken over
the function of full-time Chairman.
3.05      The Managing Director is the chief executive in charge of all REC
operations. Under him, the Technical Director (a presently vacant position)



-7-
has overall responsibility for four technical REC divisions headed by Chief
Engineers, who are responsible for the coordination of scheme preparation,
approval, and monitoring in four groups of States. In addition, they
specialize in technical matters such as standardization and system improve-
ment. Seven other divisions are non-regional and provide specialized inputs
in the scheme cycle and general operations such as appraisal and monitoring
methods, organization planning, research and evaluation, special program
monitoring, financial analysis and accounting (Annex 2).
3.06      About 21% of total REC staff are seconded from the SEBs, including
about 45% at senior levels and about 60% of engineers. For staff with eco-
nomic and financial background, direct recruitment is prevalent. 43% of
senior level employees are engineers, 32% have an economic background, and
25% are financial staff. Middle-level employment is dominated by financial
and economic staff (Annex 3).
3.07      At the time of appraisal, total staff strength of REC was 713, up
from 509 in March 1975. Most staff growth has occurred outside headquarters,
in new regional offices opened to take over the appraisal and monitoring
of schemes. Ten such regional offices, with a total of about 250 employees,
are now in operation (Annex 4). An eleventh office is proposed for Bombay.
The staff growth of 40% between 1975 and 1978 has coincided with an increase
of 43% in total disbursements for loans. Future staff increases, planned for
the regional offices only, amount to only 3-4% per year. The pattern and
growth of staffing are adequate.
Lending Procedure
3.08      REC organizes its lending to the SEBs on the basis of RE schemes.
Schemes are always defined to cover an area, usually not exceeding the size
of a "block" or "taluk", and consist of either (i) the electrification of
villages in the scheme area, (ii) connection of new consumers of one con-
sumer category in the scheme area, or (iii) upgrading of the sub-transmission
and distribution system of the scheme area (Annex 5). The schemes are pro-
cessed by REC in a cycle consisting of formulation and presentation, appraisal,
approval, and monitoring.
3.09      The criteria employed for selecting projects for REC finance vary
with the degree of general area development as assessed by REC, and with the
type of scheme. Similarly, the terms of REC loans differ according to the
same classification. Repayment periods range from one year to 30 years and
the rate of interest increases in steps to a maximum of 9.5% per year for 30-
year loans (Annex 6).
3.10      REC loans usually cover the total authorized cost of approved schemes,
exclusive of consumers' contributions. Exceptions to this are "advanced area
schemes" in advanced States which are covered to the extent of 60%, and other
recently developed categories of schemes, where other financing institutions
supplement REC's financing, or where the SEBs are required to contribute
matching funds for the maintenance of system reliability.



- 8-
Scheme Formulation and Presentation
3.11      Since 1969, REC has gradually established a working relationship
with the SEBs that ensures the presentation and design of RE schemes according
to REC requirements. REC has prepared proformae and manuals for the SEB staff
involved in the processing of scheme proposals to encourage uniformity and
meeting of specifications. The main types of schemes financed by REC at the
time of appraisal are summarized in Annex 2, the terms of loans associated with
these categories and viability criteria as of November 1978 are in Annex 6.
Appraisal and Approval
3.12      Each scheme proposal received by REC is revised if necessary to REC's
satisfaction and then appraised by a team from the responsible regional office,
usually consisting of one engineer, one economist, and one financial analyst.
During the appraisal, a meeting chaired by the District Collector and attended
by local representatives of REC, SEB, Agricultural and Industrial Departments,
ARDC and the banking system, is held to examine the coordination of the insti-
tutions' efforts.
3.13      An integral part of the appraisal is the sample examination of the
validity of the SEB's assumptions. Forecasts such as the availability of
credit facilities, the expected connected load, and the availability of ground-
water, are checked.  The internal REC appraisal report then highlights any
inconsistencies, suggests modifications, and shows a financial return on the
investment.
3.14      After satisfactory SEB action on suggested modifications, the scheme
is presented to the REC Board of Directors for formal loan approval. During
1977/78, about 400 loans were approved. For the new-style pump connection
scheme loans (SPA), an abbreviated procedure will allow REC's Chairman to
approve such loans without going to the Board, due to the large number and
uncomplicated nature of these loans.
3.15      REC will now begin to introduce discounted cash flow techniques
in its feasibility calculations, ultimately designed to replace the presently
used decision criterion of financial return on the investment in a given
year, by the more significant net present value and/or internal rate of
return concept. Simultaneously, REC has embarked on a program of introducing
economic rate of return calculations in scheme feasibility analysis, based
on the benefits of cost savings in using electricity rather than alternative
sources of energy. Introduction of these appraisal techniques will be neces-
sary because of the increasing volume and complexity of REC lending operations.
A continuing dialogue with REC will be maintained in this matter, and an
appropriate covenant has been included in the Credit documents.
Monitoring
3.16      During implementation of schemes, SEBs are required to submit to
REC annual standardized reports on physical and financial progress. REC
monitoring teams visit the scheme sites from time to time to ascertain



- 9 -
progress and to check on implementation problems. The usual implementation
period for area schemes is five years, and for specialized schemes two to
four years. If any problems or significant deviations from the appraisal
report are identified during monitoring, REC follows up its findings in a
dialogue with the SEB concerned. The usual problems to occur are cost over-
runs, delay in the construction schedule, and slow growth of connections.
3.17      Present monitoring procedures are adequate.  Each scheme is visited
at least once during the implementation period, more frequently if problems
occur.
Disbursement
3.18      For area schemes, REC disburses 35-40% of the loan as an advance
when the loan is approved, the remainder in four unequal installments tied to
the achievement of interim physical targets. For two- or four-year special
schemes, disbursement is made in two approximately equal installments (Annex
7). The timing between installments, particularly for area schemes, depends
on how fast SEBs reach the targets set in the scheme report. Implementation
delays lead to a postponement of the next disbursement tranche, usually
scheduled one year after the last.
3.19      In recent years, REC has experienced delays in disbursement:  in
1977/78, Rs 1,128.8 million rather than the planned Rs 1,947.1 million were
disbursed, a shortfall of 43%. In 1976/77, the shortfall was 46%. This is
due primarily to the poor withdrawal performance of large recipient States
such as Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, and Andhra Pradesh, and partly to
the temporary stopping of disbursements to Uttar Pradesh, awaiting a necessary
tariff increase that was delayed.
3.20      As an incentive for speeding up loan withdrawal, REC has introduced
a rebate of 0.5% off the interest cost for 6 months, if the first tranche
(35-40% of the amount) is drawn within 45 days after REC Board approval. The
rebate decreases with later withdrawal, and ceases if the tranche is not with-
drawn within 6 months. A similar rebate system will be effective from 1979/80
onwards for the following tranches, and will be combined with the target
achievement requirement.
3.21      About 80% of total annual disbursements are paid out in the fourth
quarter of the REC fiscal year (January-March), because most construction
activity (and achievement of targets) takes place during the post-monsoon
winter months in order to complete the work in time for the peak irrigation
season. During this time, consumer pressure for rapid connection of irriga-
tion pumps builds up strongly.
3.22      Present disbursement procedures are adequate.  REC's disbursement
forecasts will be made more realistic to take account of the SEBs' performance.
Technical Assistance to SEBs
3.23      REC is providing assistance to SEBs primarily in three fields:
(i) scheme design; (ii) technical standardization; and (iii) training of SEB



- 10 -
staff. REC has prepared detailed guidelines and circulated them to the SEBs,
dealing with identification and preparation of scheme proposals, and assess-
ment of viability. A continuing dialogue between REC and SEBs keeps this
methodological input up to date.
3.24      For standardization of RE system design, REC has published a number
of manuals for the SEBs that set out technical specifications for material
and construction standards. In addition, REC is sponsoring a number of tech-
nical research projects, the results of which will be made available to the
SEBs. The proposed project includes two pilot schemes using cost-saving
distribution technology, that will be implemented under REC supervision as
demonstration projects.
3.25      RE schemes require engineering and analytical skills somewhat dif-
ferent from those required for other SEB operations. To help develop these,
REC has financed linemen training centers in various locations and assisted
in the initial stages of instruction: in 1977/78, REC approved 20 loans,
amounting to Rs 12.3 million (US$1.4 million), for this purpose. In 1976,
REC started to conduct courses for SEB engineers involved in RE: these
courses have been held in Hyderabad since 1977. REC will continue this
training function within the framework of a newly formed society that will
coordinate all training of senior staff in the power sector. In addition,
REC will prepare and implement a systematic training program for its own and
selected SEB staff, and submit this program to IDA.
Record of Operations
3.26      Since its inception in 1969, REC had approved 2,195 schemes with a
total loan amount of Rs 8,469 million (US$985 million) as of September 1978.
Of these, two thirds were area electrification schemes, accounting for about
85% of the loan amount. Recently, a significant shift of REC lending activ-
ity away from general area electrification towards specialized, more narrowly
focussed schemes has occurred. Taking 1977/78 approvals alone, the shares
of area electrification schemes were only 50% of the number, and 57% of the
total loan amount (Annex 8). Out of total loans committed, approximately 60%
had been disbursed to SEBs by September 1978.
3.27      Under REC schemes alone, 320,000 electric irrigation pumps had been
connected by March 1978. This represented about 10% of all pumps connected
by that time. The proportion has risen steadily in recent years: for the
next five years, REC is to be responsible (either by own or joint financing)
for the connection of 65% of all new pumps. In terms of villages electrified,
REC's share stands at 23% (Annex 1).
3.28      The record of target achievement in the implementation of REC-
financed schemes by SEBs is improving. Only 60% of annual consumer connection
targets for all schemes under implementation since 1969 have been reached.
The trend over time, however, is encouraging: target achievement of 52% for
schemes approved before 1974 has increased to 76% for those approved after
1974 (Annex 9). In terms of pump connections alone, the improvement is even
more impressive, namely from 56% to 83%.



- 11 -
3.29      The main reasons for delayed achievement are:  (i) initially over-
optimistic forecasts of future load demand in REC scheme areas; (ii) ineffi-
ciency and delays in the construction activity of many SEBs; (iii) shortages
of materials required for rural distribution; and (iv) bottlenecks in provid-
ing other essential inputs for successful rural electrification, such as
credit for farmers for wells, pumps, etc. The improvement observed in recent
years appears to be the result of progress in all these fields: one important
contributing factor has been REC's learning process in forecasting load and
consumption growth in scheme areas, which has led to more realistic expecta-
tions. SEB estimates of future revenue from a scheme are usually reduced
after a field visit by REC staff. It is expected that schemes approved now
and in the future will show better implementation performance than in the past
because of the recent improvements.
Record of Utilization of Credit 572-IN
3.30      Under the first Credit, six SEBs were eligible for receiving IDA
finance initially: during subsequent years, seven more SEBs fulfilled the
eligibility criteria (para 3.44). This gradual increase in the number of
participating SEBs, together with the slow introduction of ICB procurement
procedures, delayed the procurement process and, consequently, the disburse-
ment of the Credit. Such delays are not anticipated in the proposed Credit,
as the early problems have been overcome to a large extent.
3.31      A second cause for disbursement delays has been the shortage of
aluminum for conductors during recent years. The shortage has held up imple-
mentation work on REC-financed schemes, causing a shortfall of physical
achievements against targets and consequently slower disbursement of REC
loan installments. GOI intends to take steps to ensure a steady supply of
aluminum from domestic and foreign sources, and such difficulties are
expected to be averted at an earlier stage in the future.
3.32      The complete proceeds of the first Credit had been committed and
all contracts awarded by November 1978. However, 16 contracts already awarded
have been cancelled recently, and some are likely to be cancelled due to,
inter alia, manfacturer's inability to deliver, shortage of aluminum, and
delays in finalizing the contract by SEBs. New awarding of contracts is
expected shortly, and the project's closing date is expected to be June 30,
1980, 18 months after the originally scheduled date.
Future Development of REC
3.33      REC is endeavoring to expand its range of activities in order to
gain flexibility and tap additional financial resources. Involvement of REC
in small generation projects such as diesel generators or mini-hydroelectric
schemes in remote areas, and its participation in organized diesel pump
replacement schemes have been discussed with GOI, but no final decision has
yet been taken. On less conventional energy sources, only research into the
feasibility of biogas plants in rural electric cooperatives is being conducted
formally by REC. A system of loans to SEBs for connecting rural water supply
pumps to the RE system is being introduced.



- 12 -
3.34      A new venture that was started by REC in 1978 as a pilot scheme
category has now developed into a substantial participative financing program
for irrigation pump connections (Special Project Agriculture: SPA scheme).
Together with ARDC and the commercial banks, REC will extend loans to SEBs
for 2-year and 4-year schemes designed to cover the connection of pumps to
the grid in a defined area, while safeguarding that the supply system is not
overloaded. Responsibility for appraisal of these schemes will rest primarily
with REC, while each of the three institutions will finance one third of each
scheme. The plan for the period 1978/79 to 1982/83 provides for a total
expenditure under this joint program of Rs 3,600 million (US$419 million) to
connect 600,000 pumps.
3.35      REC has recently started to approve the first schemes of a similar
specialized category: Special Projects Industry (SPI). This pilot program
consists of loans to finance the connection of rural anc, small-town indus-
trial estates to the grid, and is expected to develop into another partici-
pative financing venture, in this case with the Industrial Development Bank
of India (IDBI) and other domestic banks.
3.36      Apart from the shift from area electrification to specialized
projects and distribution system improvement schemes, a change in corporate
structure of REC may possibly take place during the next few years: a pro-
posal to change REC from a registered company into a statutory corporation is
now under discussion. The main effects would be twofold: REC would obtain a
management structure designed specifically for its purpose under a unique
statute; and it would gain access to long-term investment funds available from
the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) under more favorable terms. Access to the
RBI's "Agricultural Credit (Long-term Operations) Fund" might be obtained even
before any changes in corporate status are decided. RBI loans for the normal
REC lending program would carry an interest rate of 6% p.a. rather than the
present 7.25% p.a. for GOI loans.
3.37      A significant increase in disbursements is planned for the coming
years (Annex 22). The large increases of 45% and 32% planned for 1978/79 and
1979/80 do not appear to be realistic targets, and some slippage is to be
expected.
3.38      The REC Board has approved, in principle, that the organization may
perform RE consultancy work for clients abroad and in India. Consulting has
already been or will be conducted for the UN Economic and Social Commission
for Asia and Pacific (ESCAP), Algeria, Bolivia, Jordan, and Egypt. This
activity is planned to be continued only if manpower is available, rather
than as a major new venture.
B. State Electricitv Boards (SEBs)
Role in the Power Sector
3.39      The SEBs, constituted under Section 5 of the Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948, are corporate entities whose principal duties are to generate,
transmit and distribute electricity within a State (with particular reference



- 13 -
to areas not already served or inadequately served), to interconnect with
neighboring States, and to set and amend electricity tariffs in supplying
electricity to consumers. Members of the Boards of Management of the SEBs
are appointed by the State Governments. While the SEBs enjoy some autonomy
in their day-to-day operations, they are under control of the State Govern-
ments with respect to policy matters, capital investments, borrowings, salary
scales, tariff changes and personnel policies.
3.40      The importance of rural electrification in total SEB operations
varies with the relative size and structure of the agricultural sector in
the State (para 2.02). RE investment for distribution only represents about
20% of the SEBs' total investment program, ranging from 13 to 33%.
3.41      Implementation and operation of RE schemes imposes technical and
financial burdens on the SEBs. Financial losses are incurred chiefly because
of too low tariffs and high costs of supply. Technical problems are created
by the pattern of agricultural demand (para 2.03), leading to voltage drop
and energy losses.
SEBs' Organization for RE
3.42      Twelve SEBs have set up "Rural Electrification Cells", i.e. depart-
ments at headquarters that deal with the formulation and screening of RE
schemes. Typically, the Cells are headed by a Chief Engineer of senior rank,
and consist (in the larger SEBs) of 10-30 engineers. Their principal func-
tions are the preparation of RE schemes that are suitable for REC financing,
and communication with REC during the scheme cycle. In some States, the Cell
also deals with other RE operations and is responsible for planning and scheme
preparation in the rural distribution system as a whole.
3.43      The actual implementation and operation of RE schemes is the respon-
sibility of the SEBs' construction and regional administration departments
rather than of the RE Cells. Although the Cells keep a close watch on the
progress, the decisions on material allocations, construction priorities, and
consumer applications are made by the operating departments. Billing and
collection in the scheme areas is handled together with other business by the
regional SEB administration. Separate consumption and connection statistics
are kept for REC-financed schemes only.
Eligibility for IDA Finance
3.44      The eligibility criteria for SEBs, on which agreement was reached
during negotiations, are essentially identical to those agreed on in Credit
572-IN. They are (i) an undertaking by the State Government to annually sub-
sidize its SEB's RE losses either fully, or to the extent that enables the
SEB as a whole to achieve a return on assets of 9.5%, whichever is less, or
(ii) that an SEB is achieving a return of 9.5% on assets. The RE losses are
defined as those attributable to operations of the rural sub-transmission and
distribution system, according to the proforma approved by IDA in connection
with earlier Credits in the power sector. Although the return on assets con-
cept has in the past been the yardstick for the measurement of SEB profit-
ability, the financial amendments to the Electricity (Supply) Act 1948 will



- 14 -
introduce during 1980 an alternative criterion -- that of the level of in-
ternal cash generation relative to capital investment, to be specified by
State Governments to enable SEBs to finance internally a reasonable contri-
bution to the cost of capital works, considered by CEA to be in the region of
20 - 25%. State Governments, in consultation with their SEBs, are presently
developing financial policies, which will achieve this objective. This re-
presents a significant improvement in financial viability criteria. During
negotiations, GOI representatives stated that any major new initiatives were
unlikely to be introduced before the recomendations of a high-level committee
(the "Rajadhyaksha Committee", formed to examine the working of the Indian
power supply industry at Center and State levels) become available.  It is
expected that new financial policies, arising from the committee's recom-
mendations, will be implemented during fiscal year 1980/81. In the meantime,
however, the existing viability concept of 9-1/2% rate of return is being
accepted for purposes of the proposed Credit. Fourteen SEBs will be eligible
to benefit from the Credit. These are the Boards of Andhra Pradesh, Assam,
Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa,
Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal.
RE Planning and Financing
3.45      The content of investment plans for RE depends to a large extent
on the availability of funds. Together with generation and transmission
planning, each SEB prepares a distribution and rural electrification plan
for the next five years (now revised annually in the rolling plan), mainly
based on targets for village electrification and pump connection. Initially,
the physical details of the plan are rather general, and average unit costs
are used to arrive at approximate expenditure requirements. The funds
required for this expenditure are partly allocated from the SEB's and the
State's own resources, but mostly from central plan funds made available
by GOI according to the Planning Commission's recommendation.
3.46      Simultaneously with the State plans, the Planning Commission pre-
pares a five-year expenditure plan for RE on a nationwide basis. The two
approaches are then reconciled in discussions between the States and the
Planning Commission, and annual plan allocations are formulated for each
State. Most central plan funds specifically earmarked for RE investment are
now channelled through REC, including blocks of funds for (i) the normal REC
program, allocated by State; (ii) the Minimum Needs Program, also by State
(this went directly to the States until 1974); and (iii) the system improve-
ment program, allocated as a lump sum for all States. There are, however,
GOI funds made available directly to the States as general plan assistance,
some of which are onlent to the SEBs as all-purpose loans, indirectly financ-
ing a part of the SEBs' RE program independently of REC.
3.47      The share of total State RE expenditure financed and supervised by
REC has varied significantly by State, and is illustrated by the examples in
Table 3.1.



- 15 -
Table 3.1:  REC SHARE OF TOTAL STATE RE EXPENDITURE
Average             Average 1975-78 (%)  Estimated 1979-83 (%)
Andhra Pradesh               30                      30 /a
Bihar                        80                      60
Maharashtra                  25                      30 /a
Madhya Pradesh               40                      40 Ia
Uttar Pradesh                48                      45 /a
West Bengal                  85                      98
All-India                    45                      56
/a   Excluding new REC funds for joint pump connection finance
and system improvement.
Source: SEBs and REC.
3.48      The priorities within each State's RE program are decided by the
SEB, taking into account the local backlog of applications for connections,
ease of grid extension, and the revenue potential of possible areas. In
many States, a large influence on priorities is the existence of RE schemes
that are suitable for submission to REC. As yet, overall State planning is
not done systematically by ranking areas according to potential feasibility.
REC has made a start to introduce better planning procedures by cooperating
with the Andhra Pradesh SEB in developing a detailed district-by-district
assessment of RE potential: the results of this exercise will be used to
develop a planning model applicable to other States.
3.49      Planning for RE and coordinating it with the work of other agencies
involved in rural development is conducted at several levels within each
State. The most effective coordination takes place at the district level in
regular meetings between the concerned institutions under the chairmanship
of the District Collector. In the past, this system has been operated with
varying degrees of success, but a general improvement is evident in the in-
creasing interdependence of the activities of SEBs, REC, ARDC, banks, agri-
cultural departments, and industrial departments. Cooperation at other than
district level, including State level, tends to be confined to general guide-
lines. District coordination is most effective in monitoring ongoing RE
schemes and in identifying bottlenecks in the simultaneous provision of
all inputs for rural development.
Scheme Formulation for REC and Non-REC Schemes
3.50      RE schemes submitted to REC must be prepared in accordance with REC
guidelines. The required format includes specification of social and economic
indicators of the area, a groundwater potential certificate, a detailed tech-
nical assessment, and a guarantee of supporting investment by the SEB outside
the defined scheme. A feasibility analysis in financial terms is required,
based on revenue forecasts for the scheme area. State-financed RE is smaller
in scale and mainly consists of intensifying electrification in areas already
connected to the grid. The forecasting of potential additional load in this
case is easier and the schemes usually have a gestation period of two years.



16 -
The feasibility criteria applied to non-REC schemes are less stringent than
those imposed by REC: there are usually no requirements for a minimum net
return. Gross return 1/ requirements for non-REC schemes in Andhra Pradesh
are 12.5% for pump connection schemes and 20% for schemes with mixed loads;
in Madhya Pradesh, agricultural schemes must yield 12.5% gross, but village
electrification schemes have no required minimum return.
Implementation and Procurement
3o51      All RE schemes  regardless of the source of financing, are imple-
mented by the SEB's regionalized construction and operation divisions. There
is, therefore, no distinction made between REC-financed and other schemes in
terms of materials in stock, allocation of construction capacity, and SEB
financial results. Materials requirements are formulated by the SEBs annually
for all distribution investment, and orders are placed with suppliers for
the total quantities. The same materials such as conductors, transformers,
etc. are used for REC as well as non-REC distribution investment, and for
replacement and reinforcement within the existing system0
Record of RE Operations
3.52      States show varying degrees of success in achieving their annual
objectives for RE, depending on their implementation efficiency and their
vulnerability to external delays such as material supply shortages (Annexes
9 and 1O). In general, SEBs have achieved better results in the implementation
of State-financed, smaller RE schemes than in REC-financed schemes; usually at
least 75-80% of the objective in terms of new connections is reached, as
compared to a recent improvement in the achievement of REC scheme targets from
50% to 75%.
3o53      In many cases, the SEB has completed the laying of lines to the
requested connection, but actual connection has been delayed, for instance
because of the prospective consumer's lack of credit facilities to purchase
needed equipment0 In the case of Madhya Pradesh, 15,405 pump connection
facilities were fully prepared by the SEB in 1977/78, but only 12,176 pumps
actually went into operation: taking the former figure as representative for
target achievement, the actual success rate of the SEB rises from about 60%
to about 75% of targets for that year0 REC initiative has brought about more
intensive coordination among local institutions0 The effects of this will be
felt in the near futureo
1/   Annual revenue as % of cumulative investment.



- 17 -
IV. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND PROJECT SELECTION
4.01      Rural electrification in India lends itself to justification using
cost savings accruing to the economy by using electricity rather than alter-
native conventional energy sources for irrigation pumping, rural industry,
domestic, commercial, and street lighting. This approach yields attributable
benefits of electrification that include part of consumer surplus, and avoids
the causality problem of allocating any incremental agricultural output to
electricity.
Cost Comparison
4.02      The cost comparison of electric and major present non-electric power
sources for rural applications, taking into account all costs incurred by
consumers as well as SEBs, and valuing energy at its long-run marginal cost,
yields a clear cost advantage for electric irrigation pumping, domestic and
street lighting, and approximate equality of costs for small village industry
such as flour mills. The economic cost advantage for the typical 5 HP electric
irrigation pump over a similar diesel pump amounts to about Rs 1,400 (US$165)
per year. In the case of domestic and street lighting, the advantage of
using electricity is about Rs 80 (US$9) per connection per year. (Detailed
calculations in Annex 11, paras 6-15).
4.03      The results of the cost comparison are sensitive to changes in the
long-run marginal cost of power supply, particularly in the case of small
industry and domestic and street lights. In the case of pumps, a reduction
of marginal cost per kWh from the assumed Rs 0.68 to Rs 0.50 increases the
cost advantage for electricity to about Rs 1,900 (US$220), an increase of
marginal cost to Rs 1.00 decreases the advantage to about Rs 400 (US$47).
In the typical small industry case with 10 HP load, a decrease to Rs 0.50
would make electricity clearly the more economical alternative (cost differ-
ence in favor of electricity of about Rs 1,500 = US$175), whereas an increase
to Rs 1.00 makes the diesel alternative preferable by about Rs 2,000 (US$233).
Kerosene for domestic and street lighting would become competitive at a
marginal cost of electricity of about Rs 1.10 per kWh, about 60% more than
that assumed.
4.04      The comparison demonstrates that the mix of consumer categories
in RE schemes is a decisive factor for economic viability. Schemes where
most power is used for irrigation pumping yield high economic rates of return,
relatively insulated from the assumptions on marginal cost of electricity
supply. Schemes with a high content of village industrial and domestic
demand can be expected to have only a modest economic rate of return, unless
the marginal cost of electricity is quite low in the area or for the con-
sumption pattern of the specific consumer groups.
4.05      Analysis of the cost of supplying isolated areas with electricity
from diesel generators of 100 kW capacity or more shows a cost of about
Rs 1.00 per kWh at the generator, i.e. before accounting for energy losses
in the distribution system, or a consumer-level cost-of, say, Rs 1.10-1.20/
kWh. This approaches the highest available marginal cost estimates for grid



- 18 -
supply in India, and is well above a reasonable average estimate. This result
is of interest for the new type of RE schemes supplying small and medium in-
dustries in rural estates, where the alternative to grid connection would be
captive generation. For 11 kV industrial consumers, the marginal cost of
grid supply would be in the range of, say, Rs 0.30-0.50 per kWh, and electri-
fication would be clearly preferred.
Economic Rate of Return
4.06      The major categories of schemes in the REC lending program were
tested for their economic rate of return. For this purpose, OA and OB, MG
and MM, and MNP and SU schemes were amalgamated into three combined typical
scheme categories because of their similarities. Costs were assumed to
include initial and subsequent SEB investment, operation and maintenance
expenditures by SEBs, the long-run marginal cost of energy supply to the
scheme, and the initial and recurring costs incurred by consumers. Benefits
were defined as the initial and recurring costs of the non-electric alterna-
tive, yielding the same output. (Other assumptions are detailed in Annex 11,
para 19). For purposes of shadow pricing, appropriate weighted conversion
factors were applied to the cost and benefit streams expressed in market
prices, to obtain data in terms of border prices.
4.07      Economic rates of return for the typical scheme categories OA/OB,
SPA, SPI and SI are satisfactory: the economic rates of return for the basic
assumption are 18% for OA/OB, 55% for SPA, above 100% for SPI, and 41% for SI.
The MG/MR type of scheme does not appear to be economically viable because of
its lack of pump connections. The large block of MNP/SU schemes, serving
backward areas, also shows a rate of return below the opportunity cost of
capital for the basic assumptions. Given the vulnerability of RE schemes to
delayed target achievement, MNP/SU schemes on average must be considered only
marginally economically viable, although they may be socially attractive.
4.08      Based on this economic analysis, OA/OB, SPA, SPI, and SI scheme
categories were selected as eligible for the project. Selected sample schemes
of these categories that had been appraised and approved by REC recently, were
used for further analysis. The economic rates of return for these sample
schemes in terms of market prices range from 38% to 76% for OA/OB, from 26%
to 55% for SPA, from 83% to over 100% for SPI, and from 33% to 41% for SI.
Using shadow prices, the economic rates of return are 42-66% for OA/OB, 25-
45% for SPA, over 100% for SPI, and 38% for SI. These schemes show high eco-
nomic rates of return, relatively insulated from varying basic assumptions
(Annex 11, para 21).
4.09      Weighting the individual categories' results by their expected share
in total project cost, the average weighted economic rate of return for the
project as a whole is about 45% in terms of market prices and about 40% in
terms of shadow prices. This rate of return is satisfactory.
Beneficiaries
4.10      Sample evidence indicates that it is primarily the better-off
members of a village community who obtain pump and domestic connections.



- 19 -
In general, farmers with very small landholdings (except in fertile areas)
rarely apply for pump connections, although the breakeven point in terms of
landholding is relative rather than absolute, depending on groundwater avail-
ability, soil, type of crops, etc. Repayment of pump purchase credits on top
of electricity charges could be prohibitively expensive for a one-or two-acre
farmer with the following cost/income pattern typical for Madhya Pradesh and
Andhra Pradesh:
Rs/acre/year
Wheat & Paddv   Suarcane
Income                                1,500           3,000
Electricity Cost                        100             200
Other Input Cost                        600           1,300
Net Income                              800           1,500
Electricity cost as % of Income          7%              7%
Bearing in mind that a 5 HP electric pump can cost about Rs 4,000 installed,
annual repayments even on generous terms would be a severe or impossible
burden on a farmer with 1-2 acres and a net annual household income of
Rs 800-1,600. In areas where sugarcane or other high-income crops can be
grown, more small farmers benefit.
4.11      Landless laborers in rural areas benefit indirectly from RE.
Having no assets suited for the utilization of electricity, they benefit
from increased employment opportunities created by the expansion of land-
holders' activity through double cropping made possible by irrigation.
Farmers cultivating more than 5 acres routinely hire additional laborers
beyond family labor, especially during labor-intensive cultivation and
harvesting periods.



- 20 -
V. THE PROJECT AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION
Genesis
5.01      This project is a follow-up to the First Rural Electrification
Credit (572-IN), approved in July 1975. The first project was defined as
a tranche of about 140 rural electrification schemes which would be identi-
fied in the course of project implementation. In effect, the first Credit
supports ongoing REC disbursement for eligible projects in eligible States
by financing materials procured on an ICB basis.
5.02      During the implementation of the first project, it was felt that,
while procurement supervision was possible, overall performance monitoring
presented problems. Also, some schemes with low economic rates of return
might be supported by the Credit. To avoid a similar situation, a modified
approach has been adopted in defining the second project: (i) part of the
project is composed of approved schemes with known material requirements;
(ii) the number of scheme categories eligible for the credit has been narrowed
to those likely to have economic rates of return well above the opportunity
cost of capital; (iii) rural distribution system improvement schemes and two
pilot projects to demonstrate potential cost-saving technology are included.
Definition of the Project
5.03      The project consists of:
(i) Expenditure during 1980/81 and 1981/82 on 484 identi-
fied REC schemes of the categories OA, OB, SPA, SPI and SI,
approved by REC between April 1, 1977 and March 2, 1979;
(ii)  Expenditure during 1980/81 and 1981/82 on about 1,230
as yet unidentified REC schemes of the categories OA, OB, SPA,
SPI, and SI to be approved by REC between March 3, 1978
and March 31, 1981; and
(iii)   a single phase distribution pilot project in Rajasthan,
and a power factor control (RT capacitor) pilot project
in Karnataka, to be implemented during 1980/81.
All project components will be implemented by June 1983 by the SEBs that will
receive REC loans for the schemes concerned.
5.04      Numbers and estimated costs of different scheme categories are
shown in Table 5.1. The 290 OA/OB, and about 1,140 SPA schemes partially
supported by the project will result in connecting about 15,000 new vil-
lages to the grid, and electrifying about 500,000 irrigation pumps. About
25,000 village industry connections will be included in the OA and OB schemes:
in addition, about 6,000 new small and medium industrial consumers in rural
industrial estates will be connected as a result of the SPI schemes.



- 21 -
Project Costs
5.05      The total cost of the project is estimated at about Rs 3,440 million
(US$400 million). The proposed Credit amounts to US$175 million, representing
about 44% of project cost (Table 5.1 and Annex 12).
5.06      The basis for the cost estimates is as follows:
(a) Planned expenditures on RE by REC and other financing insti-
tutions are based on the Draft Plan 1978/79-1982/83 as known
in November 1978;
(b) About 85% of total planned expenditure are for REC-financed
schemes in 14 States (Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Gujarat,
Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa,
Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, and West
Bengal) which will be eligible for finance under the
proposed Credit (para 3.44);
(c) Schemes of the categories OA, OB, SPA and SI are eligible
for finance under the second Credit. These categories have
been selected as those yielding a satisfactory range of
economic rates of return;
(d) The proposed Credit will cover the cost of materials suit-
able for international competitive bidding for eligible
schemes as well as the cost of (paras 5.10 and 5.11)
selected materials suitable for local competitive bidding.
The materials requirements for the already identified
schemes have been determined on a scheme-by-scheme basis.
Similar requirements have been assumed for the as yet
unidentified schemes (Annexes 12 and 13); and
(e) Total project cost is defined as estimated expenditure on
all project components during 1980/81 and 1981/82, con-
sidering REC disbursement patterns (Annex 7). This inc-
ludes elements of (i) schemes already in progress, (ii)
schemes approved or identified but not yet started, and
(iii) schemes that will be identified by March 1981, but
where estimates are available now. Materials procured
are to be installed by the project's completion date.



- 22 -
Table 5.1: PROJECT COST
Number      Total             Expected
of       cost of       expenditures on schemes
schemes    schemes           during 1980-82
(Rs million) (Rs million) (US$ Million)
(i) Schemes identified
and approved 4/1/77-
3/2/79 /a
OA/OB                    124          594           260           30
SPA                      242          698           280           33
SPI                       12           20            10            1
Si                       106          625           170           20
Sub-total                   484         1,937          720           84
(ii) Schemes to be
approved 3/3/79-
3/31/81 /a
OA/OB                    166        1,130           550           64
SPA                      895        1,500        1,155           134
SPI                      115          230           170           20
Si                        52          280           250           29
Sub-total                 1,228        3,140         2,125          247
(iii) Pilot Schemes /b               2           11            11            1.5
Total /c                  1,721         5,088        2,856          332.5
Physical Contingency /d                                  4            0.5
Price Contingency  /e                                  580           67.0
Total Project                                    3,440           400
/a   In eligible States.
/b   Including technical assistance.
/c   In 1978 prices.
/d   For pilot schemes.
/e   6% p.a.



- 23 -
5.07      The costs for the two pilot schemes which may demonstrate cost-
saving technology (para 7.05 to 7.11) are set out in Annex 14, and include
special equipment to be incorporated in two normal area electrification
schemes, as well as some technical assistance. Detailed scheme plans and
specifications, as well as the evaluation of the schemes will be thoroughly
discussed with IDA during implementation.
5.08      Under the first Credit, virtually all materials have been purchased
from Indian suppliers through international competitive bidding. Direct for-
eign exchange expenditure for the second project, involving the same mate-
rials, is expected to be small, perhaps including only special equipment and
technical assistance (consultants and training of REC and SEB engineers) for
the pilot schemes. The indirect foreign component is estimated to be about
40%.
Procurement
5.09      As under the first Credit, each SEB will be responsible for its own
procurement for project materials, using REC's standard specifications, and
standard General Conditions of Contract approved by IDA. REC will provide
assistance to the SEBs in the preparation of bid documentation and will monitor
that quantities specified in the bids are those required for eligible schemes.
REC will also review SEB bid evaluations before seeking IDA approval to place
orders.
5.10      The SEBs will invite bids for their estimated two-year requirements
(1980-82) on the basis of international competitive bidding satisfactory to
IDA for conductors, transformers, insulators, meters, switchgear, capacitors,
and assorted additional equipment for the pilot schemes, amounting to about
US$150 million. Indian manufacturers competing under international competi-
tive bidding would be granted a preference margin of 15% or the current rate
of import duty, whichever is less. Materials delivery schedules will be
spaced over the construction period. Consultants' services and cost of train-
ing abroad for the pilot schemes would amount to about US$250,000.
5.11      The SEBs will also invite bids for their estimated two-year require-
ments for crossarm sets, GI wire, air break switches, insulated wire, LT
cutouts, and lightning arrestors, amounting to about US$25 million, on the
basis of local competitive bidding satisfactory to IDA. The details are
specified in Annex 12. Most contracts for the above small items will not
exceed the amount of US$100,000 each. All items are manufactured locally,
and satisfactory local competition exists. No further bulking of orders is
possible because of the large number of SEBs procuring individually, and none
of the items is therefore suitable for international competitive bidding.
Any contract awards exceeding US$100,000 will be subject to prior review by
IDA.
5.12      The time schedules for procurement and implementation as agreed
with REC are set out in Annex 15. All contracts are expected to be awarded
by March 1980 (May 1980 for the pilot schemes), and all materials should be
delivered to SEBs by January 1982.



- 24 -
Disbursement
5.13      Disbursements from the proposed Credit will be based on SEB's
reimbursement claims and will cover the CIF cost of imported goods, or the
ex-factory cost of goods manufactured in India. It is expected that sub-
stantial IDA disbursements could begin during the third quarter of 1980,
and would be completed by March 1984. The estimated disbursement schedule
is shown in Annex 16.
Onlending Rates
5.14      GOI will onlend the Credit to REC at an interest rate of 7.25% p.a.
with a repayment period of 20 years including 5 years of grace. This compares
to a rate of 6.0% for GOI onlending to ARDC, 10.25% to central power genera-
ting agencies such as NTPC, and 11-13% for normal commercial credit lines to
industrial enterprises. REC, in turn, will onlend to the SEBs at its current
interest rates of 7.0-9.5% p.a. (with grace periods of 2 to 5 years), depend-
ing on the type of scheme and length of loan period. These rates compare to
rates of 6-7% for SEB borrowing from State Governments, and 10.5% from banks.
Conclusion of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and REC in a manner
satisfactory to the Association is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Other Financing Agencies
5.15      SPA schemes included in the project (as defined in para 5.03) will
also be partially financed by ARDC and commercial banks, each institution
(counting the banking sector as one) covering one third of the cost of each
approved scheme. For the proposed Credit, SEBs estimate two years' mate-
rials requirements for SPA schemes, but IDA disbursements will be provided
only up to REC's one third share of total SPA scheme cost.
5.16      USAID intends to support a parallel project to the extent of US$58
million. Materials, States, and time period eligibility are the same as those
of the IDA Credit. The USAID project, however, is expected to make all scheme
types eligible, including those not eligible under the proposed IDA Credit.



- 25 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Rural Electrification Corporation (REC)
Operational Performance and Financial Condition
6.01      Summarized audited Income Statements for REC for the five years
through March 31, 1978, are shown in Annex 17. The increase in lending since
1974 has been accompanied by substantial growth in total revenue earned, al-
most three and a half times in FY1978 that of FY1974. However, because of
increased financing through long term debt, the interest spread has narrowed
from a gross of 3.9% of revenue in FY1974 to 2.1% in FY1978. In absolute
terms, earnings after income tax have increased at an annual rate of 14%.
Return on total capitalization has increased from 2.5% in FY1974 to 4.2%
in FY1978. Returns on equity were 2.0% to 2.3% during the same period. While
these returns might be considered low in comparison with the opportunity cost
of capital, they must be measured against the objectives of REC which supports
lending on concessionary terms to the rural sector.
6.02      Summarized audited Balance Sheets covering the five years through
FY1978 are shown in Annex 19. During this period, REC's loan portfolio grew
at an annual rate of some 32% and reached Rs 5,029 million (US$585 million)
by March 31, 1978. As of that date, the long-term loan portfolio accounted
for more than 90% of total assets. REC's initial capital was entirely equity,
made up of U.S. grants and equity share capital from GOI. By March 31, 1974,
REC had received Rs 1,050 (US$122 million) in U.S. grants, Rs 620 million
(US$72 million) from GOI in equal portions of equity capital and loans,
additional GOI loans of Rs 45 million for street lighting in scheduled caste
settlements and had retained earnings of Rs 48 million. At that time, capital
structure reflected 20% long term debt, 78% equity and 2% current liabilities.
Since 1974, however, funds have been provided increasingly through long term
debt, thereby increasing its proportion of capitalization to some 65% by March
31, 1978. In FY1975, REC successfully floated its own bonds, guaranteed by
GOI, on the financial market and has continued to do so annually since. These
borrowings represented 12% of total debt at March 31, 1978, or 8% of total
capital. Despite the increasing debt/equity ratio, the capital structure is
acceptable. REC had, by March 31, 1978, approved 2,028 RE schemes, amounting
to Rs 8,301 million (US$965 million). Against this it had disbursed Rs 5,172
million, leaving undischarged commitments of Rs 3,129 million, the funds for
which will be sought from GOI and the capital market (Annex 22).
6.03      REC has used its earnings to finance additional investment in rural
electrification. This has been encouraged by the taxation advantages provided
by the Income Tax Act 1961. Under this Act, a Special Reserve was created to
enable deduction from profits subject to income tax of about 9% of annual
taxable income. Since March 31, 1977, the allowable percentage was increased
to about 20%. At that date, the Special Reserve stood at Rs 46 million. REC
has also created a Special Development Reserve to:



- 26 -
(a) provide special term loans to State Governments to help
them to subscribe for share capital in RE cooperatives;
(b) provide grants to organizations for research and develop-
ment;
(c) provide grants towards construction costs in specially
underdeveloped areas.
By March 31, 1978, this reserve stood at Rs 59 million.
Quality of Portfolio
6.04      REC's loan and investment portfolios are satisfactory, without
arrears problems. They consist of loans to SEBs, investments in State Govern-
ment guaranteed SEB RE Bonds, and temporary investments in GOI securities.
Projected Operational Performance and Financial Condition
6.05      Projected Income Statements, Statements of Sources and Application
of Funds and Balance Sheets for the next five years through FY1983 are shown
in Annexes 17 through 19. A disbursement target of about Rs 11,800 million is
provided for as REC's part of the Draft Plan for FY1979-1983. This projection
would boost the loan portfolio to Rs 15,564 (US$1,810 million) by March 31,
1983, an annual growth rate of 25% from March 31, 1978. The following table
summarizes the financing plan during FY1979-1980 and 1981-1983 (the disburse-
ment period of the proposed Credit):



- 27 -
Table 6.1: REC FINANCING PLAN
FY1979-1980             FY1981-1983
Rs         US$         Rs          US$
Million    Million    Million    Million    %
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation           207.5        24.1       531.0        61.7    6.2
Less:  Income Tax                    94.2        11.0      241.3        28.1    2.8
Net Internal Cash Generation        113.3        13.1      289.7        33.6    3.4
Capital Subscribed
GOI Equity                       265.0        30.8       265.0        30.8    3.1
GOI Loans                      2,113.0       245.7    4,973.2        578.3/a 58.3
Market Loans                     850.0        98.9    2,100.0        245.3   24.7
Total                       3,228.0       375.4    7,338.2        854.4   86.1
Sales of Short-Term
Investments                      183.0        21.3        -            -       -
Repayment of Loans by
SEBs                             362.7        42.2       902.8       104.0   10.5
Total Sources                    3,887.0       452.0    8,530.7        992.0  100.0
Applications of Funds
Disbursement of Loans          3,750.0       436.0    8,050.0        936.1   94.4
Repayment of GOI Loans            59.0         6.9       311.3        36.2    3.6
Working Capital Increase          20.6          2.4       87.5        10.2    1.0
Short-Term Investments            39.0         4.5        47.5         5.5    0.6
Dividends                         17.1         2.0        32.9         3.8    0.4
Fixed Assets                        1.3        0.2         1.5         0.2      -
Total Applications               3,887.0       452.0    8,530.7        992.0  100.0
/a   Includes IDA Credit of US$175 million and USAID Loan of US$58 million.
6.06      Because of increasing reliance on long term debt to finance the
lending program, the debt/equity ratio is projected to steadily rise from
65/35 at March 31, 1978, to 82/18 by March 31, 1983. While GOI will continue
to be the major source of funds, the increasing issue of REC bonds is expected
to bring their share of total borrowings from 12% at March 31, 1978, to 25%
by March 31, 1983. Despite the increase in the debt/equity ratio to a level
of almost 5:1, the projected capital structure is acceptable. Equivalent
ratios for reasonably comparable financial institutions in India such as
State Financial Corporations show a range of 3:1-11:1.



- 28 -
Earnings Forecasts and Debt Service Coverage
6.07      REC's projected revenue by FY1983 is equivalent to four times
that for FY1978, an annual growth rate of 32%. Increased borrowings will
continue to reduce the interest spread but this will be partially offset by
improving portfolio loan mix by lending for more remunerative types of schemes
where interest rates of 9% apply. Net earnings are expected to continue to
increase in absolute terms at a growth rate of 22% per annum. Returns both
on equity and on total capitalization show improved trends, with the former
rising from 2.3% in FY1978 to 4.4% by FY1983, and the latter from 4.2% to
6.1%.
6.08      Although overall projected operational performance is good, pressure
on the debt service coverage ratio will be experienced in FY1982 and 1983.
Annex 21 summarizes the debt service coverage ratios for the ten year period
through FY1983. The ratio in FY1974 was 2.6 but dropped to 1.7 by FY1978. A
ratio of 1.3 is projected by FY1983, which is near the 1.2 required by IDA in
the first Credit. This was and is considered the minimum for a reasonable
margin of safety. The main reason for the contraction is the changing capital
structure of REC, from a largely equity financed operation to a largely debt
financed one. During negotiations, agreement was reached that (i) REC's
internally generated funds in any fiscal year shall at least cover 1.2 times
its debt service requirement during the same fiscal year, and (ii) REC's
administrative expenses and interest payments in any fiscal year shall not
exceed 90% of its interest receipts. REC's capital structure, legal status,
and the availability of long-term funds from the Reserve Bank of India are
matters of continuing dialogue between REC, GOI and RBI.
Audit
6.09      The Comptroller and Auditor General of India is empowered to appoint
an independent auditor registered under the Indian Companies Act 1956 to audit
REC's accounts. He may also direct the manner in which the REC's accounts
are audited, conduct test audits as he may think fit, and make comment upon
or supplement the audit report made by the professional auditor. Messrs. S.P.
Chopra & Co., Chartered Accountants, have carried out audits of the accounts
for FY1976, 1977 and 1978. Recently, Messrs. S.N. Sachdev & Co., Chartered
Accountants, were appointed to audit the accounts for FY1979. Satisfactory
audit reports have been received each year. REC has agreed to furnish within
six months of the end of each fiscal year its financial statements as audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Accounts Organization
6.10      REC has a competent accounts department, which operates a basically
manual accounting system. However, management has recently introduced a
number of computer applications which are presently operating concurrently
with the manual system, in order to verify the correctness of the programs.
In particular, the billing of interest and capital repayment charges to
borrowers has been computerized. Considering REC's accounting growth, com-
puterization should play an increasing role in the accounts function during
the next five years. Plans have also been made to streamline internal
reporting systems to allow a speed-up of decision making processes.



- 29 -
B. Rural Electrification Scheme Analysis
Financial Viability of Schemes
6.11      Until now, REC has appraised schemes on the basis that schemes which
reached the breakeven point (revenues equal to cost of energy and specific
operation, maintenance and depreciation costs) after periods of 7-15 years
and which maintained minimum rates of return on cumulative investment subse-
quently, qualified for financing (Annex 6). However, most schemes generate
losses during the first half of their lifetimes, and profits during the second
half may easily not be sufficient to counterbalance the early losses and ensure
the payment of interest on and the repayment of loans used for scheme financ-
ing. Quantification of the net present value of schemes highlights the effect
they have on the financial performance of SEBs. Using the average interest
rate payable on the capital borrowed to finance the scheme as the discount
rate, negative net present values indicate the level of subsidization required
either directly from State Governments or from other consumers.
6.12      An analysis of a sample of REC approved schemes is illustrative.
Costs and revenues presented in the REC appraisals were discounted and internal
rates of return and net present values determined as shown in Table 6.2. The
results of the analysis are twofold: (i) there are no generalized rates of
return applicable to REC schemes. Each must be approached on an individual
basis due to disparities in costs, tariffs, existing infrastructure and load
development; (ii) rates of return range from no positive rate to 79%.
Table 6.2: DISCOUNTED FINANCIAL CRITERIA OF SAMPLE SCHEMES
Scheme        Internal Rate    Net Present Value at 7%
Category         of Return           Cost of Capital
Rs Million
OA               12%                    +2.7
OB                5%                    -0.9
SPA         Not Positive                -5.8
SPI              79%                   +10.5
SI               21%                   +28.0
MH                7%                    Nil
MG                6%                    -0.2
SU                4%                    -1.0
MNP               4%                    -1.1
6.13      Low agricultural tariffs are the main reason for the low rates of
return. The high return of the SPI schemes is due to their orientation to
rural industry; industrial tariffs are higher. Also, SPI capital costs are
relatively low because they are usually extensions and utilize existing
infrastructure. SI Schemes also utilize existing infrastructure and their
high return reflects savings in line losses and additional revenues from
increased demand. While all of the sample schemes meet the existing eli-
gibility criteria set by REC, those schemes which have rates of return less
than the average cost of capital, assumed at 7% for SEB borrowing, will burden



- 30 -
SEB finances. Rural electrification losses are presently being offset by a
combination of direct subsidization from State Governments and cross subsi-
dization from other SEB consumers to RE consumers. Alternatively, rates of
return could be improved by increasing tariffs to RE consumers.
6.14      Recognizing the need to improve financial analysis of RE schemes,
REC has started to include discounting techniques in its investment appraisal
methodology. The intention is to use the additional data thus provided in
discussions with SEBs on the financial impact of RE schemes. The ultimate
objective would be to replace existing eligibility criteria with criteria
based on this improved methodology. During negotiations satisfactory pro-
gress in the introduction of these techniques was reported, and an acceptable
program for implementation was agreed on (Annex 15).
C. Rural Electrification Impact on State Electricity Boards
Operating Performance
6.15      GOI and State rural electrification policy has had considerable
impact on the SEBs' finances. Annex 23 shows that gross fixed assets of the
major SEBs at March 31, 1977, amounted to some Rs 75 billion (US$8.7 billion)
of which RE assets accounted for some Rs 15 billion (US$1.7 billion) or about
20%. Since 1969 the RE system has grown at an annual rate of almost 50%.
Total capital investment (including generation and transmission) for SEBs
during FY1976 and 1977 amounted to Rs 10.2 billion (US$1.2 billion) and
Rs 10.8 billion (US$1.3 billion), respectively (see Annex 24), with RE's share
making up 12% and 16%, respectively. Total capital expenditure in FY1977
increased by some 6% over FY1976, but the increased expenditures were almost
entirely devoted to RE which increased by 40% compared with a 1% increase in
expenditure for everything else (see Annex 24). Figures for FY1978 are not
yet available for most SEBs. However, in the SEBs of Maharashtra and Madhya
Pradesh, RE investment for FY1978 was 58% and 14%, respectively, higher than
for FY1977. Planned expenditures for FY1979-1983 amount to some Rs 21 billion
(US$2.4 billion).
6.16      SEBs must bear not only the heavy cost of operation and maintenance
of the RE schemes but also the high costs of servicing the capital borrowed
to finance the initial capital costs. Financial data prepared by the SEBs in
accordance with financial covenants in the Second Power Transmission Project
(Credit 242-IN), whereby the RE activities are segregated from the other activ-
ities of the SEBs, reflect the financial impact of RE on the SEBs overall
financial performance. Annexes 27 and 28 show the operating performance of
the SEBs' RE activities for FY1976 and 1977 while Annex 29 analyzes the
relative performance of these years. The combined results of the thirteen
SEBs noted show that total losses in FY1977 increased by 21% over those of
FY1976. If this rate of increase is maintained for the future, losses would
double about every 3-1/2 years.
6.17      Annexes 27 and 28 show that average net losses relative to revenue
for both years were in excess of 60%. State Government subsidization averaged



- 31 -
some 20%, leaving a net average deficit after subsidization in excess of 40%
to be offset by cross subsidization from other consumers. Individual perform-
ance varies, from reduced losses in SEBs in Bihar (-8%) and Kerala (-17%) to
significant increases in losses of SEBs in Andhra Pradesh (+60%), Gujarat
(+52%) and West Bengal (+47%). The effects of cross-subsidization can be
seen from Annex 26 which shows the return on investment for FY1976 and 1977
of the separate activities of RE and "other operations" relative to their own
capital bases.
6.18      In the majority of cases, high returns from "other operations" off-
set losses from RE. However, this cross-subsidization was not sufficient to
enable interest on State Government loans to be met in full. Annex 30 shows
the amount of interest payable to State Governments in FY1977 which was effec-
tively subsidized; it was not actually paid but made a contingent liability,
provided sufficient future surpluses were earned. Percentages vary from 3% in
Maharashtra to 52% in Uttar Pradesh and 61% in Haryana. To increase revenues
sufficiently to cover these interest shortfalls would have required rate
increases of some 1%, 24% and 32% respectively. Were these shortfalls to be
recovered only in RE operations, the RE tariff would have to be increased
by 2%, 50% and 100% respectively. Spreads are quite wide. These increases
in revenues would increase the rates of return of those SEBs by 0.3% to
13.3% in Maharashtra, by 6.3% to 12.1% Uttar Pradesh, and by 8.0% to 14.4% in
Haryana (Annex 31). These increases merely illustrate the wide disparity in
the levels of viability achieved by the SEBs and in the corrective action
needed to achieve even limited improvement.
6.19      The recent enactment of the financial amendments to the Electricity
(Supply) Act 1948 brings attention to the size of SEBs' internally generated
funds relevant to their capital investments. Guidelines issued by CEA to
State Governments indicate that 20% of capital investment is regarded as a
reasonable contribution which an SEB should make towards its expansion.
Because RE is a significant share (20%) of total SEB investment, the level
of internal cash generation which must be produced by the SEBs' "other opera-
tions" is increased to 25%, thus revealing the net effect of both direct and
cross-subsidization policies. Accordingly RE cannot be viewed in isolation.
Overall SEB financial viability is dependent on how successfully RE is integ-
rated into total operations.
Tariffs and Cost of RE Supply
6.20      One of the major contributing factors to the financial pressures
on the SEBs is the low level of the agricultural tariff. To date, it is GOI
and State policy, implemented by the SEBs, to subsidize agricultural electri-
city consumers via artificially low tariffs. In most States, all agricultural
consumers, regardless of their circumstance or level of consumption, benefit
from this subsidy. First steps are being taken to improve this pricing
system, and REC will contribute to the discussion.
6.21      Where SEBs have computed the financial cost of supplying agricul-
tural consumers, the evidence shows that consumer payments often do not even
cover 50% of the cost. For example, in Madhya Pradesh, average revenue amounts



- 32 -
to Rs 0.30/kWh versus a financial cost of supply of Rs 0.63/kWh. This average
tariff is one of the highest among major SEBs. It is reasonable to assume a
supply cost of the same order of magnitude for most SEBs; since most SEBs have
lower average agricultural tariffs than Madhya Pradesh, revenues must be well
below costs overall (Annex 33).
6.22      A comparison of average rural tariffs with marginal cost of supply
yields even greater discrepancies (Annex 33). Marginal cost of delivery of
energy to agricultural consumers exceeds revenue by an average of 200%, i.e.
the tariff recovers only about one third of marginal cost. Rural industrial
and domestic consumers, who also are served by RE schemes, impose about 130%
and 170% more marginal cost on the SEB than is recovered from them through the
tariff. As noted in paragraph 6.20, all agricultural consumers regardless of
their circumstances benefit from the generally subsidized tariffs. A case may
be made on social grounds for a low electricity tariff to a small farmer;
further, a low tariff in that case may be necessary to make power irrigation
profitable, considering the relatively high costs of pumps, etc. It is much
more difficult to make a case for subsidies to the non-marginal or well-to-do
agriculturists. In fact, most of the benefits from the low tariff accrue to
the later group since they have the means or credit to install pumps and a
scale of operation to optimize irrigation efficiency.
6.23      A possible improvement in revenue recovery from agricultural con-
sumers would be the introduction of a tariff with an increasing price per kWh
for successive blocks of consumption, safeguarding the small farmer's profit-
ability by a "lifeline" rate for the lowest consumption block. The Gujarat,
Karnataka, and Rajasthan SEBs have introduced one or another version of the
increasing block pricing concept; it is too early to observe reactions, but
the net effect should be a higher revenue than under the one-block low-price
system, and allow the SEBs to increase tariffs to approach costs for those
with the ability to pay.
6.24      Increasing charges for initial connections is another revenue element
that could reduce the financial burden on SEBs. Six SEBs do not charge for
connecting pumps at all, and charges of most other SEBs are unlikely to cover
the average cost of running a line to the pump and connecting it: the charge
per pump ranges from Rs 90 (in Uttar Pradesh) to Rs 600 (in West Bengal)
(US$10-70). For Madhya Pradesh, where specific data is available, consumers
are charged Rs 300 toward the estimated connection cost of Rs 500.
6.25      In addition to considering average tariffs for the RE sector in
establishing specific tariff structures in the future, consideration should
be given to setting rates which will motivate consumers to use power econo-
mically. Realistic demand charges and differential peak and off-peak energy
charges (or regulating use to off-peak periods) are worthy of review. REC
will review agricultural tariffs and will attempt to evaluate these alternative
solutions.



- 33 -
VII. TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
Standards
7.01      REC has developed a realistic and practical set of guidelines for
evaluating the technical feasibility of the various types of RE projects. It
has also developed construction standards, material standards, and manuals,
and is sponsoring research and development projects. The construction manual
is clear, concise and has undoubtedly been a major contribution to lowering
the cost of RE. Partially based on its research and development program,
construction material categories for area electrification schemes have been
narrowed down to two sizes of prestressed concrete poles, three sizes of high
tension (HT) conductors, five sizes of low tension (LT) conductors and three
transformer sizes. This minimizes the costs and problems associated with the
purchase, storage and delivery of materials, and the selection is adequate to
cover most situations.
7.02      Manuals developed and printed by REC cover the planning, design
and maintenance of RE systems (see Annex 34) and include a wide range of sub-
jects such as pumps, safety, and repair of transformers.
7.03      REC recognizes three major technical areas as especially important
in its research and development program. They are the introduction of the
single phase system, power factor control, and distribution system improvements.
The pilot projects included in this proposed Credit will bolster R&D efforts
on single phase distribution and power factor control. System Improvement
(SI) schemes financed under the Credit support the program for distribution
system improvements.
7.04      Presently, RE distribution in India is based on the three phase
system, a system originally developed in Europe to serve high load density
cities and towns. Rural areas, however, usually have low density load, which
may result in cost and operating disadvantages when three phase systems are
used. The present three phase system employs a high voltage (HT) primary
system with 11,000 volts between the phases and 6,400 volts from phase to
ground. HT lines begin at a distribution substation and are generally con-
structed along the major roads of an area. Along the HT distribution line,
frequently at each village, three phase transformers reduce the voltage to
415 volts between phases and 240 volts from phase to ground which is then
distributed over low tension (LT) lines to each consumer. In most villages,
the load density is low and the irrigation pumps are far apart. Three phase
transformers are relatively expensive and spaced out. This results in ex-
tremely long LT lines which are almost as costly to construct as three phase
HT lines but have higher losses and more voltage drop than HT lines for trans-
porting the same load. There is usually only one transformer per village and
when it fails, all irrigation and industrial activities come to a halt.
7.05      Single phase distribution was developed originally to serve low
density rural areas in North America. Rather than terminating at a village,
single phase HT lines are run further, virtually to the consumers, and small,



- 34 -
relatively inexpensive, transformers are mounted on the poles to reduce volt-
age at points of use. Since distribution is at higher voltage, losses are
much less; since there are a number of small transformers, the failure of one
does not shut down a whole village.
7.06      There is considerable debate about the merits of single phase versus
three phase distribution. Economic tradeoffs between the two depend on such
factors as load density and the speed of load growth. REC recognizes that
the introduction of single phase has the potential to reduce costs and has
already initiated R&D programs in this direction. However, their funds are
limited and the need for reducing costs is essential to the long run success
of RE.
7.07      Generally, REC bases HT line design on forecast loads seven years
after scheme completion which provides for some load growth and is reasonable.
At present, all HT Mains are three phase, and when their capacity must be in-
creased it is necessary to replace all the conductors. Unexpected load growth
often results in conductors being replaced prematurely. A three phase system
is actually composed of three "single phases". A single phase line could be
constructed to initially serve a village when the load level is low. When and
if load growth exceeds the capacity of the single phase line, a second phase,
and later on, as needed, the third phase can be added. This provides an import-
ant cost saving option.
7.08      A preliminary analysis, comparing the initial investment of the
three phase system as it was installed for eleven villages in Rajasthan with
a single phase system which could have been installed, indicates that the
villages could have been electrified for about 30% less initial investment
using single phase rather than three phase. This apparent initial saving
would have to be balanced against the three phase system's greater capacity,
especially in distribution transformers, and no analysis was made of voltage,
loading or losses. Nevertheless, a conservative estimate indicates a saving
of 20%. An in-depth analysis of the benefits of single phase at the village
level will be carried out as part of the pilot project.
Power Factor Control
7.09      REC recognizes that improving power factor through HT capacitors
has substantial benefits, and has authorized the installation of a few of
them in Karnataka State to gain experience. Preliminary analysis indicates
that HT capacitors could release up to 24% of rural system capacity which
could then be used to serve additional customers or would reduce initial in-
vestments. A concentrated national effort of RE power factor control could
release up to 2,500 MVA of generation and transmission capacity, or almost
10% of the all-India system. In addition, energy losses could be substan-
tially reduced, and voltage at all levels would be improved.
7.10      Evaluation of benefits of power factor correction may be approxi-
mated as follows. There were 3.3 million pumps in service as of March 1978,
expected to increase to 5.3 million by 1983. Assuming a pump average of 5.0
HP, then improving power factor from the normal 70% to 95% by using capacitors
will require an investment of about Rs 1,672 million. Even if only one third



- 35 -
of the pumps are actually running at the time of system peak, the improve-
ment in power factor would reduce the demand on the generation/transmission
system by 2.47 million kVA. Assuming, conservatively, that the average cost
of generation and transmission capacity is Rs 2,500/kVA, the value of capa-
city saved is about Rs 6,000 million and much more than sufficient to justify
the program to install HT capacitors. This reduction in needed capacity of
about 2,500 MW represents almost one year's planned capacity increase in India
as envisaged in the draft rolling plan.
7.11      Reduction of line losses is an additional benefit.  Correction of
power factor from 70% to 95% would reduce line losses by 45%. Assuming 5.3
million 5 HP pumps running 800 hours per year, and a financial power cost
of Rs 0.14/kWh at 11 kV, improvement of power factor would result in savings
of Rs 50 million per year.
RE System Improvements
7.12      In general, SEBs implement RE schemes financed by REC in accordance
with specified standards. Schemes financed from other sources frequently con-
form to REC standards to assure compatibility. The principal weakness in the
long run is the neglect of timely reinforcement and system improvement as
loads increase, which results in voltage problems (leading to consumers'
equipment damage) and increasing energy losses. This is often due to lack of
funds for improvement because of the SEBs' mandate to expand RE rapidly.
7.13      System improvements are already needed in many locations and schemes
to solve these problems are eligible under the proposed Credit. A system
improvement (SI) scheme recently submitted to REC by the Tamil Nadu SEB pro-
vides a good example of the problem. Nine HT feeders in an area serve 11,417
irrigation pumps (53,250 HP), 482 small industrial consumers (4,250 HP), as
well as residential and commercial consumers. At peak demand, the voltage
reduction for the last consumer on a feeder ranges from 5 to 54%, with an
average of 22%. The annual energy loss averages about 30%, amounting to over
9 million kWh (equivalent to the annual energy requirement of more than 3,000
irrigation pumps).
7.14      The real problem is not only the need for SI schemes but the time
it takes to implement them. While system improvements are carried out, some
consumers in the area will be faced with at least two irrigation seasons with
voltage drops as high as 50%. Pump motors begin failing when voltage drops
exceed 10-15%; there is little doubt that many failures will occur before
system improvements are completed. Distribution transformers and probably
substation equipment, as well as light industrial machinery, may also fail.
Also, there will be a 30% energy loss which represents fuel and generating
capacity.
7.15      It is probable that the SI schemes presently being approved by REC
are only the tip of the iceberg of the problems to come. Adequate service
cannot be provided if SEBs are required to connect new loads without also
being provided funds to upgrade lines and equipment as demand grows. REC
has responded to the anticipated crisis by encouraging SEBs to submit SI
schemes, and by ensuring that new RE schemes which it finances contain



- 36 -
adequate system safeguards. The SEBs should improve system monitoring and
minimize the time it takes from detection of a potential problem to its
correction. Progress in this matter should be discussed with GOI and REC
during negotiations. Funds to upgrade and modernize existing RE systems
might well be a principal component of future IDA Credits for RE in India in
the mid-1980's. REC is considering a significant expansion of SI activity
in future years, and should be encouraged in this.



- 37 -
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS
Condition of Effectiveness
8.01      Satisfactory conclusion of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
GOI and REC is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit (para 5.14).
Other Agreements
8.02      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following major
points:
(a) implementation of a program, satisfactory to the
Association, for introduction of improved appraisal
techniques for REC schemes (para. 3.15);
(b) the proceeds of the proposed Credit may be relent
either (para 3.44):
(i) to those SEBs whose State Governments have
agreed to provide them with an annual subsidy
for RE losses either to their full extent or to
the extent required to meet a rate of return of
9.5% on assets, whichever is lower; or
(ii) to those SEBs which are achieving a rate of
return of 9.5% on assets;
(c) REC will prepare and implement a satisfactory training
program for the staff of REC and the SEBs (para 3.25);
(d) REC's internally generated funds in any fiscal year
shall at least cover 1.2 times its debt service require-
ment during the same fiscal year (para. 6.08);
(e) REC's administrative expenses and interest payments
in any fiscal year shall not exceed 90% of its
interest receipts (para. 6.08); and
(f) GOI will ensure reliable and constant supply of raw
materials including aluminum to domestic manufacturers
of equipment procured under the proposed Credit
(para. 3.31).
Recommendation
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit
of US$175 million equivalent.



-38-                              ANNEX 1
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Villages Electrified and Pumps Energized by 3/31/78
Villages Electrified          Pumps Electrified
Total     By REC  REC share  Total   By REC REC share
State         (No.)      (No.)      (%)      (No.)  (No.)    (%)
Andhra Pradesh 14,652  3,140       21       337,546  31,573        9
Assam            2,176    588      27          1,054      64       6
Bihar           18,695  4,130      22       139,982  11,624        8
Gujarat          8,121  1,473      18       156,028  16,995
Haryana          6,731     90       1       166,631  24,248       15
Himachal Pradesh7,753  2,460       32          1,464     347      24
Jammu & Kashmir 4,014  1,984       49            834      10       1
Karnataka       15,160  1,519      10       262,362  17,261        7
Kerala           1,224    147      12        58,922   5,833       10
Madhya Pradesh 16,350  4,612       28       215,925  34,204       16
Maharashtra    21,480  4,165       19        488,706  43,463       9
Manipur            235    -        -            -        -         -
Meghalaya          396    220      56             47      41      87
Nagaland           236     54      23              1     -         -
Orissa          14,161  5,417      38         6,427   2,170       34
Punjab          12,126  3,912      32       196,296  27,951       14
Rajasthan       10,009  4,592      46       128,961  33,820       26
Tamil Nadu      15,522    815       5       809,606  42,638        5
Tripura            410    247      60            145       8       6
Uttar Pradesh  35,026  5,045       14       298,750  17,191        6
West Bengal    11,669  5,739       49         20,346  10,320      51
Other            1,243    -        -         18,961      -         -
Total          217,389 50,349      23     3,308,994 319,759       10
Source:  REC, CEA



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE 35-CHR
ORGANIZATION CHART OF REC EApRil 19793
r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~SE CLRTJHIHS DANRORR 
+  439e            X                >    31S   X   S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA OE
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CCOH  HSAE         OC  OO
> 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZN S TCI. COR DNEHO   SPHNAJ               CCRCICT
|REACCOAL OPRICES | |RENICCAL OFFICESC    REGIONAL DOPFIRES  |REOALOFIE |
PON    HORE  COICRTER ECHAOOiCOLURT  WCR                                                                            Wld .k 






- 40 -                                  ANNEX 3
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
REC Staff Structure (11/6/78)
Staff                         Class I    Class II       Class III      Class IV
Characteristics        Total      (Senior)  (Middle Level)  (Clerks)       (Support)
Total Staff              713         165         126           288            134
Permxanent Employees     563          92           96          241            134
Seconded                 150          73           30           47             -
Seconded (%)            21.0         44.8         23.8         16.3
Source: REC






INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
1/
REC Staff Strength in Regional Offices as on 3/31/78
Position                Calcutta  Gauhati  Lucknow  Chandigarh  Hyderabad  Jaipur  Jabalpur  Patna  Madras  Bhubaneswar  Bombay
Chief Project Engineer    1           1         1         1            1          1       1         1        1         1          1
Joint Director              1         -         -         1            -          -       -         -       -          -          -
Deputy Project Engineer   4           1         1         2            3          3       2         1       1          1          2
Asst. Project Engineer    3           1        2          2            2          2       2         2       1          1          2
Deputy Director            2          1        2          3            3          2       1         2       3.         1         2            1
4-.
Assistant Director         3          1        1          2            2          2       1         1       1          1          2
A.C.A.O.-/                 1          1        1          1            1         1        1         1       -          -          1
Accounts Officer           2          1        1          2            2          2       1         1       1          1          1
Section Officer/
Office Superintendent    1           1        1          1            1         1        1        1        1          1         1
Personal Assistant         2         1         1          1            1         1        -        -        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Economic Analyst           1         1         1          1            1         1        1        1        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Accountant                 3         1         2          2            2         2        2        1        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Assistant Accountant       2         1         1          2           2          2        1        1       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
Support Staff            16          7         9          9           9          9       9         9       n.a.       n.a.       n.a.
l/  Staffing of regional offices in Madras and Bhubaneswar (opened 1978) and Bombay (to be opened 1979)
is available only in preliminary form
2/ Assistant Chief Accounts Officer.
n.a. = not available
Source: REC



-42 -                                   ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Types of Schemes Financed by REC
(i) Area Schemes:
Ordinary Advanced (OA) - Electrification of groups of villages in
economically advanced areas.
Ordinary Backward (OB) - Electrification of groups of villages in
somewhat less advanced areas.
Specially Underdeveloped (SU) - Electrification of groups of villages
in economically backward areas.
Rural Cooperative Societies (OC) - Electrification of groups of villages
joined in a cooperative system
Mini Growth Centers (MG) - Electrification of several villages around
a market town.
Mini Health Centers (MH) - Electrification of several villages around a
town with health center.
Minimum Needs Program (MNP) - Electrification of groups of villages out
of a special GOI fund earmarked for specific
backward areas.
(ii) Special Consumer Category Schemes:
Mini Industrial (MI) - Connection of village industry in a group of
villages.
Mini Industrial Estate (ME) - Connection of small and medium industry
in a rural industrial estate.
Mini Farm (MF) - Connection of irrigation pumps in a group of villages.
Mini Farm - Lift Irrigation (MF-LI) - MF connection for lift irrigation
only.
Harijan Bastis (HB) - Electrification of settlementsof lowest social group.
Special Project - Industry (SPI) - Connection of small and medium industry
in rural industrial estates (will replace MI
and ME).



- 43 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
Special Project - Agriculture (SPA) - Connection of irrigation pumps in
groups of villages, co-financed by other
institutions (will replace MF and MF-LI).
Special Project - Drinking Water (SPD) - Connection of pumps on wells
supplying drinking water in rural areas.
(iii) System Improvement and Reinforcement Schemes:
Special Transmission (ST) - Transmission lines to serve scheme and
non-scheme areas in specific districts.
Special System Loan (SS) - System improvement by capacity increase and
reinforcement of distribution system.
Special Loans (SL) - Financing workshop and production facilities for
SEBs.
System Improvement (SI) - Replacing SS due to the creation of a separate
fund by GOI.
Low Tension Capacitors (LT) - Installation of capacitors in a defined
scheme area.
(iv) Other:
Single Wire Earth Return (MPS) - Experimental schemes using SWER technology
Potential Scheme Area Advance (AL-PPA) - Advance loan for starting
electrification of a scheme area with long
gestation period, ultimately converted to area
schemes.
The terms of the loans associated with the above scheme categories,
and the viability criteria applied by REC until now are set out in Annex 6).



- 44 -                                                        ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
79OOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Viability Criteria for and Terms and Conditions Applicable to REC Loans
Loan (defined                               Interest Rates (% per Year)                                                     Viability Criteria
in S Category             Year        Year       Year      Year       Year       Year       Grace Deriod       Year of              Return on Investment (%)
Annex 1)                  1-5         6-10      11-15      16-20      21-25      26-30        (Years)         Project Life          Net 1/ 3/        Gross I/
OA                       7-1/2          8       8-1/2      9-1/2                                  5               5                 (-)2      or        20
or                                                                                      7                 BE
7-1/2          8      8                                                                 15                3-1/2
OB                       7            7-1/2    8          8-1/2        9-1/2                      5               5                 (-)3-1/2  or        15
or                                                                                     10                 BE
7            7-1/2    8          8                                                      20                3-1/2
OC                       4-1/4        5-1/4    6-1/4       7-1/4       8-1/4      9-1/4           5
ST (backward)            8              8      8                                                  2               7                 BE  Or serve as basis for
NE schemes costing not
(advanced)           8              8                                                         2                5                BE  less than the cost of
NT schemes in MNP areas
and not less than twice
the cost of ST schemes
in other than MNP areas
before the end of the
loan period in both cases.
SU                       6-1/4        6-1/2    6.3/4      7-1/2        8-1/2       9-1/2          5               7                 (-)6         or      10
or
6-1/4        6-1/2    6_3/4      7-1/2        7-1/2                                     15                 BE
25                3-1/2
Ss                       8              8                                                         1               5                 3-1/2                 _
MG,MH & MI               For transmission portion same as applicable to ST category (except in MNP areas in States having
provision for transmission which will be governed by MNP terms and conditions).  For area portion
same as applicable to OA, OB, SU, MNP category as the case may be.
ME                       8              8                                                         2               2                 -                      15
MF                       8              8                                                         2               2                 -                      10
MF (LI)                  8              8                                                         2               2                 -                      20
M (Ps)                   4-1/4          6-1/4                                                     2               -                 _
AL (PPA)                 7-3/4      (2 years or less)                                             2               2                 _                      10
AL (APP)                 11         (1 years or less)                                             -               -                 -
MNP (TBD)                6              6       6-1/2      6_1/2        7-1/4       7-1/4         5               7                 (-)6         or        10
15                BE
25                3-1/2
MNP (O)                  6              6       6-1/2      6-1/2        7-1/4       7-1/4         5               5                 (-)6         or        10
15                BE
25                3-1/2
SL                       8                                                                        -               -                 -                      -
RB                       5              5       5                                                 -               _                 _
SI                       8-1/4        8-1/4    8_1/4                                              2               7                 -                      17-1/2
LT                       8                                                                        -               -                 -                      -
SPA 1                    9              9                                                         2               2                 -                      10
2                   9               9      9                                                  2               4                 -                     10
SPI 1                    9-1/4        9-1/4                                                       2               2                 -                      15
2                   9-1/4         9-1/4    9-1/4                                              2               4                 -                     15
SPD 1                    2            2                                                           2                2                -                      10
2                    2            2         2                                                 2               4                 -                      10
Net return measured as one year's revenue minus cost of energy, as % of investment.  Gross return is one year's revenue as % of investment.
For SPD projects, investment excludes infrastructure.
MNP (Tribal, Hill and Desert Areas) end MNP (Ordinary).
BE - breakeven
Source: REC



I- 45 -
ANNEx 6
Page 2
NOTES:
1. In respect of the second and subsequent 'OA' schemes from same district in AA States, direct loan asistance from REC
is restricted to 60% of the project cost.
2. The 'SS' schemes aimed at providing adequate power supply to the Rural Electric Co-operative projects at 11 kV bus
at proper voltage, are not subjected to the criteria of viability.
3. Under ST category, direct loan assistance from REC is restricted to 80% of the project cost except in case of
MNP areas, Mini Project areas and areas of operation of Rural Electric Co-operative Societies.
4. Under SS category, direct loan assistance from REC is restricted to 80% of the project cost except in case of 'AA' States,
and except for the schemes meant either exclusively or substantially for Rural Electric Co-operative Project areas.
5.  A rebate of 1/4% is allowed by REC on interest at all stages for prompt payment except in case of AL (APP) and SPA
(1&2) loans.
6.  In MNP (tribal, hill and desert) and SU areas the Investment on 11 kV (main and spur) lines is excluded from capital
base of the project for the purpose of computations of net return.
7.  In case of OA/OB/SU/MNP areas where the alternative criterion the basis of gross return is adopted for examining the
viability at the first stage, the second and subsequent stages of viability are examined on the basis of net return
ciiteria.
8.  A penal rate of compound interest of 2S% above the stipulated rate of interest is levied on overdue installments of interest
or principal or both.
9. With the introduction of SI (System Improvement) and LT (LT Capacitors) categories of loan, the SS Category of Loan has
been withdrawn w.e.f. 8/5/77.
10. With the introduction of SPA (1) and SPA (2) categories of loan, MF and MF (LI) categories have been withdrawn w.e.f.
5/16/78.
11. With the introduction of SPI (1) and SPI (2) categories, ME category has been withdrawn w.e.f. 5/16/78.



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Installments of REC Loan Disbursement (in %)
Installments
Initial     2nd         3rd        4th         5th
Normal Programme
(OA, OB, SU- area schemes)               35           25          15         15          10
M.N.P.                                     40          30          10          10         10
SI/ST/Mini Schemes                         50          50          -          -           -
aN
Note: The initial installment is released in two stages i.e. 60% on
execution of documents and 40% on furnishing requisite certificates.
Source: REC



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Development of REC Lending Activity 1969-78 in Major Categories of Loans
(Loan Amount in Re Million)
Particulars                 1969-70            1970-71           1971-72            1972-73           1973-74            1974-75           1975-76            1976-77          1977-78          TOTAL
No.  Loan         No.   Loan        No.              Loan       No. l   oan        No.   Loan         No.    Loan        No.   Loan        No.   Loan      No.   LoanNo  Los
Arprovals
Ordinary,:  Advanced Areas (OA)        6     29:0        51      296.4      55      310.8     104    447.7       62      251.0     42       171.8      42       158.9    39      130.7   14    76.6    415    1,872.9
Ordinary : Backward Areas (GB)         5     25.0        38      188.6      44      304.6       71    357.3      53      253.6      56      283.7      46       248.9    68      350.9   ka    193.9   421    2,206.5
Ordinary iCs-operatives (OC)           -     -             5     135.4      -  -         -            -          -       -           3       35.3       2        31.0      1       7.9    2       39.5    13       249.1
Special      Underdeveloped Areas (Nill
Tribal & Desert etc.)(SUT)-    -            -       -           2       8.i       16      71.0      38      146.6     12        49.8      12        57.6    15       71.6   29    117.0   124         521.7
Mini         Parm Production (NP)      -     --                  --                                   -          -       -           5        6.8      61        71.5    8o       89.7   38       44.5   184       212.5
Mini         Parts Lift Irrigation
(MF)- (-LI)-                                                                    -       -          -       -- -                           9       10.5    7       9.0    16         19.5
Mini      :Growth Centre (MG)                                                                                    1               4  7.8  12  12.4       6         5.6      6       5.6    4        3.3    42        34.7
Mini         H ealth Centre (MN)       -     --                  --                                   -          i4        7.3      *6        3.5       7         6.3      7       5.6    2        1.2    36        23.9
Mini      : Industries (MI)            -     --                  -          -       -          -      --                 --                 -           2         2.5      -     - -         -              2        2.5          a
Mini      :Industrial Estates (ME) -         --                  -          -       -         -       --                 --                 -7                    6.9    24       10.3   15        7.8    46        25.0
Mini      :Pilot Single Wire Earth
Neturn (MPS)            -     -           -       --                                   -          -       --                 -2                    1.4    -       -        --               2         1.4
Advance Lsan: Potential Project
Area (AL:PPA)          -     -           -       -         -       -          -       -          -      --                  -4                    5.6     8       U1.3    4        5.5    16        22.4
Special  :Transmsissison  STSWI                                              4      22.4       8       54.8       6       35.0      8        46.4       8        81.3    10       33.4    7       10.8    51       284.1
Special      System Tmprovement
(Ss &Si)              -      -           -      -          -       -1                   1.4     21       38.6      20        38.8      7        17.7      9       20.4   53    319.2   111        436.1
L.T. capacitors (IT)                   -     --                                               -       --                           -        --                  ---                       33     69.6    33         69.6
Special Prsject:  Agriculture (SPA)                                                  - -                                 --                 --                  --               -        1       48.1    19        48.1
Minimum Needs Programme (MNIP)         -      --                            -       -          -      --                 -        116       645.8      77       467.1    59      286.0  io6    46o.4   358    1,859.3
Special Lsan (SL)                      -     --                  --                                   --                 --                 -          -        -         2        1.2    24    13.7    06          14.9
Special Development Reserve (SOB)   -        --                  -          -      -          -       --                 --                  13.5      -          8.5    -         3.5   -        10.5   -          36.0
Advance Loan: Annual Plan Pu-rchase
(AL:APP)             -                                                              -          -       -          -       --                   64.5    -        86.4   -       125.2  -          276.1
Narijan Basti (HB) Loan                -     --                  -          10        5.5     27       14.4      33       14.6      35        8.3       4         2.2    -                               log-10     45.0
Source: EEC



- 48 -                           ANNEX 9
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Actual REC Scheme Connections as % of Forecasts
All REC schemes to          REC schemes approved   REC schemes approved
March 1978                 befotd March 1974       after March 1974
All consumer    Pumps       All consumer  Pumps    All consumer  Pumps
State           connections      only       connections   only      connections   only
Andhra Pradesh        63.8       80.4            56.3      73.2          70.2         80.7
Assam                 12.6       17.7            10.8      22.4          17.3         13.3
Bihar                 23.3       28.7            22.1      27.9          23.1         27.1
Gujarat              92.4        60.0            81.0      48.0          84.3         75.8
Haryana               97.4       92.1            83.9      75.0         116.2       119.7
Himachal Pradesh      92.7       41.2            84.8      34.3         130.3         33.0
Jammu & Kashmir      85.4         3.2            81.0       4.5          67.3         0.4
Karnataka            58.7        85.6            45e3      70.8          83.3        17.2
Kerala                70.0       74.6            52.5      59.3         102.3        95.5
Madhya Pradesh       65.2        53.6            50.5      42.7          71.5        60.5
Maharashtra          82.9        86.2            79.5      71.2          70.0       119.6
Manipur              n.a         n.a             n.a       n.a           n.a         n.a
Meghalaya            44.9        46.1            27.4      39.3          52.2        47.5
Nagaland             89.1        n.a             n.a       n.a           89.1        n.a
Orissa               37.0        10.1            25.3       6.3          84.0        43.6
Punjab               76.3        69.0            69.4      59.4         105.6        82.8
Rajasthan            64.2        72.0            53.2      57.4          84.9       101.5
Tamil Nadu           70.1        96.7            66.5      92.5          91.2       103.9
Tripura              18.2         5.5           n.a        n.a           18.2         5.5
Uttar Pradesh        22.9        54.6            20.2      46.3          28.7        72.8
West Bengal          23.8        52.2            20.6      47.2          77.4        54.9
Total                 59.8       66.2            52.0      56.2          75.5         82.8
n.a. Not Applicable
Source: REC



0-                                -  -                                  ANNEX 10
Ca
Co-.   -    0    0  04    0    0'   -    04   -t   -    0-   t    UN   0    C)   0    0'   '0    0.   41   -
0-04  0000   0-000 00-O04ONONO0- 0
-.                        .0.0-  .000004
0 0- 04 -* 0 0 0 ON 0-a 0 0 C
C..C                                                H
H           00-
0  '0 ON -t   0.   0- 0 CCJ C' C ONHOONO.-. 0-a ON
CC  Cap    fl 04 04 CC 0- 0    0  00404  C0ONI-  .0    0            04 ON  ON
0CC CCC    044 H 04 ON ON   CC   0- aO 0           0  ON 0-    0-.N0040
0  0 0  0                  ON 0         .           0            g
I   0- 0 'C 'C          C          ON C   C 04 0  ON ON 0 ON 0
0  0  ON 0 00        6  61C  0-    6    0.0  0-0  0 0            0
0  0  H 00        0  ON ON ON   ON              04 0     ON
H  0 0  0    0          'C H        ON   8'           0  0  0   8
0C         0           04                  'C     H            0
0-0 CCOI  ON   0  0  0 0  0  0 0 0  0         0  0 0  0  0  0  0 0  0   0
O C.CI       0- 0  0  0- ON 'C 00000   0 'C 0- 0  0  0 04 'C   0
0    *  0  'C ON 0  'C  0  0- H  ONONONO   0-0-ONOaO0-  ON 0   ON
0 000'C00.-.000  ON 0-a  0-ON0H000000a
0-   0-   ON  04  CaN   0  8    ON   0    'C    0  0
0404H8'8'8'   CNO'CON
ON   0    0    04  'C   04   0-   0   8   0
C0-    0.0040            ON 0-             04040404000-00    0)
0 COO 00400                      O0  8881t8
00-C  000
0- 00040-04CN0-ON0-04O                      000-0-ON   00  0
041

001    04 0 0  04 0  0 0  0- ONOONONO  ON 04 00-00H00-
        ON ON 0  0-0  0.0  0  040- 0-0'CON  'C 'C 'C0-000CN
*'0-0-1                                          0
0-   0                     ON 04 ON ON ON ON 000040040'CON'CONON0-00    0
C0aa                                 0                    0                0
ONON0ONHON  ON 0  0 ON H  0- 0 0  0  ON 0  04 0  0- ON  ON
C               '
0   C                      0-00-00-0   0  C' 0-8' 0  H  ON 0  H  0 0  0  0  ON V   8'
8               0
a                     000040404040404 H                                H                H
H ON ON 0- ON ON 0- 04 0 0 ON 0 0 OHOONO0-004 0
0 04 0 ON H HOONHONO H 0 0 0 ON 04 0 0 0- 8
8
0-04ONONHHONONON    H 0 0                          0 0 ON 04 04
ONCNONO0-040ON000   0 C                              'Co
N.     0-         ON  a  a ON 0  a a 0  a  a 0  . ON  a 0          00-0    0
OC'  0-       H
8'             C.Ca     0  04 0-         0  H  0-             ON0'C              ONONO    ON
0  04 ON 0- 0 0  04 0  00   04   0-    0 0  0 ON 0  ON 0-  ON
CO 0-i ONOOONONONO0404ONO   04  ONON00404004ON
 10-
O       0-0404040400-000-H                  ON   ON 0  0       0  ON ON  0
C0-* 0 0- 04 04 0 ON 0 ON 0 0 04 I ON 0400 0004040
C  Car   0  ON 04 0  ONONO  04040  0        04    0  0  0  0-   ON ON  ON
00-01    H    H                    04 0                  H        H      ON
0-
0000004040404040   04  00 ON 0 0 0 0  8  S<
04                                                                      0
-a  .                                                                          C
CI   0  0  ON 0  ON ON 00400404          ON    0 0  0  0  04 0  ON  ON
04    04    04    0  0  0  0    0  04  a  a    04    0  04   04  0  04  0-
04 00400-00040004                   ON 0  ON 0- ON 04 ON ON 04  04   CC
0-0404040040404 0 0 0 a H 004040000 0 6 C.
0  0                          0       a,
04                                                                        0    00
C                                                                              CC
00-C'    0400   ONONON0-0400ON              OOONH   0  0  04 0- 0   0    00
0 I....0
00Cr    0  ON ON 0  ON 04 04 0 0  04 04  a 0  0-000400ONCa    04   C-,
C0-CI   0  0  0040040404           0 0      04    000400404ON                  CC.
H    OC
I 000000 OOON0-.00   0-.-,0'COON'C00                                       00
041
O              C           0                                          00
C              0  C        C                             0
C. 8        C a.   041.-            0-0   0  C   8         8
041             8a8"                               0    NC
OC.C8                  04C0CCC0aa
C        C  C 0      0  C C  C  0 0  C C 0  0                          CO  C
COO 0C0CCC8CCC.  C CCOC
0  0  040000400   C C) 04 04 04 0               04 0-000              01010



- 50 -
ANNEX 11
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT II
Economic Analysis
Approach
1.        The project has been defined as REC expenditure for eligible schemes
in eligible States during 1980/81 and 1981/82. Considering this, the optimal
method of economic analysis of the project is the sample analysis of its compo-
nent schemes. The steps employed in the analysis are:
(a) Cost/benefit analysis of typical schemes representing the
major categories of REC's lending portfolio, based on data
supplied by REC for a wide selection of schemes;
(b) Decision on eligible scheme categories for the second Credit,
based on the results of (a); and
(c) Sample analysis of several actual schemes in the REC port-
folio, covering the eligible categories.
In addition, two schemes in Madhya Pradesh, approved by REC during the early
1970's, were evaluated in depth in order to gain insights about problems
encountered in implementation.
Methodology
2.        The method selected for economic analysis is a cost savings approach
that attempts to quantify net benefits for users of the supply system. In this
approach, electricity is considered as one alternative source of energy and
compared to other energy sources yielding the same results, such as diesel
motors for industry, diesel pumps for irrigation, and kerosene for domestic
lighting.
3.        It is reasonable to assume that by introducing electricity in a
village, more area will be irrigated, and agricultural output will increase.
However, for proper analysis, incremental agricultural output must logically
be attributed only to irrigation, not to electricity supply, which is only
one potential source of energy for irrigation.
4.        The cost saving approach implies that new electricity consumers in
rural areas are either switching from alternative energy to electricity, or
if electricity would not be supplied, many would obtain alternative energy
sources. It is possible that, would electricity have not been provided in



- 51 -
ANNEX 11
the area, some rural electricity consumers who have obtained electric con-
nections might not have purchased an alternative power source. In such
cases, benefits might be greater or less than assumed. Available sample
evidence of consumer behavior indicates, however, that many new electricity
consumers, be:ng those with a sufficient asset base to consider even
solutions more expensive than electricity, would have turned to alter-
native energy sources in the absence of electricity.
Economic Cost of Alternative Energy Sources for Rural Use
5.        Renewable energy sources (solar, wind, biomass) were not incorporated
in the cost comparison because of excessive cost, unsuitability, or early stage
of development. At present, none of these technologies can be treated as a
realistic, reliable, large-scale alternative to electrification or dieseliza-
tion for India.
Irrigation Pumping
6.        The following parameters were taken to be representative for India
as a whole:
(a)  the average electric irrigation pump has a rating of 5
horsepower (HP), (3.75 kW), and is used to lift water
from an open, relatively shallow well. For the same
output of water, a diesel engine with a higher HP rating
of 6.5 is necessary;
(b)  the life of an electric pump is 15 years, that of a diesel
pump 10 years;
(c)  the average number of operating hours per year is about
800 per pump;
(d)  average diesel fuel consumption in a pump is 0.31 liters
per HP/hour, lubricant consumption is 0.03 liters per
HP/hour; and
(e)  the electric pump can operate unattended.
7.        The following average cost assumptions were used (1978 prices):



- 52 -
ANNEX 11
Electric     Diesel
(3.75 kW)   (6.5 HP)
Investment cost of the pump and
related expenditure for install-
ation (Rs per pump)                            4,000        6,800
Operating and maintenance cost of
the pump (Rs per pump per year)
-  labor for operation                        -          1,000
-  repairs and maintenance                   400         1,400
SEB investment cost in transmission
and distribution facilities (Rs per pump)
-  higher density of pumps                  7,100          -
-  low density of pumps                    15,000          -
-  close to existing lines                  4,200          -
SEB operating and maintenance cost for
transmission and distribution facilities
(Rs per pump per year)
-  high density                               210          -
-  low density                                450
-  close to lines                             125          -
Fuel cost (Rs per pump per year at
Rs 0.90/1 diesel fuel CIF)                        -         1,400
Lubricant cost (Rs per pump per year
at Rs 2.80/1 lubricant CIF)                       -           440
Marginal cost of electricity supply to
the pump (Rs per pump per year) /a
- cost at rural substation including
subsequent distribution losses
= Rs 0.68/kWh                         2,040
-  cost at pump = Rs 0.77/kWh               2,310
/a   The representative assumption is that the bulk of consumption
supplied by the rural substation is irrigation pumping at the
system peak time.  All available marginal cost studies (with
the exception of Punjab) make this assumption. A factor of
0.88, derived from Andhra Pradesh experience, is applied to
the average marginal cost at the pump to arrive at substation-
level marginal cost plus distribution losses (i.e. excluding
marginal cost of distribution system investment and operating).
Sources: SEBs' marginal cost studies, and Andhra Pradesh power
sector review mission.



- 53 -
ANNEX 11
8.        Applying the assumptions and costs, and using the case of a large
new scheme consisting only of pump connections at some distance from existing
power lines, the following cost comparison results from an approach converting
all public and private identifiable costs in the project area to annual figures
and using the cost of electricity at the substation level:
Rupees per year per pump
Electric           Diesel
Annual charge for private investment
per pump                                        525              1,107
Annual charge for SEB investment per
pump                                            753                -
Private O&M per pump per year                     400              2,400
SEB O&M per pump per year (for distri-
bution facilities)                              210                -
Marginal cost of electricity (Rs 0.68/kWh)
or fuel cost per pump per year                2,040              1,840
Total cost per year of operation           3,928              5,347
Annual cost difference in favor of electric
pump                                          1,419
9.        On average, the total cost to the economy of operating a diesel pump
is higher than that of an electric pump yielding the same water output. An
additional benefit of a diesel pump is its independence of a fixed location,
enabling farmers owning scattered pieces of land with individual wells to move
one pump around. On the other hand, the greater reliability and much lower
breakdown frequency of an electric pump constitute additional benefits in favor
of electrification.
Small Industry
10.       The following parameters are assumed to be representative for small
village industries such as a directly connected diesel engine for rice and
flour milling:
(a) the average rating of the power source is 10 HP (both for
electric and diesel engines), equivalent to 7.5 kW;
(b) the average life of diesel power sources is 10 years, of
electric sources 15 years;
(c) the average number of operating hours per unit is 800 hours
per year, implying 6,000 kWh per year;
(d) fuel consumption per HP/hour is the same as the case of
pumps; marginal cost of providing electricity to the rural
area is applicable at the same rate as in the pump case



- 54 -
ANNEX 11
reflecting the dominant irrigation consumption pattern at
the substation level; and
(e)  the major distribution infrastructure investment below
substation level has been already attributed to the elec-
trification of the area for purposes of pump connections.
Rupees per year per connection
Electric                 Diesel
Annual charge for private investment
cost of power source and related instal-
lation expenditure                                   790                   1,630
Private O&M per unit per year                           800                  1,500
Fuel and lubricant cost                                  -                   2,830
Marginal cost of electricity supply at
substation level                                   4,100                     -
5,690                  5,960
Difference in favor of electricity                      270                    -
11.       Based on these cost averages, the annuitized costs of both power
sources are approximately equal, amounting to about Rs 6,000 each (particu-
larly if a small share of electricity infrastructure cost is attributed to
the electric alternative).
Domestic Lighting
12.       The obvious alternative energy source to electric lighting in
village houses is kerosene. The CEA average domestic consumption assumption
is 360 kWh/year. A lower estimate of 180 kWh/year/house is used in this cal-
culation reflecting a perhaps more realistic assumption of 4 hours lighting
daily with 125 Watts in rural households.
13.       The available information results in the following comparison, again
assuming that the bulk of infrastructure cost below substation level is attri-
buted to the pump connection scheme.
Rupees per house per year
Electric          Kerosene
Initial private investment
annualized at 10%                              16                  5
Maintenance                                      10                  20
Marginal cost of electricity
at Rs 0.68/kWh                               .122                 -
Kerosene cost at 0.15 1/hour/lamp,
4 hours/day                                    -                 200
Total annual cost                          148                225
Cost difference in favor of electricity          77



- 55 -
ANNEX 11
14.       There is a cost advantage for electric lighting for the same amount
of lighting hours per year. (The quality of light provided by kerosene, how-
ever, might be inferior to that of a high-wattage bulb).
Street Lighting
15.       The assumptions for a street light are 6 hours of utilization of
a 40W light per day, amounting to 2,200 hours or 88 kWh/year.
Rupees per light per year
Electric          Kerosene
Annual charge for investment cost                33                  9
Maintenance                                      10                 20
Marginal cost of electricity, or fuel cost    60                   220
Total                                      103                248
Cost differential in favor of electricity    145
Generation Isolated from the Grid
16.       Sample data provided by REC for a West Bengal case are the basis
for the calculation of the average cost per kWh generated by an isolated
diesel generator supplying a small rural area with electricity. The follow-
ing parameters are used in the example:
Capacity                   :     120 kW
Fuel consumption           :     0.4 1/kWh
Fuel cost                  :     Rs 0.90/1
Lubricant consumption    :       0.01 I/kWh
Lubricant cost             :     Rs 2.80/1
Annual generation          :     101,400 kWh
(i.e. load factor less
than 10%)
Life                       :     20 years
17.       Based on the parameters above, the following annuitized cost of
operating the diesel generator can be developed:
Rs
Annual charge for investment cost               49,558
Maintenance                                     12,660
Other recurrent costs                            2,100
Fuel cost (for 101,400 kWh)                     36,504
Lubricant cost                                   2,840
Total annual cost                         103,662
Cost per kWh at generation                       1.02



- 56 -
ANNEX 11
18.       The generating cost of Rs 1.02/kWh would have to compete with a
marginal grid cost of about Rs 0.70/kWh in West Bengal. Although the cost
per kWh falls rapidly with increased utilization of the diesel generating unit
(e.g. to Rs 0.70 at a load factor of about 20%, and to Rs 0.60 at about 30%),
the cost per kWh of the grid connection would also decrease with increased
capacity utilization. Higher load factors improve the unit cost of both
alternatives.
19.       Economic Analysis of Schemes:  List of Assumptions
(a)  Typical Schemes (all-India average)
OA and OB, MNP and SU, MG and MH were aggregated into
OA/OB, MG/MH and MNP/SU schemes. SPA, SPI, and SI schemes
represent actual REC categories. The assumptions concent-
rate the bulk of SEB investment in the first years.
(i) Capital Cost: Initial Investment.
Investment per connection by SEB:
OA-OB            Rs 1,700
MNP-SU           Rs 2,800
SPA              Rs 5,205
(Other scheme categories derived from individual appraisal
reports.)
(ii) Additional minor investment by SEB for additional
connections beyond the first five years: Rs 150-
500 per connection;
(iii) Operating and maintenance costs incurred by SEB:
3% of cumulative SEB investment;
(iv) Marginal cost of electricity supply at substation
including distribution losses: Rs 0.68/kWh;
(v)  Energy consumption per typical connection as in
paras 6-15 of this Annex;
(vi) Average number of connections per scheme: 2,000
(OA/OB, MNP/SU, and SPA), and 700 (MG/MH);
(vii)  Share of consumer category in total number of
connections:



- 57 -
ANNEX 11
Consumer category   OA-OB   MNP-SU   SPA   MG/MH
Agricultural           15%     16%    100%       5%
Industrial              3%      2%      -       3%
Domestic               73%     60%      -       82%
Street Light            9%     22%      -       10%
Total           100%    100%    100%   100%
(viii) Phasing of investment expenditure and connections made:
(OA/OB, MNP/SU, SPA)
1st year   2nd year   3rd year   4th year   5th year
15%        20%         25%          20%          20%
(ix) From the fifth year onwards, no demand growth without
further investment, or rapidly rising line losses. If
further growth is possible due to continuing SEB invest-
ment, demand grows at 7.5% per year;
(x)  Private cost per connection as in paras 6-15 of this
Annex;
(xi) Cost savings for system improvement schemes are calcul-
ated at 11 kV level comparing the "with" and "without"
project case;
(xii) Cost savings for SPI schemes arise from the use of
electricity rather than having captive diesel generators,
assuming that most industrial consumption is taken at
11 kV;
(b)  Sample Schemes
Actual costs and actual achievements or specific assumptions
are derived from REC monitoring and appraisal reports. Where
actual achievements are below targets, consumption growth
forecasts have been reduced accordingly.
20.       Shadow Pricing
(a)  SEB Investment:  border prices for major items such as
conductors and transformers were identified. Other cost
components were revalued in terms of border prices by
using a standard conversion factor of 0.87. Unskilled
labor was valued at 75% of the market wage and converted
to border prices. The weighted conversion factor for
this cost item is 0.96, considering that domestic prices
for aluminum conductor are lower than CIF prices;



- 58 -
ANNEX 11
(b)  SEB Operating and Maintenance Cost:  the assumption of 80%
labor and 20% materials content (valued at the shadow wage
rate and using standard conversion factor) yields a weighted
conversion factor of 0.70;
(c)  Marginal Cost of Electricity:  assuming that the cost ele-
ments entering into total marginal cost are adequately
represented by the basket of goods underlying the calcula-
tion of the standard conversion factor, a factor of 0.87
was used; and
(d)  Private Cost:  private investment and the cost of diesel
fuel and lubricant were valued at border prices, the remain-
ing cost items were converted to border prices by using the
standard conversion factor and the shadow/market wage ratio
for rural unskilled labor (0.5). The weighted conversion
factor is 0.88.
21.       Economic Rate of Return:  Results
(A)  Typical REC Schemes:
Costs and benefits are based on all-India average or on
representative appraisal reports. The rates of return are:
(i) Constant 1978 market prices; demand growth and SEB
investment until year 5 (except SI):
OA-OB    =   18%            SPA    =  55%
MNP-SU        10%          MH-MG  =   6%
SI       -   41%           SPI    =  above 100%
(ii)  Constant 1978 shadow prices; demand growth and SEB
investment until year 5 (except SI):
OA-OB    =   18%            SPA    =  46%
MNP-SU   =   10%           MH-MG  =   6%
SI       =   38%           SPI    =  above 100%
(iii)  Sensitivity to demand growth assumptions; demand
and SEB investment growth until year 15; constant
1978 market prices:
OA-OB    =   24%            SPA    =  55%
MNP-SU   =   15%           MH-MG  =  10%
(iv)  Increasing the marginal cost of energy by 45%
SPI = 83%



- 59 -
ANNEX 11
(v)  Decrease in benefit by 25% due to either less kWh
savings or low marginal cost:
SI = 33%
(vi)  Sensitivity to slower initial phasing of connections;
constant 1978 market prices; demand growth and SEB
investment until year 5:
Based on actual target achievement data, it is assumed
that the connections in the area schemes are made more
slowly, while SEB investment goes on as planned.
------------year---------------
1st    2nd    3rd    4th    5th    Total
OA-OB:    5%      10%    30%    25%    30%        100%
MNP-SU:   1.5%    5%    20%    30%    43.5%   100%
The results are:
OA-OB    =   16%
MNP-SU   =    9%
(B) Sample Schemes
(i)  Schemes visited by the appraisal mission.  For purposes
of detailed evaluation, the mission visited two schemes
in Madhya Pradesh which have been under implementation
for four and six years. Early in 1972, REC approved a
loan for the electrification of the Patan Scheme of
Jabalpur district in Madhya Pradesh. Classified in the
OA category, the scheme was to cover 42 villages and
to bring 7,000 additional acres under cultivation after
five years. The total forecast connected load was esti-
mated at 5329.30 KW. During 1974, REC granted a loan
to MPSEB for the electrification of Ichawar Scheme of
Bhopal district. Approved as an OB scheme, the loan
was to cover 134 villages with a total connected load
of 5563.60 KW. About 4,000 additional acres were to
come under cultivation on completion of the scheme.
(a)  On the basis of actual cost and actual achieve-
ments, the economic rates of return are as
follows:
Market prices; demand growth and SEB investment
until year 5:
OA  =  14%       OB  =  15%



- 60 -
ANNEX 11
Shadow prices; demand growth and SEB investment
until year 5:
OA  =  13%      OB  =  15%
Assuming demand growth until year 15; with fur-
ther necessary SEB investment:
OA  =  8%      OB  =  12%
(b)  In 1972, REC appraised and approved the OA scheme
with the following number of target connections:
700 agricultural, 50 industrial, 1,925 domestic
and 220 street light, for a total capital cost of
Rs 3,247,000. These targets were to be met by the
5th year. Against these, the achievements at end
of 1978 amounted only to 118 agricultural, 36 indus-
trial, 356 domestic, and zero street light connec-
tions, that is less than 20% achievements of connec-
tion targets versus 63% of planned disbursement
(Rs 2,053,000). This rather disappointing perform-
ance has been attributed by REC and MPSEB to:
-    The failure of commercial banks and the Land
Development Bank to extend sufficient credit
to farmers in the scheme area;
-    The general shortage of aluminum supply which
delayed implementation of RE schemes through-
out the State;
-    The lack of coordination among various agencies
involved in rural development in the area;
-    Groundwater potential appeared to be signifi-
cantly less than it was estimated at the time
of REC appraisal;
-    REC appraisal underestimated the investment
cost which did not include a price contingency.
(c)  Only slightly better results have been obtained
for the OB scheme. Approved by REC in 1974 for
Rs 5,176,000 to cover the electrification of 1,200
agricultural connections, 60 industrial 2,000 domestic
and 1,000 street lights, the actual achievements at
the end of 1978 were 509 agricultural, 379 domestic,
22 industrial, and 538 street lights for a total
disbursement of Rs 3,978,000, that is 34% achievement
of connections for 76.6% of planned disbursement.
Low achievement of targets is a result of optimistic
demand forecasting in the REC appraisal report.



- 61 -
ANNEX 11
(d) Using the original REC appraisal report estimates for
demand growth and costs, the economic rates of return
would have been 47% for the OA scheme, and 39% for the
OB scheme.
(ii)  Other Sample Schemes
Economic rates of return are calculated for two OA, two
OB, three SPA, one SI and one SPI scheme. These cate-
gories have been selected for IDA finance on the basis
of the typical results in Section (A). The results are
given below, in %:
Market Prices; demand growth and SEB investment until
year 5 (except SI):
OAl   =  73       OBI   =  39        SI    =  40
OA2   =  45       OB2   =  39       SPI   =  above 100
SPAl  =  49       SPA2  =  43       SPA3  =  26
Shadow Prices; demand growth and SEB investment until
year 5 (except SI):
OAl   =  66       OBI   =  36        SI    =  38
OA2   =  42       OB2   =  29        SPI   =  above 100
SPAl  =  45       SPA2  =  40       SPA3  =  25
Assuming demand growth until year 15; with further SEB
investment:
QAl   =  76       OB1   =  39
nA2   =  47       OB2   =  38
SPAI  =  55       SPA2  =  49       SPA3  =  32
Increasing the marginal cost of energy by 45%:
SPI   =  83
Decrease in benefit by 25%: due to either less kWh
savings or low marginal cost.
SI   =  33



-62-                                       ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost
Item                                                Rs million           US$ million
A. Equipment
I. ICB suitable:
Conductors                                        706                   82
Transformers                                      233                   27
Insulators, meters
& switchgear                                    293                   34
Single-phase equipment
and capacitors for pilot
schemes                                           7                    0.8
II. LCB suitable:
Cross arms                                         12                    1.4
GI wire                                            10                    1.2
Air break switches                                 35                    4.0
Insulated wire                                    101                   11.8
LT cut outs                                        15                    1.8
Lightning arresters                                21                    2.4
III.  Other                                                708                  82.6
IV.  Sub-total                                          2,141                 249
B.  Civil Works                                              585                   68
C. Overheads, training,
technical assistance                                   130                   15
D.  Total (1978 prices)                                    2,856                  332
E.  Contingencies                                            584                   68
F.  Total (current prices)                                 3,440                 400
Source: REC



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Statewise Requirements of Materials Procured under the Project
Distri-             Insula-
Power    bution               tors                 Cost of   Cost of
Condue-     TtEun-    Trans-   Switch-    and                      ICB        LCB     Total cost of
tors     formers   formers    gear    Hardware   Meters  Naterials Materials   materials
(Km)         (No.)     (No.)    (No.)    (No.)         (No.)  (Rs mn.)  (Rs mn.) (Rs mn       s WZma)
Andhra Pradesh                  39,950        48       2,450       180    427,200    61,000        89        16        105      12
Assam                            8,800        -          400        -     304,000      2,400       20         4         24       3
Bihar                           47,450        36       3,510       122  2,049,850    74,150       103        18        121       14
Gujarat                         32,140        -        1,942       110    605,850    47,360        74        13         87       10
Karnataka                       21,625        -        1,770        -     278,250    45,040        56-/      10         66        8
Kerala                           9,000        -          800        -     304,000    32,500        25         5         30        3
Maharashtra                     47,350        -        3,180        -   2,244,000    80,400       107        19        126       15
a,
Madhya Pradesh                  71,435        -        5,965        -   1,625,000    99,750       145        18        163       19
Orissa                          11,125        -        2,136        22    139,885    12,046        36         6         42        5
Punjab                          26,007        12       2,210        75    463,900    43,100        65        12         77        9
Rajasthan                       38,100        36       1,740        -   1,129,350    17,300        80-1      14         94       11
Tainil Nadu                     16,045        55       1,210       274     95,000    16,600        84        18        102       12
West Bengal                     43,500        -        4,900        -   2,081,100    54,000       104        19        123       14
Uttar Pradesh                   53,480        -        9,156        -   1,683,526    26,440       134        22        156       18
Total Quantity (units)         473,153       187      41,369       783 13,430,911   612,086       n.a.       n.a.      n.a.    a.a.
Total Cost 1978 prices             706        49         184        29          92         62   1,122       194      1,316      153
(Rs million)
Price Contingency 6% p.a.          .i04        8          30         5          15         11     173        21        194       22
(Rs million)
Total Cost (Rs million)            810        57         214        34         107         73   1,295       215      1,510      175
Total Cost (US$ million)            94         7          24         4          12          9     150        25        175     175
1/  Including cost of special equipment for pilot projects.
n.a.  =  not applicable
Source:  REC



- 64 -                               ANNEX 12
Page 3
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Quantities of LCB Materials to be Procured under the Project
Quantity
1. Cross arms (No.)
(a)  'V' shape with single top support                      75,000
(b)  4-pin cross arms                                      100,000
(c)  2-pin cross arms                                      100,000
2. Lightning Arresters (units)
52,000 sets                                                156,000
3. Insulated wires (coils @100 m)
(a)  Pumps                                                 500,000
(b)  Domestic connections (50 m. per conn.)                150,000
and Street lights
(c)  Transformers - different sizes                          5,200
4.  L.T. Cut-outs (No.)
(a)  15 amps.    for - Domestic installation               600,000
- Pumps                          20,000,000
5.  G.I. Wire (MT)                                               5,000
6.  Air break switches (Both for Transformers                   62,000
and sectionalizing (No.))
Source: REC



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Schemes sanctioned by REC between 4/1/77 and 3/2/79
S1.       State                                                                                                          Total
No.                          OA                OB               SPA               SPI              SI           No. of      Costs (Rs
No.  (Rs an.)   No.  (Rs mun    No.  (Rs nn4   No.  (Rs imn.)   No.  (Rs mn.)    Schemes    Million)
1.  Andhra Pradesh      1       2.6       8      39.2     41    168.5        1       1.7     12      58.9         63          271.1
2.  Assam               -      -          -      -        -      -               -           -       -            -           -
3.  Bihar               -      -         11      45.0     18      38.0       1       1.3     12      67.1         42          151.6
4.  Gujarat             -      -         11      44.8      20     71.7       -       -         7     42.4         38          159.0
5.  Karnataka            -     -          9      46.8       3      7.1       2       6.6       5     19.9         19           80.6
6. Kerala                3     11.1       -      -        -      -           -       -         3     16.9          6           28.0
7.  Maharashtra         -      -          7      33.8     56    146.1        7       7.3     25    159.9          95          397.2    @
8.  M.P.                1       5.9      11      65.0     38      93.9       -       -       -       -            50          164.9
9.  Orissa               4     11.4       8      21.7     -      -           -       -         1      4.3         13           37.5
10.  Punjab               2      9.9       -      -        14      46.6       -       -       18    116.0          34          172.6
11.  Rajasthan            5     20.5      13      72.2      13     40.4       -       -         1      2.4         32          135.7
12.  Tamil Nadu           3      5.7       -      -         29     52.1       1       2.8      22    137.0         55          197.7
13.  U.P.                 2      7.9      10      57.9       7     22.0       -       -       -       -            19           88.0
14.  West Bengal         13     81.6       2       9.8       3     11.1       -       -       -       -            18          102.7
TOTAL             34    157.1       90    436.6    242    698.0        12     19.9    106    625.3          484         1937.1
Source: REC
x
H



-66 -                                   ANNEX 13
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Share of ICB suitable Materials in Total Typical Scheme Cost (%)
OA/OB     SPA       SPI        SI
Conductors                                       30        25        15        16
Transformers                                      5         8        12        18
Insulators                                        3       n.a.        5         2
Meters                                            3       n.a.      1.5         -
Switchgear                                        -       n.a.      1.5         8
Total                                            41        33        35        44
n.a.  -  not applicable because beyond REC financing share of SPA schemes.
Source: REC



-67 -                                ANNEX 14
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates for Pilot Schemes
Rs'OOO
1. Power Factor Control Scheme (Karnataka)
Capacitors (17,925 RKVA for
38 feeders at 8 substations)                       2,151
Switching equipment                                    1,840
Lightning arresters, airbreak
switches, measuring equipment                        188
Training for engineers                                   200
TOTAL                                              4,379
2. Single Phase Scheme (Rajasthan)
Construction of 33/11 kV substation
(1.6 MVA), 14 Km new 33 kV line,
20.5 Km replacement of 33 kV line                  1,227
118 Km HT line, 93 Km LT line,
212 distribution transformers @10 KVA              2,993
397 Single phase motors/pumps                          1,985
Service connections                                      211
Training for engineers                                   200
TOTAL                                              6,616
3.  Grand Total                                               10,995



- 68 -                                ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Procurement and Implementation Timetable
Expected
Completion Date
1. ICB Procurement:
(a) General
Issue of bid invitations                               May 15, 1979
Opening of bids                                         September 30, 1979
SEBs' contract award recommendation
to REC                                               November 30, 1979
REC 's recommendations to IDA                           December 15, 1979
Clearance by IDA                                        January 31, 1980
Contract awards by SEBs                                 February 15, 1980
Final signing of contracts                              March 15, 1980
Commencement of materials delivery                      June 1, 1980
Completion of materials delivery for
total project                                        January 31, 1982
(b) Pilot Schemes
Preparation of specifications and
issue of bid invitations                             August 31, 1979
Preparation of detailed scheme plans                    November 30, 1979
Opening of bids                                         February 28, 1980
Contract awards by SEBs                                May 31, 1980
Completion of materials delivery                        December 31, 1980
2. LCB Procurement
Preparation of Standard bidding document
by REC                                                  June 30, 1979
Concurrence of IDA to bid document                        August 15, 1979
Issue of bid invitations                                  August 30, 1979
Opening of bids                                           November 30, 1979
SEBs' contract award recommendation
to REC                                                  February 28, 1980
REC's recommendation to IDA where
Contract value is more than $100,000                    March 15, 1980
(a) Clearance of contract award by IDA                   April 30, 1980
(b) Clearance of contract award by REC where)
contract is less than $100,000           )          March 31, 1980



- 69 -                               ANNEX 15
Page 2
Expected
Completion Date
Finalization of contract                                 May 15, 1980
Commencement of material delivery                        July 1, 1980
Completion of material delivery for total
project                                                January 31, 1982
3. Implementation
Completion of pilot schemes                              December 31, 1981
Evaluation of pilot schemes                              December 31, 1982
Project completion date                                  June 30, 1983
Project closing date                                     March 31, 1984
4. Introduction of Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) and Economic Rate of Return
Techniques in REC Appraisal of Schemes
First workshop for regional REC staff and
selected SEB staff (in connection with an
REC monitoring seminar)                                July 1979
Discussions with senior SEB staff                       August 1979
Instruction of REC staff and key SEB staff
concerned                                             December 1979
Instruction of most of concerned SEB staff              April 1980
One third of eligible schemes being appraised
and approved by REC to include new methods
of viability calculation                              April 1980
Two thirds of eligible schemes to include
new methods of viability calculation                   April 1981
All eligible schemes to include new methods
of viability calculation                              April 1982
Instruction of SEB staff within the
framework of RE courses, and extension of
method to other REC schemes                            Continuous



-70 -                                  ANNEX 16
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule by Calendar Quarter
US$ million
Calendar Years                                          Quarterly          Cumulative
1980        I Q
II Q
III Q                                             1                  1
IV Q                                             3                  4
1981        I Q                                            12                 16
II Q                                            18                 34
III Q                                            23                 57
IV Q                                            27                 84
1982        I Q                                            26                110
II Q                                            23                133
III Q                                            16                149
IV Q                                            12                161
1983        I Q                                             5                166
II Q                                             5                171
III Q                                             2                173
IV Q                                             1                174
1984        I Q                                             1                175



INDIA
SEC01.D RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORP0RATI0N PROJECT
Rural Electrification Corporation Limited
Summarized Income Statements for Fro 1974 thrvugh 1978 (Actual)
and FYs 1979 through 1983 (Forecast)
(in millions of rupees except where otherwise stated)
-________---------A C T U A L                                                              FO---------------  --------_----F O R E C A S T------__________
Year to March 31                   1974         1975         1976        1977         1978                   1979        1980         1981         1982         1983
Revenue
Interest on Loans Disbursed                  63.0         90.3        138.7       188.6        242.2                  353.1       476.0        626.4        796.8        990.1
Interest on Investments (Gross)               10.7         5.4          7.9         8.1          8.3                    8.9          9.0          9.5        10.0         10.5
Total Revenue                                 73.7        95.7        146.6       196.7        250.5                  362.0       485.0        635.9        806.8    1,000.6
Expenses
Administration                                 7.3          9.5        11.7         14.9        19.1                   19.0         21.0        23.5         26.0         30.0
Interest on Borrowings                        12.8        23.2         62.9       103.7        152.6                  257.5       342.9        467.6        606.0       760.9
Total Expenses                                20.1        32.7         74.6       118.6        171.7                  276.5       363.9        491.1        632.0        790.9
Operating Income  (before tax)                  53.6         63.0        72.0         78.1         78.8                  85.5        121.1        144.8       174.8        209.7
Less
Income Tax Provision for Year                 28.6        32.8         38.1        39.2         36.5                   32-        55_          66.o         79.7       29.6
Operating Income (after tax)                    25.0         30.2        33.9         38.9        h2.3                   46.5         65.9        78.8         95.1        114.1
Less:  Proposed Dividend                       2.0         3.1          5.0        11.5          6.7                    7.7          9.4        10.0         10.9         12.0
Transfer to Special Reserve           4-9          6.3          6.6         7.1         15.9                   17.1        24.2         29.0         35.0 -.L
Total                                 6.9          9.4         11.6        18.6         22.6                   24.8        33.6         39.0         45.9        53.9
Retained Earnings                               18.1         20.8        22.3         20.3        19.7                   21.7         32.3         39.8        49.2         60.2
Ratios
Percentage of Revenue
1.  Interest on Borrowings                   17.4         24.2         42.9        52.7         60.9                   71.1        70.7         73.5         75.1        76.0
2.  Administration                             9.9         9.9          8.0         7.6          7.6                    5.3          4.3         3.7          3.2          3.0
3.  Total I + 2                              27.3         34.1         50.9        60.3         68.5                   76.4        75.0         77.2         78.3         79.0
4.  Income Tax                               38.8         34.3         26.0        19.9         14.6                   10.8        11.4         10.4          9.9          9.6
5.  Operating Income (after tax)              33.9        31.6         23.1        19.8         16.9                   12.8         13.6        12.4         11.8         11.4
Percentage of Average Total Assets
6.  Total Revenue                              4.7         4.4          5.1          5.3         5.3                    6.0          6.3          6.5         6.7          6.8
7.  Interest on Borrowings                     0.8         1.1          2.2         2.8          3.2                    4.2          4.5         4.8          5.0          5.2
8.  Gross Spread 6-7                           3.9         3.3          2.9          2.5         2.1                    1.8          1.8          1.7         1.7          1.6
9.  Administration                             0.5         0.4          0.4         0.4          0.4                    0.3          0.3         0.2          0.2          0.2
10.  Income Tax                                 1.8         1.5          1.3         1.0          0.8                    0.6          0.7         0.6          0.7          0.6
11.  Proposed Dividend                         0.1          0.1          0.2         0.3          0                      0.1          0.1         0.1          0.1          0.1
12.  Earnings for Year                          1.5         1.3          1.0         0.8          0.8                    0.8         0.7          0.8          0.7          0.7
Return on Average Equity                       2.0          2.0         2.0          2.2         2.3                    2.i4         3.1          3.4         3.8          4.3
Return on Average Total Capitalization    2.5               2.5         3.14         3.9         4.2                    5.2          5.4          5.7         5.9          6.1
SOURCE: RHE, November 1978



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Rural ELectrification Corporation Limited
Summarized Sources and Applications of Funds Statements for FYs 1974
through 1978 (Actual) and FYs 1979 through-1983 (Foreoatj
(in millions of rupees)
________________--- A C T U A L ------------------                       ---------------- F O R E C A S T ----------------------
Year to March 31                   1974        1975        1976        1977         1978                    1979        1980         1981        1982         1983
Sources
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income (after interest)         53.6         63.0        72.0        78.1         (8.8                    85.5       121.1        144.8       174.8       209.7
Depreciation                                0.1         0.1         0.2          0.3         0.4                     0.4         0.5          0.5         O.b          0.6
Total 5r37c                                            63.l        72.2        7Th          79.2                    85.9       121.6       145.3        175.4       210.3
Less Deductions:
Income Tax Provision                     28.6         32.8        38.1        39.2        36.5                     39.0        55.2        66.0        79.7         95.6
Proposed Dividends                        2.0          3.1         5.0        11.5          6.7                     7.7         9.4        10.0         10.9        12.0
Total                                    30.6         35.9        43.1        50.7        43.2                    46.7        64.6         7            90.6       107.6
Net Cash Generation                         23.1         27.2        29.1        27.7         36.0                    39.2        57.0        69.3         B4.B       102.7
Repayment of Loans sanctioned by REC          0.9         2.1         8.4        47.0         84.0                   146.8       215.9        258.4       301.2       343.2
Capital Raised
USAID                                   151.6          -           -           -            -                       _           _            _           _           _
GOI Equity Contributions                110.0        190.0        50.0        50.0         70.0                  100.0        165.0        60.0         90.0       115.0
GOI Loans                               125.0        427.6       526.7       651.9    1,074.8                    910.0    1,203.0    1,474.0    1,674.5    1,824.7            '
GOI Loans for Harijan Basti 1/
Program                                25.0          -           -           -           -
Market Loans                               -          83.2       111.0        110.2       110.0                   250.0       600.0        600.0       700.0       800.0
Total                                   411.6        700.8       687.7       812.1    1,254.8                  1,260.0    1,968.0    2, 134.0    2,464D. S      2,739.70
Working Capital (Increase)
Decrease                                    3.1         1.4         3.2         10.6       (86.9)                   (3.1)      (17.5)      (27.4)       (25.9)      (34.2)
Sale of Government Securities                85.4        54.8        10.3          -           -                     183.0
Total Sources                           524.1       786.3        738.7       897.4    1 287.9                  1.625.9    2,223.4    2,434.3    2,824.6    31_51.4
Applications
Disbursement of Loans Sanctioned            522.6       781.9       734.3       881.9    1,129.9                  1,600.0    2,150.0       2,350.0    2,699.8    3,000.2
Repayment of GO1 Loans                        1.3         3.0         3.0          3.0         9.7                    25.3        33.7         71.1       101.5       138.7
Investment in Government Securities           -           -           -            9.9       146.5                     -          39.0        12.7         22.8        12.0
Capital Expenditure                           0.2         0.3         0.1          1.4         0.8                     0.6         0.7          0.5         0.5         0.5
Deferred Expenditure                          _           1.1         1.3          1.2         1.0                     -           _      -                 -           - _ 
Total Applications                      524.1        786.3       738.7       897.4    1_287.9                  1.625,9    2.223.4       2.434.3    2,824.6    3,151.4
1/   Harijan Basti' means the underprivilaged section of the population who live in the outskirts of the villages.  The loans are mainly for minimal
street lighting.
SOURCE: REC, November 1978



INDIA
SIOND IUR4L SLBETRIFICATIOI  COOMPOhATION PKiJiWT
Rural Electrification Corooration Limited
Summarized Balance Sheets for FTs 1974 through 1978 (Actual)
and FTs 1979 through 1983 (Forecast)
(in millions of rupees)
---------------------A C T U A L                                                     FO---------------  --------------F O R E C A S T-----------------
As at March 31                   1974        1975        1976        1977        1978                 1979        1980       1981        1982        1983
Assets
Fixed Assets                                0.9         1.2         1.3        2.7          3.5                 4.1         4.8         5.3         5.8         6.3
Less:  Depreciation                         0.3         0.4         0.6        0.9          1.3                 1.7         2.2         2.7         3.3         3.9
Net Fixed Assets                            0.6         0.8         0.7         1.8         2.2                 2.4         2.6         2.6         2.5         2.4
Investments in Government Securities   118.0           62.9        53.1       62.8       209.3                 26.2        65.2        77.9       100.7      112.7
Loans Disbursed and Outstanding         1,642.5    2,422.7    3,148.1    3,983.1    5,029.0                 6,482.2    8,416.3   10,507.9   12,906.5   15,563.5
Deferred Expenditure                        -           1.1         2.4         3.6         4.6                 -           -           -           -           -
Current Assets                             31.7        38.3        46.6        54.3      182.7                132.3       169.7       210.7       253.4      307.1
Total Assets                              1,792.8    2.525.8    3,250.9    4.105.6    5,427.8                 6.643.1    8.653.8   10,799.1   13. 263.1   15985.7
Capital and Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Interest Accrued                         2.1         3.9        9.7        18.0        26.3                  -           -           -           -          -
Sundry Creditors                         1.5         3.1         3.5        6.4          2.4                 6.4         8.4        10.5       12.9        15.6
Provision for Taxation                  28.2        32.8       38.1        39.2        75.7                 39.0        55.2       66.0        79.7        95.6
Proposed Dividend                        -           -           -          6.0          6.7                 7.7         9.4        10.0       10.9        12.0
Total                                   31.8        39.8        51.3 3     6-9.       111.1                 53.1        73.0        86.5      103.5       123.2
Borrowings
GOI Loans                              353.3       777.9    1,301.6    1,950.5    3,015.7                3,900.4    5,069.7    6,472.7    8,045.5    9,731.9 0
Market Loans                             -          83.2       194.2      304.4       414.4                664.2    1,264.2    1.864.2    2,564.2    3.364.2
Total                                 353.3        861.1    1,495.8    2,254.9    3,430.1                4,564.6    6,333.9    8,336.9   10,609.7   13,095.5
Equity
Share Capital                         310.0       500.0       550.0       600.0       670.0                770.0       935.0      995.0    1,085.0    1,200.0
Capital Reserve                     1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0                 1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0    1,050.0
Special Fbserve                         10.3        16.7       23.3        30.4        46.2                 63.3        87.5      116.5       151.5       193.4
Retained Earnings                      37.4        58.2        80.5       100.7       120.4               142.1       174.4       214.2       263.4       323.6
Total                               1,407-7    1,624.9    T75      T79TT    TH96                        r           2           r, M7       7I57. 2,767.0
Total Capital and Liabilities             1,792.8    2.525.8    3,250.9    4.105.6    5.427.8                 6.643.1    8.653.8   10,799,1   13.263.1   15.985.7
Debt/Equity Ratio                           20/80       35/65       47/53      56/44       65/35                69/31       74/26       78/22      81/19       82/18
REC Commitment to disburse Loans
Sanctioned to Date                        1,397.2    1,993.6    2,429.3    2,682.9    3,129.6                 3,479.6    3,529.6    3,779.6    4,179.6    4,529.6
SOURCE: REC November 1978
I!



- 74 -
ANNEX 20
Page 1
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT II
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
1.        The financial statements in this report comprise REC's audited
financial operations for the period FY1974 through FY1878, and its pro-
jected operations for the period FY1979 through FY1983. The statements
include annual income statements (Annex 17), statements of sources and
application of funds (Annex 18) and balance sheets as at March 31 each
year (Annex 19).
2.        The following assumptions have been made:
(i) Operations - REC's projected operations for the period
FY1979 through FY1983 were agreed in discussions with the
Planning Commission and Ministries of Energy and Finance:
Disbursements are based on REC's agreed share of the plan
expenditure during the Sixth Plan Period 1979-83, i.e.,
Rs 11,800 million (US$1,372 million). Because the plan
is calculated at constant prices in accordance with GOI
budgetary procedure, scheme cost escalation must be
accommodated either by curtailing the physical program
or by additional financing. Any shortfall in either
internal financing or in market borrowings as shown in
the Financing Plan will be made up by increased borrowing
from GOI.
(ii) Interest Rates at current levels have been used. Borrow-
ings from GOI carry interest of 7.25% for Normal Programs
and 5.25% for the Minimum Needs Program. Market loans are
assumed to carry 6% interest. Lending interest on loans
advanced are assumed at 5.5% up to FY1974, 6.6% from
FY1975-FY1978, 7.0% from FY1979-FY1983. Temporary invest-
ments in Government Securities yielded 4.0% p.a. up to
February 9, 1975 and are assumed at 4.6% thereafter.
Average interest rates are based on loan releases during
the respective Plan periods.
(iii) Loan repayments for both loans disbursed and borrowings
is in accordance with contractual arrangements. Market
borrowings are repayable after FY1983.
(iv) Administration Expenses are assumed to increase by approxi-
mately 10% p.a.



-75 -
ANNEX 20
Page 2
(v)  Income Tax has been calculated as 57% on chargeable income
after making provision for allocations to a Special Reserve
of 20%, giving an effective rate of approximately 46%.
(vi)   Proposed Dividends are provided at the rate of 1% on
issued share capital as at the end of the financial year.
(vii) Current Assets are projected at 2% of Loans and Invest-
ments as averaged for the previous 5 years.
(viii) Interest on Loans Payable and Receivable is assumed to
have been paid and received during each year.
(ix) Sundry Creditors are assumed at 0.1% of Loans Disbursed
as averaged for the previous 5 years.
(x) Authorized Share Capital is assumed to increase as noted
to eventually reach Rs 1,200 million at the end of FY1983.
3.        Apportionment of SEBs' Financial Results Over the Separate Activ-
ities of RE and Other Operations. The rationale for the above apportionment
is in accordance with Article IV, Section 4.01, Credit 242-IN, which speci-
fied that financial data should be produced for SEBs which separated informa-
tion relating to RE from information relating to the SEBs' other supply
functions. Since FY1970, proforma income statements, statements of sources
and applications of funds, rate bases, and details of indebtedness have been
prepared both for RE and for the SEBs excluding RE on a basis of apportion-
ment which is reasonable has been consistently applied and which is used to
support SEBs' applications to State Governments for the payment of RE sub-
sidies. Details are as follows:
(i) Energy sales to consumers at appropriate tariff rates
are on an actual basis with reasonable estimates used
where this is not possible.
(ii) Cost of energy is charged to RE by apportioning the cost
of supply at the EHT transmission end (comprising opera-
tion and maintenance, depreciation and interest charged
for generation and transmission up to this point) in the
ratio of units sold to RE consumers.
(iii) Operation and maintenance, depreciation and interest
charges in the distribution system below EHT are allo-
cated on the basis that consumer services costs are
apportioned in the ratio of the number of consumers,
while other operation and maintenance costs depre-
ciation and interest are apportioned in the ratio of
gross fixed assets in the distribution system.



- 76 -
ANNEX 20
Page 3
(iv) Fixed assets are allocated on an actual basis where
possible, otherwise, a reasonable basis of apportion-
ment is used, e.g., multiplying the number of irriga-
tion pumps installed each year by the average estimated
RE scheme cost per pump in that year (this cost would
include the cost of domestic and other service connec-
tions in the scheme) and adding to the cumulative total
brought forward from the previous year.



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Rural ELectrification Corporation Limited
Statement Showing Calculation of Debt Service Coverage
FYs 1974-78 (actual) and FYs 1979-1983 (Forecast)
(in millions of rupees except where otherwise stated)
March 31                       1974      1975      1976     1577      1978         1979      1980     1981      1982     1983
------------------Actual ----------------           ----------------Forecast----------------
Total Revenue                            73.7      95.7    146.6    196.7    250.5          362.0    485.0    635.9    806.8  1,000.6
Less Deductions
Administration                           7.3      9.5      11.7     14.9      19.1          19.0     21.0     23.5      26.0      30.0
Taxes                                  28.6      32.8      38.1     39.2      36.5         39.0      55.2     66.o      79.7      95.6
Dividends                               2.0       3.1       5.0     11.5       6.7          7.7       9.4     10.0      10.9      12.0
Total                                  37.9      45.4      54.8     65.6      62.3         65.7      85.6     99.5    116.6    137.6
Net Revenue                               35.8     50.3      91.8    131.1    188.2         296.3    399.4    536.4    690.2    863.0
Add:  Depreciation                         0.1      0.1       0.2      0.3       0.4           0.4      0.5       0.5      o.6       o.6
Loan repayments by SEBs             0.9       2.1       8.4     47.0      84.0        146.8    215.9    258.4    301.2    343.2
Total Generated Internally /           36.8      52.5    100.4    178.4    272.6          kL-5    61I.8    12i-        992.0  1,206.8
R3C's Debt Service:-/
Interest on Borrowings                  12.8     23.2     62.9    103.7    152.6          257.5    342.9    467.6    606.0    760.9
Repayment of GOI Loana                  1.3       3.0       3.0      3.0       9.7         25.3      33.7     71.1    101.5    138.7
14.1     26.2     65.9    106.7    162.3          282.8    376.6    538.7    707.5    899.6
Times Debt Service covered by
Internally Generated Finds and
sums repaid by borrowers
(minimum 1.2 times)                       2.6       2.0       1.5      1.7       1.7          1.6       1.6      1.5       1.4      1.3
1/ Internally generated funds means the aggregate revenues from all sources and the principal repayments on loans made by R3C,
less administrative expenses, dividends, taxes, surcharges and other levies, if any, but before provision for depreciation
and interest and other charges on debt.
2/ Debt service requirements means the aggregate amount of amortization, interest and other charges in respect of debt.
SOURCE:  REC, November 1978



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ZLECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Statement Showing Amount of Loan Sanctions Disbursements and Balance Undisbursed
(In millions of mpees except where otherwise stated)
Loans Sanctioned                                                              Disbursement of Loans Sanctioned
Annual                                ACTUAL                                               FORECAST
Year to      Accumulated    Harijan     Rural Electn.
31 March       Total         Basti          Total             1974       1975       1976       1577       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983
1974         3,o40.9        36.7          3,004.2
1975         4,419.2         8.3          1,370.0
1976         5,589.2         -            1,170.0
1977         6,72h.7         -            1,135.5
1978         8,301.3         -            1,576.6
1979        10,251.3         -            1,950.0
1980        12,451.3         -            2,200.0
1981        15,051.3         -            2,600.0
1982         18,151.3        -            3,100.0
1983        21,501.3         -            3,350.0
Total - Rural Electrification Loans                            1618.7      770.7      725.5      881.9   1,129.9    1,600.0    2,150.0   2,350.0   2,700.0   3,000.0
- Harijan Basti                                            25.0       11.2        8.8        -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Total - Loan Disbursements                                     1.643.7     781.9      734.3      881.9    1.129.9   1.600.0    2.150.0   2.350.0    2,700.0   3.000.0
No. of Schemes Sanctioned Daring Year
- Raral Electrification Projects                          208        340        285        279        397        650        750        850        950      1,000
- Harijan Basti Schemes                                    75         34          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Total No. of Schemes Sanctioned to Date
- Rural Electrification Projects                          618        958      1,243      1,522      1,919      2,419      3,029      3,679     14,409      5,209
- Harijan Basti Schemes                                    75        109        109        109        109        109        109        109        109        109
Loans Sanctioned Tlring Year
- Rural Electrification Projects                          739.9   1,370.0   1,170.0   1,135.5   1,576.6    1,950.0   2,200.0    2,600.0   3,100.0    3,350.0
- Harijan Basti Schemes                                    16.8        8.3        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Total Loans Sanctioned to Date                                3,040.9   4,419.2   5,589.2   6,724.7    8,301.3  10,251.3  12,451.3  15,051.3  18,151.3  21,501.3
Total Disbursements to Date                                    i,64I3.7    2,425.6             4,041.S   5,1T7.T    6,771.7    0,921.7  11,Z71.7  13,W71.7   ",971.7
Loan Repayment Dfring rear                                        0.9        2.1        8.4       47.0       84.0      146.8      215.9      258.4      301.2      343.2
Total Loan Repayment to Sate                                      1.2        3.3       11.7       58.7      142.7      289.5      505.4      763.8   1,065.2    1,408.2
Loan Disbursements not Repaid                                 1,642.5    2,422.3   3,148.2    3,983.1   5,029.0   6,482.2    8,416.3   10,507.0  12,906.5  15,563.5
Undisbursed Loans                                              1,397.2    1,993.6   2,429.3   2,682.9   3,129.6    3,479.6    3,529.6    3,779.6   4,179.6   4,529.6
Source:  REC, November 1978



ANNEX 23
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
SE8g Gross Fixed Assets at March 31, 1977 Analyzed
Between Raral Electrification and Other OPerations
(In millions of rupees except where otherwise stated)
SEBs                     Other Operations       RE        Total      Other Operations        RE        Total
Andhra Pradesh        - I.S.              3,392           1,162       4,554              75              25         100
-W.I,P.            1 396              -        1,396             100              -          100
Total           _l;                                                             _          TM
Bihar                 - I.S.              2,334           1,088       3,422              68              32         100
- W.I.P.           1 566              -        1 566             100              -          100
Total           314,90      0                                  -g                          T
Gujarat               - I.S.              3,423             701       4,124              83              17         100
- W.I.P.           1 229              -        1 229             100              -          100
Total              X               70-1      t1                                 T_        T__
Haryana-/             - I.S.             1,172             904       2,076              56               44        100
- W.I.P.           1 573              -        1 573             100              -          100
Total            t2.;7                       3,                 7               2_         T0
Maharashtra           - I.S.              4,061           2,040       6,101              67              33         100
- W.I.P.           2 045             191       2,236              91               9         100
Total                                          t 2   o.337      7                7         __
Punjab                - I.S.              2,331           1,034       3,365              69              31         100
-W.I.P.            2 937              -        2 937             100              -          100
Total                            1, 034       z_                _               V          TO0
Rajasthan             - I.S.              1,815           1,019      2,834               64              36         100
- W.I.P.           1,393              20       1 413              98               2         100
Total            3,7             1.039                          727            27          T
Uttar Pradesh         - I.S.              7,599           1,674       9,273              82              18         100
-W.I.P.            5,419              -        5,419             100              -          100
Total           T___                            m-             -81              TT         TM4
West Bengal           - I.S.              1,757             311       2,068              85              15         100
- W.I.P.           1 357             310       1 667              81              19         100
Total            3',f              aT                                           T7 
Kerala                - I.S.              2,668             210       2,878              93               7         100
- W.I.P.             202              -          202             100               -         100
Total            2,10              710                                           7 
Madhya Pradesh        - I.S.              2,565           1,012       3,577              72              28         100
- W.I.P.           1 113             167       1 280              87              13         100
Total                            1,179                          76                         T T
Orissa                - I.S.              1,447             590       2,037              71              29         100
- W.I.P.             585              57         642              91               9         100
Total            2,032               7       2,679              76              _          T_5
Tamil Nadu            - I.S.              3,805           2,288      6,093               62              38         100
- W.I.P.           1 089              81       1,170              93               7         100
Total            tit                   7263       Z       7 r                              To5
Grand Totals          - I.S.            38,369           14,033     52,402               73              27         100
- W.I.P.          21,904             826      22,730              96               4         100
Total           60234,59                    75,132              __              20         T_0
Index
I.S.   - in service
W.I.P. - work-in-progress
1/  Excludes Assam and Karnataka.
2/ Haryana not eligible for IRA finance.
SOURCE: SEBs.



INDIA
Second Rural Electrification Corporation Project
SEBs' Capital Expenditure Cash Flow FYs 1976 an' 1977
(In millions of Rupees except where otherwise stated)
SEBs~'     RE         F'Y 1976             _______Y_1976FY 1977    _977__                                    l9  iLJ.l _X97
SEBs-9-1-      RE  %       Other                    RE  %        Other                    RE         Other Ops.       Total
Amou*t Share  Operations  Total   Amount Share   Operations   Total _   Amncn t          Amount  %    Amount   %
Andhra Prades   64       9        692        756    144      16         750         894     +80  +125    +58    +8   +138   +18
Bihar           141     23        479        620    165      21         614         779     +24   +17   +135   +28   +159   +26
Gujarat          71      8        772        843     56       7         777         833     -15   -21      +5    +1    -10    -1
Haryan 2/        49      6        535        584      77     17         364         441     +28   +57   -171   -32   -143   -25
Maharashtra    118      11        986       1104    132      10        1262       1394      +14   +12   +276   +28   +290   +26                  0
Punjab          126     16        658        784    209      23         710         919     +83   +66    +52    +8   +135    +7
Rajasthan       130     31        294        424    192      34         377         569     +62   +48    +83   +28   +145   +34
Uttar Pradesh  130       5       2450       2580    213      11        1756       1969      +83   +64   -694   -28   -611   -24
West Bengal    110      20        446        556    110      18         492         602     -      -      +46   +10    +46    +8
Kerala            7      3        219        226     11       4         252         263      +4   +57    +33   +15    +37   +16
Madhya Prades  117      13        813        930    207      24         657         864     +90   +77   -156   -19    -66    -7
Orissa           86     48         94        180     83      16         443        526       -3    -3   +349  +371   +346  +192
Tamil Nadu     112      19        473        585    162      22         572         734 _  +50   +45    +99   +21   +149   +25
Total         1261      12       8911      10172   1761      16        9026      10787    +500   +40%  +115    +1%  +615    +6%
1/  Excludes Assam and Karnataka.                                                                                                               W
2/  Haryana not eligible for IDA finance.
SOURCE: SEBs.



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
1/
Measurement of the Net Income Contribution from lural E:Lectrification and
Other Uperations of S83s Relative to Total Averalge Canital Baseg"
tIn Rs millions and % return on investment)
FY1976                                                     FY1977                               Increase (+) Decrease (-) FY1977 over 11976
SEBs3/               RE Profit (Loss)   Other Operaions         Total            RE Profit (Loss)   Other Operations        Total           RE Profit (Loss)   Other Operations        Total
Rs.      %        R..       t        Rs.          %        R         %         s                 RsRs R..                                R.
Andhra Pradesh              (53)    (1.9)    269        9.6       216    7.7            (92)    (2.7)    399       11.7       307    9.0           +(09)   +(o.8)   +130      +2.1       +91  +1.3
Bihar                         43      1.8      120      5.2       163    7.0             47       1.9     158       6.2       205    8.1          +  4    + 0.1    + 38       +1.0       +42  +1.1
Oujarat                     (32)    (1.5)    190        9.5       158    8.0            (52)    (2.0)    308       11.7       256    9.7          +(20)   +(0.5)   +118       +2.2       +98  +1.7
Haryana-/                    (27)    (2.0)    123       9.2        96    7.2            (56)    (3.7)    152       10.1        96    6.4          +(29)   +(1.7)   + 29       +0.9        -   -0.8
Maharashtra                 (10)    (0.2)    466        10.2      456   10.0            (31)    (0.7)    597       13.7       566   13.0           +(21)   +(0.5)   +131      +3.5      +110  +3.0
Punjab                      (49)    (2.1)    219        9.5       170    7.4            (53)    (2.1)    269       10.3       216    8.2          + (4)      -       + 50     +0.8       +46  +0.8
Rajasthan                    42       2.2      122      6.5       164    8.7             50      2.4      139      6.8       189    9.2           +  8    + 0.2    + 17       +0.3       +25  +0.5
Uttar Pradesh              (124)    (2.3)    378        6.9       254    4.6           (160)    (2.3)    561        8.1       401    5.8           +(36)     -       +183     +1.2      +147  +1.2
West Bengal                 (44)    (4.6)    101        10.6       57    6.0            (25)    (1.5)    151       11.0       156    9.5          + 19    + 3.1    + 80       +0.4       +99  +3.5
Kerala                        19      1.5       54      4.4        73    5.9             15       0.8     139       7.7       154    8.5           -  4    - 0.7    + 85      +3.3       +81  +2.6
Madhya Pradesh               31,      1.7      228      11.1      262   12.8             49       2.0     270      11.1       319   13.1          + 15    + 0.3    + 42         -        +57  +0.3
Orissa                         6      0.4       81      5.4        87    5.8             32       1.4     110       4.9       142    6.3          + 26    + 1.0    + 29        -0.5      +55  +0.5
Tamil Nadu                   104      2.7      269      7.0       373    9.7            109       2.7     271       6.8       380    9.5          +  5       -       +  2     -0.2       + 7  -0.2
Total                  (91)    (0.3)  2.620        8.1    2.529    7.8           (167)    (0.4)  3.554        9.3    3.387    8.9            +(76)   +(0.1)   +934       +1.2     +858  +1.1
1/ Net Income Contribution means "operating income" as defined in Article IV Sect. 4.03 Credit 604-IN with the additional apportionment of the total operating income over the
separate activities of RE and the other operations of SEBs.  This apportionment is in accordance with a format defined in Article IV Sect. 4.01 Credit 242-IN and explained
in the notes on the assumptions used in the financial projections Annex 20.
2/ Total Average Capital Base includes SEBs RE and other operations and is calculated in accordance with Credit 604-IN - DCA Article IV Sect. 4.03 and means:  "the sam of (A)
the gross book value of fixed assets in operation, (B) the cost of intangible assets and (C) an amount on account of woricing capital equal to one-sixth (1/6) of the
adninistrative, operating and maintenance expenses less (A) the amount of accumulated depreciation charged on account of fixed assets in operation, (B) the amount contri-
buted by customers for fixed assets in operation, and (C) the amount of security deposits of consumers."
c/ Ikcludes Assam and Karnataka.
.X  Haryana not eligible for IDA finance.
SOURCE: SEBs



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJET
RateB of Return Earned by S3s "RE Activity" and "Other Operations"
tielative to Their Own CJapital Bases for FYs 1576 and 1977
(In % return on investment)
PY 1976                   E____    ________  __________   FY 1977                                 Increase       D ee j          Y1977 over FY1976
2/ '   RE                        Net RE                               RE                        Net RE-                             RE                        Net RE
SEBs-'      (Losses)   RE             (Losses)   Other             1/      (Losses)   RE             (Losses)   Other             1/    (Losses)   RE              (Losses)   Other             1/
Profits    Subsidies   Profits    Operations   Ttl_Profits    Subsidies   Profits    Operations   To7ta,  Profits    Subsidies   Profits    Operationsi Total
'ndhra Pradesh  (7.2)            -          (7.2)         13.6         8.0      (11.9)          -         (11.9)         16.0        8.9      +(4.7)          -          +(4.7)        +2.4         +0.9
3ihar           (14.4)         21.3          6.9           7.5         7.3      (10.2)        16.8          6.6           8.1         7.6     -(4.2)       -4.5           -0.3         +0.6         +0.3
.uj arat        (10. 9)         1.2         (9.7)         12.4         8.5      (15.6)          _         (15.6)         14.7       10.5      +(4.7)       -1.2          +(5.9)        +2.3         +2.0
Raryana          (4.3)           -          (4.3)         18.4         7.4       (8.6)          -          (8.6)         18.8        6.6      +(4.3)         -           +(4.3)        +0.4         -0.8
4aharashtra      (4.8)          4.1         (0.7)         16.3         9.9       (2.7)         0.5         (2.2)         21.7       13.5      -(2.1)      -3.6           +(1.5)        +5.4         +3.6
'unjab           (8.2)           -          (8.2)         13.2         7.6       (7.2)          -          (7.2)         14.6        8.4      -(1.0)         -           -(1.0)        +1.4         +0.8
tajasthan        (4.0)        10.7           6.7          10.1        8.9        (3.4)       10.2           6.8          11.2        9.6      -(0.6)       -0.5           +0.1         +1.1         +0.7
Jttar Pradesh  (12.4)            -         (12.4)          8.7        4.8       (14.6)          -         (14.6)         10.3        6.1      +(2.2)         -           +(2.2)        +1.6         +1.3
lest Bengal   (137.5)            -        (137.5)         11.7         6.4      (41.6)       23.4         (18.2)         13.2       10.1    -(95.9)    +23.4           -(119.3)        +1.5         +3.7
:erala         (21.5)         35.0          13.5          5.1         6.0      (16.9)        28.1         11.2           8.5         8.7     -(4.6)       -6.9            -2.3         +3.4        +2.7
ladhya Pradesh  (3.6)           9.1          5.5          16.5       13.1        (4.6)       11.6           7.0          16.3       13.6      +(1.O)      +2.5            +1.5         -0.2         +0.5
)rissa          (11.1)        12.6           1.5          7.6         6.0        (7.5)       14.4           6.9           5.8        6.2      -(3.6)      +1.8            +5.4         -1.8         +0.2
amil Nadu        3.7           3.8           7.5        11.8         10.2      (14.5)        22.2           7.7         11.7        10.2    +(18.2)    +18.4              +0.2         -0.1           -
otal            (6.6)          5.5          (1.1)       11.5          8.0  _   (9.7)          7.9          (1.8)        13.1         9.2   i +(3.1)       +2.4           +(0.7)        +1.6        +1.2
/ Total Rate of Return is calculated in accordance with Credit 242-IN LCA Article IV, Sect. 4.01.  It is different from the basis for calculating overall Rate of Return as in
Credit 604-IN MA Article IV, Sect. 4.03 in that working capital is excluded from the rate base.  The rates of return of the separate activities of RE and the SEB' other
operations are calculated from a format defined in Article IV Sect. 4.01 of DCA Credit 242-IN and explained in Annex 20.  RE losses and profits are shown before interest.
RE profits after interest will be reduced to nil.
/ Ecludes Assam and Karnataka.
/ Haryana not eligible for IDA finance.
SOURCE: SEBEs.



INDIA
SEOND 13RAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PRDJECT
Operating Performance of the RE Activities of SEBs for FY1976
(In millions of repees except where otherwise stated)
1/                   Andhra                                 2/                                       Uttar      West                Madhya               Tamil   Combined
SEBs                      Pradesh   Bihar   Oujarat   Haryana7  Maharashtra   Punjab   Rajasthan   Pradesh   Bengal   Kerala   Pradesh   Orissa   Nadui   Total
Sales - Units - Gwh               633       551       1168       903         1574           934       696         1749       96       361        863       401       1840    11769
Rs   %   Rs   %    Rs   %R R    %            RS   %    Rs   %       R    %       Rs   %   Rs   %   Rs   %   Rs   %    Rs   S   Rs   %   Rs    %
Sales - Revenue                 186  100 108  loo  281  100 172  100         368  100  144  100   166  100    456  100  33  100  50  loo 194  100   54  100 355  100 2567  100
Other Operating Revenue          17   -    6  -       12  -    24   -          15    -   20   -      12   -        21  -   -_           7        lo   -      2   -   17        171 -
Total Revenue                   203   -  114   -   293   - 196   -           383   -   164   -    178   -        477   -   33   -57   -  212   -    56   -  372   -  2738   -
Operating &penses
Eiergy Cost                     119   64 122  113  188   67 111   65         203   55  121   84    84   51    477  105  18   55  25   50 124   64   36   67 279   78 1907   74
Other                            94   51  54   50  113   40  82   48          171   46   63   44    90   54       60   13  54  164  51  102  78   40   51   94 315   89 1276   50
Depreciation                     43   23  28   26   28   10  30   17          76   21   29   20    29   17        64   14   5   15   9   18  32   17   13   24  80   23  466   18
Total                           256  138 204  189  329  117 223  130         450  122  213  148   203  122    601  132  77  234  85  170 234  121  100  185 674  190 3649  142
Deficit before Interest          53   28  90   83   36   13  27   16          67   18   49   34    25   15    124   27  44  133  28   56  22   11   44   81 302   85  911   35
Add:  Interest                   20   11  43   40   43   15  79   46         103   28   80   56    42   25    147   32  7   21  18   3   5    30   23   43 104   29  768   30
Deficit after Interest           73   39 133  123   79   28 106   62         170   46  129   90    67   40    271   59  51  154  46   92  81   41   67  124 406  114 1679   65
Less: State Government
Subsidy                   -    -  133  123    4    1 _    -            57   15   -    -       67   40      -                   1 _   _   46   92  56   29   50   93  53   15 466   18
Net Deficit for Year             73   39              75   27 106   62       113   31  129   90                  271   59  51  154               5   12   17   31 353   99 1213  47
1/  Excludes Assam and Karnataka.
2/  Haryana not eligible for IDA finance.
SOURCE: SEBs.



INIIA
SECOND RURAL EJLECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Operating Performance of the RE Activities of SEBs for FY1977
(In millions of ripees except where otherwise stated)
1/                   Andhra                                2/                                      Uttar      West                Madhya              Tamil  Combined
SEBs-                    Pradesh   Bihar   Gujarat   Haryana-  Maharashtra   Punjab   Rajasthan   Pradesh   Bengal   Kerala   Pradesh   Orissa   Nadu   Total
Sales - Units - Gwh              787       524       1276      1068         2118        1014         834       1915        122       356      998        522    1847      J
Rs    %    Rs   %   Rs   %   Rs    %        Rs     %      Rs   %      Rs   %    Rs   %    Rs   %   Rs   %   Rs   %    Rs   %   as   %   as %
Sales - Revenue              200   100  124  100 348  100 209   100   509    100   184  100   206  100  432  100  50   loO 59   100 248  100  92   100 419 100 3080 100
Other Operating Revenue        22    -     6   -   13   -   23    -        24     -      24   -      13   -    30   -   -       -   6    -   16   -    3    -   23  -   203  -
Total Revenue                222    -   130   -  361   -  232    -    533         -    208  -    219   -   462   -   50    - 65    -  264   -   95    -  442  -  3283  -
Operating Expenses
Energy Cost                  149    75  118   95 241   69 161    77   288         57   158   86   105   51  495  115  23    46 25    42 172   69  51    55 388  93 2374  77
Other                        117    59   53   431141   41  95    45   206         40    73   40   105   51   57   13  74   148 54    92  88   35  62    67 377  90 1502  49
Depreciation                  48    24   34   27  31    9  32    15    77         15    30   16    34   17   70   16  10    20  9    15  36   15  17    19  90  21  518  17
Total                        314   158  205  165 413  119 288   137   571    112   261  142   244  119  622  144 107   214 88   149 296  119 130   141 855 204 4394 143
Deficit before Interest       92    46   75   60  52   15  56    27    38          7    53   29    25   12  160   37  57   114 23    39  32   13  35    38 413  99 1111  36
Add:  Interest                25    13   47   38  68   20  88    42   140         28    97   53    50   24  157   36  18    36 15    25  75   30  34    37 109  26  923  30
Deficit after Interest       117    59  122   98 120   35 144    69   178         35   150   82    75   36  317   73  75   150 38    64 107   43  69    75 522 125 2034 '66
Less: State Government
Subsidy                _      -   122   98- -_        -      -      7       1    -    -      75   36   -    -   32    64 38    64  81   33  69    75 314  75  738  24
Net Deficit for Year         117    59-         -  120   35 144    69  171        34   150   82    -    -   317   73  43    86-          -   26  10-          -  208  50 1296  42
1/  Excludes Assam and Karnataka.
2/ Haryana not eligible for IDA finance.
SOURCE: SEBs.                                                                                                                                                                           L



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Operating Performance of the RE Activities of SEBs for FY1977 Relative to FY1976
(In Rs millions and % increase of FY1977 over FT1976)
1/                     Andhra                                 2/                                        Uttar      West                Madhya                Tamil   Combined
SEBs-                       Pradesh   Bihar   Gujarat   Haryana   Maharashtra   Punjab   Rajasthan   Pradesh   Bengal   Kerala   Pradesh   Orissa   Nadu    Total
Owh   %   Owh  %  Gwh   %   Owh   %   Gwh   %            Owh   %  iwh   %        Owh   %   (wh   %  Gwh   %  Gwh   %   Owh   %  Owh  %  Owh   %
Sales - Units                    +15h  +2h -27  -5 +108  +9  +165  +18 +5hh  +35           +80   +9 +138  +20   +166  +10 +26   +27 -5   -1 +135  +16 +121  +30 +7  -  1612  +14
Rs         Rs        Rs        Rs         Rs             Rs         Rs           Rs         Rs        Rs         Rs         Rs        Rs       Rs
Sales - Revenue                  +1b   +8  +16  +15 +67  +24 +37   +22 +141  +38           +40   +28 +40  +24   -24   -5  +17   +52 +9   +18 +54  +28  +38  +70 +64 +18 +513 +20
Other Operating Income            +5  +29   -    -   +1   +8  -1    _4   +9  +60            +4   +20  +1   +8    +9  +43   -         -  -1   -14  -2  -11   +1  +50  +6 +35  +32 +19
Total Revenue                    +19   +9  +16  +15 +68  +23 +36   +18 +150  +39           +44   +27 +41  +23   -15   _3  +17   +52 +8   +14 +52  +25  +39  +70 +70 +19 +545 +20
Operating Expenses
Ehergy Cost                      +30  +25   -4   -3 +53  +28 +50   +45  +85  +42          +37   +31 +21  +25   +18   +4   +5   +28 -           -  +48  +39  +15  +42 +109 +39 +467 +25
Other                            +23  +24   -1   -2 +28  +25 +13   +16  +35  +20           +10   +16 +15  +17    _3   _5  +20   +37 +3    +6 +10  +13  +11  +22 +62 +20 +226 +18
Depreciation                      +5  +12   +6  +21  +3  +11  +2    +6   +1   +1           +1    +3  +5  +17    +6   +9   +5  +100 -           -   +4  +13   +4  +31  +10+13  +52 +11
Total                            +58  +23   +1   -  +84  +25 +65   +29  +121 +27          +48   +23 +41  +20   +21   +3  +30   +39 +3    +4 +62  +26  +30  +30 +181 +27 +745 +20
Deficit before Interest          +39  +74  -15  -17 +16  +44 +29  +107   -29 -43            +4    +8  -    -    +36  +29  +13   +30 -5   -18 +10  +45   -9  -20 +111 +37 +200 +22
Add:  Interest                    +5  +25   +4   +9 +25  +58  +9   +11   +37 +36           +17   +21  +8  +19   +10   +7  +11  +157 -3   -17 +16  -27  +11  +48  +5 +5 +155 +20
Deficit after Interest           +44  +60  -11   -8 +41  +52 +38   +36    +8  +5          +21   +16  +8  +19   +46  +17  +24   +47 -8   -17 +26  +32   +2   +3 +116 +29 +355 +21
Less: State Government
Subsidy                   -    -   -11   -8  -4 -100  -         -    -50 -88        -      -   +8  +12    -    -   +32    NA -8   -17 +25  +45  +19  +38 +261 +492 +272 +58
Net Deficit for Year             +44  +60   -    -  +45  +60 +38   +36   +58 +51          +21   +16  -    -    +46  +17   -8   -16 -           -   +1   +4  -17   NA -145  -41   +83 +18
1/  axcludes Assam and Karnataka.
2/  Haryana not eligible for IDA finance.
NA = not available.
SOURCE: SEBs



-86 -                                                   ANNEX 30
INMA
SFCND RURAL  ELETRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJET
Increases in SEBs'  Revenue for FY1977 Required (i) to Diable Interest on State Government Loans
to be Paid in Full and (ii) to Produce a Self Finance Ratio   of 20%
Average            Interest Not Paid            Increase in Revenue Required   Increase in Revenue Required to
Revenue per                                     to Meet Interest not Paid       Meet a Self-finance ratio Of 20%
SEBs                kWh - paise   Rs Million   % Total Interest   Paise per kWh          % Revenue   Paise per kWh                    e Reveue
Andhra Pradesh                29.9           11               5%               0.3                1.1%     Not Required          Not Required
Bihar                         27.3          Nil               -                -                 -              1.7                    6.4%
Gujarat                       24.7          123              35%               2.6              10.6%           4.0                   16.2%
Haryana3                      20.2          121             61%                6.4              31.8%           9.4                   46.4%
Maharashtra                   20.4           11               3%                0.1              0.6%           1.2                    6.o%
Punjab                        21.7          137              41%               5.7              26.3%           7.9                   36.2%
Rajasthan                     23.8          Nil               -                -                 -         Not Required          Not Required
Uttar Pradesh                 24.3          435              52%               5.9              24.0%          10.4                   43.0%
West Bengal                   23.7          Nil               -                 -                -              1.5                    5.0%
Kerala                        13.2           32              19%                1.2              9.1%           o.6                     4.5%
Madhya Pradesh                22.0          Nil               -                 -                 -        Not Required          Not Required
Orissa                        12.6           48              43%                1.9             14.8%           1.9                   14.8%
Tamil Nadu                    27.6          Nil               -                -                 -         Not Required          Not Required
Total                    22.9         918              26%                1.7               7.6%           2                     i135
1/ Excludes Assam and Karnataka. Figures not yet received.
2/ Self-finance ratio means, the percentage internal cash generation (net of debt service but excluding repayment of State Government
loans) bears to capital expenditure for the year.
3/ Haryana does not qualify for IDA finance.
SOURCE: SEBs.



INDIA
SEOND RURAL 3LETRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
1/              2/                        3/
Effects on SEBs' Rates of Return  and Self-Finance Ratios
of Increases in Revenues for FY1977
(I)                         (2)                   (3)                     (4)                       (5)                (6)                       (7)                            (8)
Target Rates of Return                     Increases in Revenue Required   Rate of Return      % of Capital      Increase in Revenue Required       B  e of Return Needed
under Credits 6o0-IN      Actual Rate    to Meet Interest not Paid, in  needed to Cover all Investment Self-  to Meet a Self-Finance Ratio of  to Finance 20% of
S33s               and 416-IN - FY1977        of Return        Rate of Return Terms            Interest (columns   Financed (by      20% in Rate of Return Terms        New Investment
3 + 4)             column 5)                                            (Columns 3   7)
%                     %                       %                          %                    x                       %                             IL
Andhra Pradesh                   9.5                   9.0                    0.3                          9.3                24%                 Not Required                       9.3
Bihar                            7.0                   8.1               Not Required                      8.1                29%                 Not Required                       8.1
Gujarat                         9.5                    9.7                    4.7                         14.4                12%                 -   7.1                           7618
Haryana                          9.5                   6.4                    8.0                         14.4                 3%                    13.0                           19.4
Maharashtra                      9.5                  13.0                    0.3                         13.3                13%                     2.5                           15.5
Punjab                           9.5                   8.2                    5.2                         13.4                13%                     7.8                           16.0
Rajasthan                       9.5                    9.2               Not Required                     9.2                 22%                 Not Required                       9.2
Uttar Pradesh                    9.5                   5.8                    6.3                         12.1                 3%                    11.4                           17.2
West Bengal                      5.0                   9.5               Not Required                      S.5                14%                     2.1                           11.6
Kerala                           8.8                   8.5                    1.8                         10.3                26%                     0.9                            9.4
Madhya Pradesh                   9.5                  13.1               Not Required                     13.1                21%                 Not Required                      13.1
Orissa                           9.0                   6.3                    2.0                          8.3                20%                     2.1                            8X4
Tamil Nadu                       9.5                   9.5               Not Required                      9.5                26%                 Not Required                       9.5
Total                       8.9                   8.9                    2.5                         11.4                18%                     3.2%                        (12.1
1/ Excludes Assam and Karnataka.
2/ Rate of Return is in accordance with its definition in BCA Article IV Sect. 4.03, Credit 604-IN and *eans "operating income as a percentage of the average of the capital base at the beginning and
end of the financial year. Operating income and capital base are defined in the notes attached to Annex 25.
3/ Self-finance ratio means internally generated funds net of debt service (not including repayment of State Government loans) as a percentage of capital expenditure for the year.
4/ Haryana not eligible for IDA finance.
SOURCE: SEBs.



- 88 -                      ANNEX 32
INDIA
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT II
Financial Analysis of Sample Schemes
Assumptions used are taken from actual REC appraisal reports:
1.   Capital Costs
SEB investments in 33 kV lines, 33/11 kV substations, LT lines,
distribution transformers and service connections.
2.   Maintenance and Repair
Three percent of cumulative gross SEB investment.
3.   Cost of Energy
Average accounting cost of energy sold at 33 kV for appropriate
SEBs.
4.   Revenue
KWh consumption by each consumer category at current tariff
levels. Growth in consumption is assessed for each scheme in line with
physical implementation of schemes.
5.   Sensitivity to inflation at 5% p.a. has been used.
6.   Cost of Capital
An average financial cost of capital for RE schemes of 7% during
the lifetime of the schemes has been used.
7.   Scheme Lifetimes
Lifetimes have been estimated by the SEBs and approved by REC.



INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Discounted Financial Criteria of Sample RE Schemes
Net Present Value                             Rates of Return - %                        Annual Revenue Increases
Net Present Value                                          At 5 % Inflation of Costs   Required to Achieve an
Scheme     at 7% Discount Rate       At Constant   At 5% Inflation   Excluding Cost of Energy    Internal Rate of Return
Category   at Constant Prices        Prices         of All Costs       (increases in which would   of 7% at Constant Prices.
Rs million                                             be passed on to tariffs)
OA              +2.7                     11.8             9.4                     10.5                   Not Required
OB              -0.9                      5.5             4.0                      4.7                        5.6                  1
SPA             -4.4                 Not Positive  Not Positive             Not Positive                    292.9                  @
SPI            +10.5                     79.4            69.2                     72.8                   Not Required
SI             +28.0                     21.5            20.8                     -                      Not Required
MG              Nil                       7.4             5.9                      6.6                   Not Required
MH              -0.2                      4.3             2.8                      3.4                         9.7
SU              -1.0                      4.1             2.8                      3.3                       13.3
MNP             -1.1                      4.5             3.3                      3.9                       18.2
P)
SOURCE: REC, SEBs.



- 9a,-                                                   ANNEX 33
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Average Price and Cost of Electricity for Selected Consumer Categories
(paisa/kWh 1978)
2/                         MagnlCs-Accoun5~ng
Average Price-                           Marginal Cost-/              Cost7
Type of                                                           LT
Eligible               Agric.1I   Agric. 3/   ural        R4/   u        /Agric        Industrial  Domestic       LT
State                 Tariff-  Consumers-  LT Industrial-  Domestic- Consumers   Consumers   Consumers  Average
Andhra Pradesh                   CEM          22           35             40       80-125       80-125       80-125      43
Assam                             EM          24           22             45         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.      n.a.
Bihar                             E           18           32             50        67            45           83        51
Gujarat                          CEBOM        23           29             31         72           67           71        33
Karnataka                        EBM          20           25             42         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.      28
Kerala                           CEBM         12           15             52         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.      49
Madhya Pradesh                   CEM          30           22             30        82            44           65        55
Maharashtra                      CEMFOS       22           25             31         78           84          174    -45
Orissa                           EM           15           22             33         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       86
Punjab                           F            13           21             35        18            51          115         37
Rajasthan                        EMB          25           23             38        55            35           56         46
Tamil Nadu                       CEM          17           31             35         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.       41
Uttar Pradesh                    E            15           30             41        56            80          102         43
West Bengal                      EM           35           37             45       101           101          120         49
1/  C = capacity charge, E = energy charge, M = minimum charge, B   block concept,
0 = options, F = flat rate, S - fuel surcharge.
2/  Excluding excise duty and fuel surcharge.
3/  Based on relevant annual hours of utilization of irrigation pumps and average connected load
per pump in each State. In case of options the lower option for the average use is taken.
4/  Based on 6,000 kWh/year per 10HP connection.
5/  Based on 180 kWh/year per household.
6/  As calculated in the marginal cost pricing studies prepared by selected SEBs, and in the
Andhra Pradesh SEB review, updated to 1978 using 6% inflation.
7/  1977
n.a. = not available.
Sources: CEA, SEBs, REC



- 91 -
ANNEX 34
Page 1
INDIA
SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION CORPORATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Rural Sub-sector
A-1    National Institute of Community Development (Hyderabad):  An Evaluation
of Four Rural Electrification Projects in Andhra Pradesh, 1976.
A-2    V.N. Kothari and M.M. Dadi:  Economic Benefits of Rural Electrification
in Gujarat, Baroda 1977.
A-3    National Council of Applied Economic Research:  Cost-Benefit Study of
Selected Rural Electrification Schemes in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar
Pradesh, 1977.
A-4    Indian Institute of Management (Ahmedabad):  Electrification in Rural
Gujarat, three volumes, 1974.
A-5    Institute for Financial Management and Research (Madras):  Financial
Planning and Budgeting Systems in REC and SEBs, 1977.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1    Draft of REC Guidelines for Formulation of Schemes for Financial As-
sistance by the REC.
B-2    REC Guidelines for Monitoring of Schemes.
B-3    Collection of sample REC reports (two project proposals, seven
appraisal reports, two monitoring reports).
B-4    Sample Report on a System Improvement Scheme in Tamil Nadu.
B-5    W. Scott:  Draft Report on Technical Standards and Adequacy of Rural
Electrification in India, 1979.
B-6    REC Specification and Construction Standards.
B-7    REC Manual 1/1974, Electric Irrigation Pumpsets (for Guidance of Farmers).
B-8    REC Manual 2/1974, Electric Irrigation Pumpsets.
B-9    REC Manual 3/1974, Safety Manual.
B-10   REC Manual 4/1975, Installation and Maintenance Manual for Medium and
Low Voltage Service Connections.
B-lb   REC Manual 5/1975, Installation and Maintenance Manual for Distribution
Transformer Stations.



- 92 -
ANNEX 34
Page 2
B-12   REC Manual 6/1975, Installation and Maintenance Manual for 33/11 kV
Sub-stations.
B-13   REC Manual 7/1975, Maintenance Manual for 33 kV, 11 kV, Medium and Low
Voltage lines.
B-14   REC Manual 8/1975, Construction Manual for 33 kV, 11 kV, Medium and Low
Voltage lines.
B-15   REC Manual 9/1976, Manual for Repair of Distribution Transformers.
B-16   REC Manual 10/1976, Manual for the Design of 33/11 kV Sub-Station for
Rural Electrification System.
B-17   REC Manual 11/1976, Guide for Voltage Drop Calculations.
B-18   REC Manual 12/1976, Manual for Sag Tension Calculations.
B-19   REC Manual 13/1976, Manual on Manufacturing of Solid PCC Poles.  Part I -
Design Aspects. Part II - Manufacturing Aspects.
C. Working Papers
C-1    Details of Material Requirement for Eligible REC Schemes Approved Between
April 1977 and September 1978.
C-2    Financial and Economic Cost and Benefit Streams of Sample Schemes.
March 1979.



j  -.-  U S S R     _)       - U. S. S. R.    tgDof 
-t--3  8  z :<                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~INEDIA
f,/-'2    \                              ~~~SECOND RURAL ELECTRIFICATION
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC )   1ia >    tCROAION PROJECT
AFGHANISTAN    />                              pr mttnOCnil?.                                               Nmrs  e5hmprItcMrh17
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   E,   gh                                           p,* Di-f. . M-h 1978Qa
,   ghR j                                     *    f mpo6ed ~~~~~~~~~~~Office
(                  t~~~~~HIMACHALlPeet fVEl^rii 
PA K I S T A  N                                                   4    f'                                    Se8wn  e                   . z'
/t~~~~~~/. *s        H        5>3    2              9i                                       BHUTAN(         
('    RAJAiSTHAN`X                                                                                                              AND    Suk, / -   + t '  ot
< ~~~~~~~5                                                                                      6         *        L7De t     -**  l
4~~~~~~~~~. ,'''V                                                                                                                    AM-''r''NB'       '0'i2' ''"E".e  
=.7?3~UJRA                                       7f7   ;E .-t=4  0
= =.~~~0siatff_v ul  S j   7t.4:  
.'i~^KWdoibhil  ; ''::. =: -   ;:     SRI   X     S  =   =                    S .            . .          B U =  c_A
: ^      t            i;;:                                     LNA                         :fE                       t:;=;,::            : iOS*==
004: 0i 9 ;00 0 ;; 2 3=. > i 0 ; 00 3 7ObflRf : ;;ISSA ; 
A5#b,Aw  t=asei0*=JTjv g
LX   l   ;0   0'<   =it  .tz  ,  _ =00 0 7 . ,0= 00 2/-/ 0 Qt0 i ) f=; i flg; ; X S;;A<AM1N



