                                             CONFORMED COPY




                                    CREDIT NUMBER 911 IN




Development Credit Agreement
            (Second REC Project)



                   between


                     INDIA


                      and


     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




              Dated June 21, 1979
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 911 IN


                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

     AGREEMENT, dated June 21, 1979, between INDIA, acting by its
President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).

     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the, Credit as hereinafter provided;

      (B) the Project will be carried out by the Rural Electri-
fication Corporation Limited with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the Rural Electrification Corporation Limited the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and

     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Rural Electrification Corporation Limited;

     NOW THEREFORE    the parties   hereto hereby    agree as   follows:

                              ARTICLE I

                  General Conditions; Definitions

     Section 1.01. The parties to this' Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).

     Section 1.02.    Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise     requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions   have the respe,-;ive meanings therein set forth
and the following    additional terms have the following meanings:

     (a)  "REC" means. Rural Electrification Corporation Limited,
a Company registered under the Companies Act, 1956, as amended,
of India;
                                -2-


      (b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
 Association and REC of even date herewith, as the same may be
 amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
 the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
 Project Agreement;

      (c)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the ;rrower and REC pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
                                                               to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

     (d)  "Board" means any State Electricity Board established
in any of the States pursuant to the Eleetricity (Supply) Act,
1948, as amended, of India;

     (e)   "State" means any State of India;

      (f) "RE-Scheme" means a rural electrification scheme which
falls under any classification of, Ordinary-Advanced
Ordinary-Backward (OB), Special Loan-Agriculture (SPA-1    (OA),
                                                             and
SPA-2), Special Loan-Industry (SPI-1 and SPI-2), and System
Improvement (SI) to be financed by REC by using in part the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower; and

     (g) "Sub-loan" means a loan made,    or proposed to be made,
by REC to a Boald for an RE-Scheme.

                            ARTICLE II

                            The Credit

     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one hundred seventy five wilion dollars ($175,000,000).

      Section 2.02. The amount oi the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account itt accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
                                -3-


     Section 2.03. Except as the Associati6n shall otherwise
ag,ee, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.

      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.

     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.

     Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable   semiannually
on January 15 and July 15 in each year.

     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall rep&y the principal
amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 1989, and ending
January 15, 2029, each installment to and including the install-
ment payable on January 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment there-
after to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.

     Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.

                            ARTICLE III

                     Execution of the Project

     Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its   other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause REC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all   the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all    action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable REC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
      (b)   The   Borrower shall   relend   funds   equivalent   to the
 proceeds of the Credit to REC under a subsidiary loan agreement to
 be entered into between the Borrower and REC under terms and
 conditions acceptable to the A-sociation which shall include,
 inter alia, those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

     (c) The Borrower shall exercise its    rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereofo

                             ARTICLE IV
                           Other Covenants

     Section 4.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall make avail-
able each year to REC funds sufficient to coverthe difference, if
any, between the disbursements on loans sanctioned by REC up to
the beginning of the financial year and funds available with EEC
for making such disbursements.

     Section 4.02. (a) When, with respect to any goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the lowest evaluated
bid, after taking into account the price preference for domestic
manufacturers,  is for goods manufactured from outside of India,
the Borrower shall promptly grant permission to import the goods
covered by the contract, and no review of such permission to
import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its  agencies,
and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly
made available.

      (b) When, with respect to any goods to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the lowest evaluated bid is for
goods manufactured in India, the Borrower shall: (i) promptly
upon receipt of the appropriate applications, issue, or cause to
be issued, such import licenses as shall be required to, implement
the contract; (ii) make available, promptly as needed, a12 foreign
exchange which shall be required therefor; and (iii)  with respect
to imported or locally produced materials, including but not
limited to aluminum for conductors, which are subject to alloca-
tion, make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials
promptly and in such quantities as shall be required for such
contract.
                                -5-




                             ARTICLE V

                   Remedies of the Association

     Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:

     (a) REC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;

     (b) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of REC or for the suspension of its operations; and

      (c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that REC will be able to perform its     obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary    Loan  Agree-
ment.

     Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:

     (a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and REC; and

     (b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.

                            ARTICLE VI

                   Effective Date; Termination

     Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, na ,ely, that, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on beh4lXf of the Borrower and REC.

     Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
                                     -6


     (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by REC,   aand     is   legally binding upon REC in accordance
with its terms; and

     (b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower and REC and is legally binding
upon the Borroweiand REC in accordance with its terms.

     Section 6.03. The date September 21, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.

     Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (b) of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date 20 years after the date 'of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


                                 ARTICLE VII

              Representative of the Borrower; Addresses


     Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of
Finance, Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.

     Section 7.02. The following addresses afe specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


    For the Borrower:

           The Secretary to the Government of India
           Ministry of Finance
           Department of Economic Affairs
           New Delhi, India

           Cable address:                          Telex:

                ECOFAIRS                                953-313546
                New Delhi
    For the Association:

           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America

           Cable addrefs:                           Telex:

                INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
                Washington,   D.C.                       248423 (RCA)   or
                                                          64143 (WUI)


     IN WITIESS WHEREOF,    the      parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto      duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their       respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of        America, as of the day and year
first above written.


                     INDIA



                    By /s/ N. A. Palkhivala
                                         Authorized Representative



                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                    By //     W. David Hopper
                                                Regional Vice President
                                                             South Asia




      .L       -J
                               SCHEDULE 1


                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit


1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:


                                 Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated          % of
                                 (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(1) Conductors                     92,000,000       100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory)

(2) Transformers                   34,000,000       100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures and
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory)

(3) Insulators, meters             16,000,000       100% of foreign
    and switchgear                                  expenditures and
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory)

(4) Single-phase                      600,000       100% of foreign
    transformers and                                enpenditures and
    motors, capacitors,                             100% of local
    and related special                             expenditures
    equipment for pilot                             (ex-factory)
    schemes

(5)   Miscellaneous                25,000,000         100%
      equipment and
      materials
                                -9


                               Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated           % of
                               (Expressed in       Expenditures
      Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed

(6)   Technical assistance           250,000      100%
      and training

(7)   Unallocated                 7,150,000


                 TOTAL          175,000,000


2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:

     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" 'means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and

     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.

3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursedl on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or scrvices, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases,    the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.

5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
                               10




insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the e:tent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet' other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all  expenditures thereunder shall have been made.

6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any
way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
                                        -   11   -




                                      SCHEDULE 2

                           Description of the Project


     The Project is part of the Borrower's two-year (1980/81-
1981/82) program to finance and monitor the expansion and improve-
ment of rural electrification systems in India through supporting
the connection of new villages to the grid, electrification
of irrigation pumps, and provision of domestic, commercial and
small industrial connections, and consists of the following:

Part A:      Implementation of about 1,700 RE-Schemes of the follow-
            ing classifications:

            (i)   Ordinary Advanced Area Schemes (OA) - electrifica-
                  tion of groups of villages in economically advanced
                  areas;

           (ii)   Ordinary Backward Area Schemes (OB) - electrifi-
                  cation of groups of villages in somewhat less
                  advanced areas;

          (iii)   Special Program Agriculture Schemes (SPA-1 and
                  SPA-2) - connection of irrigation pumps in groups
                  of villages, co-financed by other domestic lending
                  institutions;

          (iv)    Special Program Industry Schemes (SPI-1 and (SPI-2)
                  - connection of small and medium industry in rural
                  industrial estates; and

           (v)    System Improvement Schemes (SI) - improvement of
                  existing distribution systems by capacity increase
                  and reinforcement.

Part B:    (i)      Construction of a single-phase distribution pilot
                  scheme in the State of Rajasthan; and

          (ii)    construction of a power factor control (HT capa-
                  citor)  pilot scheme in the State of Xarnataka.



     The Project      is   expected    to be         completed by June   30,   1983.
                                -   12 -


                              SCHEDULE 3

                     Principal Lending Terms of
                      Subsidiary Loan Agreement

     The following are the principal terms and conditions under
which proceeds of the Credit shall be relent by the Borrower to
REC:

     (a)   interest rate of 7.25% per annum;

     (b) repayment over twenty years including five years of
grace; and

     (c)   foreign exchange   risk shall be borne by the Borrower.
