Dr mn of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
o0lu- 2ThIt-U,e
Riput No. P-3881-UR
REPORT ADD RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AmOUNI EQUIVALENT TO USt4.0 MTLLION
TO
ADMINISTRACION NACIONAL DE USINAS Y TRASNISIONES ELECTRICAS
TO BE GUARANTEED BY
THE REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR A
POWER ENGINEERING PROJECT
December 5, 1984
ThiS doent bs a rbcted disibutim mi my be iued by repiemb oy in the pefonamee of
tbor iffica dudus its conet my notiwws be dseqiwd withu Wod Bnk udwimtion.



,URREWC  EQUALETSr
(JAnuary, 1984)
Currency Unit - New Peso (N$)
US$1 - N$43,25
NSI - US$0.023
GOVENIET OF URUGUAY FISCAL  AR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGETS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIlATIONS
ANCAP         AdminIstracion N1acional de Cenentos, Alcoholes   Portlnd
(National Petroleum Company)
ANTEL         Aduinistracion Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
(National Telecommunications Company)
COHIPAL    -  Comision Nixta de Palmar
(M-ixed Commission of Palmar)
CTM        -  Comision Tecnica Nixta de Salto Grande
(LMied Technical Commission of Salto Grande)
MIE        = Ministerio de Industria y Enerw_4a
(Ministry of Industry and Faergy)
SEPLACODI -  Secretaria de Planificacion Coordinacion y Difusion
(Secretariat of Planning, Ccirdination and Information)
UTE        =  Adm-nistracion Nacional de Us.nas y Trasmisiones Electricas
(Nationl Power and Transmission Company)



irOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
URUGUATr
POYER ENGINEERING LOAN
LOAN AND PROJBCT SUmIT
Borrower:       Administracion Naclonal de Usinga   y Trasmisiones
Electricas (UTE).
Guarantor:      Government of Uruguay.
Amount:         USS 4.0 million equivalent ineluding the capitalied
front-end fee of about USS10 thousand.
Terms:          Repayable over thirteen years including four years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Project
Description:    The project consists of the following components:
(a) feasibility study for the rehabilitation of the Gabriel
Terra hydroplant; (b) distribution system study;
(c) operation planning study; (d) training program for
managerial level officers; (e) installation of meters to
implement a power tariff structure based on marginal cost
crLteria; and (f) purchase of instruments and materials for
distribution system maintenance and monitoring the safety of
the Gabriel Terra Dam.
Benefits:       The proposed loan would assist UTE to reduce system
losses, improve operating efficiency and management
practices, develop an adequate planning frameork for the
distribution network, and rationalize electricity use by
consmers.
Estimated Project Cost:
USS Thousands
Local   Foreign    Total
1. Rehabilitation Gabriel Terra Hydroplant        87.2      309.2    396.4
2. Distribution Study                             86.3      305.8    392.1
3. Operation and Simulation Model                 37.5      133.0    170.5
4. Training Program                              117.5       20.0    137.5
*      5. Equipment and Materials 1/                     706.4   2,454.6  3,161.0
Total Base Cost                            1,034.9   3,222.6  4,257.5
:7         Physical Contingencies (10% of Base Cost)    103.5       322.0    425.5
Subtotal                                   1,138.4   3,544.6  4,683.0
Price contingencies                          124.3      445.4    569.7
Total project cost                         1,262.7   3,990.0  5,252.7
Front-end fee                                 -          10.0      10.0
Total financing requirement                1,262.7   4,000.0  5,262.7
1/ 80% of the estimated amount is for the purchase of electric meters and
20% for electrical instruments and equipment.
This document has a reswited disuibutwn and may be used by recipients only in the peorTance of
thir offia dutses Its ontents may not otherwvse be disclosed without Wodd Bank aulothoriaton-



Fianig Plan:
USS Thousands
Local   Foreign      Total
UTE                       1,262.7       -       1,262.7
-       4,000.0    4,000.0
Total                 1,262.7   4,000.0    5,262.7
Estimated
Disbursements:        (USS Thousands by Bank ii)
Tear         Annual        Cumlative
1985            10              10
1986         3,150           3,160
1987           840           4.000
Risks:                The success of the program to implement the new tariff
strctuxre based on marginal cost will depend on how it
is accepted and understood by the consumers. To
minimize this risk, the implementation will be preceded
by a campaign to explain to consumers the new tariff
structure.
Rate of Return:       Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:    No staff appraisal report has been prepared for this
project.



INTEUATIONAL BAK FOR    O      UCTION   D ELOPNT
REPORT AND PRrNOMED3ATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE: EI3CUTIV  DIECTORS ON A
PROPOSED iOAN OF US$4 MILLION TO
ADINnISTRACION NACIONAL D.! USIN    Y TRASMISIONES ELECTRICAS
TO BE GUARANTEED BY
THE REPU1P,ICA ORENTAL DEL URUGUAY
POWER ENIIG PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Adninistracion Nacional de Usinas y Trasmisiones Electricas
(UTE) for the equivalent of USS4 million, including the capitalized
front-end fee of about USS10 tLousand, to carry out studies to improve its
operations, reduce operating costs, and prepare the ground for future Bank
projects in the sector.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum (No. 3652-UR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1982. A new memorandum will be prepared
following the visit of a staff mission in March/April 1985. The following
paragraphs provide a summary of recent developments. A summary of the
Country Basic Data is attached as Annex 1.
Recent Economic Performance
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America in the first half of the twentieth century, Uruguay's economy
deteriorated steadily in the 1950s, 1960s, and early 1970s. Political and
social unrest, followed by the oil crisis in 1973, culminated in a
generalized economic crisis, which forced the country into a fundamental
reappraisal of its basic economic strategy.
4.        The inward-looking policies of the preceding half century, and
the loss of fiscal and monetary discipline, were seen by the country's new
economic leadership as major contributing factors to the country's
prolonged stagnation and periodic balance-of-payments crises. During the
1974-78 period, efforts were made to reverse the historic import-
substitution bias of macro-economic policy in favor of greater integration
with world markets. Export growth accelerated under the impetus of new
in^zentives, including export subsidies, state-supported credits, frequent
devaluations, liberalized drawback facilities, and a streamlining of
administrative processes. Investment was stimulated by phased reductions
in price controls, expanded fiscal incentives, liberalization of the
foreign investment regime, and decontrol of financial and foreign exchange
markets. Between 1974 and 1980, real investment and exports grew by 14%
and 20% a year, respectively. Overall output increased by nearly 5%
annually, the highest average rate in a quarter of a century. Unemployment
fell from over 12% in the mid-1970s to under 6% in the first half of 1981.



- 2 -
International reserves rose to the equivalent of over one year's imports,
and the debt service ratio declined from 46Z of exports of goods and
non-factor services in the early 1970s to 11Z in 1980.
5.        However, only limited progress was made in reducing inflation and
raising the technical and managerial efficiency of domestic industry. In
the late 1970s, policymakers gave added empbasis to finding solutions for
these problems. Tn 1978, the maximm global import tariff vas lowered from
300Z to 150%, and it was announced that the maxilmu level would be reduced,
in annual stages, to 35% by January 1, 1985. To curb inflationary
expectations, the US dollar/peso exchange rate, officially-mandated salary
increases, and increases in public utility tariffs were announced several
months in advance at rates well below the prevailing rate of inflation.
The advance announcement of salary and utility rate increases was
discontinued in 1979, but was maintained for the exchange rate until
November 1982. The Central Bank also withdrew from active manAgement of
the domestic money supply during this period. Open market operations were
halted, banking reserve requirements eliminated, and interest rate ceilings
abolished. In the absence of controls on capital movements, the Government
expected that domestic interest rates would converge quickly with foreign
rates adjusted for depreciation of the peso, assuring a continuous source
of credit on reasonable terms.
6.        However, the initial impact of the anti-inflationary strategy was
contrary to expectations. The rate of consumer price inflation nearly
doubled between 1978 and 1979, rising from 46Z to 83%, as large amounts of
foreign capital, attracted by high peso interest yields and the
comparatively low rate of devaluation, flowed into the economy. Inflation
was also fueled by other factors, including the one-time liquidity effect
of removing all bank reserve requirements; a surge of tourist and real
estate investment demand from neighboring Argentina; a sharp increase in
international beef prices, removal of longstanding domestic livestock and
beef price controls; shortfalls in domestic crop production; and excessive
margins of tariff protection insulating some domestic producers from import
competition.
7.        Although subsequently inflation fell rapidly (to 43Z In 1980, 29Z
in 1981, and 11Z on an annual basis during the first 11 months of 1982), it
remained substantially above the monthly rate of devaluation until late
1981, generating a severe cost-price squeeze that eroded both the
international competitiveness of domestic production and public confidence
in the peso.  The hoped-for convergence of external and internal interest
rates was acLhieved only briefly before speculation and financial hedging
once again opened a wide gap between foreign and domestic rates. In
addition, exogenous factors, such as the world recession and the
appreciation of the U.S. dollar vis-a-vis the currencies of Uruguay's other
major trading partners, exacerbated the adjustment difficulties of domestic
producers struggling to compete with imports.



-3-
8.        As a result, Uruguay entered into a serious recession.  GDP
growth e -lined steadily from 6.0Z in 1980 to -0.1Z in 1981 and -8.7Z in
1982.  Jnemployment rose from 5.7Z of the active labor force in the first
half of 1981 to nearly 14Z in the latter half of 1982. Nominal merchandise
export growth in U.S. dollars slowed from 34Z in 1980 to 15Z in 1981, and
turned into a decline of 16Z in 1982. Real peso interest rates rose from
-1% in 1979 to 25% in 1980 and 35% during the 12 months ending in November
1982. The non-financial public sector fiscal balance shifted from a
surplus of 0.5Z of GDP in 1980 to a deficit of 2.2% in 1981 and 9.4% in
1982. The Ceutral Bank also incurred major quasi-fiscal losses
associated with a variety of subsidized credit operations, equivalent in
1982 to about 9% of GDP. Following surpluses of US$181 million in 1980 and
US$12 million in 1981, the overall balance of Uruguay's external accounts
registered a deficit of US$800 million during 1982, reflecting, inter alia
a large-scale capital flight from the private sector and a deterioration in
the services accounts, mainly due to higher interest payments on external
debt and a substantial decline in net tourism earnings.
Current Stabilization Program and Near-Term Economic Prospects
9.        In late November 1982, the Government abandoned its exchange rate
commitments and price containment strategy, announcing that it would no
longer observe the previously fixed schedule of devaluations, and that
the exchange rate would be freely determined by market forces. While the
daily rate fluctuated widely, the average rate of around UR$34/US$1 during
1983 implied a nominal peso depreciation on the order of 60% relative to
the US dollar parity quoted just prior to the float. In succeeding weeks,
the Government introduced sweeping changes in salary, fiscal, monetary,
trade and external debt management policies designed to reduce rapidly the
size of the public sector deficit, correct distortions in relative prices
which had damaged the competitive position of industries linked to world
markets, and halt the dangerously high losses of foreign exchange.
10.       The IMF supported the Government's stabilization program with a
stand-by agreement. The agreement, effective April 22, 1983, provided
additional resources in the amount of SDR 378 million (roughly US$400
million) over a two-year period. The associated program called for a sharp
reduction in the borrowing requirements of the non-financial public sector,
a scaling down of official external borrowing, a deceleration of central
bank credit growth, and a renewed effort to improve resource allocation by
freeing the exchange rate, continued liberalization of the trade system,
and realistic pricing of public sector goods and services. Shortly after
approval of the stand-by, Uruguay's external payment difficulties were
further eased by agreements with foreign commercial banks and other
external creditors to reschedule US$639 million in public short- and
mediumrterm debt falling due in 1983 and 1984, and to provide fresh
financing of US$230 million.
11.       During 1983, significant progress was achieved in reducing the
deficit of the non-financial public sector (from 9.4Z of GDP in 1982 to
4.0% in 1983), improving resource allocation via a roughly 40% real



- 4 -
depreciation of the average trade-weighted exchange rate, and reducing
substantially the loss of foreign reserves (from US$585 millior. to US$34
million). Economic activity, after declining by more than 8% during the
first half of 1983, experienced a wild recovery in the second half,
expanding at about a 22 annual rate on a seasonally-adjusted basis. A 12%
decline in real public and private sector wages may explain the substantial
increase in the labor force participation rate observed during 1983.
Hence, even though the unemployment rate rose from 13X of the
economically-active population in 1982 to 15% in 1983, total employment
actually increased slightly over the course of 1983. The quarterly rate of
unemployment, which peaked at 16% during the second quarter of the year,
had declined to just over 14% by the last quarter.
12.       Despite these considerable efforts, the stabilization program did
not achieve all its major aims. Delays in implementing the stand-by
program, weaknesses in fiscal/financial policy management, uncertainties
related to the political transition, the lower-than-anticipated levels of
economic activity and imports (real declines of 4.8% and 17.0%,
respectively) and the low level of confidence stemming from difficult
conditions in the region as a whole were among th- Drincipal factors which
slowed the rate of adjustment. Inflation greatly exceeded the level
projected in the program (56% rather than the projected 39Z) -- thereby
inflating all fiscal variables - and there was a significant shortfall in
general government revenues (20.2% of GDP rather than the projected 23.4%),
stemming from the unexpectedly sharp decline in imports, the impact of
inflation on lagging tax- collections, and an increase in tax evasion.
These developments led to a public sector deficit which exceeded the
end-1983 program limits, and substantial private capital flight which
exacerbated the shortage of financial liquidity.
13.       By the latter part of 1983, it was clear that large imbalances in
the accounts of the non-financial public sector and the Central Bank
persisted. Difficulties in the latter institution were related to: (i)
high levels of Central Bank assistance to the National Housing Bank, which
was unable either to meet its external payment obligations or to finance
its rapidly-expanding housing program; (ii) purchases in 1982 of
low-quality commercial loan assets, on which virtually no debt service was
collected in 1983; (iii) an export prefinancing scheme which provided
credit on subsidized terms; and (iv) the costs to the Central Bank of
assuming the debt service on external loans contracted by the non-financial
public sector, while lending to the Government virtually interest-free.
Globally, the combined deficit of the Central Bank and the non-financial
public sector (13% of GDP in 1983 compared with 182 in 1982) remained
incompatible with a sustainable program aimed at reducing inflation,
decreasing reliance on external savings, and promoting economic recovery.
Uruguay's inability to comply with the stand-by program's fiscal targets
led to an interruption of drawings (currently totalling SDR 151 million) at
the end of 1983. Discussions with the IMF on a revised standby are
continuing, but, given the need for further reduction in the Central
Administration deficit and the reluctance of the present Administration to



- 5 -
undertake substantial new economic measures in its last months in office,
the agreement appears likely to be delayed until a new Government assumes
pover in March 1985.
14.       Nevertheless, the present authorities have stressed their
continued commitment to the restoration of external and internal
equilibrium, along with a recovery of output, before completing the
transfer of pover. In the non-financial public sector, public enterprise
tariffs were raised by nearly 30% in January 1984, and the Government has
indicated that future adjustments will be sufficient to cover not only
increases in enterprise costs, but also to raise the level of
self-financing of new investment. Public sector wages and social security
benefits, which together account for 70% of general government
expenditures, are expected to fall further in real terms in 1984. The
authorities have also indicated that they will raise social security taxes,
if necessary, to avoid placing an undue strain on the finances of the
central aiministration.  While these measures will substantially reduce the
non-financial public sector deficit relative to the level of the latter
half of 1983, the deficit for the year as a whole is still expected to rise
slightly to around 5% of GDP. The principal factor impeding decisive
improvement in the non-financial public sector accounts is the continuing
decline in tax collections, whi3h, at 19% of GDP, are low by historical
Uruguayan standards. A new tax package with a potential 12-month yield of
2% of GDP was adopted in June 1984.
15.       With respect to monetary and credit policies of the Central Bank,
the authorities are acting in four main areas. First, the Central Bank has
stopped remunerating legal reserve deposits. Secondly, assistance to the
National Housing Bank has been reduced substantially and is now controlled
in the Treasury budget rather than by the Central Bank. The Housing Bank
is also expected to begin liquidating its interest arrears on past credit
obtained from the Central Bank and to agree to a schedule for the repayment
of principal. Thirdly, agreement appears to be near on a plan to rfecorar
part of the portfolio of private assets purchased by the Central Bark from
commercial banks. Finally, the export pre-financing scheme was terminated
in late 1982 and will occasion no further losses in 1984, since all
outstanding credits have now been repaid.
16.       On the basis of these measures, the deficit of the public sector
(including the Central bank) could be reduced over the twelve-month period
ending in June 1985 to around 6% of GDP, compared to 13% in 1983.  This
would appear to be compatible with a program calling for continued mild
economic recovery (3-4% real growth), similar gains in overall employment,
a modest reduction in inflation (45-50% compared with last year's 56%), a
trade surplus of around US$300 million (5.0-5.5% of projected GDP), a
current account deficit of around US$80 million (1.4% of projected GDP),
and approximate balance on the capital account. The debt service ratio
(including interest and amortization of long and short-term debt) would be
slightly over 30% of goods and non-factor service exports.



-6-
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       The domestic policy requirements for sustained growth beyond 1984
are, in broad terms, the same as those indicated for the short-term.
Uruguay is likely to bear a heavy debt burden for at least the remainder of
this decade, the service of which will require sustained export growth and
continued access to international financial markets. Rescheduling of
approximately US$1.4 billion of principal payments falling due in the
1985-87 period will be necessary because of the bunching of maturities
resulting from the refinancing agreements concluded in 1983. Nevertheless,
public sector requirements for net additional financing could be limited to
US$100 million annually, i.e., a nominal increase in the debt of about 4%
annually. Assuming a moderate sustained recovery in the developed
countries, no major increases in real international interest rate levels,
and continued Uruguayan progress toward improved demand management
policies, there are good prospects for obtaining the required amounts of
financing without endangering the country's creditworthiness.
18.       It is notable that, notwithstanding increases in restrictive
practices within and beyond the region and a very difficult short-term
situation, Uruguay has maintained freedom of exchange transactions on both
current and capital accounts and has continued its program of general
import tariff reductions. The authorities have indicated their intention
to maintain open economic policies and continue to reduce effective
protection. These commitments should serve Uruguay well. The Government
is continuing its negotiations with the Fund and the commercial banks.
However, because of the forthcoming political change in Uruguay, a stand-by
and commercial debt rescheduling most likely will not materialize until
after the new authorities are installed in March 1985. Given Uruguay's
demonstrated readiness to adopt the policy measures needed to maintain its
capacity to service the external debt, Uruguay is considered creditworthy
for the amounts of external financing projected above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
19.       As of September 30, 1984, the Bank had made 22 loans to Uruguay,
amounting to US$501.9 million, of which 9 are not yet fully disbursed. The
undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1984 (including the recently
approved Agricultural Sector Loan which was not yet effective) was US$245.2
million.  Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans.  At the end
of 1983, the Bank held 2.8% of Uruguay's external public and private debt
outstanding; its share of the service on this debt in 1983 was 2.6%.
20.       As of September 30, 1984, IFC had committed in Uruguay a total of
US$21.0 million for four projects, of which US$18.2 was in loans and US$2.8
million in equity. The total undisbursed portion (all under the loan
category) was US$2.0 million.
21.       Bank disbursements in Uruguay are generally satisfactory for
repeater projects, such as in the highway sector. Despite delays, it is
expected that the Second Highway Project will be fully disbursed within six



-7
years compared to the Bank LAC average of seven years. However, operations
in new sectors have experienced initial delays, mostly because it took the
government longer than expected to comply with institutional covenants and
because the executing agencie,s needed more time than anticipated to become
familiar with Bank procedures. These factors have adversely affected the
execution of operations in the education, ports, and telecommunications
sectors. By and large, these problems have been solved with increased
supervision, and disbursements should proceed satisfactorily.
Disbursements of the agricultural and the industrial credit operations have
been affected negatively because of the economic recession in Uruguay.
However, in the absence of alternative lines of medium and long term
credit, there has been considerable recent improvement in commitment levels
under the industrial credit.
22.       First among Uruguay's major long-term development priorities is
improvement in the efficiency of resource allocation. Progress in this
area will require maintaining the momentum of the tariff liberalization
process, followed by reduction of non-tariff barriers, and speeding up the
restructuring and modernization of production facilities. The Bank's
lending program, through its two industrial credit operations, has provided
critical support to the Government's program to lower import barriers and
reduce price controls. In the current difficult economic situation, Bank
lending will be structured so as to encourage the Government to press
forward with the tariff reforms, to eliminate distortions in relative
prices and output, provide adequate incentives for exports, and resist
strong domestic pressures to reverse the process of opening up the
economy. This will be the objective of the recently approved agricultural
sector loan and additional industrial and agricultural credit operations.
23.       Second, Uruguay's human resource base, though well developed in
terms of literacy levels, needs to be further adapted to the needs of an
open economy.  Upper and middle managers, in both the public and private
sectors, generally have a background of broad academic training which is
not always well-suited to the pragmatic, problem-solving needs of a modern
society.  An on-going Bank supported vocational training and technological
development project is addressing one aspect of this problem. Future Bank
involvement in the process of human resource development would be provided
through technical assistance for projects in individual sectors and,
possibly, through a project focused on management training.
24.       Third, Uruguay has not yet achieved the degree of institutional
development required to assure self-sustaining growth. Some significant
progress has been made, however, with the help of the Bank. Power,
telecommunications, and ports projects supported by Bank loans are
gradually improving operations of three of Uruguay's oldest and most poorly
managed agencies. Longstanding assistance to the livestock sector has been
instrumental in establishing a high-quality extension service. Two recent
industrial credit projects have led to the establishment of an independent
appraisal unit that is rapidly improving public sector project evaluation
and technical assistance to industry. Bank lending for highways has
promoted the development of a previously nonexistent transport planning
capability. Nevertheless, institutional capacity needs further
9~~~~~~~~~~~ _



strengthening. Future operations in the energy, water suppky, and,
possibly, railways sectors would emphasize strengthening of management
capabilities, planning processes and operating costs reductions.
25.       Finally, agricultire is and will continue to be the mainstay of
the Uruguayan economy. The contribution of this sector to GDP and
employment is relatively modest, but it is of crucial impotcance as a
foreign exchange earner and a supplier of raw materials to domestic
industry. The Bank hitherto has concentrated on the livestock sector,
particularly on strengthening producer incentives, credit availability and
ranch management. The Bank has also been instrumental in setting up a
solid extension/appraisal institution, and, through the recently approved
Agricultural Sector Loan, in supporting a major effort to increase exports
of livestock and livestock products, reducing price distortions, and
improving regulatory agencies. In the future, Bank involvemmnc in
agriculture will shift towards the crop subsector with particular attention
to intensified livestock/crop rotation techniques,.more effective export
promotion mechanisms, improved crop-oriented research services and a more
comprehensive crop extension network. Projects under consideration would
be geared to help stabilize producer incomes, enhance productivity, and
reduce soil erosion. Experience derived from an on-going agricultural
development loan, including a pilot lending program and a study, should
further clarify the prospects for intensifying small farmer production.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
26.       Uruguay is one of the Latin American countries most affected by
the energy crisis. In 1983 oil imports amounted to 23X of export earnings
or about US$273 million.   Pricing policy for oil derivatives has been
realistic; at present the retail price of gasoline is equivalent to about
US$ 2.7/gallon, and for diesel oil to USS 1.7/gallon. Because of such
pricing policy, additional conservation efforts and a slowdown in economic
activity, demand for oil products since 1979 has decreased significantly,
whereas electricity use has risen at a pace close to 6% per year.
27.       The country's energy resources are limited:  it does not have
known oil or gas reserves and only has small reserves of coal (with a high
ash content and low calorific value), some oil shale and peat deposits, and
an insignificant amount of fuelwood. Hydropower resources are few and, by
and large, either already utilized or not economical to develop at present
fuel prices (para. 33). Within the past five years two large hydroprojects
came into operation: Salto Grande and Palmar. Salto Grande (1,890 MW) is
a binational project shared between Argentina and Uruguay. It is located
on the Uruguay River and started commercial operations in 1979. At present
Uruguay is entitled to 315 MW of Salto Grande's output but it may exercise
options to gradually increase its soare to 945 KW by 1995. Palmar (330
MW), located on the Rio Negro, started operations in late 1982, and has
been in full operation since early 1983. The total present installed
capacity in Uruguay is 1,299 MW of which 881 MS are generated by hydro
resources and 418 MW by thermal resources.



-9-
- p
Energy Sector Organization
28.      Most of Uruguay's ener&y sector is state controlled. The
electric power policy is detemined by the ;overnment, through the Mnistry
of Industry and Energy (NIE). The most important operating entities are
the national petroleum company, Administracion Nacional de Cementos,
Alcobules y Portlaud CAICAP) and the power company, Adinisto  Nacial
de Usina y Tras=islones Electricas (UTE).  Electricity rates are approved
by Presidential decree, and the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the
Secretariat of Planning, Coordination and Information (SEPIACODI) intervene
in their determination, wlth primary decision-making powers vested in the
latter.
29.       ITE (paras. 46 to 51) is organized as an autonornous public entity
(its Board of Directors is appointed by the Goverunent) but is subject to
various legal and administrative constraints on its operations. UTE's
budget is approved by SEPLACODI and this budget places a legal ceiling on
investments and expenditures. The government auditing agency (Tribunal de
Cuentas) is responsible for ensuring that UTE complies with budget and
procurement legislation.
30.       In addition to UTE, two other entities have recently operated in
the sector: Comision Tecnica Mixta de Salto Grande (CIK) and Comlsion
Mxta de Paluar (COKIPAL). CD! was created in 1946, and is an
international organization governed by a Board composed by four Argentine
and four Uruguayan members, all appointed by the respective Governments.
CDT has built the Salto Grande hydroplant (para. 27), and is responsible
for its operation. The plant is interconnected to the UTE system by 500 KV
lines which provide a link to Argentina's power network. CD!'s bulk rates
for the sale of electrlcity are determined so as to enable it to meet its
financial requirements. COMIPAL was created in 1973 to build the Palmar
hydroplant (para. 27); it was governed by a Board vwth representatives from
the Armed Forces, from the Ministry of Industry and Energy  from the
Ministry of Economy and Finance and from SEPLACODI. After its completion,
Palmer was transferred to UTZ at a cost of US$640 mlllion, including
US$600 million in short-term debts (para. 52).
Ene>rg Planning
31.      Formally, the Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE) is
responsible for long-range planning. After th. 1973 oil price increase,
the Direccion Nacional de Energia was formed within the MIE to deal with
sector policies. It has not yet been able to play a significant role in
shaping sector policies. On the other haad, both SEPLACODI and the Armed
Forces have had, because of their power within the overall organization of
the state, a significant role in decisiou-makin& for the sector. So far no
systematic energy planning has been carried out, and the Government has not
defined a comprehensive energy policy. To help the Government in this
respect, the Fifth Power Project (Loan 1779-UR) included an overall energy
study and the proposed project includes follow-up action on the study's
rec  ndtions (para. 32).



-10-
,2.     Under the Fifth Power Project, the Bank financed the services of
consultants to prepare a study that would serve as input to the preparation
of a master energy plan. The study, which was recently completed,
identified the technical and administrative assistance needs of the RIB,
proposed cbanges to its or anizational structure, and suggested
improvements in data cdllection to complete the data base required for the
preparation of a National Energy Plan. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that by July 31, 1985 the Government would furnish to the Bank a
plan of actioz to implement the Energy Sector -Study's recomendations,
including the timetable for preparation of a National Energy Plan, and that
by December 31, 1985 the Government would start carrying out the action
plan after taking into account the Bank's commnts. (Section 3.02 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
Power Sector Strategy
33.       Since the energy crisis in the early 1970's, power sector
strategy has been aimed at substitution of hydro generation for thermal
generation to reduce fuel imports. The potential for this substitution has
now been substantially achieved with the construction of the Salto Grande
and Palmar bydroplants. Under Loan 1779-UR the Bank financed a generation
development program through the year 2000 which has shown that none of the
small hydro projects identified can compete with conventional thermal
plants for the period 1982--2000. Thus, in the future, fuel savings
concerns will have to be addressed by a more efficient operation of UTE's
generating plants and distribution systems, loss reductions, system
planning and demand managemeut through pricing policies whidh take marginal
costs into account. In tbls regard the Bank bas already assisted UTE by
financing, also under Loan 1779-UR, consulting services for a tariff study
based on marginal cost criteria (para. 41) and for maommt development.
Bank Participation in the Sector
34.       Through the former Admintstracion Nacional de Usinas Electricas y
Telefonos del Estado (now Ad-inistracion Nacional de Usinas y
Transuisiones Electricas-UTE) the Bank made four loans to the sector: in
1950 (Loan 30-UR), 1955 (Loan 132-UR), 1956 (Loan 152-UR), and 1970 (Loan
712-UR), aggregating USS82 million, which have been fully disbursed. A
Fifth Loan (1779-UR) for USS24 million, was made to UTE in 1979, and the
corresponding SAR (No. 2022b-UR, dated November 26, 1979) provides
bassground information on the issues faced iL the previous operations.
35.       The project Performance Audit Report for the Fourth Power Project
(SecuSB-867 of November 29, 1978) indicates that progress towards meeting
the institutional objectives the Bank had in 1970 when making the loan was
slow and generally disappointing. It also males the point that UTZ did not
comply with sOme of the loan covenants. Uhile performance on the execution



- 11 -
of the phvsical components of the Fourth Project was poor, the most
disappointing aspect of the project was the failure of UTE and the
Government to take action to arrest UTE's managerial and financial
deterioration. It may be noted, however, that the project's implementation
coincided with a period of severe social conflict and general economic
dislocation.
36.       To provide a focus for discussion of further Bank support of the
power sector, in mid-1976 a consultant carried out a sector review and
recommended various measures to strengthen the power sector and improve
UTE's performance. This report was discussed with the Goverument when the
Fifth Power Project was being prepared and agreement in principle on all
major issues was achieved. To address the problems detected, the
Government passed a new Electricity law (and its corresponding
regulations), approved new by-laws for UTE, and instituted a mechanism to
allow tariff increases when input costs increased. Furthermore, agreement
was also reached that UTE would engage management consultants and private
external auditors to assist in improving internal operations; planning
consultants to develop a long range generation expansion plan, and project
consultants to both assist with the project and set-up a planning
department and provide training to its staff. The results achieved by
these measures were quite satisfactory, and UTE's operations have
measurably improved over the past few years.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       The proposed project was identified by the Bank staff in December
1982 during the appraisal of a generation project, which was srbsequently
postponed due to lower demand prospects. The proposed projec_. was prepared
in November 1983 and appraised in June 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington from October 29 to November 2, 1984; the Uruguayan delegation
was led by Ms. Marta Casabo, a member of UTE's Board of Directors. Special
Conditions of the Project are included in Annex III.
38.       During the first semester of 1981, a consultant firm financed
under Loan 1779-UR (see para. 33 above) completed a study of UTE's
generation expansion program up to the year 2000, and recommended the
construction of a 270 1IW combined-cycle thermal plant in the early years of
the 1984-92 period. This recommendation was confirmed by another
consultant firm, who carried-out the feasibility study for the thermal
plant. This project, which also included the consulting services for the
feasibility study for the rehabilitation of the Gabriel Terra hydroplant, a
distributiou system study, an operation planning study and a training
program for management, was appraised by the Bank in December 1982.
Subsequently, in view of the reduction of load grovth, the project was
postponed. However, it was felt that it would not be advisable to delay
the consultant services component and the idea of an engineering loan came
into being.



_ 12 -
Project Objectives
39.       As indicated in previous paragraphs, the assistance provided
under the Fifth Power Project inclulded financing of external consultants to
carry out several studiesllf These studies were, in the opinion of UTN and
of the Be  staff involved in project supervision, very fruitful and have
resulted in measurable improvements in UTis8 amanagement practices.
Building upon the results of these studies, the proposed project would
enable the Bank to continue its efforts to help improve the Borrower's
t and the quality of electricity service in Uruguqy.
40.       The proposed project ai's at: (a) ensuring a  ore economic
operation and expansion of the generating facilities (par  44(i) and
(ii)); (b) rationalizing policy for tariff settig tparas. 41 and 44(v));
(c) reducing system losses (paras..42 and 44( ai)); and (d) promoting better
manayement (para. 44 Ciii)). Thus, the project would promote econouy and
efficiency in Mi's operations and adainistration, in acc4rdance with the
power sector strategy (pars. 33). The project would elso allow the Bank to
continue an uninterrupted dialogre with sector authori ties once a new
Government takes over and the Fifth Power Project Is aompleted (sstimated
in June 1985).
41.       Under the Fifth Power Project, a consultant firm hired by UTZ
also carried-out a tariff study based on marginaal cost criteria. This
study was completed early in 1982 and UM and the Bank are in agree*met
with its recommendations, which require changes in the tariff structure azd
the installation of electricity meters. However, the follow-up action by
UTE on the study's recommendations was delayed because of lack of required
equipment and instruments. The purchase of such electrical equipment is
part of the proposed project (para. 44 Cv)). During negotiations UM
agreed to prepare a program, satisfactory to the Bank, to implement the
recomzendations of the tariff study not later thai December 31, 1985 but in
any event before issuing tender documernts or requesting bids for related
equipment (section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.       Under Loan 1779-UR, UTZ wa to furnish to ths B&ank a report on
its system losses, including terms-of-reference and a work program for such
studies as may be needed to implement a long-term loss reduction program.
This report was never prepared due to staff constraints, and UTZ and the
Bank subsequently agreed that assistance from external consultants was
repuired. The preparation of a program of distribution loss reduction,
from the present 14%, is part of the distribution systema stutdy (para. 44
Ci)), to be financed by the proposed project.
/a ma;aement Study, Internal Audit and Accounting Practices 3tudy,
Long-term Generation Development Program. Planning Study, Tarff Study
Based on Margimnl Cost Criteria, and  Ianagemeut Salary Survey.



- 13 -
43.       Though access to electric service is quite good (about 82% of all
households), Montevideo's networks are generally old, with some sections
overloaded, resulting in frequent ourages. The Fifth Power Project
financed a distribution rehabilitation program which partially addressed
this problem. However, addftional investments are required to continue the
program to achieve satisfactory service standards. Such continuation is
covered under the 1984-88 UTE Development Program and the distribution
study to upgrade distribution system engineering is included in the
proposed project (para. 44 (ii)).
Project Description
44.       The proposed project would include the following components:
(i)  Distribution System Study. -A comprehensive system study (28
staff-months) would be carried out by consultants to improve
distribution system planning and to establish design criteria, as
needed, to upgrade the distribution systems engineering.  The
study will also include a technical and ecouomic analysis of the
electrical network configuration at 30 kV and mediJum voltage
levels below 30 kV and the analysis of the convenience of using a
grounded 380 V system, or others as required, for low voltage
distribution instead of the existing 220 V. The study would
include the evaluation of a load dispatching distribution center
for Montevideo, a loss reduction study in the medium and low
voltage levels, and the expansion and/or remodeling of the
distribution systems;
(ii)  Operation Planning Study.  The hydroplants feeding energy to
Uruguay's interconnected system are located on the Rio Negro and
on the Rio Uruguay (See attached map). Their annual energy
output varies greatly because of the extreme irregularity of the
runoff; these conditions make proper planning imperative to
ensure that the utilization of facilities will result in
least-cost system operation at the required level of
reliability. It is therefore necessary to conduct a
compr 'ensive review of UTE's present models and practices. This
review (12 staff-months) will be made in three stages: (a)
training courses in optimization and simulation techniques with
application in investment selection and electric system operation
models; (b) development of a new operation model for UTE's
generation system; and (c) development of a model for planning
purposes on the basis of optimizing costs;
(iii)   Training Program for Managerial Level Officers. In 1982, in
accordance with the recommendations of its mnagement
consultants (para. 39), UTE set up a management training
unit, which is now developing a new training program. The Bank
would participate in this program by financing 103% of the



- 14 -
foreign exchange and 80Z of the local costs'.or the period
1985-87. The training will involve a series of seminars that
will take place in three phases: (a) a seminar for management
development; (b) development of management teams; and (c)
development of iater-managerial activities Involving teams or
groups of different areas within the organization. The program
will involve the training of UTE's personnel as Instructors;
(iv)   Consultant Services for the Feasibility Study of the
Rehabilitation of the Gabriel Terra Hydroplant. This plant
(128W) was built during the period 1937-48, and its powerhouse
was damaged by floods in the early sixties. At present the plamt
is capable of operating almost at full capacity, but at a high
operating cost because it requires expensive preventive
maintenance. The study includes consulting services (46
staff-mouths) to review the condition of the power plant,
determdne the technical and economic feasibility for its
rehabilitation, estimate the cost of replacement of the
electromechanical equipment, and the repair of some minor civil
works to Improve the plant's efficiency and extend its useful
life. The expected rate of return on such investment is very
high. UTE has requested retroactive financial assistence from
the Bank towards the feasibility study. The terms-of-reference
were reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. UTE issued
invitations to engage consultauts for this study, and preparation
of specifications for the replacement of equipments and repairs. -
The short list, evaluation of proposals and the draft contract,
were reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory, and in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. In February 1984, UTE
engaged a consailtant firm for this assignment. In view of the
above, the loan includes retroactive financing of up to
US$358,000 for this component;
(v)  Implementation of a Revised Tariff Structure. !Tnder the Fifth
Power Project, a consultant firm (para. 41) carried-out a tariff
study based on marginal cost criteria. The Bank would
participate in financing the iWplementation of the first stage of
the consultants' recommendations. This would imply the
installation of about 10,000 electricity meters; and
(vi) Purchase of Instruments. The project would include the
purchase of: (a) electrical instruments to  easure distribution
losses; (b) instruments for operation and maintenance of the
distribution system; and (c) other instruments to monitor
deficiencies in the Gabriel Terra Dam.
Project Cost and Financing
45.       The total cost of the project has been estimated at about US$5.2
million of which US$4.0 million is the foreign exchange component. This
cost estimate bas been prepared on the basis of January 1984 price levels



- 15 -
and recent experience with similar engineering studies. The proposed Bank
loan would finance the estimated foreign exchange component of the
project. The consultant services consists of about 100 staff-months and
the estimated cost includes salaries, overhead fees, allowances and
international travel. Physical Contingencies of 10% of the base line cost
were added to provide for unforeseen changes in scope. Price contingencies
were added to the bass line cost plus physical contingencies, using
escalation factors oF 3.5Z for 1984, 8% for 1985 and 9% for 1986 and 1987.
UTE would finance the local cost component, including taxes and customs
duties, and interest during execution.
The Borrower
46.       The Borrower of the proposed loan would be the Administracion
Nacional de Uslas y Trasmisiones Electricas (UTE), a quasi-autonomous
entity of the Uruguayan Government wvfich has the responsibility for public
power supply In the country.   UTE's organization is satisfactory; it is
governed by a full-time, three-member Board of Directors with its President
acting as Chief Executive Officer.
47.       To help UTE have a more flexible and efficient administration
(para. 36), Loan 1779-UR financed management consultants that carried out a
comprehensive organization and administration study. This study was
successfully completed and its recommendations have been, o: are in the
process of being, implemented. One of the main consequences has been the
recognition by UTE's Board of the need to develop the company's managerial
ranks, increase incentives to staff and provide management training. The
proposed project would continue to provide assistance in this regard by
financing part of UTE's management training needs between 1985 and 1987
thus providing continuity to the institution building efforts. -
48.       UTE presently employs about 10,300 people (representing about 79
consumers per employee), which include 211 professional staff, i.e. about
2% of the workforce employees. Though this represents an improvement over
the situation a few years ago, there is still an imbalance between
professional and non-professional staff, which causes a comparatively low
level of efficiency. To address this, further steps to improve management
efficiency and salaries would be required. Improvements in efficiency are
being sought through the proposed project (para. 44 (iii)). Under Loan
1779-UR, UTE engaged Price Waterhouse to conduct a salary survey. It
showed that, in 1982, the salaries of professional and management staff
woultd have had to be increased significantly to be competitive with Lhe
private sector. At that time, some modest corrections were implemented; at
present, the economic conditions in the country have reduced professional
turnover and employment opportunities, and hence UTE has been able to
maintain and increase its professional staff.
49.       UTE's commercial systems have been improving in recent years and
financial planning, still in the process of developing expertise, is
proceeding satisfactorily. Under Loan 1779-UR, UTE agreed to engage



- 16 -
private external auditors to review its accounts and assist'in developing
internal auditing capabilities; the rtesults were satisfactory. The loan
documents for the proposed project require again that UTE should retain
independent auditors.
50.       UTE's inventory management is poor and a program for improvement
should be formulated and implemented. The absence of a well-structured
inventory policy and the need to strengthen inventory management are
acknowledged by UTE's Board and staff, and are emphasized at every
opportunity by both internal and external auditors. Also, there is a
general consensus on a significant overstock position as of December 1983,
which is reflected in the projection of working capital requirements for
1984-88. To tackle the problem, an internal group has already been created
to deal with p_ocurement and internal control matters, but UTE agrees that
further improvements will be necessary. By addressing this issue the Bank
will be supporting the Government's efforts to tighten public enterprise
expenditures. During negotiations, UTE agreed that by July 31, 1985, it
would submit to the Bank an action plan for improving inventory management,
and by October 31, 1985, start carrying out such plan of action after
taking into account Bank's comments (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
51.         By the end of 1983, UTE had a good overall collections record,
and although Government accounts were delayed, there was an improving trend
towards reducing overdue accounts. Government accounts receivable were
reduced during 1983 and further reductions took place during the first part
of 1984. More reductions are expected in the next few months, when a
compensation exercise between Government agencies and UTE is finalized. By
mid-i984 the collection period for public sector accounts was about 180
days; this represents an improvement, although short of the targets agreed
upon in Loan 1779-UR. The Government and UTE agreed to maintain t-he
existing bill collection covenant under Loan 1779-UR (Section 5.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.04(b) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement). As a condition of Board Presentation of the proposed project,
the outstanding accounts receivable were reduced to 120 days billing
period, and a plan was submitted by the Government and UTE to reduce the
billing period to the covenanted target of 75 days.
Earnings History
52.       Since 1977, UTE has consistently maintained a strong financial
structure and the rate of return exceeded the level covenanted under Loan
1779-UR in 1977 to 1979, dropping in 1980 to 1982, years in which UTE faced
financial strains due to the Government's reluctance to increase tariffs as
required. In 1983 the US$640 million Palmar hydroplant (para. 30), a
project that turned out to be expensive and poorly financed, was



- 17 -
incorporated into UTE's assets and US$600 million debts were added to UTE's
liabilities. Despite this, UTE's debt equity ratio remains at a reasonable
level, 50:50.
53.       During 1982 and 1983 UTE showed an improvement in its financial
performance, although the rate of return agreed upon under Loan 1779-UR was
not met. A modest increase in sales took place in 1983 (about 3.2Z),
despite a widespread recession, and tariffs were adjusted at a faster pace
than inflation, resulting in an increase in real terms of 32Z between
November 1982 and January 1984. Operating costs were substantially reduced
due to the commissioning of Palmar and to very favorable hydrological
conditions, which allowed UTE to shut down its thermal plants and minimize
fuel costs. Furthermore, wages were increased less than internal inflation
and the number of staff were also slightly reduced. Although the rate of
return achieved in 1983, 2.8%, was lower than the minimum 6% covenanted
under Loan 1779-UR, it represented a significant progress in comparison
with the negative returns of 1981 and 1982, especially taking into account
that the asset revaluation resulted in a higher rate base than expected
during appraisal.
Current Financial Position
54.       UTE's operational financial needs are linked to a high degree, to
exchange rate changes (energy purchases from CTM, fuel costs, maintenance
supplies and debt service) and to a lesser extent to domestic price changes
(salaries, social benefits, local supplies and general expenses). In view
of this, timely adjustments of tariffs to compensate for exchange rate
variations and domestic cost increases are of paramount importance to
maintain in real terms the financial balance arrived at after the tariff
increase of January 1984. Periodic adjustments are allowed by current
legislation (decrees 339 and 498 of 1979). However, the adjustments
granted so far in 1984 were below those required to maintain the January
1984 tariff level in real terms. Thus, during negotiations UTE and the
Government cnafirmed that quarterly adjustments in rates to achieve the
aforesaid would be requested and granted promptly. This, together with the
refinancing of the debt service for Palmar (para. 56) would allow UTE to
gradually improve its finances and achieve by 1988 the minimum rate of
return covenanted under Loan 1779-UR, whose provisions are repeated in the
proposed loan (Section 5.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The debt
service coverage ratio required unider loan 1779-UR is also repeated
(Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement) as is the covenant requiring UTE
to maLntain a self-insurance fund against risks which are not insured
through external insurance (Section 4.03 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The present tariff levels are approximately equivalent to long-term
marginal cost.



- 18 -
Investment Program and Financing Plan
55.       UTE's 1985-88 investment program and financing plan is shown in
detail in Annex IV and summarized below:
US$ Millions         S
(in Jan. 1984 prices)   _
Uses
Construction Program
Ongoing Works                                  36.4           9.1
Proposed Project                                4.8           1.2
Future Works                                  364.3          90.8
Working Capital Decrease                       (4.1          (1.1)
Total                           401.4         100.0
Sources
Gross Internal Cash Generation                  640.2         159.5
less: Debt Service                              713.9         177.9
Palmar Refinancing 1/                    (318.0)       (79.3)
Total Adjusted Debt Service               395.9         98.6
Adjusted Net Internal Cash Generation           244.3          60.9
Borrowiugs                                      150.0          37.3
Existing Loans                                  5.0           1.2
Proposed IBRD Loan                              4.0           1.0
Future  Loans                                 141.0         35.1
Reduction of Temporary Surplus                    7.1           1.8
Total                           401.4         100.0
_,  Represents 602 of total Palmar debt service for the period; the
remaining 40Z is estimated to be paid by UTE's internal cash
generation.
The financial outlook appears viable provided that targets regarding tariff
adjustments (para. 54) and self-financing (para. 57) are met.
Future Finances
56.       UTE's 1984-88 financial outlook is highly dependent on the
rescheduling of the Palmar financing package. The debts that were added to
UTE's liabilities, as a consequence of the incorporation of Palmar, amount
to US$ 600 million and have an average maturity term of about 6 years. For
1984-88, the debt service on Palmar is about US$ 120 million per year.
This debt service represents a very heavy financial burden for a company of
UTE's size and should be rescheduled to restore financial balance. The
external financing is now handled by the Ministry of Economy, and is beyond
the company's control. Negotiations with commercial banks for rescheduling
1985-86 maturities are now in progress.



- 19 -
57.       To address UTE's financial requirements in the period 1985-88,
agreement was reached during negotiations that UTE would, every year, reach
a ratio of funds from internal sources (defined as the difference between
gross internal cash generation and the total debt service, after deducting
from such service the refinancing of Palmar debt service or Government's
contributions to that end) to capital expenditures of not less than 60%.
UTE would prepare by October 31 of each year a plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, demonstrating that the requirement would be met for the current and
following fiscal years (Section 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.       Procurement of goods to be financed by the proposed loan would be
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement. Goods and services to be financed by UTE would
be procured through UTE's normal procedures, which require competitive
bidding or negotiated contracts in special instances. Tender documents of
contracts for equipment and materials costing over US$100,000 will have to
be approved in advance by the Bank. Selection of consultants will be made
from a short list of firms, capable of undertaking the assignment,
following Bank guidelines.
59.       The proposed loan would be disbursed as follows (disbursements
will be fully documented):
(a)   100% of foreign expenditures, and 80% of local expenditures for
consultant's services and training;
(b)   1OOZ of foreign expenditures, and 80% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) for equipment and materials; and
(c)   100Z of service cbarges paid to the National Port Administration
in connection with their handling of equipment and materials
under (b) above.
Retroactive financing of US$358,000 to cover consultants' expenses (from
April 1984) for the study on the rehabilitation of the Gabriel Terra
Hydroplant would be provided (para. 44 (iv)).  There are no disbursement
profiles available for engineering loans similar to the proposed;
therefore, disbursements (2.5 years) have been estimated based upon the
experience in the region and UTE for similar studies and procurement of
equipment and materials (Annex III, Attachment 1). Bidding documents for
consultant services and supply of materials, based on terms-of-reference
reviewed by the Bank staff, are being prepared and bids are expected to be
requested immediately after loan approval. The materials supply
component-electrical meters- could be delivered at the mcst in 6 months,
and installation may start and be concluded in 1985. The consultants
services, which would take approximately 6 months each, will be concluded
between 1985 and 1986, and training seminars by the beginning of 1987.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
60.       The proposed loan would assist UTE to meet power demand in a more
efficient and economic way, by:
(a)   developing a new simulation model in order to minimize UTE's
power generation costs;
(b)   developing an efficient planning framework for the distribution
system and reducing system losses;
(c)   improving quality of management; and
(d)   rationalizing electricity use by implementing a tariff structure
based on marginal costs criteria.
61.       UTE is in a condition to provide the financial and technical
counterpart to implement the project properly. In terms of the consultants
services major risks or difficulties are not foreseen. However, the
success of the program to introduce a marginal cost based tariff will
depend on how it is accepted and understood by the consumers. To ensure a
smooth transition to the new system, UTE would prepare a plan which
includes provisions for publicity, billing, and staff training. At
negotiations, agreement was reached that this plan would be prepared by UTE
with sufficient time ahead of the date by which the new system is expected
to start (para. 41).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between UTE and the Bank, the Guarantee
Agreement between the Republica Oriental del Uruguay and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided by in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section
III of Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 5, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 21-                                                     ANNEX 1
T AB LE M                                        Page 1 of 5
UUAY                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA BNlET
URMUwUA                   -RZ-EIEz GROUPS CNE D AVERAGES)
OST                   (HOST RECEN ESTINATE)
IICCUIT lnnt          IN. LEDDGLE
1960-      ig7aLb zgESTDATELb     IAT. 3tCA  CAR             1m1o
AM  (mraa  se. a)
TOTAL                             176.2      176.2       176.2
AGRICULTURAL                      156.2      154.8       160.7 1
GIP  t CWITA (CUS)                   690.0     1030.0      2650.0            2106.6                   2345.3
ENR-CT CUUITION PER CAPI
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)     703.0      799.0       353.0             n5.5                    1122.8
POPULATIC AND VITAL STATUITICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSADS)   2538.0     2380.0      2918.0
URBAN POPULATION (2 OF TOTAL)      80.1       32.1       34.4               66.5                    46.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 CHILL)                           3.1
STATIONAY POPULATION (HILL)                              4.3
POPULATION tVHENM                                        1.3
POPuLATION DENSITT
PER SQ. a.                       14.4       15.9        16.6              35.7                    82.9
PER sq. M. AUI. LAND             16.2       13.1        18.2             92.4                     158.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 YRS                        28.5       23.2        27.0              39.9                     31.b
11-64 YIS                        63.9       63.2       62.6               56.0                    61.1
S AND AMOVE                       7.6        8.5        10.3               4.1                     7.1
POPULATION GROWN RATE C2)
TOTAL                             1.3        1.0         0.4 Ic            2.4                      1.6
URBAN                             1.5        1.3         0.6               3.6                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)       21.9       20.8        13.1              31.3                    23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TROUS)        9.B        9.8        9.3               8.1                      3.8
CROSS REPRODUCTIOS RATE             1.4        1.4         1.3               2.0                     1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..
USERS (S OF HARRIED WOKEN)         ..         ..          ..              40.3
FWO A-   1rTrIrE
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.0      107.0       09.0             114.3                  I14.s
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIREMENTS)    112.0      114.0       110.0             110.6                    12B.6
PROTEINS (GlANS PER DAY)         92.0       93.0       91.0              67.3                     89.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      62.0       60.0        56.0 /d           34.1                     34.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         4.0        2.6         1.6               5.7                     5.2
WALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)      67.3       68.7       72.7              64.7                     67.4
INFANT HURT. RATE (PER THOUS)      50.5       46.7       34.0              60.6                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (.POP)
TOIAL                              ..         ..        84.0 /a           65.4
URBAN                              ..         ..       91.0 I.            78.1
RURAL                              ..         ..         1.07             4fi.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       82.0        92.0 le           52.9
URBAN                              ..       97.0       94.0 7             67.0
RURAL                              ..       13.0        76.0 7;           24.5
POPULATION PER PHISICtAN          960.0 If   910.0       540.0 j          1917.7                  1065.8
POP. PER NURSING PERSOS           800.0 ir   710.0 /b   190.0 7           315.s                    764.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOrAL                           180.0      170.0       170.0 i           367.2                    326.3
URAN                               ..         ..          ..             411.5                   201.5
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..            2636.3
ADltSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         ..        13.0A             Z7.3                    20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSELD
TOTAL                             3.Bjj       ..         3.6 e.
URBAN                              ..          .        3.67; 
RURAL                              ..         ..             7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSOXS/ROUN
TOTAL                             1.51       ..         2.1 Ie
URBAN                              ..         ..        2.1 7;
RURAL                              ..         ..         2.1 /
ACCESS TO ELECT. (S OF IRELLINGS)
TOTAL                            78.0                    0 ..  30.7 /a
URBa                             86.O 9i2 ..            9.2 7
RURAL                            29.0         ..        27.8 7.



- 22 -
AhNEX I
TAILE  34                                           Page  2 of 5
URUGUAY                - SOCIAL INDICAT  DTA SKEUT
U711CUAy                            WIRINS GROUPS (IEIGHrD AVEGS) a
HOST                   (MT? RCCENC  BTXIATE%U) Lb
tieaLk.            IISOLk  33 CMIDT DlE IlCOMaE          MIDDLE
U6GaLb-    m4b7   ESTiMATe    LAT. ACMCA 6 CAR                    ROPE
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYt  TOTAL                  111.0       113.0      122.0               103.4                  101.1
MALE                   111.0      116.0       124.0              106.3                  105.5
FDW.E                  111.0      109.0       120.0              104.5                   96.7
SECONDARY: TOTL                   37.0        57.0       70.0               43.2                    59.1
MALE                    35.0       53.0        54.0               42.3                   61.9
FEMALE                  38.0       61.0        61.0               *4.5                   50.6
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)         22.5        21.4       13.8               33.6                    21.6
PUPIL-TEAER RATIO
PRIMARY                           33.0        29.0       21.0                30.1                   25.1
SECONDARY                         13.0          ..         ..                16.6                  2O.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)               ..        91.0       94.0 /k            79.5                    75.6
CS_MPM
PASSENGER CAUSITHOUSAND POP         39.3        43.1       75.7               46.0                    54.7
RADIO RECEIVRSITHOUSAND POP        315.2       356-1      560.5              225.6                   164.9
TV RECENIERS/TOSAND POP              9.9        91.9      124.8               107.2                  123.8
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION          207.8 /f   143.6       224.1 1.             63.5                   96.3
CINIA ANNIAL ATTENDACECAPITA         9.0 T        ..        2.2 j              2.8                    2.9
LAMM aI P3
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         1017.0      1098.0     1128.0
PFIALE (PERCENT)                  24.3        27.4       29.9               23.2                    34.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             20.6        15.2       10.8               31.5                    40.7
INDUSrRY (PERCENT)                29.5        31.2       32.4               23.9                    23.3
PATXICLPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             40.1        39.1       38.3                32.2                   42.9
HALE                              60.5        57.1       54.3               49.3                    54.7
FEMALE                            19.5        21.3       22.6                15.2                   31.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            0.9         0.9        1.0                1.4                    0.9
x043 DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCUIE
REIVED BY
RICHEST 5S OF lOUSEHOLDS            ..        17.0 In.n  19.5 In
RICHEST 205 OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..        43.4 /3.D  46.4 7;.
LOWEST 20S OF HOUSEOLDS             ..         6.1/ mn    5.6 7;.
LOWEST 40s OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..        165 7i.   16.2 7T.
ESTXMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCUE
LrVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..              288.2
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..              184.0
ESTIMTED RELATIVE POVERtY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               .-          ..      697.0 A            522.8
RULAL                               ..          ..      697.0              372.4
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTZ
POVERTY INCUIE LEVEL (2)
URBAN                               ..
RRL                                 ........
sOr AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N OT  E S
Ia  The group averagep for each indicator are population-weighted arithetic mans. Coverae of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unleec otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960f refer to an- yer between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- between 1969 *sd
1971; and data for -Most Recent Estimate' betwan 1980 end 1962.
/c   Due to   migration, population growth rate is lower than rate of natural inrase; /d 1977; /a 1975; If 1962;
/L 1979; lb 1972; /I 1976; jJ 1963; Ak 1978; /1 1958; /a 1967-68 data; In  Montevideo region, salaried
persons on7l.
JUNE. 1984



- 23 -                                                             AmIL& 1
Page 3 of 5
_s __a  -  -  a  ts  -M.                                                     . _i __ _ _ ._ __ _       f       -
S__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . __ z  |  _.W_t  _ _
....  M  l         _a   _    . .    _._..
_n.        a  a   _        -      t- --at                                                                                     -=__
at-   -   C    -      -.L   tat. -       -       i     -              i
in    -   t    ... .                                      .         ._.                               _                      ", _e in  _ _   _ 
0-be as - asb... a.   C in at We in. in- - at.tiTaC-   i -.W am. Wft  -m.O 
-- in  a  Wat     -  -                     Lsat__                       t.-
0      _- -      _  -_ -_ itat -      -is  Wts   -- 
r.._r__.                                      _         _ _    _    t-             _         - _
_-     --          -                              tB       -   -   -        0t  a Sati              w-
-4- w r-_. -                                                                                       _r let b _ lif. _ns
-  -  - tb~b.  Ta i-si-it.         i-i-     TM
-   in!-~ _ btitl _ _~                _          __ie                 _n  c                          n e _t 1- a-       lb. --s  -
en-st in   ~-  Sat. Witat. in   a  aSW-. s-CW-.L i. Wa.                                 tei           a=inte W
t. ,. i __ _ e -                                                                  -  inbet  -_  _                           __  __ a_r _  _   _ _t _ -_
- ._ -    __a __b__t_ as                        _ _ I.           -~ ___ _ _"
LS-.0 90 p-a                                -Eat 
_ __ __ v_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r   rd                                                                    _I _
XI_ *e                            _-             - 
m.tt  -- -  -  _e _eete e.5.i _  _               -X --                                       _   - -               _L  _ -
at ateesi -  -  -  -  at in.    i-iSlet.            ...I1a-. a .-&t.   b.ma .. U.           -
a    s-~~~    -     F- -sense  -  -   -  -           -      --M
-e0a- *~        - __ bstS. _  *t             -     _ se .       _            -_  _~  _-   a   as-n-- -
in   Wetes _ tntn  _at E- I WO              t .       t
=-      enin   SF   -; I_s_ Os   .   ---_  _ -                   _       -
_tet,  n._s-   t--               a   -_  _eaSt    _n               _       im   in -X t     e5  -. ats _ be  _e. _t.
__ r__ .?  -    ta _C.   .1-    in   in.911S.                         asia                              t
_  __  -I ,I n _   _een- _lat (in                                        att.   infl n a . _~ _- ,  _                   t _
at I. S   v-e. 5a   -  In                                 _  __ti     aWn _         sa _        _ n  Id sr._
-    -            IS. _     , _  &  U_t _ _1         . -P- _                s-          . _ _ _
_r  _   _     sIitb   s n-f -ne. O_   _  _  r_n _ _                                       use   as _ _  tat -B    n  -O _n.  -s_     .
.-e.  -          de."    -   n         -_  -W   s  Uk -- rE  _- _-   e   -
-   csW  Sn *__          _S.           . *    l      _t                          __ ms  _.       _ Ss St               . .V Sg  _-
_:_ -   -   a                   -   -_-     S b.ts   _             _et  - si-b
_~ -_e        *-  i. eSt  -        _1 *           ts   - -                             .      ** 
a,. :ogU atw                                                             as-~.     _ _  e_  _t. _-_ Win  tn- _ ___ -__t        il   -
in-            _nles t_ _-   _  1     I_s   i    a                  .F         ,_s -t_ _
_     . ie.te. tt  ,                           --i  ci.. _                           n  tee *-l  _l~   _      e _       WI b.n
_r t t r -_ _ir__   r t_I  
a-nat_ Sa  SS  -l                                   in _-  -                                 a_   r __T   asen _: 
aSS we..              .,s  en twlr.                                    be..   a.. _c.. .a -_* 1es  -eS    ~- -. -se. a -awe  g.  a
_is. at. -    mn... _  r  -*l _ad   -_ -  a  -|wr . - t~reeL  _-  *_ si     _                                          _
r_ _-   -t '             --_ bst~ *~ __. en s n  *-  a              _       .      r_r sas. r._ rn          .    - *_       _Sn
_ -  -   C   _in   - -            rI      _n         n-.           _      w _V  Fec t               0- _ - _S  sin  _ _b   _
_stes  Sb... .. - t          .                                             mait _.  a_ si     stti             _a  _I-  _19-r
t.~~~~ _            -                                                    15t  Sat_ W__    b_     _     _     _ - fnS 0-Sa    i i  
IS-s _in   - ns.5   __   _ln     _ rS                  .          _              *b..    _s ins aT         i  fln.
itni 515 - F_| T**t   a    I_ a-                                    r. ,in  a   tS.oh.
Wa_                   WI _ 5hr_  w___           _       ~ CC-__________s _ ______
_5It                                                                    s.S   _b. Isi en _  ___e n.
_ _ _ E~~- r n-',sm-                   . a@_  * -   as.             .e. 'in     -_                        <         t a.tr*n-e-_  -ST 
-     rtS      _ _k F-. _  _ lat.. ri-biit inc-  _I -S                                       - tes, _n. *_ f--S  -i
_r -_t Le _ _at             t_ n      b   _t  5-    5 9.             _        t    -  en     C 55_  _ta  _ef  _ r.   t .   ta
_n      nh.   a_ _,u         -  es_ st. _  aim    e.5*_ e-=                               tar in 5_ na              iS..     i
ae- -   net *_   ne   _t at.   e-si t,t    _.                 _      . _er as._   _|
-i   WIe    - a   ati   ..SS.                       -  _e.  _          _      see  a_ _ sI. _I  a _eS  __isi  {_ _1   rn.s
-~~~~~~~~~ -e Sutesi  *5. .ii.                     ta ..cs  i...                              i.  0*sl.ds.  n                        t-  siha
_ts- -eil  _S *_tn.e.             I   t     nfl. - _t __                                a r_   _tla _
, si-''r 5- Wi            uitse         c|    .                                         -  it        .n        S      9-S
__  _S,  *- i-It   _ii  _.5i5    _ies                                                                         __ _tn.            r   _a ESi
a e   -.esa a  sens                   _ _ __. am seee na
-        _           _           r n-   -    ee.  5 -l 
a   a            5_.0- _s.    __ ges.
r _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     --sen                    5-?  WS
-     _     _      _S_f SaC.*   -    uil rb _    20
a    n_     _    _os-       ,._ _     _ _e ,ebe                             l    -S       nsi. t-S    sa
iSS bedS _-di _i.S _5i a   _a                                                                               -- l                    5
be Cde  lies      t  ie eta  .I.  itss   t      b                                    -tS_...t   .S                 .          C    i
at     el-nea   es    -     aEalt-t  59a  i.easi                                               enP-aei  lSieee   .W
_,                                                                         in..



- 26 -
Page 4*f e
ECOMIa  DEELP21r  A
(C_s Is uILloas of US doU-ars)
ACtual          Eatied    pro        l    Averag- Antie *roh Rare 1   IAs Percest of C!
1979    1951    156        1563    1954      1157   1975-79 1579-6  15763-6       1979  1953   1967
IWITONAL A                                       AC 1978 Prices & ExcF _e RateG
Gross Domestic Pructs                  5,419    5.73S   5.39    4*9J      5.190    5.690      4*1   -2.1       3-4       100.1  103.6  102_0
Gaes, ruw Terms of Trade C-)              -7      -3      -166     -174    -150    -110         -                         -0.1   -1.6   -2.0
GCoss Domestic Income                  5.-12    5.655    5.073    4.813    5.060    5.55       4.5   -2.9       3.        10.  100_0   10
Imats C(ac_ FS)                        1.Z63    1.33    1.184      986    1.010    1.100      9*6   -6.0       2.7       Z3.3  20.5   19.7
E,pars C-       )CCaPeclc_ to 1ort)   966       99t      797       B6o      935    1,150      9.6   -2Z.      6.7        17J8  18.4   20.6
Mesoorce ca p9                                    362  13           MZ   S7           -50      9.6  -23.4         .        5.5   2.1   -0.
C_p:SUn   Espaudlture                  6.69     5.083   4.717    _.394    4.490   *.8m         2Z2   -1.7       2.7       86.8  91.3   81.5
k:vs=tawn Expendtre Clod. Sco,)  1.012            954     743       S21      625      650     19.0  -15.3      5.7        18.7  10G8   11.6
Domestic Savl:ns                         715     s52       356      419      550      700    31.5  -1Z_5       13.6        13_2    8.7   12Z
1a:l..osl Savings                        674       52      Z17      69      250      400    46.6  -Z9_2    24.0           LZO5   3.5    7.Z
!Er5 ISE TAVE                                      AnsI Data at Currez irics.                                         As ef TofMa. Mgerchandise
Expenditure
Imports
CapItoL Coeds                          174      243      154       76       8O      110    32.3  -18.7       9.7        14.4  10.8   11.3
EnteruedLate Goods (E=L_ F'els)        66       658     434       313      350      48      22.1  -t7.1     1113        55.0   4.3   49.5
Fuels &   Latdd rmzrSlau                0       83     420       273      Z60      330    13.8   -1.5       4_9         Z4.0  38.7   34-0
Co_ooies  Coods                         79      257     1OZ        4        50       S0    4S.6  -13.6        3.2         6.6   6.2    5.2
TncAl %Ircb.pepor  (clf)              .T207    1.641    1.110     706      760      970    21.5   LZ.5       5.3        100.0 1l00.   10KO.
Export-s
Prmat-e Prouct: (ExeL. Faels)          416      643     726       723      736    1,079      9.7   14.8    10.5         52.8  68.4   66.6
M facmured    d                        372      372     297       334      389      541    33-6   -2.7       12_8       47_2   31.6   33.4
Tocal !Ierch  Exports (fob)           7688    i215    1.023    1.057    1.182   1.620   17957    7.6    11.3          100.0  100.0  100.0
-ria                                   268      146      106       90       lO      125    Za6.  -23.9       8.6        34.00  865    7.7
-kIerbaedise Trade Indices
Expor: Prlce Index                     125.1   143.6   127.4      1 Z8    127.3   157.0   9.7   -0.5         6.3
;xport Price rudee                     L:S9    1S59-    153.9    1-469    154_2    175.2   7.3    3.7        ._5
Term of Trade ndex                      993  9Z.3    62.8          63.6    82.6    89.6   2.3   -4.2          1.7
Emp..rc VoI_ !m.-dx                     94.8   118.5   111.2    116.3    15.4   139.8   9.1    5.2 4Z          7
VALUE A lDED  SECrU                      A l Dat at 1979 Prices mi Eachme Rates                                            As 2 of of Toal
AgrIculzure and SIing                    48'      568      529      516      530      600    -0.6    1._        3.7        10.5  12.2   12.6
raszi .y and Ca:ne Ictini              1.423    1.416   1.185    1.061    1.100    1.280       6.6   -7.1      4.7        30.9  25.0   26.5
Services                               Z699    2,898   2.743        b67   2,720   ;,950        3.9   .0.3      2.0        58.6  62.8   61.1
Tot. GOP (Az FacP.r Cost)              b.0b6   '.b86     * S;      6 .2    4.350      .830      . 1   -2.0      3.3       100.0  100   100.0
PSULIC FICC (in C.GM= UGSS)                                                                                                  As  o of GDP
(Gazera.L GoCeriunz)
CurreG t ZeceIpc.                    1.136   1222    1.038       956   1.020    1.230       9.6   -4.2      6.5        21.0  19.2   21.6
Current Eupewalkures                   975    1 150    1.311    1,009    1.090    1.140      2.7    0.9      3.1        18.0  20.2   20.0
hudgecary SIns                         M   1           -Z73       -53      -70       90                                   - .  .  3.0  -1.0    1.
Ohber Currean  II1c Sector             101      123      44        3        30      110      -.   -23.6    34.1          1.9   0.7    1.9
Publlc Sec:or Invesznt                 271     323      2bb       183      Z10      260    20.5   -9.3       9.2         5.0   3.7    4.5
SE.EC7ED nDICAT06                     1960-65     1965-70    1970.75    1975-80
(CaLculated free 3-year averagwd data)
Awerage IIt                             17.01       4.56       15.49        3.43
Import ElasticIty                       -7.25       6.19        1.51        3.92
-1argLnaL DomeslIc Sawvngs Nate          1.50       -0.46       1.11        0.30
MealLnsl Natlonal Savings Rate           1.40       -0.'9       0.93        0.26
Total Labor Force                 Value Added Per Marker (1975 Prices & Eie. Rates)
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WOIM         In !nillons   Z    of Total    Crmwtb Ratee    In US DolLars   Perc  of Averag         Growch Rate
1963  1975      1963  1975      :963-75          1963  1975        1963   1975          19S3-1975
Agriculture                             0.16  0.21      17.9  19.6        1.3            Z.366  1.762       0.79    O.O          -2.2
Indutry                                 0.26  0.31     Z5.7  Z9.0         1.5            3.519  3.439      1.18     1.16          -0.2
ServIce                                 0.56  0.55     56.4  51.2        -0.2            2 932 3 143       0.96     I.06           0.6
Total                                   1.0)  =.T      100.0  100.0   leO O.b                              1.00    1.00          -o.
Dnot applicable.           -3ill or negligIble.
not available.            -Le" cm b&Lf che smeet unit shown.
Il C_ound anal growth races.                                                                    July 1984



- m
c1m     a4J1 a   .. uiz WV           mIs" w1w3 
Eaporta (ll   S)         I       .196.4   1,52&,3   1.66L3    1.32L4   1.312.D   R.450.0  I.590   1*790 I.D10.             11.3
IMP"-ts (_tl. Ws)               1,5048    Z 143J7   2,072.5  1JILS: - I 074.7   1.150.0   .M0  1.,30.0  I.5300              9.2
Rc.  RaLA1.                     -306_4     I7-t   -o0,.0    -2&a43        Z31-4     iO        340.0    410.0    6w0.0      19. 2
Fac CeruLces luet)              -57J8    -100.4      -73_3    -137.O   -317.0    -390.0    435.0   -510.0   -4600         10_9
Pr I             (a.ct)            7.1        8l7       9J7       10.4     11.0   *I.0         11_0     11I0.    11_ 0 
3aa   am       n ae             -357.1    -709.4   -_70.1    -42b.1    -49.4        -79.0    -I.0   -_9.0    I1.
PrLMts thudc ZU-Wsteat            215.8     28s89      48.3      -13.2    -15.0      5U.0      50.0     40.0   _0.0
OffIal rZZlB                      6_5        S.5        1l       7.0      7.0       7.0      7T5       7.0      7_0       -
PubLIC "= lam
D1abc ts                        191.7     293.0     Z9tL6      *59.7    500.4     360.0 5D.D    540.0    550.0            2_4
54.0      93.0      _0.b      70.4      94.0     20.0    425.0    450-0    490.0        51.1
gw Dlbr                           13.9 20.0                      399J.3    40                  750      90.      50.0 -3U e
O-ber capital if                   40.5     395.4     138.4    -744.5   -443       -20.0   -10-0    I00.D    20D_0 .
Cbuaur* La w       - wsr.        -42._    -181.4      -11.9  7S99S    13643          62.0      52.0   -1480   -338.0         -
Actual.
r AMD  S0                     19,9     9      90  1961  1      1993
Puic debc out. a dtabrmedt 9332   1.127J7  t39.0  1,T3t.3  Z.56D_I
GfAXwS AM WIN C9IIDM                                                         Interest 7mn publc debt    70.b    1l0_S    124.1    15S.6    196.3
Ueps.... .   epubic dbc   54-B      93.0     60.6      70.4     94.0
1979    i       19W1    19S2   1983           T-wa public debe uetvlce  125.      197.5    184.3    22S.2    292.4
PublZc NT. Lam
19O_S50.5    74.0    70W0                             -      45_0
Other sallacral             3S5_   30.2   103.0       -       10.0       Aunew as vapue uuZqp u  r C .
G      _stuts                 -     92_5    10.7    14.8       4.7
Suplier,                     7.4     8.0    5s0 o      .0    107          PublIc :r det ester Em     10.5      Z_9      11.1     17 1      ZZ3
PIe2al immutitLUGM         130.6   141.9   157.6   3ZZD.   430.7
a..."                        -        -      50.0   00.0     -           Tat. pblc debt service 2/ 10.5       12.9      11.1     52.5      59.3
Public loa  UAi__            _        _        _      _        _
Ttal pbubLIc -IX Lam       218.9   344.0   396.3   4448   5O1.1          Lerege re  . Vublic debt
Actel Debt  O otiutF us Due. 31. 1963             mt -  2: prn y   DOr       69-    11.2    1L10       11.5     11.0
E3 J.                        DsuL arml Ol            Perc                    Amrc_ as   pr yonr D04D  6.9    10.0         5s_      39.8      ZZ_9
UsrLd 3mk                        91.9                316
IL                                -                    -                 DRD debt ut & dlabufud
Other vUllicemaL               1U2.                   4.8                  - as Z pblLc debt OM        7.9     4.4       5.2      3.7       3_5
co.. nta                        148.1                 4.5                    a   pulc debt uer.io.  11.3                 8.4      1.9       2.8
SuplI.ru                        30.4                  L.2
PL1 ocia l enittucluu         1t.8578                72.4
son"                           2W.8                  11.3
Publlc debs a-le                  -                    _
Tt" l publc . dbt            _z.560                 100.0
_ apLucabe                             taf elut
noct  tlab.                            - oil or eglIgibLe
__tc a1L1ablw separately            -ea t3   bLf the
but Lueludud In total                  milst bow.n
lcldIg erros and               .
2/ Uef.re  dju_ts for raIato  of _
3/ As a *ham of eupora f _man" and now-fsetuc aetelcus.
4/ IcludLng intret and inrcLzatla  a  abr-r-n: dbt.                                                                                 July 1964



- 26 -
Page I of 2
STATUS OF BANK  RO  OPBRTONS IN 'UUGUAr
A. Statment of Bank loans 'as of September 30. 1984)
(us mimon)
AJount
Loan                                                  (Lstions)
No.    Year  Borrower              P}rupose                 Undisbursed
Loa  fully disbursed                                  192.7
1594   1978 Rep. Oriental  Vocational Training
del Urugua     and Tebhnological
Development             9.7      8.9
1689   1979 Rep. Oriental  Second Highway
del Uruguay                            26.5      9.3
1779   1979 kdministracion Pifth Power
National de
Usinas y
Tran=uisiones
Electricas                             24.0    10.1
1798   1980 Adzinistracion  Montevideo Port
Nacional de
Paertos                                50.0    34.5
1831    1980 Rep. Oriental  Agricultural
del Uruguay    Development             24.0    16.9
1930   1980 Rep. Oriental  Second Industrial
del UrUgaay    Project                 30.0    22.2
2033   1981  Administracion
Nacional de
Telecom.     Telecommnications         40.0    40.0
2238   1983 Rep. Oriental
del Uruguay  Third Highway             45.0    43.3
2456   1985 Rep. Oriental
del Urugaay  Agricultural Sector Loan 60.0    60.0
Total (net of cancellations)            501.9
of which has been repaid              160.3
Total now outstanding                   341.6
Amount sold                  4.6
of which has been repaid   4.6          0.0
Total now held by Bank                  341.6
Total undisbursed                                245.2
1/ Not yet effective.



- 27-
Ala= II
Page 2 of 2
B. Statemet of IEC ILvestments (as of September 30, 1984)
Fiscal                              Type of       (Amount in US million)
Year           Obligor             Buiness         Loan  3qXity  Total
1976    Fabrica Uruguaya de     fotorwehicles      3.80    -       3.80
leuzaticos             and accessories
1979    Acodike Swpergas S.A.  Chemicals and        .95    -        .95
petrochemicals
1979,   Astra Pesquerias       Food processing    5.92   2.25    8.17
1983     Urugayas S.A.
1980    Sur Invest Casa        loxLey and capital 10.00   0.59    10.59
Bancaria S.A.          mareet
Total gross commitments                  20.67   2.84    23.51
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    2.48    -        2.48
Net held by IFC                          18.19    2.84   21.03
Total unndiabursed                        2.00        -    2.00



-28-
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
SuLEMENTARY PROJECT DAIA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a) The project was identified in December 1982 and prepared
in November 1983.
(b) The project was appraised in June 1984.
(c)  Negotiations were completed on November 2, 1984.
(d) The planned date of effectiveness is June 30, 1985.
Section II: Special Bank Imwlementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations agreement was reached on the foliowing:
(a) that by July 31, 1985, the Government furnish to the Bank a plan of
action to implement the Energy Sector Study's recommedtions,
including timetable for preparation of a National Energ Plan,
and not later than December 31, 1985, start carrying out the action
plan after taking into account Bank's coments (para. 32);
Cb)  that UTE prepare a program, satisfactory to the Bank, to implement
the recommendations of the tariff study based on marginal cost
criteria not later than December 31, 1985 but in any event, before
issuing tender documents or requesting bids for related equipment
(paras. 41 and 61);
(c)  that by July 31. 1985, UTE submit to the Bank an action plan for
improving inventory management and, by October 31, 1985, start
carrying out such plan of action after taking into account Bank
comments (para. 50);
(d) that UTE would reach every year in the period 1985-88 a ratio of
funds from internal sources to capital expenditures of not less
than 60Z. UTE would prepare by October 31 of each year a plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, demonstrating that the requirement would
be met for the current and following fiscal years (para. 57).



- 29 -
ANNUEX III
'Page 2 of 2
Conditions of the Fifth Power Project Repeated Under the Proposed
Loan
(a)   bill collection covenant (para. 51);
(b)   rate of return covenant (pars. 54);
(c)   debt service coverage ratio covenant (para. 54); and
(d)   self insurance fund (para. 54).
Board Presentation Condition:
That UTE and the Government reduce public sector accounts receivable to about
120 days, and submit a plan to reduce the billing period to the covenanted
target (para. 51).



-30 -
ANJEK III
Attachment I
URUGUAY
POWER ENGINEERING LOAN
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
(US$ Thousands)
Assumptions
Loan Approval:            December 1984
Effective Date:           June 30, 1985
Closing Date:             June 30, 1987
IBRD Fiscal Years                               Cumzlative Disbursement
and Semester                                    at end of semester
1984/1985
June 30, 1985                                                10
1985/1986
December 31, 1985                                         2,350
June 30, 1986                                             3,160
1986/1987
December 31, 1986                                         3,970
June 30, 1987                                             4,000.



ANNEX IV
Table 1
- 31 -
URU6UAY
USIMAS Y TRASFISIONES ELECTRICAS CUTE)
Actual and Forecast Income Statement
(January 1984 US* Hillons)
Actual  -------Forecast ------------------
1983     1984      1985      1986     1987      1988
Sales (6NH) a!                  3001.0   3156.0   3313.0   3478.0   3651.0   3809.0
Average Tariff.USS/Kwh b/        0.051    0.065    0.065    0.065    0.065    0.065
Operating Revenues
Energy Sales                   152.9    204.2    214.4    225.0    236.2    246.4
Other                                      1.0       1.0      2.0       1.0       1.0
Total Operating Revenues         152.9    205.2    215.4    227.0    237.2    247.4
Operating Costs c/
Fuel d/                         10.2      16.0     19.5      14.7      18.4      8.6
Salaries                        28.1      25.6     25.6      25.6      25.6     25.6
Purchased Energy d/             28.6      27.0     29.0      44.0      44.0     44.0
Other O&n Costs                 11.2      15.3     15.3      15.3      15.3     15.3
Depreciation e/                 59.5      53.0     54.0      56.0      58.0     62.0
Total Operating Costs            137.6    136.9    143.4    155.6    161.3    155.5
Operating income                  15.3      68.3     72.0      71.4      75.9     91.9
Other Income Net fI               12.9      22.0     23.0      24.0      25.0     27.0
Income before Interest            28.2      90.3     95.0      95.4    100.9    118.9
Interest charged to Income        79.8      71.0     75.8      72.0      67.4     63.8
Net Income                       -51.6      19.3      19.2     23.4      33.5     55.1
Exchange Rate Difference gI    182.1
Total Net Income                -233.7      19.3      19.2     23.4      33.5     55.1
a/ Based on updated demand forecast.
b/ January 1984 tariff level.
c/ Except where noted otherwise, operating costs have been estimated based on
the historic trend in real terms.
d/ Based on updated energy balance assuming average hidrological conditions.
el Straight-line method.
f/ Tariff rate A and B, estimated as 12% of total billing.
g/ Accounting adjustment of December 1982 devaluation.



ANNEX IV
- 32 -                                  Table 2
URUGUAY
USINAS Y TRASNISIUNES ELECTRICAS CUTE)
Actual and Forecast Flow of Funds
(January 1984 USS hillans)
actual------------------ Forecast -----------------  TOTAL          2
1983     1984      1985     1986      1987      1998   1985/8   1995/8
Sources
lccoue before Interest         28.2      90.3      95.0     95.4    100.9    119.9    410.2    102.2
Depreclation                   59.5      53.0      54.0     56.0      58.0      62.0    230.0      57.3
6ross Internal Generation         87.7    143.3    149.0    151.4    158.9    180.9    640.2    159.5
Debt Service
UTE
Interest                       79.8      15.0      15.0      13.0     11.0       9.0     48.0      12.0
Amorization                      8.6     16.0      23.0      22.0     20.0      19.0     84.0      20.9
Subtotal UTE                    88.4     31.0      39.0      35.0     31.0      28.0    132.0      32.9
Palmar
Interest                                 56.0      57.0     48.0      37.0      26.0    168.0      41.9
Amortization                    30.9    -25.0      59.0      89.0     92.0      99.0    339.0      84.5
Subtotal Palmar                 30.9     91.0    116.0    137.0    129.0    125.0    507.0    126.3
Future
Amortization                              0.5       0.8       1.2      3.0       6.9     11.9       3.0
Interest                                  0.0       1.8      4.6       7.9      12.1     26.4       6.6
Subtotal Future                  0.0      0.5       2.6       5.8     10.9      19.0     38.3       9.5
Palmar Refinancing Service                            2.0       6.4     11.5      16.7     36.6       9.1
Total Debt Service              119.3    112.5    158.6    184.2  - 182.4    181.7    713.9    177.9
---__   ----_ _   --_-_--_--_------------------------------ ---__________
Net Internal 6eneration          -31.6     30.8      -9.6    -32.8    -23.5       -7.8    -73.7    -18.4
Borrowings
Existing a/                    610.7      9.0       5.0                                   5.0       1.2
Proposed IBRD                                       1.0       3.0                         4.0       1.0
Future                                    9.0      16.0     35.0      40.0      50.0    141.0      35.1
Palmar Refinancig Loans bI                         60.0     93.0      92.0      83.0    318.0      79.2
Total Borrowings                 610.7     18.0      82.0    121.0    132.0    133.0    468.0    116.6
Other Sources                     91.9      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Sources                    671.0     49.8      72.4      88.2    108.5    125.2    394.3       98.2
=_=S===============S2=====z===S=s== l=zSs=s==sssuus====----t-
Applications
Construction Program
Ongoing  a/                  650.8      53.5      28.0      2.8       2 8       2.8     36.4       9.1
Proposed Project                                   1.3       3.2      0.3                4.8       1.2
Future                                            41.5     95.6    110.2    127.0    364.3        90.8
Total Construction           650.8      53.5      70.9     91.6    113.3    129.8    405.5    101.0
Horking Capital Variation       7.4      -6.2       8.6     -3.7      -4.6      -4.4     -4.1      -1.0
Total Uses                       658.2     47.3      79.4      87.9    105.7    125.4    401.4    100.0
Surplus (Deficit) of Funds        12.8      1.5      -7.0       0.3     -0.2      -0.2     -7.1      -1.8
Accumulated                      5.6      7.1       0.1      0.4       0.2       0.1
aI In 1983, Palmar Hydroplant was incorporated into UTE's assets as well as
relevant debt into its liabilities.
bi If such loans are subtracted of debt service  net internal generation and
self-financing ratio would be   1995   50.4 and 71 X; 196 : 50.2 and 55 X;
1987 : 68.5 and 61 Z  and 1988   75.2 and 59  .
c/ Morking Capital has been defined as the sum of current assets (excluding
temporary surplus) less the sum of current liabilities.



AM= IV
Table 3
- 33 -
URUGUAY
USINAS Y TRASNISIONES ELECTRICAS CUTE)
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheet
(January 1984 USS Millons)
Actual 19B4---Forecast ------------ ----
1983     1984     1995      1996     1987      1988
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets             2249.0   2283.0   2353.0   2428.0   2504.0   2674.0
Accumulated Depreciation        958.5   1011.5   1065.5   1121.5   1179.5   1241.5
Net Fixed Assets in Service   1290.5   1271.5   1287.5   1306.5   1324.5   1432.5
Works 'n ProIress                64.6      85.1     87.1    102.1    139.1      98.9
Other Fixed Assets                2.7       2.7      2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7
Total Fixed Assets           1357.9   1359.3   1377.3   1411.3   1466.3   1534.1
Current Assets                     -
Cash                             2.3       2.5      2.7       3.0      3.1      2.8
Temporary Surplus                5.6       7.1      0.1       0.4      0.2      0.1
Accounts Receivable             36.2     49.8      47.5     45.0      41.8     38.3
Inventories                     50.4     48.4      46.4     44.4      42.4     40.4
Other                           20.3       7.0      7.0       7.0      7.0      7.0
------------------------------------------------------
Total Current Assets          114.8    114.8    103.7      99.8      94.5     88.6
Deferred Assets                   0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4
Other Assets                      0.3       0.3      0.3      0.3       0.3      0.3
------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL ASSETS                   1473.3   1474.8   1481.7   1511.8   1561.5   1623.4
E2uit
2atlal                          20.2     20.2      z0.2     20.2      20.2     20.2
Grants                          47.9     47.9      47.9     47.9      47.9     47.9
Revaluation Reserve            917.3    917.3    917.3    917.3    917.3    917.3
Retained Earnings             -248.1   -228.8   -209.7   -186.2   -152.7    -97.6
______________________________________________________
Total Equity                  737.3    756.6    775.7    799.2    832.7    88718
Lonq-Tern Debt                  67B.6    655.1    654.3    663.1   680.1    688.2
Current Liabilities
Commercial                      21.6      15.3     14.6      15.2     14.6     13.0
Financial                       22.3     22.3      22.3     22.3      22.3     22.3
Miscellaneous                   12.9     24.8      12.8     12.8      12.8     12.8
Total Current Liabilities      56.7     62.4      49.7     50.3      49.7     48.1
Other Liabilities                 0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7      0.7
TOALEQIT--LIBIITES 1433-47.8 140. -1132-56.    1624.8-------
TOTAL EQUITY & LIABILITIES    1473.3   1474.8   1480.4   1513.2   1563.2   1624.8



AAnsina
-32'                                                            3amhr.
Acurtina~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ceir
L~~)
2                                                                       &cho
U                                                                                                                                                   0s  T
0~                      ~ 2S.060       C GrOO-i
huw Cp0~  h auubm C . E t R i R s~W aI'iuL  IA Ry   G  B
CZ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~  yIe-. h 4~u ~leNvb~Rm  mmb 
SB.                                  KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Flon



URUGUAY
ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT
1- dniVon ~    Bernabs'                                              PROJECT (IBRD Unless marked IDB)                UNDER CONSTRUCTION
P                 *s  So dp 150kV Transmission Lines                               150k V Transmission Lines
-' ;|orncSak    60kV Transmission Lines          *       Substations
G(rawsoro                                                   -       30kV Transmission Lines                       EXISTING
-                                              5      Trasm15kV Transmission Lines
\    j   A  R  T  I  G  A    S       <1                   _      Existing Hydro Plant to be Expanded            500kV Transmission Lines
Ao jt  _O^O                              t*                        Substations                                     150kV Transmission Lines
;   ooRosor Br um                          >              {y';4'-   Areas with Access to Electricitv               110kV Transmission Lines
FJ rRAt'EYl: t>IVERJA                                       Generating Plants:
Hydro
1  . .  * Thermal
E/onstiouc-6n                                               AOOpy            \                                         *      Diesel
Diesel to be Retired
Salta Gtoride                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tranqee
Area Served
SAL70,;;dn               S  A   L  T  O                      ..F:l/ Rivers
IV  E  R  A                                        Departnient Boundaries
|ACUARE i/    \|     'be~  V   E  R  A                                _   _    International Boundaries
sN;e^dij~~*' .. ;M...                                                             ' *Cul              n ,         Nis eftr 
TAC A     CURREO!
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   
AAnsiraFai.                                       elve
Torn or sr.CE:OL                                                            RG           Ban      ,
__T_A                                                                         C   U   ArRiE  M       T R            A      Y       T    Ek.f<i
P   A   Y  S   A   N   D 4, UD 
- TRINIDAD-2*Cur.iA
R  I                                              Grgor_ _
/    .~~~~~~~~~~~t(       D..U    R                                  lia






