Report No. PIC3535
Project Name              Colombia-Regulatory Reform Project
Region                    Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                    Public Sector
Project ID                COPA40102
Borrower                  Republic of Colombia
Beneficiaries             Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP)
National Department of Planning (DNP)
Bank Financing Proposed   US$12.5 million
Financing Plan            IBRD:          US$ 12.5 million
IDB:           US$ 12.5 million
Government:    US$     8 million
Total:         US$ 33    million
Appraisal Date            November 13, 1996
Board Date                March 1996
A.   Country and Sector Background
1.   Prior to 1989, the public sector was the primary provider of
infrastructure, transport services, telecommunications, and utilities to
the private sector. The high costs and low quality of services provided
by these entities have been a bottleneck for private sector development.
Infrastructure bottlenecks and inefficient services contributed to the
high cost of doing business identified in a recent PSA, reduced economic
growth, and contributed to raising input costs. Since then, the GOC
monopolies in shipping, railways, airlines, and ports have been
eliminated by allowing private sector entry, or by reorganizing or
liquidating public monopolies. With the deregulation programs underway,
the role of Government has shifted from a direct provider to a regulator
in the liberalized sectors. However, the provision of physical
infrastructure still remains largely in public hands, including
utilities owned by municipalities.
2.   GOC committed itself to expand and modernize the country±s
infrastructure. For this purpose CONPES ("Consejo Nacional de Politica
EconAmica y Social" - the ministerial level economic policy body)
established a ministerial-level Committee ("Comitb de ParticipaciAn
Privada"- CPP) to handle issues related to private sector participation
in infrastructure projects. The Government is advancing at a fast pace
in preparing the various sectors for privatization and concessions.
Concessions have been granted for ports,(see 1/) airports, roads,(see
2/) gas transport, cellular telephony and power generation.(see 3/) As
part of the program the Government has announced its intention to
accelerate private participation in infrastructure, with a view to
enhance efficiency and improve the competitiveness of the Colombian
economy. The ambitious goal is to obtain private financing for 42t of
the infrastructure requirements for the period 1995-1998.



3.   In support of the process, however, a host of issues related to
privatizing infrastructure need clarification and analysis, e.g., design
of market structures, establishment of regulatory arrangements,
environmental monitoring and licensing, concession design, public
procurement rules, contracting practices, and rules for issuing
government guarantees. Lack of clarity about these matters has been a
major obstacle for infrastructure privatization and the conclusion of
financeable deals. Three issues stand out:
a) There is great need to consolidate the existing regulatory
framework for infrastructure and coordinate and harmonize it among
sectors. Colombia+s regulatory framework for the sector is a
combination of not always fully compatible laws, decrees,
regulations, decisions by regulatory entities, and concession
contracts. There have been a number of recent legal reforms
including: Public Contracts Law (see 4/) (Law 80 of 1993);
Transport Law (see 5/) (Law 105 of 1993); Residential Public
Services Law (Law 142 of 1994); and Electricity Law (Law 143 of
1994). Each of the laws, taken on its own, represent important
progress in elaborating effective regulatory frameworks for private
participation in infrastructure in Colombia. However, the progress
in each sectors+ regulatory framework varies greatly. For example,
some of the implementing regulations have not yet been elaborated.
In the case of roads the regulatory framework is basically
contained in the concession contract. In the electricity sector
norms are mainly set by the Electricity Law, although the
Residential Public Services Law also applies to distribution and
concession agreements.
b) Need to strengthen the centralized and decentralized
institutions responsible for implementation and supervision of the
process. The number of different schemes being used in Colombia to
obtain private participation in infrastructure is large. This in
addition to the lack of clarity in the regulatory framework has
left the involved institutions in a weak position to obtain the
best possible results from this process. Municipal and regional
institutions have been particularly affected. Their attempts to
obtain private financing for infrastructure needs special
assistance. Their privatization (see 6/) and concession processes
need to be guided and accompanied to assist them in linking to
private capital under favorable conditions, establish a track
record, and to provide examples of best practice for other
interested parties.
c) There need to be adequate and clear environmental requirements
and procedures. GOC passed an Environmental Law (Law 99 of 1993)
and issued an Environmental Licenses Decree (Nr. 1753 of August
1994) and the norms are still being amended and modified. The
environmental regulations need to be brought to a stage where while
ensuring sustainable development they facilitate the planning and
costing of executing and operating infrastructure projects.
B.   Project Objective
4.   As requested by the Government and addressing the main needs
- 2 -



identified above in the process of providing private infrastructure
services, the main objectives of the project would be: (i) a
consolidated policy, regulatory and institutional framework that
improves the feasibility of private infrastructure projects in sectors
including toll roads, power, natural gas distribution,
telecommunications, water supply, and waste water treatment; (ii) to
provide examples of best practice and assist the establishment of a
track record through the support of the design of pilot projects and
transactions; and (iii) environmental regulations that while ensuring
sustainable development will facilitate planning, executing and
operating infrastructure projects.
5.   The main benefit will be a global approach to increased private
participation in the development and financing of infrastructure, in
particular:
(i)   Strengthening the pace of the privatization program.
(ii)   Development of sound and competitive market structures in
infrastructure.
(iii)   Use of efficient and transparent bidding procedures to
minimize Government+s risk exposure and contributions in transactions
and to lower bids on expected tariffs.
(iv)   Coordinated and strong regulatory agencies to ensure
competition and equity in the infrastructure sectors.
(v)    Improvements in the quantity and quality of infrastructure in
the economy through private participation.
(vi)   Freeing up of scarce Government resources for investments in
social sectors.
(vii) Clearer priorities for public sector actions.
C.   Project Description
6.   The project would achieve these objectives through subcomponents
and activities that are very similar to those identified by the
Government of Colombia in its request for assistance of December 22,
1995. Namely: (a) work on the regulatory framework that would identify
and seek sustainable private participation in infrastructure, by
structuring it to benefit consumers, harness the benefits of private
competition and efficiency, attract investors and protect the government
from assuming commercial risks -- both now and in the future; (b)
identification and development of projects for potential private
participation, structure deals, design of model bidding documents and
assist implementation of demonstration projects in priority sectors.
This component will provide examples of best practice of efficient and
transparent bidding procedures. TORs for environmental evaluations and
environmental audits for existing installations that are identified to
have significative environmental impact will be prepared; and (c) in
close coordination with existing operations the project envisages
assistance to strengthen the environmental licensing system to make it
more agile and efficient
7.   The project design would be along the lines of a +wholesaling±
operation and . aims mainly at establishing the criteria that will have
to be met by the activities supported by the project instead of the
activities itself. This approach will provide the necessary flexibility
-3 -



to facilitate the achievement of the project+s strategic objectives and
to respond to existing demands. The main criteria for the selection of
activities would be that they help to establish a consolidated policy,
regulatory and institutional framework and help build examples of best
practice. Project activities that are expected to meet the criteria
would include: (i) expert legal, financial and economic advisors would
be retained to help the CPP ensure consistency among privatization
approaches in the various subsectors. Such consistency relates inter
alia to foreign investment regulations, rules governing concessions,
application of anti-trust regulation, tax, accounting and valuation
issues, labor issues, treatment of debt restructuring and other
liabilities including pension liabilities, implications of environmental
law, alternative dispute resolution procedures, approaches to design and
implementation of regulatory institutions and financial regulations. In
general, the consultants would assist in the analysis of sector
structure, the development of strategic options, policies and
regulations; (ii) hiring consultants (investment banks) to design and
participate in the privatization process; (iii) special studies and
training programs for the staff of the regulatory agencies would be
supported in the above areas to develop effective and sustainable policy
approaches; and (iv) procurement of necessary software, hardware and
related equipment to strengthen institutions and facilitate the
monitoring of the privatization of infrastructure.
8.   Several impacts are expected from the project, depending on the
requirements in each sector: (i) design of sound market structures and
appropriate regulations in areas where firms retain natural monopoly
characteristics; (ii) sectoral private participation strategies and
decisions on specific strategic issues (e.g. concessions, auctions);
(iii) regulatory frameworks at both sector and cross-sectoral levels
that provide an enabling environment for private participation in
infrastructure; (iv) a strengthened process for privatization, including
a robust program of information dissemination and consensus building;
and (v) strengthened regulatory agencies.
D.   Project Financing
9.   Total cost of the project is estimated at about US$33 million.    The
Government is requesting financing for US$ million. Also at the
Government+s request 50t of this amount would be financed by the IDB and
50t by the Bank.
IDB                 US$   12.5  million
IBRD                US$   12.5  million
LOCAL COUNTERPART    US$    8.0  million
Total Project Cost   US$   33.0  million
E.   Project Implementation
10. To ensure cross-sectoral consistency, the project counterpart will
be a Project Committee composed of the head of the infrastructure unit
of National Department of Planning (DNP) and the Director General for
public credit of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (MHCP) which
would: i) set the strategic direction of the project based on the
policies decided by "Comitb de ParticipaciAn Privada" (CPP); ii) review
- 4 -



together with the Bank+s and IDB+s task managers the implementation
plans; iii) reach agreements with beneficiary entities on the specific
activities to be carried out and their counterpart contributions; and
iv) guide the preparation and implementation of the project, including
approval of TORs, selection of firms, and award of contracts. At the
time that a specific activity is approved for support under the proposed
TA, the Project Committee will decide which of the two lead agencies
will be responsible for the activity.    The division of responsibility
between the two ministries will be in line with their functional
specialization and mandate: DNP will manage the activities related to
the development of the regulatory framework, direct support to entities
planning concessions and privatization, institutional strengthening of
entities granting concessions and privatizing, and establishing an
adequate environmental management system while MHCP will manage the
activities for the transactions support component such as background
feasibility studies, valuation of assets, concession design, and bidding
process support. That agency will be solely responsible for the
management of the activity within the scope agreed with the Project
Committee. The Project Committee will also designate, in consultation
with the beneficiary agency, a technical team (from within the central
ministries) to supervise the execution of the activity. This technical
team will have the responsibility, in consultation with the beneficiary
agency, the executing ministries, IBRD and IDB, of evaluating and
approving the consultants+ reports.
11. Within the division of labor identified above the Project Committee
will select requests for TA according to preestablished criteria and
procedures, DNP and MHCP will coordinate with each beneficiary entity
seeking technical assistance and will be responsible for agreeing on the
terms of reference, schedule and costs for each activity. Beneficiary
entities outside Central Government will enter into a written agreement
with the Project Committee on the objectives, issues to be addressed and
performance indicators for the requested activities. This agreement
will also include commitments by the beneficiary agency and will be a
disbursement condition for the assistance to all agencies outside
central Government.Procurement is envisaged to be executed by a
procurement agency.
F.   Project Sustainability
12. The project is expected to have a lasting impact on Colombia+s
business environment and infrastructure sector through the reforms being
supported. By supporting both a comprehensive policy for the
privatization of major infrastructure sectors and the implementation of
the privatization process, the project will help the Government improve
the economy's competitiveness. The project's emphasis on designing
adequate regulatory systems - a matter often neglected in the heat of
privatization - is crucial for arriving at sustainable policy solutions.
In addition the project+s sustainability is enhanced by the ongoing
economic dialogue on private infrastructure issues that is taking place
in parallel.
G.   Lessons from Previous Bank Experience
13. The design of this project draws on the lessons learned from the
- 5 -



experience of the Bank in the delivery of technical assistance and in
support of privatization to many countries, including Colombia. Among
them are a technical assistance loan to promote energy markets is
currently being implemented and another +Public Sector Reform Loan+
(which was instrumental in getting started much of the deregulation and
privatization work) was completed. The project has been designed with
their lessons clearly in mind in terms of Government ownership, a strong
implementing agency, coordination among beneficiaries, and flexible
project design are fully considered in this proposed TA. In addition,
the design of the program emphasizes support for sound early choices of
market structure, adequate cross-sectoral coordination, privatization
strategy and the establishment of adequate regulatory systems. These
are all activities shown to be crucial for long-run success and where
the Bank has potentially the greatest impact. In later stages of the
privatization process assistance from investment banks and other
technical advisors will become more important. Regular supervision,
accompanied by a substantive policy dialogue are also needed for
success.
H.   Poverty category
14. This project does not have any direct poverty objectives. It will,
however, help to address Colombia+s poverty problems by helping to solve
the infrastructure bottlenecks that hamper competitiveness and economic
growth.
I.   Environmental Aspects
15. The project has no direct environmental impact as it does not
involve physical works. It will assist (a) the preparation of a
regulatory and institutional framework and (b) will identify
opportunities and the conditions under which privatization of
infrastructure might take place. Therefore this TA could lead through
other initiatives to private infrastructure projects which potentially
would have environmental impacts. TA will not finance any investments or
construction. Future projects that might result from TA will be subject
to required EA. According to OD 4.01 Annex E para. 7 the project is
reated with environmental category C.
J.   Program objective categories
16. The project supports private sector development, and contributes to
the institutional strengthening of regulatory authorities in Colombia.
It aims to raise efficiency and productivity of the economy, and
indirectly contribute to job creation, competitive industrial
organization and improved environmental conditions in several
subsectors. The relevant program objective category would be Private
Sector Development (PV).
K.   Rationale for Bank Involvement
17. The Government of Colombia has requested the Bank to support their
ongoing efforts to increase the supply of infrastructure by facilitating
the private provision of infrastructure services. This request and the
projects associated with it are fully consistent with the World Bank
- 6 -



Group's Country Assistance Strategy for Colombia discussed by the Board
on December 16, 1993 and the one under preparation that emphasize
support to the Government to consolidate and increase its structural
reforms to reduce Colombia+s poverty by increasing competitiveness,
efficiency and growth. Privatization of key infrastructure services
within an appropriate regulatory framework will be an important step in
the Bank's support for the Government's longer term strategy of
stimulating productivity and growth in Colombia by furthering private
sector development and improving infrastructure services. The Bank+s
strategic objective is to establish in Colombia a sound track record of
private financing of infrastructure that will lead to continued private
investment in infrastructure that will eliminate bottlenecks
contributing to the high cost of doing business and to reduced economic
growth. Thus GOC will be able to further direct its resources and
efforts to address pressing poverty and environmental needs.
18. The support to GOC+s program is proposed to be provided through: i)
the proposed project; ii) investment loans including a Private Sector
Infrastructure Finance operation; and iii) policy dialogue and economic
and sector work. The proposed project+s objective would be to assist in
drafting and implementing the required regulations, improving the
capacity and coordination of existing institutions, and designing
specific pilot operations. That is, identification and development of
the required institutional framework in a broad sense. The proposed
project would build upon work done: i) by the Government; ii) through
the successful implementation of the recently closed +Public Sector
Reform Loan+; and iii) through the recently approved power sector loans,
the preparatory work for the proposed Private Infrastructure Finance
Facility and the Tobiagrande-Pto. Salgar Toll Road Project. The project
would address the remaining constraints and regulatory reform agenda.
In addition the proposed project would provide an important input to the
success of the Private Sector Infrastructure Finance operation under
preparation.
19. The Bank is well positioned to provide assistance to the Government
in the privatization of infrastructure. The Bank has substantial
worldwide experience in privatization, particularly in the areas of
competition, industry and sector structure, and legal and regulatory
issues. In Colombia, the Bank has played an active role in supporting
the macroeconomic and sectoral reforms and has maintained an intensive
dialogue on infrastructure strategy drawing on its substantial knowledge
of the major sectoral issues and the key institutions. As the Colombian
Government has indicated, it is a logical follow up to the successful
Public Sector Reform Loan (which was instrumental in getting started
much of the deregulation and privatization work) and a necessary
complement to the proposed Private Infrastructure Finance Facility. In
addition, to support the implementation of the Government's strategy,
the project would be followed by new operations, in the form of loans or
guarantees.
20. Equally important, the Bank's participation in the program can
enhance the credibility of the Government's efforts. Investors are
scrutinizing closely the Government's commitment to privatization and
will assess carefully the legal and regulatory framework, concession
design, and the transparency of the privatization process. Partial
-7 -



policy guarantees may be required in some cases. The Bank can be of
assistance in all these areas. Finally, the Bank has an important role
to play in emphasizing the importance of choosing sound market
structures, providing for consistency among subsectoral approaches and
designing adequate regulatory systems. One of the Bank's crucial roles,
therefore, will be to work with the Government to ensure that the
regulatory framework, institutional capacities and processes that are
essential to a private infrastructure system, are dealt with now.
1/   75t of cargo is handled by the private sector.
2/   Eleven roads concessions worth US$566 million have been granted,
three with foreign participation, of which 7 are under construction.
3/   Four PPAs have been signed and 5 more are under negotiation.
4/   Law 80 defined the concession contract and differentiated it from
public works contracts.
5/   Law 105 allows private road infrastructure through concessions.
6/   The cities of Manizales and Bucaramanga have already decided to
privatize their      telephone companies
Contact Point:       Hermann von Gersdorff, Task Manager LA3PS
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8611
Fax: (202) 522-3685
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending December 20,
1996.
-8-



