                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 31445

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                           (SCL-41380)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 12.5 MILLION

                                             TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

                                             FOR A

                    CO REGULATORY REFORM TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE




                                         February 28, 2005




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 2005)

                            Currency Unit = Colombian Peso Col$
                                COP 1.00 = US$ 0.0004132
                                     US$ 1 = COP 2420

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
DNP                   National Planning Department
ETB                   Bogotá Telephone Company
FEN                   National Energy Finance Company
IDB                   Inter-American Development Bank
INCO                  National Institute for Concessions
MHCP                  Ministry of Finance
NDP                   National Development Plan
PAD                   Project Appraisal Document
PPP                   Public Private Partnerships
PSRL                  Public Sector Reform Adjustment Loan
PSRL-TA               Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project
REDI                  Recent Economic Developments in Infrastructure
RRTAP                 Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project
TAL                   Technical Assistance Loan
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program

                           Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                         Country Director      Isabel M. Guerrero
                          Sector Manager       Susan G. Goldmark
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Mauricio Cuellar

                                         COLOMBIA
                                      CO REG.REF.TA


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Partner comments                                                        32

Project ID: P040102                                                  Project Name: CO REG.REF.TA
Team Leader: Mauricio Cuellar                                        TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: February 25, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: CO REG.REF.TA                                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-41380
   Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                                           Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (70%); Power (14%); Water
                            supply (9%); Telecommunications (7%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (P); Legal institutions for a market economy (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/15/1996                                     Effective: 06/05/1997                06/04/1997
     Appraisal: 10/15/1996                                         MTR: 11/02/1999                  11/02/1999
      Approval: 02/25/1997                                      Closing: 08/15/2001                 08/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF COLOMBIA/DNP (MINISTRY OF FINANCE; MINISTRY OF
                                           PLANNING)
                      Other Partners:      IDB

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     S. J. Burki
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             P. Isenman
Sector Director:                John Henry Stein (Acting)                      K. Challa
Team Leader at ICR:             Mauricio Cuellar                               H. v. Gersdorff
ICR Primary Author:             Mauricio Cuellar; Andres
                                Pacheco; Natalia Gomez


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall Project Development Objective was to improve the quality and quantity of
infrastructure services through the development of an effective policy and regulatory framework
and   adequate practices, and thereby help increase private participation and management of
infrastructure services and develop competitive market structures. The sectors included in the
Project were toll roads, transport, power, natural gas distribution, telecommunications, water
supply, and wastewater treatment.

This objective was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy's (CAS) objectives at the time
(CAS number P6070, December 16, 1993), which identified poor and deteriorating infrastructure
as a constraint to economic growth and emphasized the role of the private sector in improving the
quantity and quality of infrastructure services. The Bank's dialogue with Colombia and the
Government's statements on development priorities strongly emphasized these areas.

The Government's National Development Plan (NDP) for 1994-1998 (Plan de Desarrollo, El
Salto Social) also asserted the need to consolidate the regulatory framework, increase private
investment and improve the efficiency in the provision of infrastructure services. These priorities
were further detailed in a high-level policy document (CONPES document 2775, April 26,1995).
                                                                    1


Two subsequent governments maintained the improvement of infrastructure services as one of the
objectives in their NDP, suggesting strongly that the Project objective was particularly responsive
to the country's needs.

Infrastructure services and the role of the private sector in the provision of these services are still
priorities in the public agenda in Colombia and in the Bank's policy dialogue with the Colombian
Government. The Bank recently included Colombia as one of its four worldwide country pilots to
implement a broad analysis of the infrastructure sector seeking to identify infrastructure needs2.

The Project's objectived cover a broad spectrum of activities. It was feasible to do so because
private participation in the infrastructure sectors increased steadily between 1992 and 1997,
following Government implementation of major regulatory reform in the sector.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project development objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the objective, the Project financed a broad spectrum of activities across many
infrastructure and public utility sectors, including studies, consulting, services and equipment. The
Project consisted of four components:

A.      Regulatory Framework

    US$7.8M, 23.7% of Project total.

    This component sought to review and assist the consolidation of both the overall competition



                                                  - 2 -

    framework, and the sector-specific regulatory and legal framework by: i) ensuring a consistent
    regulatory framework; ii) strengthening the institutional capacity of the regulatory agencies;
    iii) addressing specific issues and constraints to private participation; iii) enhancing
    competition in infrastructure sectors; iv) improving environmental regulations; and v)
    minimizing risks assumed by the Government.

B.      Private participation

    US$22M, 66.7% of Project total.

    This component sought to provide technical assistance to execute subprojects for the
    identification and implementation of infrastructure projects that might attract private
    participation, through: (i) assisting the preparation of bidding and contract documents; (ii)
    developing replicable deal structuring; (iii) implementing demonstration projects; and (iv)
    assisting key institutions and sector agencies in developing their capacity to structure projects
    to attract private participation.

C.      Environmental Framework.

    US$2.0M, 6.1% of total.

    This component included technical assistance to improve environmental regulations,
    institutions and procedures by: (i) increasing agility and efficiency of the environmental
    licensing system; (ii) strengthening procedures and technical specifications for environmental
    assessments of new infrastructure projects and for environmental control of existing
    infrastructure installations and facilities; and (iii) carrying out environmental dissemination
    activities to promote private participation.

D.      Project Management and Administration.

    USD$1.2M, 3.5% of total

    This component sought to ensure the quality and the effectiveness of Project implementation.
    It primarily included funding for short-term consultants providing technical assessments and
    the Project coordination unit.


3.4 Revised Components:
Components of the Project were not revised. However, the actual budget spent per component
varied slightly in comparison with the budget programmed in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD). This minor change neither required a restructuring of the original components nor a
change in Project objectives.

The key performance indicators of the Project were modified during the mid-term review to
measure more effectively and accurately according to the evolution of Governments Program.



                                                  - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The objectives and design of the Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project (RRTAP) need
to be assessed in light of the Government's development priorities at the time of Project
preparation, and the reforms that the Government undertook prior to Project identification.

In the early 1990's, the Government of Colombia identified poor and deteriorating infrastructure
as a critical constraint to economic growth. Therefore, as part of a broader economic
modernization program, the Government restructured the whole infrastructure sector redefining
the private and public roles in the provision of such services .     3    The Government's policy
consisted of introducing competition in the provision of infrastructure services, disengaging itself
from direct participation in infrastructure projects, introducing new regulatory frameworks, and
promoting price reforms to better reflect actual costs. This economic modernization program was
supported by other Bank projects such as the Public Sector Reform Adjustment Loan (PSRL)
and the Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Project (PSRL-TA loan 3278-CO). Despite
initial success in promoting private participation, some projects started to experience financial
problems due to poor planning and regulation. Significant delays were also caused by the lack of
institutional capacity among key implementing agencies.

Because of the Government's successful experience with Bank support through the technical
assistance component of the PSRL prject, the Government requested further support to
consolidate the regulatory reform and foster competition in the provision of infrastructure
services. In this context the Bank approved the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
(Loan 3827-CO) and designed the RRTAP.

The Project was designed as a "wholesaling" operation, in which specific activities to be funded
were not defined, except for the initial six-month program. Eligibility criteria were outlined in the
PAD to screen new proposals and to develop subprojects emerging from previously funded
activities.

The wholesaling approach was a key lesson brought from the PSRL-TA. It became instrumental
for the development of the Project by providing flexibility to accommodate priorities within the
defined criteria. This flexible design was essential to facilitating the transition between
administrations.

The decision to have parallel financing with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) sought
to maintain the positive cooperative and constructive relationship built under the PSRL.
Furthermore, the two loans' complementarities provided diverse options to undertake Project
activities. Within the parallel financing structure, the Government could choose between the two
Banks, according to the experience and value added that each institution could provide (i.e World
Bank support in regulatory issues).

The inclusion of several infrastructure sectors in the Project was an advantage, given the
cross-cutting issues encompassed in these sectors, such as the fiscal impact of private
participation in infrastructure services or the design of guarantees to promote it.



                                                 - 4 -

As in the PSRL, the Project's institutional arrangements took advantage of two highly capable
executing agencies [DNP (National Planning Department) and the Ministry of Finance (MHCP)]
with significant technical and institutional skills and critical leverage over sectoral agencies within
the Colombian government. DNP and MHCP leadership in policy definition and budget allocation
enhanced the role of the Project in shaping the government strategies for the infrastructure
sectors.

The Project's PAD included a well-crafted risk analysis, and acknowledged four moderate and
three high risks for implementation. The recognition of the risks faced by the Project was
comprehensive.

Project components were linked to the Project's objective and reflected the different institutional
gaps faced by the Government to improve the provision of infrastructure services.

The Project disbursement period was overoptimistic and probably underestimated the challenges
of developing and supervising several technically complex studies. Regulatory reform and in
particular private participation processes require a long maturity period, and, therefore, the
implementation period could have been longer.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome: Satisfactory

The Project contributed to the improvement of the quantity and quality of infrastructure services
and the institutional capacity to promote private sector participation.

Increase in the quantity of infrastructure services: Several indicators show a significant
improvement in the quantity of infrastructure services during Project implementation (1995 to
2004): (i) the number of fixed-telephone lines per 100 inhabitants increased from 10.4 to 17.2; (ii)
the number of cellular users per 100 inhabitants increased from 1.3 to 13.9; (iii) coverage of
telecommunication services was increased by 10 percent ; (iv) electricity coverage increased from
79 to 89.6 percent in the country, and particularly in non-interconnected regions; (v) the number
of households with natural gas almost tripled (from 1 million to 2.8 million households); v)
coverage for water supply and waste water treatment increased from 85 to 87.6 percent and from
72.3 to 74 percent, respectively (See annex/table for complete list of indicators and results).
                                  4




Improvement in the quality of infrastructure services: Several indicators suggest improvement in
the quality of infrastructure services: (i) prices in the national and international long distance
telephone service were reduced by 17 and 58 percent respectively; (ii) power grid losses were
reduced from 22.27 to 15.17 percent; (iii) the competitive wholesale power market increased its
share to 38 percent of domestic demand; (iv) energy prices for industrial users fell by 62 percent;
and (v) the involvement of private operators in more than 2793 km of the main network resulted
in better road maintenance (See annex/table for complete list of indicators and results).




                                                  - 5 -

While the Project was not the unique factor that contributed to the improvement of infrastructure
services, the strategic products of the Project were crucial to achieving these results. Examples
include: (i) incorporating a third cellular operator and two new long-distance providers; (ii)
defining the regulatory incentives to improving the quality of power supply; (iii) improving
supervision of gas distribution contracts and guaranteeing the provision of high-quality service in
the western region of the Country; (iv) defining the regulatory standards to improve the quality of
water supply and developing stronger tariffs-setting methodologies; (iv)               structuring the
concession of the Monteria water utility; (v) improving several road concessions contracts; and
(vi) structuring new urban transport institutional schemes (see section 4.2 for details).

Moreover, beyond its possible "physical" achievements in improving the quantity and quality of
infrastructure services, the Project was instrumental in developing enabling policies and in
building greater institutional capacity to increase the Government's ability to enhance the
provision of infrastructure services. Some illustrative outcomes follow:

The Project supported the preparation of over 120 policy documents (CONPES documents5.)
related to private sector participation. CONPES documents allow the Government to adopt the
recommendations of experts, articulating different policies and outlining the paths that will enable
executing agencies to follow-up on long-term goals for service provision improvement. (see
section 4.2).

Another important outcome of the Project in supporting the development of enabling policies was
the development of the methodology for estimating contingent liabilities related to private
participation in infrastructure projects. Contingent liabilities related to private sector participation
in infrastructure contracts in the first wave of reforms (prior to the TAL) began to undermine the
process of promoting private investments. For the period 1995 ­ 2002, payments by the
Government to cover these liabilities have accounted for around US$1.8 billion, most of them
generated in projects implemented before the Project6.

With key support of the Project, the Government developed leading-edge legislation to manage
contingent liabilities in projects involving private participation. The new legislation requires every
project involving private participation to quantify contingent liabilities and report to the
Government the likelihood that they would occur. Based on this quantification, the agencies
executing the projects earmark the estimated actuarial funds to cover the liabilities in case they
materialize. The Project helped develop methodologies to quantify these liabilities, and design a
contingency fund where earmarked funds are deposited. The design of the scheme was initially
crafted in a CONPES document and was formally included in legislation approved by Congress in
19987.

The development of a sound strategy to quantify and manage contingent liabilities has significantly
improved the Government's capacity to manage private participation: it minimizes overall risk,
establishes risk mitigating measures in advance and reduces the fiscal burden of infrastructure
services provision by the Government.




                                                 - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Regulatory framework Component

Prior to Project implementation, the consolidation and revision of the overall and sector specific
legal and regulatory framework was a key challenge to strengthening and giving continuity to the
reforms implemented in the infrastructure sector. Since at the time of Project implementation
there was little experience in Colombia in deepening these reforms, the Project became a tool for
the Government to overcome this lack of local technical expertise. The beneficiary agencies
included the Regulatory Commissions, sector Ministries and the supervision and control body.

By financing key studies, which supported important policy documents and decisions, the Project
created better market structures, promoted private participation in infrastructure and fostered
competition among providers, with the overall result of improved infrastructure services.

Although there are still several outstanding regulatory issues that the government has not tackled,
improvements have been significant, considering the weak regulatory framework existing prior to
the Project. The specific outcomes of this component for each sector are:

Telecommunications sector. Technical support through training and consulting services was
provided to the Regulatory Commission, the Ministry of Telecommunications and the National
Planning Department. The Project supported these agencies in developing methodologies to: i)
measure the quality of services for the mobile and long distance operators; ii) identify barriers to
the development of the broad-band market; and iii) evaluate the constraints and improvement
alternatives of the joint venture contracts.

Water sector. The Project supported the establishment of new regulation in service quality and
tariff-setting methodologies, which have helped to promote the provision of better services.
Additionally, the Project supported efforts to improve the tariff structure for solid waste
management services.

Energy sector. Key government policies were outlined in CONPES documents, which were
supported by studies financed by the Project. For example, the main input for CONPES document
3108, which structures the plan to increase coverage in the non-interconnected regions of the
country and establishes the main principles and guidelines of the scheme, was directly based on a
study financed by the Project.

In the regulated market, the establishment of two indicators developed under the project, duration
(DES) and frequency (FES) of service interruptions, has significantly improved the quality of
service.

Studies financed by the Project supported the development of the Power Wholesale Market by
providing key inputs of several resolutions (i.e. Resolution 025 of 1999), and regulating quality
standards for service provision.

To promote the supply of LP Gas, the Project also financed a study that was used as the main



                                               - 7 -

input for the Energy and Gas Regulatory Commission's Resolution 109 of 2003. This resolution
created the basic framework and rules for the provision of service. It opened the market to private
players, defined requirements and restrictions for private participation, and established
price-setting methodologies and quality standards for service provision.

Transport sector. The design of the current institutional setting of toll road management was
supported in studies funded by the Project. These studies recommended the establishment of the
National Institute for Concessions (INCO). This new entity has been key to strengthening the
capacity of the government to interact with highly-specialized concessionaires.

The strengthening of the regulatory framework for road concessions has been remarkable, not
only in redefining the conditions of the previous awarded concessions but particularly in
improving the conditions of the new concessions. Before the Project, contracts were awarded
with extremely generous guarantees and little risk transfer to the private operator. The new
regulatory framework distributed much more clearly the various risks among the parties, assigning
them to the more suitable participant (e.g. technical design risk primarily to the private sector and
regulatory risk to the Government.). A clear result is that the recently awarded concessions have
reduced the burden of contingent liabilities on the Government.

An example of the Project's impact on policy building through CONPES documents is the case of
CONPES document 3093, in which the government used inputs from Project-financed studies and
outlined the National Urban Transport Program. In this CONPES document, the Government
established the criteria to support the development of urban transport projects in mid-sized cities
in Colombia. The framework is very well crafted and is supported by the Bank through a new
SIL, Integrated Mass Transit Systems (Loan 7231-CO). This loan is being used to develop seven
Public Private Partnerships (PPP) for the provision of urban transport services in the same number
of cities.

B. Private Participation

This component helped to identify and develop projects for potential private participation in the
provision of infrastructure services. At the same time, the Project helped to streamline the process
and to improve the terms in which the private sector is engaged in service provision. Beneficiary
agencies included the National Planning Department, the Ministry of Finance, the Sectoral
Ministries and municipal utilities. Results for each sector are:

Telecommunications sector: The Government granted two long distance concessions and one
PCS license, whose legal and financial structuring were supported by the Project. These processes
have attracted private investments of approximately US$1.2 billion. The Project also supported
the structuring of the sale of Bogotá Telephone Company (ETB) shares to small investors
(approximately US$80 million of private investment).

Water sector: The privatization of the Monteria water utility, using Project funds, has become a
benchmark for private participation in the water sector in Colombia. The private sector invested
US$32 million, resulting in significant improvements in the quality of service. The project also



                                                 - 8 -

financed studies to improve operations of municipal utilities, with the goal of improving quality
and assuring financial sustainability. These guides helped more than eleven local utilities that have
some degree of private participation in service provision8.

The Project also supported the structuring process to bring private capital to the Pasto water
utility. Despite a well-advanced process, local authorities decided to abort the project for political
reasons. Processes seeking private investments in two additional municipalities (Mahates and San
Onofre) are still in the structuring phase.

The impact of the activities of the Project led the Government to request a sector-specific Water
Sector Reform Assistant Loan (Loan 7077-CO ) .

Energy sector. The Project financed asset valuation and the financial structuring of the
privatization of regional power utilities, resulting in the privatization of three of them. The Project
assisted the Government in the evaluation of the future market for coal and the privatization of
the coal mining Cerrejon project, which brought approximately US$450 million in private
investments.

Transport sector The transport sector comprises three sub-sectors:

Toll Roads. The Project financed studies analyzing the previous experiences in the sector and
defining monitoring methodologies for the new concessions. Recommendations were included in
various CONPES documents. Later, the Project supported the adoption of most of these
recommendations in the structuring of five important road transport concessions in the main
network, four of which have already been awarded. The expected related private investment is
approximately US$427 million9.

Airports. The concession of the Cali airport (one attempted had failed prior to Project's support)
attracted US$27 million in private investment. The project supported the first phase of the
estructuring of the Bogotá's airport concession, which now                 is estimated to generate
approximately US$400 million in private investments.

Urban Transport. The project supported the financial structuring of four PPPs for urban bus
services in medium-size cities, replicating the experience of Bogotá (expect private investments
for approximately US$300 million).

C. Environmental framework

Poor design of environmental procedures was identified as a main barrier to the implementation of
strategic projects in the infrastructure sector. Therefore the TAL included this component to
support the development of streamlined environmenral procedures. The few studies that were
implemented were mostly oriented to smoothing the process of obtaining environmental licenses.
Other studies originally foreseen under the project were executed, albeit without direct Project
support, and through coordination with other agencies and projects. All together, the studies
developed recommendations to make more flexible the licensing process. The studies'



                                                  - 9 -

recommendations were adopted in some sectors; in others, the complex institutional setting
prevented their adoption.

These achievements reduced the needs in this field and therefore a lower share of resources than
envisioned in the PAD were devoted to activities in this component.

Among the most important financed studies are the: i) diagnosis and appraisal of the
environmental situation of the energy sector; ii) institutional strengthening of environmental
procedures for the transport sector; iii) assessment of the environmental licensing scheme in
Colombia; iv) development of environmental technical standards for private participation projects;
and v) development of a methodology to value environmental cost and benefits.

Moreover, the TAL provided key inputs for CONPES document 3120 which established a
strategy to improve the environmental framework in the power sector.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional impact of the Project is substantial. At the time of Project's approval there was
minimal experience and little institutional capacity to promote private sector participation in
infrastructure. In earlier attempts in Colombia to attract private participation in infrastructure,
there were flaws in the design due to the lack of experience in these type of projects. For example,
most of the 13 toll road concessions awarded prior to Project implementation had deep
procurement difficulties and delays, suggesting serious problems in bidding documents and in
project designs. In concessions awarded during the period of the Project, these problems have
been overcome.

The learning process promoted by the TAL has been substantial and has improved institutional
capacity among National Government agencies, and several municipal governments and agencies.
This resulted in shorter periods in awarding concessions, smoother processes, lower costs in
structuring projects, and overall better rules for private participation.

The Project's contribution to the institutional development was based on several schemes:

i) Policy documents: The support of 120 high level policy documents (CONPES) has helped to
define clear and sustainable policies, and the distribution of risks between the private and public
sector in infrastructure projects by reducing the fiscal impact of the projects and minimizing the
burden of infrastructure financing.

ii) Dissemination of best practices and other experiences: Executing agencies have played a
pivotal role disseminating, through several seminars and workshops, best practices and other



                                                 - 10 -

experiences in the process of promoting and regulating private participation. As a result, there is
widespread knowledge among key participants (i.e. central government, sector agencies,
municipal level agencies in largest municipalities, investment banking and engineering design firms
etc.) of the breakthroughs and flaws of private participation process.

iii) Through joint efforts with other public agencies: The Project promoted the development of
joint efforts and co-financing agreements with other institutions to enhance the impact of the
activities. The additional funds contributed by other agencies accounted for about US$ 4.5
million.

iv) Engaging beneficiary agencies in technical discussions: The Project included in its design the
establishment of technical committees for each study, through which the beneficiary agency and
the Government monitored the progress of consultants developing the studies and discussing key
policy issues. Given the fundamental role of DNP and MCH in developing the National
Development Plan and the CONPES documents, the interaction with these committees was highly
productive for the beneficiary agencies.

In conclusion, the overall result of best practices and greater institutional capacity has been the
definition of clearer engagement rules for the private sector and the consequent reduction in
uncertainties that had prevented the private sector from supporting the Government's effort to
improve infrastructure services.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside government control caused delay in key projects, which resulted in a decrease in
private participation during Project implementation. This was mainly due to:

i)      Decreasing trend of private investment in infrastructure in developing countries
worldwide between 1997 and 2000. Private participation in infrastructure in emerging economies
reached its peak at the end of 1997 and for various reasons, declined sharply afterwards. This
trend made it harder for the Government to convince investors           to participate in Colombia's
infrastructure sectors.
ii)     An unprecedented economic crisis. Colombia had enjoyed a long period of economic
growth and stability. In 1998, this trend reversed for the first time in more than 45 years and
Colombia's GDP experienced negative growth. This declining economic environment had a major
impact on investors perceptions of investment opportunities in the country.
iii)    Increase in political unrest. Colombia's long-lasting civil conflict had mostly remained in
the countryside. However, an increase in military actions by the guerrillas, including terrorist
attacks on bridges, electricity transmission towers and pipelines and increases in the number of
kidnappings close to large urban centers, created the perception among investors that the country
was not safe for investment.
iv)     Financial impact of demand slowdown for infrastructure services. The economic crises,
combined with the risk perception, affected the perception of investor and consumer behavior.
Traffic on the mains roads and energy consumption fell, thereby worsening the results for the
already engaged private investors.



                                                     - 11 -

v)      Loss of     investment grade. A combination of economic and political crises and the
deteriorating fiscal situation resulted in a loss of Colombia's international investment grade.

Despite the facts above, it should be highlighted that as a percentage of total infrastructure
investment in the Country, private investment increased substantially, from 42 percent before
Project implementation to 66 percent in 2000 ­ 200110.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Project experienced a slow implementation start due to a lack of counterpart funds and the
limited fiscal space assigned to the Project. This situation significantly limited the execution of the
Project in the first years and delayed the implementation, resulting in the extension of the closing
date for three years.

Transition between administrations also delayed Project implementation. The new administrations
in 1998 and 2002 required several months to take ownership of the Project, define priorities and
move forward with implementation.

Coordination between executing and beneficiary agencies was difficult in some cases. Tensions
arose when the beneficiary agencies were under the impression that DNP and MHCP were trying
to impose their views.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project coordination between the two implementing agencies was not always effective, given that
the proposed Project committee did not often play the envisioned role in the Project design, partly
resulting in each agency implementing the project independently. With each agency responding to
its own priorities, this scheme partially undermined the learning process and distorted the
systematic identification of policy gaps.


5.4 Costs and financing:
The Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project integrated funds coming from three sources,
IDB, government counterpart and IBRD funds. Originally, total funds accounted for US$33
million, with each bank financing US$12.5 million (75.76 percent) and the Government the
remaining US$8 million (24.24 percent). By May 30, 2004 Project execution amounted to
US$31.6 million, equivalent to 95.82 percent of the initial programmed amount. Of the Bank's
approved funds, 97.72 percent were executed.

Additional financing

The cooperation agreement with the National Energy Finance Company (FEN) and other
government agencies increased Project funds by US$ 4.5 million.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the Project is rated likely. The long-term sustainability of the Project requires


                                                    - 12 -

commitment from the Government to continue to improve the regulatory framework and promote
private participation. This includes maintaining the technical capacity of implementation and
beneficiary agencies to support these policies.

Several facts indicate the Government's long-term commitment: i) the National Development Plan
of the current Colombian Government, continues to deepen the reforms towards private
participation and promotes key projects in the infrastructure sectors; ii) there is no significant
political advocacy in Colombia to reverse the reforms and attitudes toward private participation
are positive; iii) building on the success of the reforms supported by the Project, the IDB recently
approved a follow-on loan for this operation to continue consolidating the reforms; and iv) in the
trade negotiations with the United States, the private sector and the Government have identified
infrastructure services as the main priority for "domestic agenda" reforms.

Several facts also suggest that the institutional capacity to handle private participation is now
embedded across the agencies in the government. The key characteristics of the new and reformed
procedures to engage the private sector are now well known and accepted in several agencies and
by officials in the Government. Investment banking firms and consulting firms are also familiar
with these procedures.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has taken actions to maintain the effort of improving infrastructure services by
improving the regulatory framework and the design of projects involving private participation.
Such efforts include the implementation of a follow-on technical assistantce loan with IDB and an
active dialog with the IBRD for further support (Recent Economic Developments in
Infrastructure (REDI) and Competitiveness ESW).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Satisfactory. The Bank's contribution to the design of the Regulatory Reform Technical
Assistance Project has been well appreciated by the Borrower. The Bank's participation enhanced
the handling of the regulatory and environmental issues substantially. It was the right decision to
rely in strong institutional agencies. Based on these considerations lending performance can be
rated as satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory. The Bank significantly contributed to the execution of the Project through technical
discussions and staff advice on issues relevant to the Project's objective. The team made use of all
available resources in the Bank to provide multi-sectoral technical advice to the Government.
However budget constrains did not permit taking full advantage of all Bank experience in the
related sectors. There was good continuity in the Project supervision team and the Government
always relied on the team's technical expertise.

In addition to the supervision missions, there was permanent Bank involvement in the
implementation, through Bank staff working in the field. One transport expert and one project
officer from the residence mission supported the task manager during most of the Project



                                                  - 13 -

implementation period. Moreover, because the task manager was also the sector leader, he was
having a continuous dialog with the Government authorities, discussing the implementation of the
Project. Finally, the project team also was several times supported by sector specialists working in
other projects in Colombia, who eventually joined the missions or met with the authorities in
charge of project implementation.

Within the Project design, there was a trade-off between flexibility and systematic identification of
policy institutional gaps. While the flexibility was very positive, it also generated a challenge to
the team to provide focus technical assitance and the range of issues that arose during
implementation.

The Bank and the IDB could have worked more closely, taking advantage of their partnership in
the Project. However, there was a lack of homogeneity in the operational processes (such as
procurement) and in the structure of the loans. While the Bank's was a wholesale Project, the
IDB's structured around specific infrastructure sectors.

Based on the above, supervision is rated as satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The preparation of the Project was led by two agencies that later became the executing agencies,
displaying great commitment and active involvement in the design of the Project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Despite the various obstacles and challenges posed by the difficult fiscal situation, the
Government of Colombia maintained a strong commitment to the reforms and its ownership of
the Project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The two executing agencies were active, leading studies, training and seminars and involving
beneficiary agencies. There was a lack of coordination between the two agencies and in some
cases tensions between the executing agencies and the beneficiary agencies.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

There are several lessons learned from this Project, some of which have already been noted. A
wrap-up of the more important and some additional lessons learned follows:

a) Related to policy issues:

·      Private sector participation in infrastructure is not a goal on its own, but rather an
effective tool to increase the quantity and improve quality of infrastructure and public services.


                                                - 14 -

·       Successful private participation processes normally require a combination of a favorable
economic and political          environment, sound policies and regulations, and well designed
projects. External factors are as important as the internal factors.
·       Private sector participation and efficient sector operation are much better achieved when
there is a clear platform of appropriate regulatory and competition framework.
·       The development of a sound strategy to quantify and confront contingent liabilities has
significantly improved the      Government's capacity to manage private participation: it
minimizes overall risk, establishes risk mitigating    measures in advance and reduces the fiscal
burden of infrastructure services provision by the Government.
·       Government ownership is key to maintaining the strategic priority and consistent approach
to the objectives supported by the Project. It greatly enhances its results and overall impact.

b)      Related to project's design issues:

·       A demand-based technical assistance project covering many sectors and cross-sectoral
issues, is a preferred option over a design with predefined activities. It provided flexibility to
accommodate priorities within the defined criteria. This flexible design was essential to facilitating
the transition between administrations.
·       Under certain circumstances, (e.g., when a policy decision is made by the local authority),
it would be desirable to have beneficiary agencies share part of the cost of the studies to guarantee
the commitment and ownership to the            reforms.
·       The Project's institutional arrangements took advantage of two highly capable executing
agencies (DNP and MHCP) with significant technical and institutional skills and critical leverage
over sector agencies within the Colombian government. DNP and MHCP leadership in policy
definition and budget allocation enhanced the role of the Project in shaping the government
strategies for the infrastructure sectors.

c)      Related to implementation issues:

·       The learning process promoted by the TAL has improved institutional capacity among
National Government agencies, several municipal governments and investment banking firms and
consulting firms are also familiar with these privatization procedures. This resulted in shorter
periods in awarding concessions, smoother processes, lower costs in structuring projects, and
overall better rules for private participation.
·       Despite the advantages of counting with high profile and technical capacity of DNP and
MHCP, these two agencies have different approaches and priorities. While MHCP is responsible
for fiscal issues, DNP is responsible for the short and medium term planning in all government
sectors. As a result there was a tendency to specialize in particular sectors. For example, with
MCHP's focus on the Power sector, given its fiscal implications, and DNP's focus on the
transport sector, given its implications in the National Development Plan, resulted in slower
country policy definition and learning process, and may have delayed the mainstreaming of
institutional capacity. The Government has recently incorporated this lesson in the preparation of
a similar follow-on operation with IDB support, by concentrating the implementation of the
Project at the National Planning Department.
 ·      The involvement of United Nations Development Plan (UNDP) as disbursement agency


                                                 - 15 -

smooth the procurement          and disbursement processes. UNDP participation has been
customary for the Colombian Government when Multilateral funds are involved.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
There is overall a strong agreement between the Bank team's and the Government's assessments, as is
seen in the summary of Government's Report (Prepare by Government). See whole document in Annex
8.

Preparation of technical assistance (TA) was based on CONPES document number 2775, dated
April 1995, in which the policy guidelines of the program for private participation in infrastructure
projects were established. The objectives of the document were: i) to increase efficiency in
infrastructure construction projects and in the quality of the services provided; ii) to create
additional funds for infrastructure financing, allocating scarce government resources mainly to
social investments; iii) to reduce the contingencies and risks assumed by the public sector; and iv)
to obtain the benefits of market competition. Within this framework, in January 1997, the
Government received a credit from IBRD for US$12.5 million, to finance the Regulatory Reform
Technical Assistance Project. This Project aimed to increase private management and financing of
infrastructure within competitive market structures. These include toll roads, transportation,
energy, natural gas, telecommunications, potable water and basic sanitary treatment.

The present report summarizes the development objectives as defined in 1997 in the Project
Appraisal Document11. At that moment, it was thought that achieving these objectives would help
the country improve the quality and quantity of infrastructure services through the development of
public policy, regulatory frameworks and adequate practices. The Program included
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) financing for US$12.5 million through its Supporting
Privatization Processes and Infrastructure Concessions Program. Counterpart funds of US$8
million were added to the total IBRD/IDB lending of US$25.0 million. The execution of this
technical assistance program was done within the framework of three National Development
Plans: El Salto Social (1994-1998), Cambio Para Construir la Paz (1998-2002) and Hacia un
Estado Comunitario (2002-2006), all of which support private participation in infrastructure.

Execution of each activity was based on the dynamics of each sector. For example, at the
beginning, the Project focused on the water sector and placed greater emphasis on the urban
transport sector in the final stages of execution. This strategy motivated the Government to
establish specific technical assistance programs for the development of those sectors. Likewise, it
should be taken into account that project implementation was marked by a complex period in the
country's history, characterized by severe fiscal restrictions and a recessive economic cycle, along
with the loss of investment grade, the crisis of the financial local sector, and the reduction of
investment flows in the emerging markets.

The Project had continuity and simultaneously reached results, such as (1) the institutional
strengthening of the entities that took part in formulation, design and execution of projects, and
(2) private investments of around US$2.80 billion and public investments of around US$1.80
billion to projects structured using only the 33$ million of dollars of Project. This confirms the
significant impact of this program as reform facilitator. Nevertheless, this environment and



                                                - 16 -

unavailability of funds between 1997 and 1999 had effects on various levels and resulted in two
extensions of the Project's closing date. Later, the use of "vigencias futuras" for the subsequent
years of execution increased the funds available to the Project and therefore its execution and
disbursement.

Below is a summary of the results:

Objective: Private participation in the financing and operation of infrastructure within a
competitive framework was the main target of the TA. The Project provided technical assistance
and support for the development of normative and regulatory schemes and included three
components: 1) improvement of the regulatory framework; 2) promotion of private participation;
and 3) improvement of environmental regulation.

Achievement of objectives and products: The results of private participation infrastructure
have been an increase in service coverage followed by a larger number of users served by private
operators or infrastructure built or expanded or maintained by private operators. The main
projects, financed by the World Bank, related to these results are:

(i) In the Telecommunications Sector, the structuring of the process for a third operator's entry in
mobile telephony, was awarded through competitive bidding to a joint venture created by two
municipality-owned providers. This expanded competition and caused the incumbent operators to
investment in technology upgrades;

ii) In the natural gas sector, the supervision of the natural gas concessions in the West was
supported and co-financed;

iii) In transportation, there are three processes currently under way for toll route concessions and
one concession for the management and operation of Cali's Alfonso Bonilla Aragón Airport The
three toll routes are: (1) Briceño--Tunja--Sogamoso with 176 km; (2) Zipaquirá--Bucaramanga
with 377 km; and (2) Bogota--Girardot with 121 km. In 2002, the airport mobilized 1.9 million
passengers or 18 percent of the country's air transport.

iv) In the urban transport sector, the structuring for an integrated system for mass transport in
Cartagena, with a population of 1 million inhabitants, in Barranquilla, with a population of 2
million inhabitants, and in Pereira, with a population of 600,000 All of these projects are currently
in progress12. Moreover, the project also financed activities in medium-size and small cities such as
in Ibagué, Popayán and Pasto with populations of 450.000, 400.000 and 350.000 respectively. In
Ibagué, transit and transport plans have been carried forward with also an analysis of the transit
capacity for intersections. In Pasto and Popayan, the initial designs for intervention are currently
being carried out.

Regarding the development objective of public policies, regulatory frameworks, and suitable
practices, among the principal results is the progress in the quality of the schemes to involve
private participation, which contemplate contractual and normative developments including
environmental topics.

The Project sought to develop mechanisms intended to minimize risks and contingencies assumed
by the Government through guarantees or other financial obligations within the framework of


                                                 - 17 -

Law 448 of 1998, to quantify these contingent liabilities and to propose a course of action in case
they are realized. This strategy attempted to address the flows in prior awarded concessions, in
which limited contingency analysis was performed, to establish a provision for the risks on the
part of the entities executing the projects. As a result Decree 423 of 2001 regulated the
contingency fund, and a later CONPES document outlined the Government's risk-taking policy.

Regarding the regulatory component, the activities financed by the World Bank included quality,
discounts and repairs regulation for water and sewerage and quality regulatory norms for power
service. Likewise, the Project contributed to the institutional strengthening of the regulatory
commissions, the superintendency and line ministries and departments.

The purpose of the environmental component was to improve the procedures and technical
specifications for the environmental evaluation and the environmental audits. The analysis of these
results must consider the progress in the structural and contractual regulations, where the
environmental aspects of social management showed significant results.

Similarly, seminars were held and publications were produced. Two studies evaluating the
assistance were conducted, creating an institutional written memory of the Project.

Bank and borrower performance: The Bank's performance in the preparation and evaluation of
the framework for the development of the Project was satisfactory. The Bank aligned the targets
of the TA with the Development Plans. It was a wise move to establish the project in two national
entities that enjoy strengths in terms of technical and administrative capacity, the National
Department of Planning (DNP) and the Ministry of Finance (MHCP) Treasury Department and
Public Credit. With regard to the formal and operative design, the Bank was a solid support for
the Government in technical and financial aspects, in the overall procedures, contracting, technical
follow-up, and the definition of indicators of performance.

The Coordinating Units of the DNP and the MHCP fulfilled the role of exercising the operational
management in the entities responsible for execution. This form of shared management is slightly
uncommon among programs financed by multilateral banks. Nevertheless the adopted
management strategy contributed to the strengthening of institutional capacity. The entity
entrusted to administer the resources during execution to the United Nations Development
Program (UNDP) . UNDP's contribution resulted in a positive joint experience. With IDB
support, the Government has initiated a second phase of the Project, described in CONPES
document 3284 of 2004. In that project, the DNP is the executing organism, whose Coordinating
Unit is very well suited for this operation, given its experience and position.

Results: Overall the project satisfactorily reached the proposed targets. Several processes were
undertaken resulting, among other things, in: (1) increased productivity; (2) the establishment of
financially sound companies; (3) improvement in providers' management; (4) promotion of
competition; (5) increased efficiency in infrastructure building and project operation; (6) improved
infrastructure service coverage and quality, to generate fiscally favorable effects; (7) reduction of
the resources transferred to public companies; (8) promotion of foreign investment; and (9)
development of programs to encourage small investor participation.



                                                 - 18 -

Lessons Learned: In the case of the Energy sector, regulation required continuity to improve the
regulatory framework in generation, transmission, marketing and distribution of electricity and
gas. In the Telecommunications sector the technical assistance supported the development of a
competitive environment for long distance calls , the creation of mobile service with PCS
technology and the development of programs to increase telephone access to remote locations in
the Country. . The regulatory framework was advanced by the application of "efficient company"
methodologies for the tariff-setting and system design for the measurement of quality of service.

The normative framework and the regulation of the Transport sector is the least developed topic
within infrastructure regulation. A key factor for the success of the urban programs is the
appropriate institutional commitment from the municipal authorities. The experience of the
decentralized entities in the execution and the strategic definitions for competition in port
services; water sector and basic sanitation was positive, in contrast to the dynamics of this type of
processes for private participation.

In the Global Infrastructure sector, the activities related to the management of contingent
liabilities have been the biggest contribution of the MHCP to the consolidation of the program
during this period of execution (1997-2004). The supervision and control of normative
developments and of procedures were advanced. Finally, there are activities to promote flexible
processes regarding the social-environmental aspects of the projects.

The consultancy to evaluate the assistance arrived at the following recommendations.

· Institutional strengthening was carried out through contracted activities. From this point of
view, the Government identified contingency factors as displacement (market of teams qualified
by his active participation in the activities of Assistance of private, local and multinational
entities,) consultancy services and investment banking and the consistent sharing of the experience
and the knowledge acquired by the entities.
* The beneficiary entities at the national and territorial level should be empowered to achieve a
better use of resources.

· To avoid duplication, reduce operational costs and improve the efficacy of the decisions, it is
necessary to emphasize the decision adopted by the MHCP and the DNP to establish the functions
of second stage at DNP solely, while preserving the participation of the program's managerial
committee with MHCP participation.



(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                               - 19 -

Footnotes:

1.         National Economic and Social Policy Council (CONPES in spanish) is the high policy body which defines the social and economic policy od the central administration.


2.         Recent Economic Development in Infrastructure, Report 30379-CO.


3.         Ports Law (Law 1 of 1991) Transport Law ( Law 105 of 1993), Residential Public Service Law (Law 142 of 1994) and Electricity Law (Law 143 of 1994).


4.         Source: CONPES document 3284.


5.         These documents are well established policy tools that provide technical support in the policy decision making process. This documents are the framework for sectoral policy development in Colombia.


6.         Source CONPES document 3284.


7.         LAW 448,1998.


8.         CONPES document 3284.


9.         Source: Ex-post evaluation Regulatory Reform TA Project.


10.        Source: Ex-post evaluation of the Regulatory Reform Technical Assistant Project


11.        Project Apparaisal Document on a proponed loan in the amount of US$12.5 million equivalent to the Republic of Colombia for a Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project. World Bank, Report No.16260 CO.


January    31, 1997.


12.        The National Government recieved in 2004 a World Bank Loan to financed contribution to the Integrated Mass Transit Systems in Bogota, Pereira, Cartagena, Medellin y Bucaramanga.




                                                                                                          - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Strengthened enabling environment for                                      During mid-term review, the Bank and the
private sector power generation,                                           Government agreed on new key performance
transmission, and distribution as measured                                 indicators and output indicators. The chart in
by an increase in the share of power that is                               the next page present both key performance
handled by the wholesale electricity market                                indicators and output indicators as agreed
exchange                                                                   with the Government.
Three municipalities start concession or
privatization programs for public services and
20 municipalities are trained in the
procedures for concession or privatization
programs for public services

Award of two concessions for the provision of
long distance telephone services.
Environmental licensing process is more
transparent and streamlined as measured by
processing time in specific cases

Standard contracts and bidding documents
are being used to facilitate concessions and
privatizations with corresponding reduction in
transaction costs.


Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                           During mid-term review the Bank and the
                                                                           Government agreed on new key performance
                                                                           indicators and output indicators. The chart in
                                                                           the next page present both key performance
                                                                           indicators and output indicators as agreed
                                                                           with the Government.




1End of project




                                                        - 21 -

Performance indicators                                    1994 - 1996  1997 ­ 1999 2000 ­ 2001 2002 ­ 2003
Sector
   Mining and Energy
         Service coverage                                     79%         86%         88%        89.6%
         Number of power outages in urban areas               11.8        16.4        16.4        18.4
   Telecommunications
        Number of failures per year per 100 lines             NA.         44.3        45.6        43.5
        Average time to failure response (Days)                NA         5.4           3         1.8
       Coverage of mobile phones (%)                           1.3        4.4         7.6         13.9
        Local Teledensity                                     10.4        15.3         17         17.2
   Water and sanitation
   Water and sanitation service coverage in
        Four largest cities                                   97.3%      96.3%       98.1%       97.9%
        Rest of the country                                   85%        82.3%       85.4%       87.6%
    Sewers coverage in
        Four largest cities                                   91.3%      89.6%        93%        91.2%
        Rest of the country                                   72.3%      69.6%        73%        74.0%


   Output indicators
   Sector
   Mining and Energy
       % of users served by private energy                     0.3        0.8          40         43.3
   distribution companies
        % of power transmission network managed                NA         NA          2.50        2.48
   by the private sector
       % of power generation capacity managed by the           NA         44.3        55.1        55.0
   private sector
   Telecommunications
        Private investment / PIB for each period               0.3        0.8         0.82        0.35
   Water and sanitation
        No. of success private participation process in         2           4           3          14
   urban areas for
         each period
       Private investment / PIB for each period                104          0          92          60
   US$(millions)
   Transport
       Toll roads private investment / total investment       12.0%      23.0%       30.4%       31.6%
       Number of km. maintain by private sector                 0         1348        1324        2793
       Private investment in airports US$(millions)             8        20.34        1.5         8.7
       Number of massive transport systems designs              0           0           3           2




                                                        - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Component A. Regulatory Framework                            7.80             6.90            0.88
Component B. Private Participation                          22.00           22.20                 1
Component C. Environmental Framework                         2.00             0.20              0.1
Component D. Project Management and Administration           1.20             2.30            1.91

Total Baseline Cost                                         33.00           31.60
                        Total Project Costs                 33.00           31.60
                  Total Financing Required                  33.00           31.60


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.50          0.70          1.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (0.50)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00        11.30          17.90        29.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (11.30)         (0.00)       (11.30)
4. Temporary                      0.00              0.00         0.20          1.20          1.40
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.20)          (0.00)       (0.20)
5. Traning                        0.00              0.00         0.50          0.70          1.20
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.50)          (0.00)       (0.50)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00        12.50          20.50        33.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (12.50)         (0.00)       (12.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.05         0.05
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00        11.94          16.03        27.97
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)      (11.94)         (0.00)       (11.94)
4. Temporary                      0.00             0.00         0.20           2.10         2.30
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.20)         (0.00)       (0.20)


                                                - 23 -

  5. Traning                                 0.00              0.00              0.08             1.20             1.28
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.08)           (0.00)            (0.08)
  6. Miscellaneous                           0.00              0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
       Total                                 0.00              0.00             12.22            19.38             31.60
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (12.22)           (0.00)           (12.22)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consult\ing services, services of contracted
      staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
      (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank          Govt.       CoF.         Bank        Govt.        CoF.      Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Component A. Regulatory        2.95          1.93        2.95         3.05         2.75        1.10     103.4     142.5     37.3
Framework
Component B. Private           8.35          5.30        8.35         8.54         6.60        7.07     102.3     124.5     84.7
Participation
Component C.                   0.75          0.48        0.75         0.04         0.00        0.17       5.3      0.0      22.7
Environmental Framework
Component D. Project           0.45          0.29        0.45         0.59         0.81        0.88     131.1     279.3     195.6
Management and
Administration




                                                           - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               03/18/1996                1    TASK MANAGER (1)
               11/15/1996                4    TASK MANAGER (1); PDS
                                              ECONOMIST (2); PROJECT
                                              OFFICER (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               11/13/1996                1    TASK MANAGER (1)
               12/16/1996                1    TASK MANAGER (1)

 Supervision

               05/31/1997                 1   PSD ECONOMIST (1)                     S               S
               05/09/1998                 1   PSD ECONOMIST (1)                     S               S
               12/18/1998                 2   TASK MANAGER (1); RES.                S               S
                                              MISSION LIASON (1)
               06/21/1999                 3   PROJECT SPECIALIST (2);               S               S
                                              TRANSPORT SPECIALIST (1)
               05/05/2000                 3   TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT              S              HS
                                              SPECIALIST (1)


               11/22/2000                 2   TEAM LEADER (1); PROJECT              S              HS
                                              SPECIALIST (1)
               05/03/2001                 3   SECTOR LEADER LC1/FPSI                S              HS
                                              (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1);
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
               05/03/2002                 2   TASK MANAGER (1);                     S              HS
                                              PROJECT OFFICER (1)


               12/06/2003                 2   TASK MANAGER (1);                     S              HS
                                              CO-TASK MANAGER (1)
               07/15/2004                 3   TASK MANAGER (1)                      S               S
                                              CO-TASK MANAGER;
                                              CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR
                                         3     TASK MANAGER (1),                    S               S
                                               CONSULTANT (1),
                                               PROJECT ASSISTANT (2)


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               17.2                            64.5



                                               - 26 -

Appraisal/Negotiation       3           8.4
Supervision              89.9          432,5
ICR                      9.04          31,8
Total                    119.4         537.2




                             - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Loan Agreement (Loan 4138-CO): April 4, 1997
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 2775. April 26, 1995. Participación de Sector
Privado en Infraestructura física.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 2895. December 18, 1996. Lineamientos para
incrementar la participación del sector privado en el complejo carbonífero "El Cerrejón Zona
Norte".
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 2929. June 11, 1997. Balance de los procesos
de Vinculación de Capital Privado - Las Privatizaciones-.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 2950. Septermber 24, 1997. Hacia la
consolidación del Sector Eléctrico: Decentralización y Participación Privada en la Distribución y
Comercialización de Electricidad.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 2976. December 18, 1997. Estrategia de
participación ciudadana en la composición de capital de interconexión Eléctrica S.A. -ISA-.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3013. July 14, 1998. Proceso de
Reestructuración y Capitalización de CORELCA y las Electrificadoras de la Costa Atlantica.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3031. April, 1999. Plan para el Sector de
Agua Potable y saneamiento básico.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3032. April 8, 1999. Programa Compartel de
telefonía social 1999-2000.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3045. August 17, 1999. Programa de
Conseciones Viales 1998-2000 Tercera Generación de Conseciones.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3055. November 10, 1999. Estrategia y
acciones para enegización de las zonas no interconectadas del país.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3072. February 9, 2000. Agenda de
Conectividad.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3107. October 9, 2001. Política de Manejo de
Riesgo Contractual del Estado para Procesos de Participación Privada en Infraestructura.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3118. June 4, 2001. Lineamientos para la
concesión de los servicios de comunicación personal PCS.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3120. June 13, 2001.Estrategia para el
Mejoramiento de la Gestión Ambiental del Sector Eléctrico.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3133. September 3, 2001. Modificaciones a la
política de manejo de riesgo contractual del Estado para procesos de participación privada en
infraestructura establecida en el Documento Conpes 3107 de Abril de 2001.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3145. December 6, 2001. Lineamientos de
política para TELECOM.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3149. December 20, 2001. Plan de Expansión
Portuaria 2002-2003 Zonificación Portuaria para el Siglo XXI.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3167. May 23, 2002. Política para mejorar el
servicio de transporte público urbano de pasajeros.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3171. May 23, 2002. Lineamientos de política
en Telecomunicaciones sociales 2002-2003.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3228. June 16, 2003. Lineamientos de política



                                              - 30 -

para los servicios de telefonía pública básica conmutada a cargo de la Nación.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3241. August 25, 2003. Lineamientos de
Política para las Empresas Oficiales Distribuidoras de Energía Eléctrica.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3244. September 15, 2003. Estrategias para la
dinamización y consolidación del sector Gas Natural en Colombia.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3245. September 15, 2003. Extension de
contratos de asociación.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3246. September, 2003. Lineamientos de
política para el sector de acueducto y alcantarillado.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3253. Noviembre, 2003. Importancia
estratégica del programa de modernización empresarial en el sector de agua potable y
saneamiento básico.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3260. December 15, 2003. Política nacional de
transporte urbano y masivo.
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3284. April 19, 2007. Autorización a la
Nación para contratar un emprésito externo con el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo hasta por
US$5 millones, destinado a financiar el Programa de Apoyo al Proceso de Participación Privada y
Conseción en Infraestructura - segunda fase (PPCI II).
National Planning Department. Conpes Number 3314. October 25, 2004. Lineamientos de
Política y Plan de Acción para la reestructuración del sector de radio y televisión pública nacional
en Colombia.
National Planning Department and International Development Bank. September, 2002.
Evaluación del Proyecto Apoyo al Proceso de Privatizaciones y Concesiones en Infraestructura,
Informe Final.
The World Bank. December 10, 1997. Aide Memoire for Colombia ­ Regulatory Reform TA.
The World Bank. December 1-5, 1999. Aide Memoire for Colombia Regulatory Reform T.A.
The World Bank. May 2-5, 2000. Aide Memoire for Colombia Regulatory Reform T.A.
The World Bank. June 28-30, 2000. Back to Office Report for Colombia Regulatory Reform
T.A.
The World Bank. November 22, 2000. Aide Memoire for Colombia Regulatory Reform T.A.
The World Bank. December 15-17, 2003. Aide Memoire for Colombia Regulatory Reform T.A.
Vivas Reyna, Jorge. Evaluación de la Asistencia Tecnica a la Reforma Regulatoria y al Proceso
de Privatizaciones y Concesiones en Infraestructura, Informa de Avance No.2.




                                                - 31 -

Additional Annex 8. Partner comments

La preparación de la asistencia técnica (AT) está soportada en el documento CONPES 2775 de abril de
1995, en el cual se estableció la política del programa de participación privada en proyectos de
infraestructura física y se recomendaron acciones para mejorar los procesos de participación privada,
siguiendo los objetivos del Plan de Desarrollo del momento "El Salto Social". Se preveían inversiones en
el sector de infraestructura por parte del sector privado para el periodo 1995-1998 por $4.7 billones. Los
principales objetivos del programa fueron: aumentar la eficiencia en la construcción y operación de
proyectos y la prestación de servicios; contar con recursos adicionales para suplir las necesidades en un
menor tiempo; destinar los escasos recursos estatales prioritariamente a inversión social; reducir los
riesgos y contingencias que asumía el sector público; y obtener beneficios de la competencia. En
desarrollo de esta política, el documento CONPES 2811 de septiembre de 1995 autorizó a la Nación a
contratar un crédito hasta por US$ 25 millones para apoyar dicho programa

En concordancia con lo anterior, en enero de 1997, el Gobierno contrató un crédito con el BIRF para la
financiación del proyecto de Asistencia Técnica para la Reforma Regulatoria por un monto de US$12.5.
El presente informe se enmarca en los objetivos de desarrollo definidos en el "Project Appraisal
Document"                  13    para el proyecto en 1997. En dicho documento se estableció que la asistencia técnica se
orientaría a incrementar la financiación y gestión privada de la infraestructura en condiciones de
mercado en los sectores de vías de peaje, transporte, energía, gas natural, telecomunicaciones, agua
potable y saneamiento básico. Se consideró en su momento que el logro de estos objetivos ayudaría al
país a mejorar la calidad y cantidad de los servicios de infraestructura a través del desarrollo de política
pública, marcos regulatorios, y prácticas adecuadas. Este objetivo fue consistente con las políticas de
gobierno.

En el presente documento se analiza los resultados del programa de financiación del Banco Mundial, así
como se consideran los recursos de las diversas fuentes que financiaron del programa, es decir de
contrapartida y de cofinanciación,. El total de recursos del programa incluyen la financiación del Banco
Interamericano de Desarrollo ­BID- a través del programa de Apoyo al Proceso de Privatizaciones y
Concesiones en Infraestructura por $US 12.5 millones, y el aporte por contrapartida de la Nación
previsto en $US 8 millones.

Respecto al objetivo del programa y retomando los antecedentes del mismo, el Proyecto de Asistencia
Técnica para la Reforma Regulatoria se desarrolló en un período orientado por el ajuste del modelo de
Estado definido por la Constitución de 1991. La ejecución de este programa de asistencia técnica abarca
tres planes de desarrollo, El Salto Social (1994-1998), Cambio Para Construir la Paz (1998-2002) y
Hacía un Estado Comunitario (2002-2006), en los cuales de manera consistente se dio continuidad a los
programas de participación privada en infraestructura.

El análisis de la evolución de la participación privada en el período 1996-2004, no se puede circunscribir
a una única iniciativa, en la medida que estas políticas se han desarrollado por un conjunto de
actividades. Así mismo, hay que considerar programas de financiamiento sectoriales que se ejecutaron
con el apoyo del Banco Mundial como los programas: Asistencia Técnica en Energía 3827 CO de 1995
en el sector energía y gas, o el proyecto Plan Caribe Agua 7077 CO del 2001 en el sector de agua
potable y saneamiento básico. Más que la dinámica de las diversas fuentes de financiación, la ejecución
de los proyectos obedeció a la dinámica de los sectores, como es el caso del impulso que recibió el
transporte urbano en la etapa final de la ejecución o en el sector de agua al inicio; éste último caso
ameritó que el Gobierno estableciera el desarrollo de un programa de asistencia técnica específico.



13.ProjectApparaisal Document on a proponed loan in the amount of US$12.5 million equivalent to the Republic of Colombia for a Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project. World Bank, Report No.16260 CO. January 31, 1997.




                                                                                                                                 - 32 -

En la ejecución de la asistencia técnica, a partir de 1999, el entorno para el proyecto se caracterizó por
un escenario complejo para el país, un marco de restricción fiscal y con elementos como el ciclo
recesivo de finales de la década de los noventa, que estuvieron acompañados de la pérdida del grado
de inversión del país, la crisis del sector financiero local, y la reducción de los flujos de inversión en los
mercados emergentes, en donde América Latina no fue la excepción. Por tanto, cabe destacar que el
proyecto tuvo continuidad y a la vez alcanzó resultados como los que se mencionan en este documento.
No obstante, este entorno y la disponibilidad presupuestal en el período 1997-1999 tuvieron
implicaciones que en mayor o menor medida implicaron la solicitud de ampliación del plazo de ejecución
del programa de crédito. En su momento, fue fundamental el contar a nivel presupuestal con vigencias
futuras para los años subsiguientes de ejecución de la asistencia técnica, lo que incidió favorablemente
en la ejecución.

En el contexto de América Latina, la participación privada se ha consolidado como promotor del
desarrollo de la infraestructura en los años noventa. Según cifras del estudio REDI para el caso de
Colombia adelantado por el Banco Mundial que se finalizó en el mes de octubre de 2004, Colombia se
encuentra en niveles comparables con países de América Latina, en un rango del 1 al 2% del PIB, con
excepción del caso de Chile quién presenta niveles mayores del 3 al 4% del PIB.

A nivel de fortalecimiento institucional, el Proyecto contribuyó de manera sustancial al fortalecimiento
institucional de las entidades del orden nacional que participaron en la formulación, diseño y ejecución
de los proyectos. El esquema participativo y de discusión permitió el intercambio de conocimiento
técnico y del uso más eficiente de los recursos humanos, lo cual se reflejo en la adopción de las mejores
prácticas en la elaboración y puesta en marcha de iniciativas. Las entidades se vieron beneficiadas por
el desarrollo de esquemas que se pudieron integrar de manera rápida y eficaz en el proceso de toma de
decisiones. En efecto, se contribuyó al fortalecimiento de entidades de planeación, regulación, control y
ejecución, y al empoderamiento de los Ministerios Sectoriales.

A nivel administrativo, las Unidades Coordinadoras del DNP y el MHCP cumplieron el papel de ejercer
la gerencia operativa en las entidades responsables de su ejecución, Esta modalidad de gestión
compartida adoptada, es poco frecuente entre los programas financiados por la banca multilateral; sin
embargo logró contribuir al fortalecimiento de la capacidad institucional para liderar y promover la
regulación económica y la participación del sector privado en el financiamiento y gestión de proyectos
en el sector infraestructura. Las Unidades Coordinadoras facilitaron el desarrollo de las actividades
operativas del Proyecto, realizaron el seguimiento continuo y ejercieron un control de gestión adecuado
a las necesidades del Proyecto. Frente a la decisión del Gobierno de adelantar una segunda etapa del
programa definida en el documento CONPES 3284 de 2004 y cuyo organismo ejecutor es el DNP, la
Unidad Coordinadora por su experiencia y posicionamiento, su idoneidad profesional y la diligencia que
despliega en el cumplimiento de sus actividades, será un elemento operativo fundamental para su
desarrollo.

Durante la ejecución, el Programa de Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo ­PNUD-, entidad encargada
de administrar los recursos, generó un mejoramiento en su capacidad de manejo financiero de los
recursos, en la oportunidad y confiabilidad de la información técnica y contable sobre el seguimiento del
Programa, y en relación con sus procedimientos y sistemas de información. La contribución que ha
prestado el PNUD, dio como resultado una experiencia conjunta positiva.

En síntesis, incluyendo los recursos financiados con recursos de la banca multilateral, es decir el Banco
Mundial y el BID, el proyecto logró movilizar recursos de participación privada por $2,800 millones de
dólares y recursos públicos por $1.800 millones de dólares a partir de tan solo $25 millones de dólares,
considerando los recursos de crédito del Banco Mundial por US$12.5 y del BID por US$12.5 millones, lo
cual representa un 0,5% de estas inversiones; confirmando el significativo impacto de este programa
como actor facilitador.




                                                    - 33 -

A continuación, de acuerdo con el formato previsto por el Banco Mundial para el ICR, se presenta los
resultados de la asistencia técnica, considerando entre otros los componentes del programa de crédito y
los indicadores de evaluación de la asistencia técnica acordados por el Gobierno y el Banco Mundial en
la revisión de mid- term en el año 1999.

1. Evaluación del objetivo del desarrollo, diseño y de la calidad al inicio
Como se ha mencionado éste informe se enmarca en los objetivos de desarrollo definidos en 1997 en
el "Project Appraisal Document para el proyecto. En dicho documento se estableció que la asistencia
técnica se orientaría a incrementar la financiación y gestión privada de la infraestructura en condiciones
de mercado en los sectores de vías de peaje, transporte, energía, gas natural, telecomunicaciones, agua
potable y saneamiento básico. Se consideró en su momento que el logro de estos objetivos ayudaría al
país a mejorar la calidad y cantidad de los servicios de infraestructura a través del desarrollo de política
pública, marcos regulatorios, y prácticas adecuadas.

1.1. Objetivo original:
El objetivo de desarrollo de la Asistencia Técnica (AT) fue la participación del sector privado en la
financiación y operación de la infraestructura dentro de un marco competitivo. El proyecto proveía
asistencia técnica y contribución al desarrollo de esquemas normativos y regulatorios. Como se
desarrolla más adelante, en cumplimiento del objetivo se ejecutaron asesorías, las cuales se han
reflejado en proyectos concretos para la modernización de la infraestructura, el manejo ambiental de los
proyectos, y la prestación de los servicios públicos y de infraestructura por el sector privado. Estos
proyectos han representado insumos para el desarrollo de las funciones de política, regulación y control.


1.2. Objetivos revisados:
El objetivo del proyecto no presentó cambios. Las actividades adelantadas dieron respuesta a los
cambios en las prioridades de los Gobiernos respectivos, enmarcados en el concepto según el cual los
planes de desarrollo, fueron complementarios con el objetivo de la AT


1.3. Componentes originales
Para alcanzar el objetivo propuesto el proyecto financió servicios de consultoría para mejorar los marcos
regulatorios, la regulación ambiental y promover la participación privada, componentes que a
continuación se exponen.


1.3.1. Marco Regulatorio
El propósito de este componente consistió en adelantar la revisión y consolidación de los marcos legales
y regulatorios para el apoyo de la participación privada en el sector de infraestructura y fortalecer la
capacidad institucional de las instituciones regulatorias para establecer reglas de juego en las que
puedan operar los agentes privados; evaluar problemas específicos y restricciones que incidan sobre la
participación privada en sectores particulares y tipos de proyectos. A su vez buscó el establecimiento de
mecanismos para minimizar los riesgos y contingencias asumidos por el Gobierno a través de garantías
u otras obligaciones financieras en el marco de la Ley 448 de 1998.




1.3.2. Participación privada
Este componente estuvo encaminado hacia la identificación y desarrollo de proyectos factibles para la
participación privada, incluyendo su diseño, los aspectos técnicos, la estructuración técnica, legal y
financiera, el desarrollo de mejores prácticas de eficiencia y transparencia para los procedimientos de
ofertas y el desarrollo de la capacidad institucional dentro de las agencias sectoriales para estructuración
y ejecución




                                                    - 34 -

1.3.3. Marco normativo ambiental
A través de este componente se buscó aumentar la agilidad y eficiencia del sistema de licencias
ambientales y planes de manejo ambiental, a través del fortalecimiento institucional, la revisión y
rediseño de los procedimientos a nivel sectorial y la capacitación de personal de las agencias
ambientales. También, se orientó a mejorar los procedimientos y especificaciones técnicas para la
evaluación ambiental de los nuevos proyectos y las auditorías ambientales, así como diseminar la
información de las actividades ambientales para promover la participación pública. El análisis de estos
resultados debe considerar los avances en la estructuración y regulación contractual en donde los
aspectos ambientales y de gestión social presentaron significativos resultados, reflejando la visión
integral de la asistencia técnica, y en la práctica esto soporta su sostenibilidad.

1.3.4. Administración y apoyo al proyecto
El componente buscaba asegurar la calidad y efectividad en la implementación del proyecto a través de
la financiación de consultores de corto plazo para la evaluación técnica y los aspectos relacionados con
las unidades coordinadoras de las entidades ejecutoras.

1.4. Componentes revisados
Los componentes originales del proyecto permanecieron sin cambios durante la ejecución.

2. Logro de objetivos y productos
Frente a los objetivos, los resultados satisfactorios del programa respecto a la financiación del Banco
Mundial, se establecen a partir de los principales logros o resultados financiados con recursos de la
asistencia técnica, así:


·        Respecto al objetivo de incrementar la financiación y gestión privada de la infraestructura en
condiciones de mercado, los principales resultados han sido incrementos de cobertura acompañados de
un mayor número de usuarios atendidos por operadores privados o infraestructura construida, ampliada
o mantenida por inversionistas privados que incluyen: i).en comunicaciones, con la entrada del tercer
operador en telefonía móvil, la penetración del servicio pasó de 4% en 1997 a 17% en junio de 2004; ii)
en el sector eléctrico, en el 2003 el 41% de los usuarios son atendidos por empresas privadas de
distribución de energía, y 55% de la capacidad de generación eléctrica en cabeza de inversionistas
privados; iii) respeto a la política de masificación de gas natural se propició la vinculación de capital
privado para el transporte y distribución, permitió que en 10 años el número de empresas distribuidoras
privadas de gas natural pasara de 8 a 24, y que el número de usuarios del servicio pasara de cerca de
800.000 a más de 3 millones atendidos por operadores privados con excepción de los usuarios
atendidos por la Empresas Públicas de Medellín; y iv) las concesiones de transporte permitieron realizar
inversiones en cientos de kilómetros que debido a las restricciones fiscales no hubieran sido posibles.
Con el programa de concesiones, hoy se cuenta con 2.900 km de vías, 1008 km de ferrocarriles y la
totalidad de los puertos son operados por inversionistas privados. Estas cifras corresponden al alcance
físico establecido con la suscripción del contrato de cada proyecto.

l    Respecto a estos resultados, los principales proyectos financiados por el Banco Mundial que tienen
relación directa con estos resultados, fueron: i) en comunicaciones, la estructuración del proceso para la
entrada del tercer operador en telefonía móvil, (cuya licencia de PCS a través del mecanismo de
subasta fue adjudicada a una empresa creada por dos empresas públicas del orden municipal) amplió la
competencia y la inversión en renovación tecnológica de los dos operadores privados; ii) en gas natural
se apoyó y cofinanció la interventoría de las concesiones de áreas exclusivas de gas de la zona
occidente; iii) en transporte, están los procesos de concesión de vías de peaje de Briceño- Tunja-
Sogamoso con 176 km, Zipaquirá ­ Bucaramanga con 377 Km., Bogotá ­ Girardot con 121 Km, y la
estructuración del Aeropuerto Alfonso Bonilla Aragón de la ciudad de Cali que movilizó en el año 2002,
1.9 millones de pasajeros, el 18% de la movilización del país; y iv) en transporte urbano14 se adelantó la
estructuración del sistema integrado de transporte masivo de Cartagena cuya población es de un millón
de habitantes donde el sistema atenderá el 72% de la demanda de transporte público, y en Barranquilla
con una población de 2 millones de habitantes y con una atención del 30% de la demanda en la primera



                                                     - 35 -

fase, en Pereira con una población de 600.000, los proyectos de transporte urbano se encuentran en
curso y se espera atender el 40% de la demanda, y en el caso de ciudades intermedias, en la cuidad de
Ibagué cuya población es de 450.000 habitantes, se adelantó el plan piloto de tránsito y transporte y el
análisis de la capacidad vial en intersecciones a nivel, así como la etapa inicial del proceso en las
ciudades de Popayán y Pasto cada una con 400.000 habitantes. Adicionalmente, a la fecha de cierre
de la AT, hay proyectos de estructuración financiados por el Banco Mundial que se encuentran en curso,
como es el caso de los proyectos de los SITM, la concesión vial del corredor Bogotá- Buenaventura en
los tramos que van desde Espinal a Buenaventura y la estructuración de la concesión del Aeropuerto el
Dorado de Bogotá.

·                    Respecto al objetivo de desarrollo de políticas públicas, marcos regulatorios, y prácticas
adecuadas, entre los principales resultados están los avances en la calidad de los esquemas de
participación privada, esto contempla desarrollos legales, contractuales y normativos incluyendo
aspectos ambientales. A nivel normativo e institucional, está el caso de la asunción de obligaciones
contingentes. En los proyectos previos al inicio de la asistencia técnica, el Gobierno asumió riesgos
contingentes que, hasta el año 2003, han representado pagos por 5,6 billones de pesos, el 2.5% del PIB;
de estos, 71% corresponde a contratos de PPA en energía, 19% a contratos de riesgo compartido en
telecomunicaciones y 10% a concesiones viales y por la segunda pista del aeropuerto El Dorado. En el
marco de la asistencia técnica se apoyó el desarrollo e implementación de la Ley 448 de 1998, mediante
la cual se adoptaron medidas para el manejo de las obligaciones contingentes en contratos estatales y
se creó el fondo de contingencias, introduciendo el concepto de disciplina fiscal. Así mismo, estos
desarrollos fueron una respuesta para prever y actuar sobre las contingencias en contratos estatales,
frente a las experiencias de los primeros proyectos en donde fueron limitados los análisis para valorar y
establecer una provisión de dichas contingencias por parte de las entidades ejecutoras. Con el decreto
423 de 2001 se reglamenta el fondo de contingencias, y se encarga al Consejo de Política Económica y
Social ­ CONPES- definir lineamientos de política de riesgo contractual. La política vigente en el 2003,
definida en los documentos CONPES 3107 y 3133 de 2001, establece que una asignación adecuada de
los riesgos es aquella que minimiza el costo de su mitigación. Esto se logra asignando cada riesgo a la
parte que mejor lo controla . Con financiación del Banco Mundial se adelantaron actividades para el
                                                                              15


diseño y la puesta en marcha de la estructura institucional para el manejo de contingencias que
incluyeron: i) metodologías para el manejo de obligaciones contingentes de entidades estatales, ii)
validación de información para la implementación de la metodologías de valoración de pasivos
contingentes, y iii) metodologías de valoración de pasivos contingentes en operaciones de crédito
público. La estructuración de los proyecto adelantados recogieron estas experiencias y aplicaron estos
principios, logrando significativos avances en la formulación y puesta en marcha de proyectos. De otro
parte, en aspectos regulatorios se destacan proyectos financiados por el Banco Mundial como: i) la
regulación de calidad / descuentos y reparaciones de los servicios domiciliarios de agua y alcantarillado,
y ii) desarrollo regulatorio de la calidad del servicio de electricidad16. En el componente ambiental, con la
financiación del Banco se desarrolló la asesoría para la evaluación del esquema de licencias
ambientales en Colombia.

14. Los proyectos de transporte urbano, que se encuentran en cursos, el Gobierno Nacional suscribió con el Banco Mundial en el 2003un empréstito para la financiación de los aportes de la nación en los SITM de Bogotá, Pereira, Cartagena, Barranquilla, Medellín, y Bucaramanga.




15.Según estos principios, los riesgos comercial, construcción, operación, financieros, cambiario, regulatorio, fuerza mayor asegurable, adquisición de predios y obligaciones ambientales en los sectores de comunicaciones, transporte, agua potable y saneamiento básico y energía son


asumidos por el inversionistas privado, estableciendo como excepción en el caso del riesgo de construcción los casos los proyectos que presenten un alto componente de complejidad técnica o geológica que impida contar con información suficiente y confiable, y para el riesgo


financiero y cambiario se podrán diseñar mecanismos o soportes financieros para soportar con liquidez por tiempo limitado para soportar los periodos de mayor estrechez del flujo de caja libre del proyecto, y se establece que en ningún caso podrán ser interpretados como una garantía de


riesgo comercial..




16..El marco regulatorio se desarrollo, estableciendo los indicadores DES (duración equivalente de los cortes del servicio de energía eléctrica) y FES (frecuencia equivalente de las interrupciones del servicio de energía eléctrica).




                                                                                                                                        - 36 -

Finalmente, la asistencia técnica apoyó actividades que permitieron o aportaron elementos para los
procesos de toma de decisiones en cada uno de los sectores y fueron insumo para el Gobierno en la
formulación de políticas públicas. Así mismo, se adelantaron seminarios, publicaciones y se realizó dos
proyecto de evaluación de resultados de la asistencia, lo cual permite           contar con una memoria
institucional escrita de la asistencia técnica, del programa de participación privada y de la ejecución de
los proceso que se constituyen en elementos de sostenibilidad.

2.1. Resultados / Logros del objetivo
El proyecto alcanzó los objetivos propuestos de manera satisfactoria. Se adelantaron procesos que
permitieron, entre otros, incrementos de la productividad, establecer empresas con solidez financiera,
mejorar la gestión, promocionar la competencia, aumentar la eficiencia en construcción y operación de
proyectos de infraestructura, aumentar la cobertura y calidad de los servicios de infraestructura, generar
efectos fiscales favorables, disminuir los recursos transferidos a empresas públicas, promocionar la
inversión extranjera, y propiciar programas de democratización de la propiedad accionaria. A
continuación se presentan los principales logros respecto a los indicadores establecidos para la
asistencia técnica como forma de medir los resultados durante su implementación. Los beneficios de los
proyectos varían cualitativamente de sector a sector por sus particularidades.




                                                    - 37 -

                                                  INDICADORES DE DESEMPEÑO PROYECTO REFORMA REGULATORIA                                  - PPCI -

                                                                                                                                          OBSERVADO
                                              SECTOR                                                        1994 - 1996         1997 - 1999          2000 - 2001            2002-2003
      TRANSPORTE
      Red Troncal
          Inversión Privada / Inversión Total                                                      (1)         12,0%               23,0%                 30,4%                31,6%
          Kms Mantenidos por concesión                                                             (2)            0                1.348                  1.324                2.793
      Sector Aéreo
          Inversión Privada / Inversión Total                                                                    8%               20,34%                  1,5%                 8,7%
     Sector Férreo
          Kms de Red Rehabilitados por concesión                                                   (3)            0                   0                    147                   100
          Kms de Red Mantenidos por concesión                                                                     0                1.400                   353                1.007,9
      Sector Portuario
          Inversión Privada / Inversión Total                                                     (12)         89,0%               93,7%                 98,0%                87,1%
          Toneladas / Nave / Día                                                                  (12)          2.900              4.670                  N.D.                   ND
      Transporte Urbano
            Número de Diseños de Sistemas de Transporte Público Urbano y Masivo                                                                             3                     2
            Inversión Privada / Inversión Total                                                                                                           68%                 75,9%
      MINAS Y ENERGIA
      INVERSION
          Porcentaje de usuarios atendidos por empresas privadas de distribución de                (4)         0,30%               0,80%                 40,4%                43,3%
          energía eléctrica
          Porcentaje de Extensión de Redes de Transmisión Eléctrica bajo el control                (4)                                                   2,50%                2,48%
          del sector privado
          Porcentaje de Capacidad de Generación Eléctrica bajo el control del sector               (4)          N.A.                44,3                 55,1%                55,0%
          privado
      CALIDAD
          Cobertura del Servicio                                                                   (5)          79%                 86%                   88%                 89,6%
        Población con mas de 100,000 habitantes
          Número de interrupciones en cabeceras municipales (FES)                                  (6)         11,8%               16,4%                  16,4                  18,4
      TELECOMUNICACIONES
      INVERSION
          Inversión Privada / PIB                                                                              0,30%               0,80%                 0,82%                0,35%
      CALIDAD
          Número de Fallas / 100 Líneas / Año                                                      (7)          N.A.                44,3                  45,6                  43,5
          Tiempo Promedio de reparación de Fallas (Días)                                                        N.A.                5,4                    3,0                   1,8
      COBERTURA
          Penetración Telefonía Móvil (%)                                                                       1,3%                4,4%                  7,6%                13,9%
          Teledensidad Local                                                                                   10,4%               15,3%                  17%                 17,2%
      AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO BASICO
      Número de procesos iniciados con participación exitosa del sector
      privado
          Municipios Intermedios                                                                   (8)            2                   4                     3                    14
      INVERSION
          Inversión Privada US$ (Millones)                                                         (9)           104                  0                    92                    60
      CALIDAD
      Cobertura del Servicio Acueducto**
          Cabecera                                                                                (10)         97,3%               96,3%                 98,1%                97,9%
          Total pais                                                                              (11)         85,0%               82,3%                 85,4%                87,6%
      Cobertura del Servicio Alcantarillado**
          Cabecera                                                                                (10)         91,3%               89,6%                 93,0%                91,2%
          Total pais                                                                              (11)         72,3%               69,6%                 73,0%                74,0%
     * Incluye Proyecto BOOT Planta Tibitoc EAAB E.S.P.
     N.A. = NOT AVAILABLE - NO DISPONIBLE XX = REALIZADO o A REALIZAR EN ESE PERIODO
     NOTAS:

 (1)  La diferencia en el porcentaje de inversión privada sobre la inversión total incluye: a) Se tenía proyectado la adjudicación e inicio de 5 concesiones y hasta el momento solo esta
      adjudicada 1 b) La caducidad de Tobia - Grande - Puerto Salgar dejando de hacer inversiones por US$ 345 millones
 (2) La diferencia en el indicador de Km mantenidos incluye : a) Caducidad del proyecto Tobia-Puerto Salgar (se resta 571 Km) y entrada del proyecto Zipaquirá-Bucaramanga (se suma
 (3) La necesidad de que Ferrovías realice labores de recuperación del corredor ha demorado la iniciación de las labores de rehabilitación y mantenimiento.
 (4) Los procesos de privatización de la generación, transmisión y distribución fracasaron.
 (5) Cobertura del Sistema Intercoenctado Nacional- SIN, información de la UPME. El aumento de cobertura se debio principalmente a la legalización de usuarios.
 (6) Los indicadores observados comprenden de un promedio calculado de la información suministrada por la CREG. De igual forma se quiere aclarar que el indicador meta proyectado
 (7) Este indicador mejora significativamente, debido a innovaciones tecnologícas presentadas en la administración de las redes por parte de cada operador
      El menor número de procesos adelantados, se debe a las dificultades encontradas durante la estructuración y puesta en marcha de los mismos. Especificamente a : i) cambios en
 (8)  la administración municipal, ii) fuentes de financiación, y iii) acuerdos necesarios entre entidades para su implementación
 (9) El menor valor de inversión privada se debe a que proyectos programados no fueron llevados a cabo. (Cucuta e Ibague entre otros)
 (10) El no cumplimiento de las metas se debe a la disminución de las inversiones por cuenta de los menores incrementos tarifarios, lo cual disminuyó los ingresos esperados de las
 (11) A pesar del rezago tarifario, algunos municipios han realizado un esfuerzo por mejorar la prestación de los servicios, permtiendo una suficiencia financiera que se ve reflejada en
 (12) La información no esta disponiobleen el momento, debido a que esta en proceso de revalidación por inconsistencias en la recopilacion mensual de los datos.


2.1.5 Global Multisectorial:
En la clasificación de global multisectorial se desarrollaron proyectos o asesorías que por su naturaleza,
son aplicables al sector infraestructura, en forma transversal.

Los avances obtenidos en los índices de inversión privada en infraestructura durante el período de
ejecución del proyecto medidos como la participación de la inversión privada frente al total de las
inversiones sectoriales son:




                          Indicador de Inversión Privada/Inversión Total


                                                                                               - 38 -

1994-19961997-19992000-2003
TOTAL INVERSION PRIVADA51%54%58%
Comunicaciones41%51%58%
Transporte14%31%27%
Energía60%59%65%




                                  - 39 -

                        Sin Petróleo Carbón y Minería
TOTAL INVERSION PRIVADA32%41%42%
Comunicaciones41%51%58%
Transporte14%31%28%
Energía39%35%31%

 Fuente: Cifras estimadas, DNP.

2.2. Resultados por componentes
Los resultados por componentes son diversos y estuvieron encaminados a la política nacional de
participación privada y desarrollo de la infraestructura en Colombia (planes de desarrollo y documentos
Conpes). Algunos de los resultados para el total del programa, incluyendo recursos de crédito del Banco
Mundial y el BID, y de contrapartida, se presentan a continuación:

2.2.1 Marco Regulatorio
·        Régimen para la Exploración y Producción de Petróleo.
·        Desregulación y desarrollo de la Competencia en el Mercado de Combustibles líquidos
·        Regulación del Sector Eléctrico (DES y FES)
·        Desarrollo regulatorio de la Calidad del Servicio de Electricidad
·        Estudios regulatorios y técnicos para el ordenamiento del mercado del GLP
·        Asesoría al Ministerio de Minas y Energía para la reestructuración de CORELCA
·        Evaluación del marco regulatorio del las Zonas No interconectadas
·        Regulación sobre gas vehicular
·        Aspectos complementarios para el establecimiento de régimen tarifario
·        Plan de Telefonía Social - Servicio Universal
·        Metodología de medición del indicador del nivel de satisfacción del usuario para la larga
distancia, telefonía móvil e Internet
·        Cobro de valorización y peajes en las carreteras de Colombia

2.2.2 Participación privada
·        Estudios de valoración de activos del ICEL, que contempló las Electrificadoras de los
Departamentos de Santander, Norte de Santander, Boyacá, Cundinamarca, Nariño, Choco, Antioquia,
Caquetá, Cauca, Tolima,       Caldas, Quindío, Meta y Huila. Asesorías en Banca de Inversión para
promover la participación privada en las empresas regionales de Boyacá, Huila, Quindío, Tolima,
Caquetá, Cundinamarca, Meta, Cauca, Nariño Chocó, Santander, Norte de Santander, Caldas y
Antioquia
·        Asesorías de Banca de Inversión para vincular capital privado a ISA y mecanismos financieros e
institucionales para satisfacer las ZNI
·        Procesos de reestructuración y vinculación de operadores estratégicos que           viabilicen la
prestación del servicio de energía eléctrica en la Empresa de Energía Eléctrica del Arauca y en las
Empresas Publicas de Caucasia
·        Estructuración e implementación de la concesión del Aeropuerto Alfonso Bonilla Aragón de la
Ciudad de Palmira, concesiones viales: Pereira - La Paila, Corredor Vial Bogotá - Buenaventura, Briceño
­ Tunja ­ Sogamoso, Vial del Caribe, y Zipaquirá ­ Bucaramanga.
·        Apoyo al los procesos relacionados con los proyectos de SITM en: Bogotá, Cali, Pereira y
Desquebradas, Barranquilla y Cartagena.
·        Concesión de Servicios de Comunicación Personal ­ PCS, operadores larga distancia,
democratización accionaria de la ETB, Plan Nacional de Servicio Universal (1999 - 2009)
·        Proyectos para la vinculación privada en la empresa de Montería, en la Empresa de Obras
Sanitarias de Pasto ­ POPASTO, en el Municipio de Mahates, Departamento de Bolivar y en el
municipio de San Onofre, Departamento de Sucre.




                                                   - 40 -

2.2.3 Legislación ambiental
·        Asesoría para analizar y evaluar la situación ambiental actual del subsector eléctrico,
enmarcada en una evaluación energética integrada
·        Fortalecimiento institucional de la gestión ambiental en el sector transporte
·        Evaluación de la capacidad institucional del Municipio de San Juan de Pasto y de las
autoridades ambientales correspondientes para asumir las competencias ambientales de la puesta en
marcha del esquema de transformación público ­ privada de la Empresa de Obras Sanitarias de Pasto,
y la propuesta de acciones para su fortalecimiento
·        Evaluación del esquema de licencias ambientales en Colombia
·        Elaboración de Normas Técnicas Ambientales para Proyectos Tipo en el Marco de la
Participación Privada en Colombia
·        Apoyo elaboración manual metodológico de proyectos ambientales

2.3. Valor Presente Neto / Tasa Interna de Retorno
No aplica

2.4. Impacto de desarrollo institucional.
El Proyecto contribuyó de manera sustancial al fortalecimiento institucional de las entidades del orden
nacional que participaron en la formulación, diseño y ejecución de los proyectos. El esquema
participativo y de discusión permitió el intercambio de conocimiento técnico y del uso eficiente de los
recursos humanos, lo cual se reflejó en la adopción de las mejores prácticas en la elaboración y puesta
en marcha de las iniciativas. Los proyectos contribuyeron al fortalecimiento de las Comisiones de
Regulación, superintendencias y Ministerios Sectoriales. En el caso del sector de agua potable, durante
el desarrollo del programa se puso en marcha un crédito de asistencia técnica para este sector, que
explica la disminución en la dinámica del apoyo del programa durante su vigencia.

3. Factores que afectaron la Implementación y los Resultados

3.1. Factores que escapan del control del gobierno o agencia implementadora
Uno de los factores que afectaron de manera exógena el desarrollo de las actividades de la Asistencia
fueron las transiciones en los programas y políticas públicas que se presentaron durante los cambios de
gobierno; esto es aplicable tanto a nivel nacional como territorial. El Proyecto también se vio afectado
durante su ejecución por el ciclo económico recesivo de 1999 y las crisis internacionales en los
mercados emergentes que incidieron sobre los flujos de inversión extranjera.

3.2. Factores generalmente sujetos al control por el gobierno

3.3. Factores generalmente sujetos al control de la agencia implementadora

4. Costos y financiamiento.
En el siguiente cuadro se presenta la información sobre la ejecución prevista y final por componente: i)
inicial establecidos en el Project Appraisal Document (numeral - 2. Project components) y ,ii) ejecución
con financiación BIRF (ver tabla):

         Componente                Project                    Total
                                   Appraisal                  Ejecución
                                                              BIRF
                                   US $                       %US $%
        Marco                      7.8                        23.7%3.0525.0
        Regulatorio                                           %
        Participación              22.0                       66.7%8.4570.0
        Privada                                               %



                                                    - 41 -

         Legislación                2.0                       6.1%0.030.2%
         Ambiental
         Administración             1.2                       3.5%0.594.8%
         y apoyo
         Total                      33.0                      10012.2100

5. Sostenibilidad
La sostenibilidad del proyecto se considera como satisfactoria.

5.1. Razones para la calificación de la sostenibilidad
El marco constitucional y las leyes sectoriales que le dan vía a la participación privada en la provisión de
los servicios públicos e infraestructura se consideran adecuados para el desarrollo de las políticas
públicas del gobierno, y así se refleja en diversos análisis a nivel internacional. Así mismo, existe
consenso en torno a la conveniencia de continuar con el proceso de concesiones y participación privada,
acompañado por la consolidación del marco de regulación y control, como se plantea en los objetivos
del Plan de Desarrollo "Hacía un Estado Comunitario", del período 2002-2006. En un escenario de
restricciones fiscales, la participación privada es por si sólo un elemento estructural que permanecerá
vigente para la provisión de infraestructura.

5.2. Acciones hacia la sostenibilidad
En la medida que el Plan de Desarrollo "Hacia un Estado Comunitario" reconoce el avance, logros y
resultados e identifica que persisten rezagos en el desarrollo de la infraestructura, el CONPES 3284 de
abril de 2004, sometió a consideración la contratación de un empréstito con la Banca Multilateral hasta
por US $ 5 millones de dólares con el objetivo de contribuir al cumplimiento de las metas del Plan de
Desarrollo, y facilitar y promover la participación privada en el sector de infraestructura. El arreglo
institucional del manejo de los recursos conserva el marco organizativo a nivel directivo de la
Asistencia, liderado por el DNP y el MHCP y se tiene previsto que el ejecutor sea el DNP. Al mismo
tiempo, se reconoce que el marco operativo y de gestión del Proyecto ha sido exitoso en el curso y
trámite de los diversos proyectos. En este arreglo institucional es estratégica la complementación de
MHCP y del DNP, prevista para el comité directivo en la ejecución de esta segunda etapa del programa,
y a su vez se minimizan duplicidades operativas. Finalmente, la segunda etapa del PPCI se
complementará con iniciativas sectoriales como apoyo a los diversos programas de gobierno.

6. Desempeño del Banco y del Prestatario

6.1 Banco Mundial
El desempeño del Banco en la preparación y valoración del marco del desarrollo del Proyecto fue
satisfactorio. Logró compaginar los objetivos de la AT con los lineamientos de los Planes de Desarrollo.
Fue un acierto establecer el proyecto en dos entidades nacionales que gozan de fortalezas en términos
de capacidad técnica y administrativa, como lo son el Departamento Nacional de Planeación y el
Ministerio de Hacienda. Respecto al diseño formal y operativo, el Banco fue un sólido soporte para el
Gobierno en aspectos técnicos y financieros relacionados con procedimientos, contratación,
acompañamiento técnico, indicadores de desempeño, incentivos y continuidad de los ejecutores del los
planes y del manejo administrativo y financiero. Así mismo, en la definición de acciones en la revisión
de mid term se incorporaron elementos como indicadores para loa AT.

6.2 Prestatario
La estructura básica sobre la cual se desarrolló el proyecto fue adecuada. Los esquemas administrativos
funcionaron bien obedeciendo a un diseño claro y transparente que permitió que las diversas entidades
y agentes interactuaran y se beneficiaran de los procesos de aprendizaje y del conocimiento de los
sectores. En este sentido se califica como satisfactoria.

La ejecución de las actividades de la Asistencia previstas en los Convenios de Empréstito, fue
responsabilidad del DNP y del MHCP. Como tales, las dos entidades desempeñan papeles
fundamentales dentro de la estructura de la gestión de la política económica y social del país. El



                                                   - 42 -

fortalecimiento institucional como propósito del Banco para la asistencia técnica se logró. En general, las
entidades presentan un importante proceso de aprendizaje especializado y el mejoramiento en sus
conocimientos en los temas de la cooperación y en su capacidad para la promoción de la participación
privada en procesos de financiamiento y gestión en infraestructura. De la misma manera, se tiene la
percepción positiva del fortalecimiento institucional en las entidades ejecutoras .

7. Lecciones aprendidas

De acuerdo con la asesoría en la que se evaluó la Asistencia surge un conjunto de recomendaciones a
la forma de ejecución adoptada, a su estructura organizacional, a la dirección estratégica compartida por
el DNP y el MHCP, a la administración de los recursos, a los alcances de los objetivos de fortalecimiento
institucional y a la forma de elegir las actividades a financiar. Específicamente, estas recomendaciones
del asesor y que considera el Gobierno Nacional como lecciones a ser consideradas frente a desarrollo
de este tipo de programas, sugieren:

· El fortalecimiento institucional se efectuó a través de las actividades contratadas, entendido como
mecanismo para lograr la sostenibilidad de los logros en términos de conocimientos en las entidades
beneficiarias. Este requirió de un esfuerzo explícito adicional por parte de la banca multilateral y de las
entidades beneficiarias. Desde el ángulo de los objetivos del Proyecto en materia de fortalecimiento
institucional, se identifican factores contingentes frente a la sostenibilidad en términos de mantenimiento
y mejoramiento en dichas entidades de los conocimientos, capacidades y destrezas obtenidas como
consecuencia natural de la ejecución de las actividades sobre reforma regulatoria, privatizaciones y
concesiones en infraestructura. Entre estos factores, se señalan: el desplazamiento, por razones de
mercado, de funcionarios capacitados y especializados por su participación activa en las actividades de
Asistencia a entidades privadas, locales y multinacionales, de consultoría y banca de inversión y la
consecuente dilución de parte de la experiencia y el conocimiento especializado adquirido por las
entidades; el supuesto implícito en los contratos de empréstito con la banca multilateral y en los
convenios con el PNUD mediante el cual se considera que el objetivo del fortalecimiento institucional de
las entidades beneficiarias previsto en unos y otros se logra en forma relativamente automática como
resultado de las actividades sectoriales de los proyectos; y, la ausencia en la mayoría de las entidades
beneficiarias de la Asistencia de políticas explícitas de fortalecimiento institucional representadas en
mecanismos e instrumentos como la utilización y documentación de procesos y procedimientos,
respecto a este tipo de asistencias frente a las funciones administrativas, misionales y operacionales.

· Para lograr una mejor utilización de los recursos y mayores logros, se requiere un mayor
empoderamiento en las entidades beneficiarias, tanto a nivel nacional como territorial, para lo cual se
presentan alternativas tales como contar con la contrapartida o cofinanciación de los proyectos por parte
de dichas entidades.

· Con el fin de evitar duplicaciones innecesarias, reducir costos operativos y mejorar la eficacia de las
decisiones y el fortalecimiento institucional sectorial, es necesario destacar la decisión adoptada por el
MHCP y el DNP de establecer las funciones de coordinación y operación del segunda etapa del
programa de asistencia relacionados con participación privada y concesiones en infraestructura, en
cabeza del Departamento Nacional de Planeación, sin perjuicio de la participación del primero en la
dirección y orientación estratégica.

Las experiencias sectoriales incluyen lo siguiente:

Sector minas y energía: en el caso del sector energético, el proyecto de asistencia técnica fue
compatible con las políticas de largo plazo del sector, por lo que considerando los efectos del entorno en
la ejecución de los proyectos, las metas definidas lograron cumplirse. En el tema de regulación se
avanzó acatando los principios definidos por el marco legal. Sin embargo, estos temas requieren de
continuidad, para afinar los marcos regulatorios en aspectos de generación, transmisión,
comercialización y distribución de electricidad y gas.

Sector comunicaciones: en el sector de Telecomunicaciones con la Asistencia se apoyó el desarrollo de



                                                     - 43 -

un entorno competitivo en el mercado de la larga distancia, la telefonía móvil con el operador de PCS y
el desarrollo de programas de accesos a telefonía social. El marco regulatorio del sector avanzó con la
implementación de metodologías de "empresa eficiente" al régimen tarifario y el diseño de sistemas
para la medición de la calidad del servicio.

Sector Transporte: se inició con el proceso de fortalecimiento de los contratos de concesiones viales. El
compromiso institucional de las autoridades municipales será un factor clave para el éxito de las
concesiones en el subsector de transporte urbano masivo y colectivo urbano. El marco normativo y de
regulación del sector es el tema menos desarrollado. En el sector de transporte fluvial se financiaron
consultorías con el objeto de evaluar las posibilidades de incorporar el río Meta como vía para el
comercio de Colombia y Venezuela. En el modo marítimo se presentan retos para la promoción de la
competencia en los servicios portuarios.

Sector Agua Potable y Saneamiento Básico: de los proyectos piloto apoyados por el programa se logró
concretar la concesión del acueducto de Montería, mientras que para el municipio de Pasto no se logró
poner en marcha. La experiencia con los entes descentralizados en la ejecución y las definiciones
estratégicas, fue positiva frente a la dinámica de este tipo de procesos de participación privada.

Sector Infraestructura Global: las actividades relacionadas con el manejo de pasivos contingentes han
sido la mayor contribución del MHCP a la estructuración y consolidación del programa durante su
período de ejecución (1997-2003). En el fortalecimiento de la supervisión y control se avanzó y las
iniciativas se deben consolidar con desarrollos normativos. Finalmente, vale la pena hacer mención a
las acciones promovidas en lo referente al objetivo del establecimiento de un adecuado y ágil proceso y
manejo socio/ambiental en los proyectos de infraestructura. En ese sentido, se avanzó en el desarrollo
de metodologías y, en la estructuración de los procesos de participación privada se han considerado las
gestiones ambiental y social en la ejecución de los proyectos.

                      Anexo 1 - INDICADORES MÁS IMPORTANTES PPCI


SECTOR DE TELECOMUNICACIONES

      INDICADOR                                        IMPORTANCIA
  Teledensidad Local     Mide el número de líneas en servicio existentes por cada 100 habitantes, lo
                         que representa un índice de cobertura del servicio.
      Penetración       Es un porcentaje que mide el número de usuarios consumidores del
  Telefonía Móvil (%) servicio en la población. Este índice representa la cobertura del servicio.
     Número de Fallas No. de llamadas fallidas por problemas técnicos / No. total de llamadas con
     / 100 Líneas / Año éxito. Este índice mide la calidad de la red.
     Tiempo Promedio Sumatoria del tiempo requerido para la reparación de un daño reportado
      de reparación de por el usuario / No. total de reparaciones realizadas. Este índice mide la
        Fallas (Días)   eficiencia de los operadores en responder a los requerimientos de los
                        usuarios
     Inversión Privada /Este índice muestra el nivel de inversión de las empresas de
            PIB         Telecomunicaciones como porcentaje del PIB. Lo anterior permite conocer
                        si el sector está renovando su tecnología o ampliando sus servicios.


SECTOR DE TRANSPORTE

      INDICADOR                                           Importancia
 Red Troncal
 Inversión Privada /      La evolución de la inversión privada respecto a la inversión total para el
 Inversión Total          sector carretero nos indica el apoyo que se esta presentando, en
                          momentos donde la situación financiera y en especial de déficit de la


                                                   - 44 -

                        nación hace difícil la inversión en dichos sectores, para el mantenimiento
                        y construcción de la infraestructura nacional. De esta manera un buen
                        nivel de inversión privada asegura inversiones en sectores de apoyo a la
                        economía como lo es la infraestructura de carreteras.
Km. de Mantenimiento Uno de los aspectos importantes a lo que contribuyen las concesiones es el
                        de asegurar el mantenimiento de la infraestructura de carreteras. Un buen
                        mantenimiento genera beneficios económicos por la reducción de los costos
                        de operación de los vehículos y camiones que transitan por nuestras
                        carreteras, por esta razón al asegurar el mantenimiento de un buen número
                        de kilómetros se logra generar dichos beneficios.
Sector Férreo
Kms de Red              Al momento de la suscripción de los contratos, una importante proporción
Rehabilitados por       de los hoy 1,993 km de red férrea concesionada, requerían de
concesión               rehabilitación. Este indicador permite establecer cuántos kilómetros se
                        rehabilitan año a año, permitiendo definir eficiencias y cumplimiento de los
                        contratos.
Kms de Red              Permite establecer el número de kilómetros que fueron atendidos año a
Mantenidos por          año. Al comparar este valor con la longitud total de la red, se puede
concesión               establecer el porcentaje del total que fue atendido.
Sector Aéreo
Inversión Privada /     Tomando en consideración que la Aerocivil era la entidad encargada de
Inversión Total         realizar todas las labores de construcción, mejoramiento y mantenimiento
                        de los aeropuertos con mayor movimiento a cargo de la Nación, la razón
                        inversión privada/inversión total permite observar en qué porcentaje y en
                        qué medida la entrega de esos aeropuertos a los privados garantiza la
                        realización de obras requeridas para los aeropuertos.


Sector Portuario
Inversión Privada /      Porcentaje de la inversión que se realiza por parte de firmas privadas.
Inversión Total
Toneladas / Nave / Día Establece la capacidad de movimiento de carga que tienen los puertos
                         por barco. Entre mayor sea el valor del indicador, el puerto puede atender
                         un puesto de atraque con mayor velocidad.
Transporte Urbano
Inversión Privada /      En los últimos años, la inversión en proyectos de transporte urbano ha
Inversión Total          crecido debido al interés mostrado por algunas ciudades del país en
                         organizar sus sistemas de transporte y en atender los diferentes conflictos
                         que se originan por el deficiente manejo del tránsito de las ciudades; con
                         la reciente aprobación del documento Conpes 3167 " Política para
                         mejorar el servicio de transporte público urbano de pasajeros" se
                         continuará con el proceso de apoyo en la realización de estudios de
                         preinversión a diferentes ciudades del país.


SECTOR DE ENERGIA

       INDICADOR                                        IMPORTANCIA
 Porcentaje de usuarios    Mide la influencia de las inversiones que ha realizado el sector privado
 atendidos por empresas    para ampliar el servicio a nuevos usuarios.
 privadas de distribución
  de energía eléctrica.
 Porcentaje de redes de    Mide la influencia de las inversiones del sector privado en la expansión
transmisión eléctrica bajo de las redes de transmisión del Sistema Interconectado Nacional-STN
   el control del sector



                                                  - 45 -

          privado.
 Porcentaje de capacidad Mide la influencia de las inversiones del sector privado en la ampliación
  de generación eléctrica de la capacidad de la generación eléctrica nacional.
 bajo el control del sector
          privado.
  Cobertura del Servicio     Con este indicador se puede medir la cantidad usuarios que tienen
  (promedio nacional del     acceso al servicio de energía eléctrica en el SIN.
 Sistema Interconectado
       Nacional-SIN)
     Número de               Se puede medir la confiabilidad del servicio en las ciudades.
     interrupciones en
     cabeceras
     municipales (FES)
     para poblaciones con
     mas de 100,000 hab.


SECTOR DE AGUA POTABLE Y SANEAMIENTO BÁSICO

      INDICADOR                                         IMPORTANCIA
Participación Privada      Permite obtener el número de procesos iniciados con participación
                           exitosa del sector privado
Inversión                 Muestra la tendencia en montos de inversión en expansión de
                          infraestructura de los servicios públicos de agua potable y alcantarillado
                          con recursos que provienen de las tarifas cobradas a los usuarios, lo cual
                          refleja la tendencia de la suficiencia financiera que cada vez están
                          logrando las ESP del sector
Calidad: Cobertura        Refleja el porcentaje de usuarios de los servicios en función del número
                          de hogares.




                                                   - 46 -

- 47 -

