Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4138-CO
Loan Agreement
(Regulatory Reform Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 4, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4138-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 4, 1997, between the REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
Page  2
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Approved Subproject" means a Subproject (as defined in (l) below) which 
has been selected by the Project Committee (as defined in (i) below), approved by the 
Bank, following criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank, and included in one or 
more Six-month Programs (as defined in (k) below) which have been agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(b)
"Beneficiary" means each of the following: the DNP (as defined in (c) 
below), the Ministry (as defined in (e) below) and the Borrower's Ministries of 
Transport, Mines and Energy, Communications, and the Environment, agencies of the 
aforementioned Ministries such as the Borrower's National Institute of Roads and the 
Civil Aviation Authority, the Borrower's Regulatory Commissions for Telecommunication, 
Energy and Gas, and Water and Sanitation, and one or more Territorial Entities (as 
defined in (o) below) or agencies thereof;
(c)
"DNP" means the Borrower's National Planning Department;
 
(d)
"Environmental Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 99 of December 22, 1993, 
as published in the Borrower's Official Gazette dated December 22, 1994;
(e)
"Ministry" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Public Credit;
 
(f)
"On-going Operation" means each on-going project or set of preparation 
activities therefor that is being or have been partially or totally financed, as 
applicable, under any of the
following Bank loans made to, or guaranteed by the Borrower: No. 3453, 3669, 3692, 
3827, 3952, 3953, 3954, 3955, and 3973 on December 16, 1992, February 9, 1994,  August 
9, 1994, June 19,
1995, December 20, 1995, March 26, 1996 and March 26, 1996 respectively, and any of 
the following Japanese Grant Agreements between the Borrower and the Bank: No. 22917 
and 22480, both made on May 6, 1994 and the project preparation advance granted by the 
Bank to the Borrower PPF No. 265, on March 14, 1995;
(g)
"PCU" or Project Coordination Unit means any of the two following units 
which shall assist the Project Committee (as defined in (i) below), and be charged 
with the responsibility of
acting on behalf and under the guidance of the latter in the day-to-day activities 
related to Project execution: the coordinating unit established in DNP pursuant to 
paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank 
dated February 9, 1994 (Public Financial Management Project - Loan 3669-CO) and 
referred to in the letter from the head of the infrastructure unit of DNP dated 
December 13, 1996 or the unit referred to in the letter to the Bank from the Technical 
Page  3
Vice Minister of the Ministry dated December 19, 1996;
(h)
"Procurement Arrangements" means the contractual arrangements to be 
entered into by the Borrower pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement;
(i)
"Project Committee" means a committee composed of the head of the 
infrastructure unit of DNP and the Director of Public Credit of the Ministry, referred 
to in the letter to the Bank from said public officers dated December 18, 1996;
(j)
"Semestral Review" means each of the joint reviews stipulated in 
paragraph (a) of Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(k)
"Six-month Program" means each of the programs for Project activities 
during a period  of six months, referred to in Section 3.03 of this agreement, 
including the first one covering the period between February 1 and August 1, 1997, 
attached to Act No. 3 of the Project Committee dated December 20, 1996, each such 
program to include: (i) the Approved Subprojects to be carried out, or which will have 
begun to be carried out, as applicable, during the period for the Program in question; 
(ii) the sequence for such Subprojects or for activities within them; (ii) the 
estimated expenditures, both for consultant services or for goods, if any; (iii) the 
objectives and specific targets for the corresponding Approved Subprojects; and (iv) 
the corresponding Beneficiary or Beneficiaries;
 
(l)
"Subproject" means a set of activities proposed by a Beneficiary for its 
selection by the Project Committee, fundamentally consisting of provision, primarily, 
of technical assistance to one or more Beneficiaries, and, when needed, goods related 
to the said technical assistance;
(m)
"Subproject Arrangement" means each of the contractual arrangements 
entered into by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of Section 
3.01;
(n)
"Subproject Entity" means a Beneficiary other than an administrative 
subdivision of the Borrower such as DNP, the Ministry or other of the Borrower's 
Ministries, and that has been
established with legal personality and management and assets and liabilities of its 
own; and
(o)
"Territorial Entity" means any of the three following types of political 
subdivisions of the Borrower mentioned in Article 286 of the Borrower's Constitution: 
(i) a department; (ii) a district, be it established by specific provisions of the 
said Constitution or by a law pursuant to general provisions and principles of the 
said Constitution; or (iii) a municipality.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twelve 
million five hundred thousand Dollars ($12,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 15, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Page  4
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on April 15 
and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the Project Committee, assisted by each PCU, as applicable, 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, regulatory and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project, 
including the resources required to maintain and operate the Project Committee and 
each PCU.
(b)
In order to assist the Borrower in all procurement matters in connection 
with Subprojects to be carried out under the Project, the Borrower shall enter, with 
an entity, selected by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 
of this Agreement and acceptable to the Bank, into contractual arrangements 
satisfactory to the Bank whereby such entity shall: (i) on behalf of the Borrower, 
acquire all services and, if any, goods as required for the Subproject in question, in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Loan Agreement; and (ii) 
provide advice on the awarding process of said contracts and handle all aspects of the 
contracts so awarded, including payments thereunder. Except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, fail to enforce or 
waive such arrangements or any provision thereof.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) 
or (b) of this Section, and in order to carry out a Subproject through a Subproject 
Entity, the Borrower shall, through the Project Coordination Unit determined by the 
Project Committee, enter into contractual arrangements (Subproject Arrangement) with 
such Entity on terms and conditions that shall enable the Borrower to comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement, particularly, but not limited to, the Borrower's 
obligations under Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 and 4.01 of this Agreement, and Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions.
(d)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall maintain the Project Committee and both PCUs until 
the date on which the report mentioned in Section 9.07 (c) of the General Conditions 
has been received by the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall review jointly with the Bank not later than 
January 15 and July 15 in each year (the Semestral Review), the Six-month Program for 
the next semester and its estimated recurrent expenditures, including: (i) each 
Sub-project to be included under such Program, irrespective of whether the carrying 
out thereof will take more than six months; (ii) the
eligibility criteria for the selection of the said Subproject and whether said 
criteria shall have been met; (iii) the proposed activities expected to be carried out 
under the Subprojects in
question and the application to such activities of the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement; and (iv) the monitoring indicators and performance targets to be used 
for measuring and
evaluating the carrying out of such Subprojects.
Page  5
(b)
For purposes of the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall prepare 
semiannually each proposed Six-month Program, commencing with the one specifically 
mentioned in paragraph (k)
of Section 1.02 of this Agreement, and furnish each proposed Program to the Bank in a 
timely manner so as to make possible: (i) the review of such Program during the next 
coming Semestral Review; (ii) the approval of the inclusion in the Project of the 
selected Subprojects and, if applicable, in the next following Borrower's budget, and 
of the expenditures to be incurred in carrying out the Six-month Program agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank under the review in question; and (iii) the 
agreement with the Bank on the indicators and targets referred to in paragraph (a) 
(iv) above.
(c)
The Borrower shall carry out the corresponding Six-month Program, and 
carry out and cause each Subproject Entity to carry out each Subproject included in 
the corresponding Six-month
Program, as agreed pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, and shall not modify, or 
permit to modify any such Program or the Subprojects included in it, except for 
modifications thereto agreed
from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained policies 
and procedures adequate to enable the monitoring and evaluation on an ongoing basis, 
in accordance with the indicators and targets agreed with the Bank pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 3.03 of this Agreement, of each Approved 
Sub-project.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of the guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The legal entity referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Procurement 
Arrangements.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Borrower will be able to perform its obligations under the Procurement 
Arrangements.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date of June 5, 1997 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustn
Carrera 7a, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fe de Bogota
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
 
For the Bank:
Page  7
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Juan Carlos Esguerra
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category                  Dollars)          to be Financed
(1)  Goods under               500,000           100% of foreign
     Approved                                    expenditures and
     Subprojects                                 of ex-factory locally
                                                 manufactured goods
                                                 and 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Consultants'           11,300,000           100%
     services under
     Approved Subprojects,
     including fees under
     the Procurement
     Arrangements
 (3) Training fees,            500,000           100%
     workshops and
     seminars under
     Approved
     Subprojects
Page  8
(4)  Temporary                 200,000           100%
     professional
     staff for PCUs
                            __________
     TOTAL                  12,500,000
                            ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that  withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $1,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after October 31, 1996; and (b) under any Approved Subproject to 
be carried out through a Subproject Entity unless the corresponding Subproject 
Arrangements have become effective.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services under contracts 
costing less than $50,000
equivalent (other than those subject to prior review under the provisions of paragraph 
2 of Section II of this Schedule), under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality and quantity of 
infrastructure services through the development of an effective policy and regulatory 
framework and of adequate practices for the application thereof, so as: (i) to 
increase private participation in the financing and/or management of the provision of 
the aforesaid services; and (ii) to maintain or create competitive market structures 
in priority sectors, of the Borrower's economy, including toll roads, transport, 
power, natural gas distribution, telecommunications, water supply, and waste water 
treatment.
The Projects consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Regulatory Framework
 
Execution of Subprojects to undertake a detailed review, and to provide 
assistance to the corresponding Beneficiary's request for assistance in the 
consolidation and, if warranted, revision, of the overall and sector specific legal 
and regulatory framework, both in order to:
(i)
ensure a consistent regulatory framework across sectors, by 
maintaining 
current and, if necessary, putting into effect new 
regulations which are 
adequate to support private 
participation and by strengthening, rationalizing 
and refocussing the 
capabilities of Borrower's institutions and agencies for 
achieving 
regulation of privately built and/or operated infrastructure, all so 
as to achieve greatest efficiency gains for the economy as a whole;
(ii)
address specific issues and constraints that have or may have 
reduced private 
participation in particular sectors and/or types of 
Page  9
infrastructure projects;
(iii)
enhance competition among existing and/or future agents operating 
in 
infrastructure sectors; and
 
(iv)
minimize risk exposure assumed by the Borrower through guarantees 
or other 
financial or performance obligations contracted with, 
and in favor of, private 
agents and in connection with privately built 
and/or operated infrastructure 
projects.
 
Part B:
Participation of Private Sector
 
Execution of Subprojects for the identification and development of 
infrastructure projects which may attract potential private participation, including 
replicable deal structuring, preparation of model bidding and contractual documents 
and implementation of demonstration projects, all of which activities will be geared 
to provide examples of best practices of, inter alia, efficient and transparent 
competitive bidding and contracting procedures, adequate to assist Borrower's 
institutions and agents in developing their capacity to structure projects attracting 
private participation, and to market such activities and disseminate information 
thereon. 
Part C:
Environmental Protection
 
Execution of Subprojects to improve environmental regulations in a manner which 
is consistent with the Environmental Law and with activities already carried out, 
and/or recommendations made, under On-going Operations, to strengthen environmental 
licensing institutions, to design sectoral environmental licensing and project
review procedures consistent with, and filling the gaps in, the Environmental Law and 
regulatory procedures of other Borrower's laws such as Laws No. 99, of December 22, 
1993, No. 142 of July 11, 1994 and No. 143 of July 11, 1994 and to put into effect 
other procedures for environmental assessment of new infrastructure projects and for 
environmental control of existing infrastructure installations and facilities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by February 15, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
 
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Disbursed Amount" means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
"Rate Fixing Date" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
Page  10
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
 
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
 
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
 
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
 
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
single currency for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
"Fixed Base Rate" means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in single currency for value on 
the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest 
rate based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of 
such Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(d)
"Fixed Total Spread" means, for each Disbursed Amount:
 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
Page  11
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than 
six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become 
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank 
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not 
apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after April 15, 2012, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines, as supplemented by the provisions of Part D of this 
Schedule.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Page  12
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, and to each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of Part B.1 
of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part D:
Procurement Provisions Concerning National Competitive Bidding
 
1.
All bidders, irrespective of whether they are foreigners or Colombians, will be 
treated equally and, particularly, no preference will be granted to any bidder or 
group of bidders for bid evaluation purposes. Bidders shall be allowed to submit their 
bids by hand or through the post office or private mailing services. There shall not 
be any requirement for any bidder to show evidence of the bidder's registration in any 
public registry, chamber of commerce or similar, whether in Colombia or elsewhere, or 
to appoint a representative domiciled in Colombia, unless and until such bidder is 
awarded the corresponding contract.
2.
Bids shall be opened in a public meeting to which bidders and their 
representatives shall be allowed to attend if they so wish. Date, time and place for 
the opening meeting shall be set forth in the bidding documents. Bid opening shall 
coincide with, or take place promptly after, the final date and time of the period for 
bid submission stipulated in the bidding documents.
3.
Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to the 
responsive bidder who meets appropriate technical and financial standards of 
capability and whose bid has been
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such determination shall be made 
exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and evaluation criteria 
stipulated in the bidding documents. If any factor additional to the amount or amounts 
of each bid is to be considered in bid evaluation, such factor or factors and the 
quantified manner on which they will be applied for purposes of determining the lowest 
evaluated bid, shall be precisely stipulated in the bidding documents. For purposes of 
bid evaluation and comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor 
shall be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, including 
correction of arithmetic errors.
4.
The provisions of paragraph 2.46 of the Guidelines shall fully apply and, more 
specifically, bids shall not be disclosed to persons other than the persons officially 
charged with the task of comparing and/or evaluating the bids while they are 
performing their official duties, without the corresponding bidder's written 
authorization. Moreover, bidders shall not be required to provide such authorization 
as a condition to be entitled to bid. This confidentiality requirement shall apply 
until the award of contract is notified to the successful bidder. Thereafter, 
confidentiality of the bids shall be limited to those bid portions for which 
confidentiality has been specifically requested by the bidder in question.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Page  13
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
or consulting firms (other than contracts with investment bankers of the type to be 
awarded pursuant to the provisions of part B.1 of Section 1 of this Schedule) 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior 
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) 
single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank; and (d) amendments to contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants or consulting firms raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
