RETURN TO                         CIRCUUTING COPY
REPORTS DES  TO  [RETURNED ro REPORTS DESK                                  FILE  COPY
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
DOCUMENT OF ITERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
For Exclusive Use of Bank Group Staff
Report No. 237a-IRE
APPRAISAL OF A
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IRELAND
December 10, 1973
Education Projects Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
The confidentiality of this report must be strictly observed. It was prepared for exclusive use of the
Bank Group Staff. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization.
The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
To be returned to Reports Desk immediately after use



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00            = Trish £0.40
Irish £1           = US$2.48
£1 million         = US$2.48 million
MEASURES
1 m2              = 10.76 sq.ft.
1 km2             = 0.39 sq. mile
1 hectare            2.47 acres
Fiscal Year
April 1st - March 31st
Note: The exchange rate is floating in line with sterling
since June, 1972. No central rate has been established.
The calculations in this report are based on the~
currency equivalent given above.



APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT IN IRELAND
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............*.*...*.*........... . . . . ..... .   i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION .............*.  .............   *........    1
II.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES ............      2
Physical Environment and Population .............     2
Economic Growth .............o..6..  ......9...*O.*..    2
Economic Development Strategy  ..................    3
Employment Opportunities and Manpower
Requirements 9999999999999999999999 *.....*     4
III.   THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ...................    5
The Present Education and Training System ......     5
Educational Development Strategy       ...............  8
Education Finance ......... . .. . .  ................   10
IV.   THE PROJECT .........................................     12
General .                                            12
Comprehensive Secondary Schools ................   13
Industrial Training Centers ...................    13
Regional Technical Colleges ......     ..............   14
National Institute of Higher Education .........   14
Computer System Equipment        ......................   15
Technical Teacher Training Institute 99999999999    16
Faculty of Agriculture        .........................   17
Cost of the Project ............................   18
V.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT ........    .............   20
Retroactive Financing                               20
Project Administration .                            20
Professional Services                                20
Sites                                               20
Procurement ...........  999999999*99**.*9*999*9**    20
Disbursements .. .***....             ........      21
Implementation Schedule st      ......................   21



TABLE OF CONTENTS CONTINUED
Page No.
VI.   BENEFITS ...................     ......................**     22
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........... ............       23
APPENDICES
I    Education and Training
II   Economic Growth
III Manpower Requirements
IV   Education Finance
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Population and Labor Force Forecasts
3.   Adjusted Employment Projections
4.   Manpower Requirements (1971/1986) by Educational Level and Occupational
Category
5.   Population Breakdown by Age and Type of Education (1972/73)
6.   Enrollments, Graduates and Teachers by Level and Types of Education
(1972/73)
7.   Projected Teacher Requirements (1972/86)
8.   Projected Outputs of the Technical Teachers Training Institute
9.   Projected Output by Region from AnCO Industrial Training Centers (1972/77)
10.  Projected Annual Enrollment and Output of Qualified Engineers
(1972/85) and of Middle and High Level Technicians (1972/81)
11. Forecast Enrollments in Post-Primary Education (1971/86)
12. The Output of Regional Technical Colleges and Estimated Regional
Manpower Requirements (1971/86)
13. Public Expenditures on Education (1958/73)
14. Projected Public Expenditures on Education, Selected Years (1972/85)
15. NIHE-Degree and Diploma Output by Major Programs (1975/80)
16. Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
17. Unit Capital Cost and Use of Factors by Project Item
18. Contingency Allowances
19. Estimated Recurrent Expenditures for the Project Institutions
20. Estimated Disbursements Schedule
21. Implementation Schedule
CHARTS
1.   Organization of the Department of Education
2.   Structure of the Education System
3.   Education Pyramid (1970/71) by Age and Level of Education
MAP



GLOSSARY
COMMWNITY COMPREHENSIVE                  Coeducational secondary school (grades
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     7-11) combining academic and pre-vocational
programs in one facility which also
serves as an adult education center; the
schools are jointly administered by
representatives of the local authority and
religious orders, and the government.
REGIONAL TECHNICAL COLLEGE (R.T.C.)      A multi-level, coeducational institution
offering post-secondary non-degree train-
ing in industrial, commercial and service
occupations combining full-time, day-
release and block release programs on a
regional basis.
INDUSTRIAL TRAINING CENTERS(I.T.C.)    Centers established on a regional basis
by AnCO to train employed and unemployed
workers and students in the skills of
industry and commerce.
TECHNICAL TEACHERS' TRAINING             Institute for the training of specialized
INSTITUTE (T.T.T.I.)                     subject teachers in the pedagogical and
subject teaching skills.
DAY RELEASE PROGRAM                      Part-time training under which trainees
are released from employment to attend
formal instruction for one or more days
a week in each year of training.
BLOCK RELEASE PROGRAM                    Part-time training under which trainees
are released from employment to attend
formal instruction for a period (block)
of weeks.
A.n.C.O.                                 An Comhairle Oiliuna, the industrial
-training authority established under
the Industrial Training Act of 1967, to
be responsible for advisory service to
industry and management of programs for
training of skilled and semi-skilled
workers required in industry and commerce.
O.E.C.D.                                 Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. An organization set up by
the member countries of the Organization
for European Economic Cooperation and by
Canada and the USA to develop economic
growth and expand trade of its twenty-
one members including Ireland.



-2 -
E.E.C.                                    European Economic Community.  Formed
in 1958 to develop cooperative economic
policies and programs which would con-
tribute to an accelerated raising of
living standards in its member states.
Ireland applied to become a member in
1961 and was accepted in 1973.
E.S.F.                                    European Social Fund.  A fund established
by E.E.C. to assist financially in
improving the social conditions of the
E.E.C. work force in member countries
where high levels of unemployment exist.



BASIC DATA
General
Area                                         27,136 sq. miles
Total Population (mid-1971)                 .2.97 m11ion
Rural Population (1966)                    50.8 %
Urban Population (1966)                    49.2%
Annual Growth Rate of Population
(1966-71)                                  o.6%
Labor Force(1971)                            1.07 million
Agriculture                             .29 million (27%)
Industry                               .32 million (30%)
Services                              .46 million (43%)
GNP per capita (1971)                        $1,390
GNP Average Annual Growth Rate
at market price (1966-70)                 4.0%
Education (Annex 11)
Primary enrollment (1972-73)                429,000
As Percent of 6 to 11 age group:             107.2%
Secondary Enrollment (1972-73)              231,000
As Percent of 12 to 16 age group:            75.6%
Higher Education Enrollment (1972-73)        29,900
As Percent of 17 to 20 age group:            12.3%



-2-
Finance (1972)
Public Expenditure on Education  J            $285.7 million
of which
-    Recurrent expenditure                    $248.5 million
-    Capital expenditures                    $ 37.2 million
-    Recurrent expenditures on
education as a percentage of
current revenues                          15.0%
-    Capital expenditures on
education as a percentage
of public expenditure on educationé        6.2%
-    Public expenditures on
education as a percentage
of GNP                                     5 - 1%
9/ Including students above and below relevant age group
General and Local Govermnent
3 Including extra-budgetary funds
Source: Department of Finance



AP?'RL6SAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT IN IRELAND
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Despite considerable improvements over the past decade, the Irish
education system (Appendix I) is ill-suited to the development needs of the
country.  The system is now undergoing considerable reform in redressing the
existing imbalances between academic and practical course offerings which
have, heretofore, resulted in serious constraints in the supply of adequately
trained manpower for the major sectors of the economy. The need to accelerate
this reform at all levels, both in qualitative and quantitative terms, takes
on added significance with Ireland's entry into the European Economic
Community (E.E.C.) and its need to develop a favorable competitive position
within the community.
ii.       Secondary level education is now changing from a system of small,
academically-oriented private boys' or girls' schools (generally owned and
operated by religious orders) to a public system of economically-sized com-
unity comprehensive schools which are coeducational and which incorporate pre-
vocational training with academic courses. At present, four such comprehensive
schools are in operation and twenty-four more, assisted by the first education
loan, are scheduled to be in operation by September, 1975; the proposed project
would add fourteen more schools, of which four would be located in urban centers
to accommodate new population growth and ten would replace twenty-seven inade-
quate existing schools located mainly in rural areas.
iii.      Ireland's entry into the E.E.C. has resulted in increased efforts
by the government to diversify industrial development, foster competitive new
industries and to encourage export-based production in manufacturing and agri-
culture. This requires a labor force which is adaptable to new conditions and
can provide sufficient levels of trained manpower in agricultural, technical
and managerial fields. To help meet the projected demand (1971-86) for skilled
workers and technicians at all levels, the proposed project would strengthen
and expand adult training programs and post-secondary agricultural and tech-
nical education at levels sufficient (i) to meet about 42% of the estimated
shortage of middle and high-level technicians; (ii) to provide about 30% of
the total supply of skilled workers required by industry; (iii) to supply 100%
of the teachers required in secondary level technical subjects; and (iv) to
provide qualitative improvements in the facilities and program of the faculty
of agriculture which is the principal source (85%) of all degree level agricul-
tural technicians in Ireland.
iv.       Specifically, the project would comprise:
(a)  the construction and equipment of:
(1) fourteen comprehensive secondary schools;
(2) five industrial training centers;
(3) expansion of seven existing regional technical colleges;
(4) an institute of higher education;
(5) a technical teacher training institute; and
(6) * faculty of agriculture;



- li -
(b) the provision of computer equipment at the National
Institute of Higher Education and complementary computer
syatems for the third level technical institutions included
in the project; and
(c) the provision of equipment for the Project Unit.
v.        The construction of project items would largely follow the pattern
established in the first project including standardized schedules of accommo-
dations, modular construction systems and industrialized building components.
All contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded on the
basis of the Bank's guidelines for international competitive bidding.
vi.       The existing Project Unit, within the School Buildings Division of
the Department of Education, would be expanded to supervise the implementation
of both the first and second education projects, to coordinate activities
within the government and with private bodies, and to provide liaison with
the Bank.
vii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$62.8 million and the for-
eign exchange component at US$25.0 million. The project is suitable as a
basis for a Bank loan to Ireland of US$25.0 million, for a term of 20 years
including a grace period of 5 years. The loan, which would finance 100Z of
the foreign exchange costs, would be equivalent to about 40% of the estimated
project cost.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      A Bank mission visited Ireland in March, 1972, and again in July,
1972, to identify education projects suitable for Bank financing and to ad-
vise the government on the preparation of a second education project. The
government subsequently prepared the project and in February, 1973, requested
Bank assistance for:
i)   expansion of its program for reforming general secondary
education;
ii)   expansion of primary teacher training, technical teacher
training and higher technical and agricultural education
to meet manpower needs and promote rationalization of the
sectors; and
iii)   expansion of a non-formal program for training and/or re-
training of employed and unemployed students and workers in
accordance with requirements of industry and commerce.
The project was appraised in March/April 1973, by a mission com-
prising Messrs. J. Theodores (educational facilities planner), B. Grindrod
(technical educator), I. Serageldin (architect/economist), G. Eastmond
(general educator- consultant), B. R. Teare (engineering educator - consult-
ant) and R. Weir (agricultural educator - consultant).
1.02      The project was slightly modified during appraisal; the extension
of three primary teacher training colleges was withdrawn from the request to
permit further study and rationalization of training in this sector, and
computer equipment was added to serve the combined needs of the National
Institute of Higher Education, the seven Regional Technical Colleges and the
Technical Teacher Training Institute.
1.03      The project, as modified, would finance:
(a) the construction and equipment of:
-    fourteen comprehensive secondary schools;
-    five industrial training centers;
-    expansion of seven existing regional technical colleges;
-    an institute of higher education;
-    a technical teacher training institute; and
-    a faculty of agriculture;
(b) the provision of computer equipment at the National Institute
of Higher Education and complementary computer systems for
the third level technical institutions included in the project;
and
(c) the provision of equipment for the Project Unit.
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$62.8 million and
the foreign exchange component at US$25.0 million.



- 2 -
II. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Physical Environment and Population
2.01      Ireland extends over 27,136 square miles of which more than 50% is
in pasture. The center of the island consists of an extensive fertile low-
land, ringed almost completely by coastal highlands, which provide difficult
agricultural conditions. Due to the Gulf stream, the climate is mild, but
frequent and irregular rains make the ripening of grain crops difficult.
2.02      The population of Ireland (Annex 2), estimated at 2.97 million, is
now growing at 0.6% p.a., well below the rate of natural increase (about 1.1%
p.a.) due to a still heavy but declining rate of net emigration (0.4% p.a.).
The emigration rate, which began to decline in the early 1960's, is expected
to decline more rapidly during the 1970's. By 1980, the population is fore-
cast at 3.5 million, still only half as much as in 1841.
2.03      Because of the low birth rate and the concentration of emigration
in the age group 15-34, the population age structure has an unusually large
dependency group; the ratio of those in the acti7e age group (15-64) to those
in the dependent age group has remained nearly constant at 1:0.72 and is among
the most unfavorable in Europe.
2.04      The urban population represents nearly 49.2% of the total and has
been growing at about 1.5% p.a. It is concentrated mainly in Dublin (850,000
inhabitants), Cork (135,000), and Limerick (60,000); no major town is located
in the northwestern quadrant of the country. The rural population is widely
scattered; the density being higher - despite heavy migration - where the
agricultural land is poor.
2.05      Historically, the high dependency rate and the dispersion of rural
population have made difficult the provision of adequate health, educational
and other social facilities for the entire population. As a result, the gen-
eral level of education, despite considerable improvements over the past
decade, is still rather low by European standards. Out of 2.0 million adults
(1966 census), about 1.2 million (60%) had only primary education, and only
73,000 (3.7%) attended post-secondary institutions. While the percentage of
functional illiteracy among the adult population is estimated at only about
10%, the level of education in some major occupational groups is poor. In
agriculture, 87% of men and 77% of women have had no more than primary schooling.
Economic Growth (Appendix II)
2.06      Sustained economic growth is a relatively recent phenomenon in
Ireland. The country was characterized by economic stagnation, high rates
of unemployment and emigration, and a declining population until the late
1950's. During the 1960's, however, the GNP growth rate increased to about
4% annually (compared with 1.5% during the previous decade), and Ireland
changed from a basically agricultural economy to one in which industry plays



a major role. Despite a slowing of the GNP growth rate to an estimated 3%
in 1971, the outlook is favorable for development to accelerate in the mid-
1970's, largely because of Ireland's entry into the E.E.C.
2.07      Industry has been the most dynamic growth sector of the past decade,
raising its share of G.D.P. from about 27% in the mid-1950's to some 36% in
1970. Industrial employment grew by 2.5% annually in the 1960's and accounted
for 32% of total employment in 1970. Industrial output (in real terms) rose
by about 7% annually in 1960's and exports of manufacturing industries grew
by 15% annually. However, the continued high rate of industrial growth will
depend in large part on the extent to which existing major constraints are
resolved. These include, inter-alia, the limited size of the domestic market,
shortage of development funds, uneven quality of management and the increas-
ing shortages of high level technicians and skilled workers.
2.08      Agriculture continues to occupy a central role in the economy, and
presently generates about 20% of the country's national income, employs 25%
of the labor force, and accounts for over 40% of export earnings.  Four-fifths
of the gross agricultural product consists of livestock products, the balance
being farm crops and peat.  The dominant pattern is one of small farm holdings,
nearly half of which are under 30 acres; family incomes generated on the smaller
farm units tend to be significantly lower than those in the non-agricultural
sectors. Ireland's entry into the E.E.C. should bring a new prosperity to the
sector in the mid-1970's, contingent upon programs to increase farm production
through improved technology, land consolidation and improved training of farm-
ers and high-level technicians and the continued absorption of farm labor into
other sectors. The first Bank loan for livestock development on small and
medium-farms in Ireland (July 27, 1973) is one such program which is expected
to have significant effect on agricultural development.
Economic Development Strategy
2.09      The objectives of the first two economic programs (1959-1963) and
(1964-1970) were to increase efficiency in agriculture and industry, to de-
velop export-based industries, to create new employment opportunities for
labor leaving the land and to reduce unemployment and net emigration. The
first program was a success in that it had a favorable impact on national
confidence, and its modest targets were exceeded. The second program, how-
ever, proved to be overly ambitious and was supplanted by a third program for
the period 1968-1972. A continued export-led industrial growth, further
diversification of the economy, more balanced regional development and re-
duction of regional and sectoral disparities in income distribution remain
basic objectives of the economic strategy developed under this third program.
The fourth program, which is currently in preparation, is expected to deal
with a wide range of reforms to strengthen the social and economic structure
of the country in order to realize the opportunities associated with Ireland's
entry into EEC.



-4-
Employment Opportunities and Manpower Requirements (Appendix III; Annexes 3 and 4)
2.10      The impact of E.E.C. membership on the labor market is expected to
include a reduction in the outflow of workers from agriculture and continuing
job losses in inefficient industries, but increased employment opportunities
in efficient existing firms and new industries. Overall, employment oppor-
tunities (Annex 3) are expected to increase from 1.07 million in 1971 to 1.21
million in 1986. A reduction of 107,000 agricultural jobs, forecast by 1986,
is expected to be offset by an increase of 117,000 jobs in manufacturing in-
dustries, and 122,000 jobs in services and other industries over this period.
2.11      Additional manpower requirements (Annex 4) during the period 1971-
1986 are estimated at 631,000 in the following major categories; professionals
and technicians, 88,000 (14% of total additional manpower requirements);
managers, officials and proprietors, 79,000 (13%); clerical, 110,000 (17%);
foremen, craftsmen and operatives, 228,000 (36%); service workers, 95,000
(15%); and the remaining 31,000 (5%) consisting of sales workers, laborers
and farmers. In terms of educational strategy, this implies the need for a
more practically-oriented general education and for a greater emphasis on
technical and skill training programs.



- 5 -
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
The Present Education and Training System
(Appendix I; Annexes 5 to 11; Charts 1 to 3)
3.01      Education is free and compulsory between the ages of 6-15.  The edu-
cation system consists of (i) a six-year primary course normally beginning at
the age of six, (ii) a secondary course comprising a three-year junior and a
two-year senior cycle, and (iii) third level courses of two to seven years
duration at universities and other institutions. Most primary schools have
kindergarten classes for 1 or 2 years.
3.02      Primary school enrollments (Annexes 5 and 6) were about 429,000 in
'1972/73 and were almost equally distributed between boys and girls in both rural
and urban areas; about 95% were enrolled in government aided schools and the
balance in private non-aided schools. Due to over and under-aged students,
total enrollment in primary education was 107.21 of the relevant age group.
In addition, about 96,000 students were enrolled in voluntary kindergarten
classes for the 4 to 5 year age group. The primary school program is educa-
tionally well developed; about 12% of primary pupils received remedial teaching
and about 2% was enrolled in special classes for handicapped and retarded child-
ren. The curriculum is currently undergoing widespread reform coordinated with
new developments in secondary education.
3.03      Secondary school enrollments (Annexes 5 and 6) were about 231,000
in 1972/73, or 75.6% of the 12-16 age group. All junior level (156,000 students)
and about 95% of senior level education is government aided; the balance is in
private non-aided schools.
3.04      General secondary education is provided principally by religious
orders which operate separate schools for boys and girls, frequently in out-
moded school buildings with inadequate facilities lacking equipment for teaching
science and practical subjects. Average school size is uneconomically small,
comprising about 200 students. The curricula are traditional and academically
oriented towards university entrance. A smaller system of vocational schools
offers pre-vocational training in such subjects as woodwork, metalwork and
typing. In effect, this parallel system requires a premature selection of
careers and frequently mitigates against each pupil receiving the type of
education best suited to his aptitudes and abilities.
3.05      The government has recognized the need for a reform of general
secondary education and has prepared a program which includes schools of
larger size, partially financed by communities, with modern curricula which
offer options in practical subjects. A pilot program comprising four co-
educational comprehensive schools, each with 500-600 students, was started
in 1966 to reform and modernize general secondary education and to coordinate
education efforts made by the government, local authorities and religious
orders.



- 6 -
3.06      The schools administratively are of two types:  state comprehensive
schools which are administered by representatives of the government, religious
orders and the county authorities, and community comprehensive schools which
are administered by religious orders and county authorities. The schools
have a broad diversified curriculum, including academic and practical subjects,
and offer educational program counselling and career guidance services. Junior
cycle programs provide a suitable base for future vocational and apprentice
training, and students completing the senior cycle are well suited to enter
the employment market or further post-secondary education, particularly in
the technical fields.
3.07      Despite early opposition, mainly from religious orders, the pilot
schools demonstrated their value and were widely accepted by the communities;
an additional 24 such schools were financed in 1971 with the assistance of
the first IBRD education project in Ireland and project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
3.08      Teacher Training:  (Annexes 7 and 8).  Of the 16,000 teachers in the
primary schools in 1972/73, 98X was qualified. Two-year teacher training is
now offered in six colleges, but a plan for extension to three-year courses
is expected to be implemented in 1975. In addition, the government plans to
reduce the teacher-pupil ratio from 1:33 to 1:30 by 1980. Thus, with the ex-
tension of teacher training courses, reduction of the teacher-pupil ratio,
and the expected increase of 118,000 in primary enrollments, a further 5,700
teachers will be required by 1985 (Annex 7). In order to meet projected needs,
the government has introduced a grants scheme to increase the number of
students entering teacher training colleges; a plan to increase accommodations
at the teacher training colleges is being prepared and expected to be imple-
mented by 1975.
3.09      About 95% of the 11,400 secondary teachers of academic subjects in
1972/73 was qualified. Secondary school teachers have a degree course of
three years, and in addition, a one year part-time course for the higher
diploma in education. Training is offered at eight institutions and the
output of teachers was about 1,700 in 1972. A four-year crash-program of
in-service training was initiated by the Department of Education in 1972/73
to train guidance teachers and provide courses in the new curriculum being
introduced in the comprehensive schools; about 2,000 teachers are expected
to participate in the program by 1976/1977.
3.10      All of the 1,100 post-primary technical subjects teachers are con-
sidered qualified under existing standards. However, training standards and
facilities are generally considered inadequate and uneconomical. Training
is conducted on an ad-hoc basis in five uneconomically small institutions
(average enrollment of 45 students) without adequate equipment and with
staff seconded from other institutions. Output totals about 100 per year
under the present system and would only meet about one-fourth of the annual
needs by 1979; a new technical teacher training institute is included within
this project to replace the five existing institutions and to increase the
annual output of trained technical teachers to 405 by 1979 (Annex 8).



- 7 -
3.11      Industrial Training:  (Annex 9).  AnCO, a semi-autonomous government
corporation, was established under the 1967 Industrial Training Act to be re-
sponsible for coordinating and implementing training programs to meet the
growing shortage of skilled workers in industry and commerce and to deal with
the problem of retraining redundant and unemployed workers from marginal in-
dustries and agriculture. Some 15,000 firms, employing 290,000 workers have
already been designated from the manufacturing and construction industry to
participate in training within industry and technical assistance programs
administered by AnCO. The training programs within industry are designed to
be self-supporting under a levy/grant scheme (based on a 1% to 1.25% payroll
levy); nearly all other training programs are financed from government grants.
3.12      AnCO has established nine training regions (coordinated with indus-
trial development plans) in which it sponsors programs for: i) training within
industry; ii) direct training; iii) apprenticeship training; and iv) management
training. Training programs are developed on a module basis to form training
packages suited to the specific needs of industry; besides being economical,
the module system _. training will allow flexibility of response to changes
in training patteLas brought about Ireland's recent entry into E.E.C.
3.13      Despite the traditional insistence by labor unions for maintaining
an outmoded and long term (5 year) apprenticeship training system as the
primary source of skilled labor, the flexible and shorter-term AnCO training
schemes are being increasingly accepted by industry as a viable and economical
means of meeting their particular needs (paragraphs 3.11 and 3.12).  During
1972, for example, AnCO supplied some 2,200 skilled and semi-skilled workers
to industry from direct training programs of from 18 to 36 weeks duration;
in addition, about 1,200 unemployed and redundant workers have been retrained
and all have found suitable jobs in industry. Iiowever, at current levels,
AnCO training programs would barely meet 25% of industry needs by 1986 and
a rapid expansion of facilities and training programs is required if critical
manpower shortages are to be averted. The proposed project would assist in
this effort by financing an additional five AnCO regional training centers
with a capability of providing training as described above to approximately
6,800 trainees annually.
3.14     IHigher Education is in great demand and, in 1972/73, third level
institutions (including teacher training) enrolled 29,900 students represent-
ing approximately 12.3% of the 17-20 age group (Annexes 5 and 6). Enrollments,
which had increased by 6% per year between 1965 and 1972, are expected to in-
crease by about 5% p.a. (to 38,000 students) through 1980. The majority of
students take courses in arts and social sciences and about 12% are enrolled
in engineering and related technical fields (Annex 10). Most higher education
is subsidized from public funds and only about 9% of the students are enrolled
in non-aided institutions.
3.15      A Higher Education Authority was set up by the government in
September, 1968, and operated on an ad-hoc basis up to May, 1972, when it was
established by the Minister of Education as an advisory and coordinating board
to oversee the development of higher education. The Authority is governed by
14 appointed representatives from the public and private sector. All programs



-8-
in higher education financially assisted by the government must be approved
by the Authority. Consequently, the Authority will influence greatly the
future development of higher eduation in Ireland.
Education Development Strategy
3.16      Despite improvements over the past decade, the Irish education
system still requires considerable reform in meeting the development needs
of the country. Thus, the overall education strategy which is currently
being implemented is based essentially on ths need to initiate and support
further reform efforts in sectors crucial for socio-economic development.
Emphasis is therefore placed on promoting greater efficiency and productivity
in the education system, improving the distribution of educational opportu-
nities, providing qualitative improvements throughout the system and meeting
the demand for a properly trained and sufficiently flexible labor force.
3.17      The government is making significant progress in improving the
efficiency of primary level education, particularly with respect to problems
resulting from the proliferation of small and uneconomical schools, over 50%
of which are served by only one or two teachers and from severe imbalances
in class sizes and in teacher:pupil ratios - 25% of the students are in
classes of less than 29 students which require 38% of the teaching force; at
the other end of the spectrum, nearly 30% of the students are in classes of
45 and over. In order to effect a more equitable and economical distribution
of the teaching force, a school amalgamation program in operation since 1966
has closed 1005 smaller schools and has developed larger units. By 1980, it
is expected that nearly all possible amalgamations will have been effected
(totalling 2000 such schools) at a savings of about 1600 teaching posts.
3.18      In order to redress imbalances in educational opportunities and to
promote qualitative improvements and efficiencies in the system, the govern-
ment established the four pilot comprehensive schools described in paras 3.05
and 3.06 as the initial effort to reform and consolidate general secondary
education. The government now plans to expand its network of comprehensive
schools to include additional communities as early as possible. By 1978, the
government expects to have about 47 comprehensive schools in operation with
enrollments reaching 35,000, or about 14% of total secondary level enrollments
(Annex 11). The government's long term policy is to convert the entire gen-
eral secondary school system to this pattern. Ireland's entry into E.E.C.
has increased the need for secondary school leavers with a broader educational
background, qualified for admission to third level technical institutions and
more adaptable to the requirements of a rapidly changing labor market. This
project would assist the government in its efforts to accelerate and conso-
lidate the secondary school reform program by financing the construction of
14 additional comprehensive secondary schools (para. 4.02).
3.19      Ireland's entry into the E.E.C. also lends added significance to
the urgency to modernize the agricultural sector and to increase farming
efficiency. These goals in turn are dependent upon an increase in the numbers
of better trained agricultural specialists and farmers.



- 9 -
3.20      The government is meeting the immediate need for training farmers
in improved production techniques and farm management methods by providing a
network of training centers throughout the country; 28 out of 50 proposed
centers are already in operation. An equally critical problem, however, is
the need to improve the training of technicians who will assume responsibilities
for advisory services, policy-making and research in a modernized and competi-
tive agricultural sector. This will require major changes in the agricultural
training sector including the rationalization of the eleven small and uneco-
nomical agricultural colleges with enrollments of 40 to 130 students, and
the need for introducing curricula reforms which would meet the changing man-
power requirements in agriculture. The responsibility for implementing these
changes in higher education was transferred in 1972 from the Department of
Agriculture to the Higher Education Authority (para. 3.15) to permit coordina-
tion of all third level training, including agriculture.
3.21      Since the faculty of agriculture at the University College, Dublin,
trains about 85% of all degree level agricultural specialists, the proposal
to expand and upgrade the faculty of agriculture is expected to have a major
impact on improving the quality and direction of agricultural education in
Ireland along modern lines. The proposed project would assist in relocating
the faculty of agriculture onto the new campus of the University College,
Dublin, and would provide modern instructional facilities and equipment neces-
sary for the upgrading of the academic and research programs (paras. 4.23 to
4.25).
3.22      Third level education in Ireland has long been dominated by
academically-oriented university level training in the arts and sciences;
technological programs account for only about 12% of enrollments and are
characterized by undue emphasis on theoretical training ill-suited to the
needs of industry. These imbalances have resulted in a serious shortage of
middle and high-level technicians and an oversupply of university level
graduates clearly beyond the absorptive capacity of the labor market,
(Appendix III; para. 10). If the current pattern were to continue, the
over-supply of university level graduates by 1986 is estimated to be about
45-50,000, while an almost equal shortage would result in the output of
technologists from third level institutions.
3.23      To prevent this development, the government has initiated programs
to emphasize third-level technical education and to rationalize its structure
to meet the projected needs of an expanding industrial sector in a competitive
international market. In addition to the establishment of the Higher Education
Authority (para. 3.15) to coordinate the development of all third level educa-
tion, the government has established a system of regional technical colleges
(Annex 12) designed to supply the required trained middle level technicians.
Consistent with these objectives, about 65% of the proposed project expendi-
tures would be specifically directed toward the training of middle and high
level technicians and technical training teachers.



- 10 -
Education Finance (Appendix IV; Annexes 13-14)
3.24      Although the administration of education in Ireland is highly decen-
tralized, about 85% of the public expenditure on education is provided by the
central government and the remainder from local sources; most of the local
expenditure on education is for vocational and post-secondary education and
accounts for 30% and 25%, respectively, of the total expenditure on each.
The Department of Education handles about 90% of central government educational
expenditures and the Department of Agriculture the remaining 10%. Since 1958,
public expenditure on education (Annex 13) has grown at 13.4% p.a. in monetary
terms and at about 6 to 6.4% p.a. at constant prices, i.e. much faster than
the average 4.1% p.a. growth rate of GNP; however, both the total public ex-
penditures and public educational expenditures have grown almost equally during
1965 to 1971 at about 14.5% p.a. in monetary terms.
3.25      Since the beginning of the 1960's, recurrent expenditures on educa-
tion have grown by 11.2% p.a. due largely to unit cost increases ranging from
7% p.a. at university levels to 11.9% for teacher training; price escalation,
increases in teachers' salaries and the shift in the composition of total
student population brought about by the faster growth of enrollments in the
more expensive comprehensive secondary schools were major factors.  In 1972
recurrent expenditures on education represented about 15% of current revenues
and public expenditures on education represented 5.1% of GNP (Annex 13).
3.26      The replacement of obsolescent school buildings, the school amal-
gamation program and the expansion of the school system during recent years
(especially at the secondary level) were significant factors in the increase
of capital expenditures on education from E 1.4 million in 1958 to i 15.0
million in 1972, or from 3.7% to 6.2% of total capital expenditures. The
proportion of capital to total education expenditure also increased sharply,
from 7.9% to 14.5%, during this period.
3.27      Recurrent educational expenditures (Annex 14) in 1985 are expected
to be about 89% higher than in 1972, with relative increases at post-secondary
level counterbalanced by relative decreases at primary level and in adminis-
tration costs. The slow growth of population and a better utilization of
educational facilities and personnel are the principal reasons for the reduc-
tion of recurrent expenditures at primary level from 46% in 1968 to 34% in
1985; these are expected to remain about stable thereafter. The share of
recurrent expenditures at secondary level will remain almost unchanged at
40%, as the savings associated with more economical school sizes will be
absorbed by the increased enrollments. The increases in enrollments and
unit costs at the post-secondary level are expected to increase its share
of recurrent costs from about 15% in 1972 to about 22% in 1985.
3.28      Capital expenditure (Annex 14) is expected to grow steadily from
1 15.0 million in 1972 to about I6 29.8 million in 1985; during this period
about 47% of the total capital expenditure will be required for expansion,
while the remaining 53% will be allocated to improvements and replacements.
The projected allocation of capital funds by educational levels for the



- 11 -
period 1972-1985 reflects the emphasis on reform and consolidation of secondary
education (43% of total) and the increased emphasis on applied sciences in
post-secondary institutions (33% of total).
3.29      Given the expected development of the education system over the
period 1972-1985 (paras. 3.16-3.23) public expenditures on education are
projected to grow at about 5% p.a. during 1972-1985, reaching a level of
about i 219 million (about 6% of GDP) in 1985; this is a realistic target
in relation to the development requirements and financial capabilities of
the country. The first IBRD education loan (US$13.0 million) and the pro-
posed second loan (US$25.0 million) would represent at this time the only
major input of external financial assistance for education in Ireland.
Summary
3.30      Until recently the Irish education system had little relevance to
the socio-economic development needs of the country. Traditionally, the
system was characterized by: i) an over-emphasis on academic subjects which
resulted in serious constraints in the supply of adequately trained manpower
for the major sectors of the economy; ii) a disproportionate number of un-
economically small schools and inherent inefficiencies in the utilization
of teachers; iii) wide disparities in educational opportunities particularly
at the secondary level, due to restrictive entrance requirements; and iv) a
dual academic/vocational system at the secondary level which mitigated against
the availability of educational offerings best suited to the aptitudes and
abilities of all students. In 1966, the government introduced the first of
several pilot reform programs designed to redress these imbalances and to
promote qualitative improvements and efficiencies in the education system;
the first IBRD education project in Ireland (1971) provided a major impetus
to the government's efforts in expanding these reforms, particularly in gen-
eral secondary and vocational education, secondary level technical and agri-
cultural education and higher level technicgl and commercial education.
3.31      However, the current level of reform efforts are inadequate and
need to be accelerated and further expanded if the new demands imposed on the
educational system by Ireland's entry into E.E.C. are to be met. Therefore,
in addition to meeting reform objectives, the proposed project would assist
the government in alleviating critical shortages in the supply of adequately
trained manpower needed by industry and agriculture to compete effectively
in expanded markets. Accordingly, the project would provide for improvements
and expansion of: i) comprehensive secondary education; ii) industrial
training; iii) third level technical and agricultural training; and iv) tech-
nical teacher training. The type and location of project schools are con-
sistent with the regional development plans and socio/economic objectives of
the government.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The proposed project would assist the government in broadening the
educational reforms consistent with the country's socio-economic development
strategy. Specifically the project would enable the government to: (i)
consolidate further its program for reforming secondary education along more
practical lines; (ii) ex:tend the reforms into technical teacher training and
higher agricultural and technical education; and (iii) increase emphasis on
the training of skilled craftsmen for industry. The institutions included
within the project, consisting only of academic and communal facilities and
equipment, are listed below; boarding accommodations and staff housing were
not requested, consistent with the government's policy on minimizing the
additional costs of constructing and maintaining such facilities (para 4.10).
Student Places      Estimated Annual
Institutions                                    Grades  Additional   Total         Output
1. Fourteen New Comprehensive Schools                7-11      9,660       10,660      2,290)Jr.
1,340) Sr.
2. Five New Industrial Training Centers            Ungraded   1,650         1,650      6,800
3.  Regional Technical Colleges                     12-1L      4,650        7,280      4,100
The expansion of seven existing
colleges in different regions of
the country.
4.  National Institute for Higher Education         12-15      1,500       2,000         470
The first phase (of 3) development of a
third level institute to serve the
Shannon/Limerick growth axis.
5. Technical Teacher Training Institute             12-15        710         710         405
A new institute replacing 5 small
existing training centers.
6. Faculty of Agriculture                           12-18        550         55)         120
New facilities replacing and expanding
existing facilities which are obsolete.



- 13 -
Comprehensive Secondary Schools
4.02      This project item comprises the construction and equipment of 14
new comprehensive secondary schools which would provide accommodations for
about 9,660 pupils, or 25Z of the expected increase in secondary level enroll-
ments between 1973 and 1980. The schools would also serve as centers for
adult education. Four schools would be located in new urban growth centers
and 10 of them would replace 27 small and obsolete schools located mainly
in rural areas in all regions of the country. About 1,000 student places are
considered still serviceable in these existing schools and would be maintained.
The balance of student places in the replaced schools would be abandoned or
refitted for primary education as soon as the project schools are in operation.
4.03      The schools would have enrollments of either 510, 650, or 810.  Each
school size would have standardized schedules of accommodation to facilitate
the use of industrialized components and a systems approach to design which
were developed and successfully implemented in the first education project.
4.04      In accordance with the government's education strategy and experience
with the comprehensive school pilot program started in 1966 (paras 3.05-3.07),
the schools would have a broad curriculum including elective academic and
pre-vocational subjects. The supply of general secondary teachers from eight
training institutions is adequate (para 3.09) and the government is giving
priority to assigning special subject teachers to the project schools.
Industrial Training Centers
4.05      Five new training centers with a combined total of 1,650 student
places would be constructed and equipped to replace four training centers
with a total of 620 student places now accommodated in inadequate rented
buildings. These new centers would represent about 77% of the available
training places in industrial training centers by 1977.
4.06      Except for primary production training in agriculture, horticulture
and fisheries which are excluded from its scope, AnCO provides for the direct
training 1/ of workers in accordance with market demand or requests from
industry. Any adult worker over 18 years is eligible for admission to direct
training on the basis of interviews and aptitude testing to ensure his
suitability for a particular course.
4.07      Direct training courses of from 18 to 36 weeks are provided mainly
in the engineering, construction anad metal trades including machine operations,
mechanical assembly, welding, electrical/electronics assembly, radio/television
servicing, sewing machinery, general construction trades, glass/plastics,
painting, and materials handling. In addition, the centers offer special
courses sponsored by industry of from 2 to 4 weeks to upgrade specific skills
of selected trainees who are already working in industry.
1/   Government financed program; conducted in AnCO centers.



- 14 -
4.08      The AnCO training centers are also responsible for coordinating
apprenticeship training programs including training carried out in employers
facilities and in day and block release programs at the Regional Technical
Colleges, larger vocational schools and Colleges of Technology. Apprentices
must be at least 15 years old and hold an intermediate or day vocational (Grade
D) certificate to qualify for training (normally 5 years) in construction, fur-
niture, engineering, electrical, automotive, printing and dental industries.
Regional Technical Colleges
4.09      This project item comprises the c_.struction and equipment required
to enable seven existing regional technical colleges to increase their com-
bined capacity from 2,630 to 7,280 places. The output of trained technicians
and apprentices from these institutions would total 46,000 during the period
from 1973/86, of which, about 29,500 would result from additional places
provided in the project.
4.10      The proj-^t technical colleges are located in each of the 7 major
geographic areas -onsistent with the regional development plan adopted by
the government in 1972. About 70% of the students would commute from within
about a 30 mile radius of the colleges; the balance of students would board
in private facilities.
4.11      As determined by regional needs, the colleges offer a variety
of non-degree apprenticeship training and middle and higher level technician
courses in such fields as electrical, mechanical, civil, automotive, cons-
truction, quality control, agricultural services, electronics, communications,
biological sciences, commerce and management. About 60% to 70% of the students
are enrolled in 2 and 3 year technician programs; the balance being in day
and block release programs for apprentices, generally of 9 months duration.
Special evening courses for adults (3 or more weeks) are also being introduced
on a limited basis, depending on local demand and available facilities.
4.12      Consistent with reform objectives designed to rationalize third-level
education and to curtail the further proliferation of costly degree granting
programs, the government has provided assurances during negotiations that:
(i) within two years after the signing of the Loan Agreement a comprehensive
national plan for the development of third level technical education in
Ireland would be formulated and sent to the Bank for information; and, (ii)
the Regional Technical Colleges in the project will offer only non-degree
level programs in technical/engineering studies unless otherwise sanctioned
in the national development plan referred to above.
National Institute of Higher Education (NIHE) (Annex 15)
4.13      This project item would comprise the construction of the central
campus core, consisting of the main academic and communal facilities, and
the provision of equipment to accommodate an enirollment of 1,500 students
in the first phase of a development plan which subsequently envisages an
enrollment of about 5,000 and an output of about 1,100 students by 1982.
The Institute would provide training for high letvel technologists and spe-



- 15 -
cialists in engineering and applied sciences, business studies, secretarial
sciences and European studies. The European studies are designed to produce
students with appropriate background and language ability to work in commerce
in the European Common Market.
4.14      Course offerings are interdisciplinary in all programs leading
respectively to certificates (2 years), diplomas (3 years) and degrees
(4 years); about one-third of the output would be from the non-degree
programs (Annex 15). A variety of short continuing education courses would
also be offered for business, the professions and the public. Programs of
study are based on the "module and credit system" and about one half of the
students' program time is given to independent study; this represents a
sharp break from the traditional pattern common to higher education in
Ireland. Requirements for admission include the secondary leaving certificate
or equivalent; mature students may be considered on the basis of their
achievements.
4.15      The professional staff is being recruited internationally with 40%
coming from Ireland, 30% from U.K., 10% from the U.S., and the remainder from
elsewhere; an adequate supply of qualified staff seem assured by the current
responses of 28 applicants per available position. Among present staff, over
90% have extensive industrial experience and about one-third have Ph.D.
degrees.
4.16      The planning of the Institute's programs and facilities is notable
for the cooperative involvement of representatives from education, commerce
and industry. All curricula are planned to include a cooperative training
experience in commerce and industry; work programs would be designed and
coordinated by the faculty and participating industries. As enrollments
increase, the student body will be administratively grouped so that, at any
one time, some will be on campus and others in industry. This will provide
for optimum use of campus facilities and continuity of on-the-job trainees
for participating employers.
4.17      In order to ensure that the objectives of the comprehensive national
plan for third level technical education (para. 4.12) are met, the Department
of Education is reviewing the constitutions of all third level institutions
with the intention of granting to each institution an appropriate degree of
autonomy consistent with the plan. Assurances were received during negotia-
tions that such a constitution would be granted to NIHE within two years from
the date of the Loan Agreement.
Computer System Equipment
4.18      The project would finance computer equipment at the National
Institute of Higher Education and the complementary systems needed to service
the other third level technical institutes included in the project. The
proposed equipment would expand the computer capability at NIHE, from its
present design capacity serving 300 students to a second stage of development
to accommodate the training program requirements of about 2,000 students. In
addition, the integrated system (with other third level technical institutions)



- 16 -
would minimize costly duplication and over-design of equipment which might other-
wise result if each institution developed separate systems. At the time of ap-
praisal, three such proposals for separate computer systems had already been
prepared and two were in early planning stages; these proposals have been shelved
by the Department of Education and a committee has been established to review
and coordinate the computer requirements of all third level institutions.
4.19      The requirements of a plan for the shared utilization of the
computer equipment were reviewed between Bank staff and the NIHE computer
specialist. The Department of Education has since expanded the scope of
planning to include the computer requirements of all third level institutions
and has established a committee to prepare such a plan; the computer equipment
to be provided to project institutions would be consistent with the plan.
As the plan is essential for an assessment of the use of the equipment, par-
ticularly the likely effectiveness of computer time sharing and the determi-
nation of the most appropriate equipment, the government has provided assu-
rances that the plan, as soon as it is completed, will be sent to the Bank
for comment. The plan is expected to be completed in early 1974. Bank agree-
ment that the plan is adequate to meet efficiently the requirements of NIHE
and the other project third level technical institutions would be a condition
of disbursement of this item.
Technical Teacher Training Institute
4.20      The project would provide buildings and equipment for a new training
institute accommodating 710 technical teacher trainees. The Institute would
share a common campus (and some facilities) with the National Institute for
Higher Education and would replace the uneconomically small training institu-
tions (para 3.10) now provided in five locations throughout the country.
4.21      The proposed expansion of training accommodations (from 200 to 710
places) and increased output (from 100 in 1973 to 405 in 1979) would ensure
an adequate supply of qualified teachers for other project institutions.
About 60% of the output would qualify as special subjects teachers at the
intermediate and leavers certificate levels in the comprehensive secondary
schools, about 15% as adult and apprenticeship training specialists, about
15% as technical lecturers in the regional technical colleges, and the
remaining 10% as administrators in technical education.
4.22      Training would be provided under a new comprehensive curricula
program which includes general and rural sciences, woodwork, metalwork, building
construction trades, commercial and business subjects, adult education and
technical education administration. Trade entry candidates are required to
have two to three years secondary level education and from three to five
years of practical trade experience to qualify for post primary, adult and
apprenticeship teacher training programs of from one to three years duration.
All other candidates are required to have secondary school leavers certificates
to enter training programs of three years duration (except for the commercial
course which is four years) to qualify as special subjects teachers in
post-primary schools and regional technical colleges. About 56% would be
enrolled in diploma level programs, 19% in degree programs and the remainder
in special in-service training programs.



- 17 -
Faculty of Agriculture
4.23      New classrooms, laboratories and equipment for the faculty of agri-
culture would be provided at the University College, Dublin, to replace
existing obsolete and inadequate teaching facilities which at present are
located at the Lyons farm experimental station some 10 miles from the main
campus. The project would be instrumental in unifying and integrating the
faculty as part of the university campus, and thereby would promote the
effective development of the faculty and its programs. In addition, the
project would accelerate the restructuring of courses to improve their rele-
vance and would permit a reform of the obsolete training timetables.
4.24      The relocated facilities would accommodate 550 students at under-
graduate and graduate levels in accordance with the master development plan
of the university and would make possible economies in the sharing of common
university facilities. In addition to those limited existing facilities
which are considered serviceable, some new supporting facilities, consisting
mainly of animal and machinery buildings and greenhouses, would also be pro-
vided at the University's experimental stations at Lyons and Thornfield to
augment the main teaching and laboratory facilities at the central campus.
4.25      A major revision of the faculty of agriculture curriculum, currently
being carried out under a technical assistance and fellowships grant from the
Kellogg Foundation, is the basis on which the schedules of accommodations for
the project were prepared; the revised curriculum reflects three years of
development efforts and significant policy decisions within the University to
provide a comprehensive and interdisciplinary program geared to the needs of
a rapidly changing agricultural sector. The new program provides for greatly
increased options in general and specialized agriculture, horticulture,
forestry, farm production and management and in general agricultural economics.
Other major changes would include: (i) increases in elective courses and in
independent study time for students; (ii) the introduction of new courses into
the fourth year and an improved balance between course work and practical
work at the experimental stations; and (iii) the provision of programs for
upgrading or retraining many of the agricultural specialists now employed
in private and public sectors.
4.26      A detailed outline of the revised curriculum plan of the faculty
of agriculture is expected to be completed in mid-1974. The government
has provided assurances that the revised curriculum will be sent to the Bank
for comment as soon as it is completed. Agreement by the government and the
Bank that the revised curriculum is consistent with the University's objectives
of developing a comprehensive and interdisciplinary program geared to the
rapidly changing agricultural sector (para 4.25), and formal adoption of the
curriculum by the University, would be a condition of disbursement for this
item.



- 18 -
Cost of the Project
4.27      The estimated cost and foreign exchange components of the various
parts of the projects are summarized below and in Annex 16.
Irish I (millions)     US$ (millions)
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  % of Total Costs
1. Fourteen Community
Comprehensive schools          4.81   2.19     7.00  11.92   5.44    17.36         34.8%
2. Five Industrial Training
Centers                        1.18   1.20     2.38   2.93   2.97      5.90        11.8%
3. Seven Regional Technical
Colleges                       2.18   1.47     3.65   5.40   3.64      9.04        18.1%
4. One National Institute
of Higher Education            1.92   1.91     3.83   4.77   4.74      9.51        19.0%
5. Computer System Equipment       .03   0.33     0.36  0.07    0.82        .89        1.8%
6. One Technical Teacher
Training Institute             0.49   0.34     0.83   1.21   0.84      2.05         4.1%
7. One Faculty of Agriculture    1.18   0.90      2.08   2.94   2.23      5.17        10.4%
Base Line (sub Total)         Tr.79  2.3W0 1-3 .29.72    O7            9          10.-0
Contingencies                  3.47   1.74     5.21   8.60   4.32    12.92         25.9%
Total Project Cost            15.26  10.08    25.34  37.84  25.0o    62.84



- 19 -
4028      Construction costs (Annex 16) wiere estimated on the basis of bids
received on the first education project and adjusted by type of construction
and location of the various project items. Space standards are based on
detailed schedules of accommodations consistent with curricula requirements.
Equipment and furniture costs were estimated for each category of goods;
detailed lists with itemized costs would be compiled during the design stage
and presented for Bank approval before procurement. Use factors for project
schools would be economical (Annex 17).
4.29      Based on data obtained from the first education project, the project
cost would include contingency allowances (Annex 18) for: (i) unforeseen
physical conditions equal to 7% of the estimated costs of site works, cons-
truction and professional services; and, (ii) for price increases during the
project implementation period of 6% p.a. (foreign costs) and 8% p.a. (local
costs) for the above categories, and 6% p.a. for furniture and equipment.
Total contingencies would amount to about 25.9% of base line costs or about
20.6% of total costs including contingencies.
4.30      The total foreign exchange component, estimated at $25.0 million
(or 40% of total project cost), would be financed under the loan. Foreign
exchange costs were calculated as follows: (1) site development, 15%;
construction, 29%; furniture, 28%; and equipment, 90%.
4.31      At full capacity, the project institutions would require about
$26.3 million a year in operating costs, (Annex 19) corresponding to about 9%
of projected recurrent expenditures on education by 1976. In view of the high
priority assigned to educational development, the government can be expected
to meet these expenditures, as well as its share of the capital costs.



- 20 -
V. IM[JPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
Retroactive Financing
5.01      Estimated expenditures on civil works and equipment procurement
amounting to about US$1.00 million are likelv to be incurred bv the govern-
ment during the 6 months preceding the Loan Agreement signing in order to avoid
delays in the implementation of needed facilities for the National Institute of
Higher Education and the Industrial Training Centers. The foreign exchange
component of these expendittures is estimated to be about US$0.30 and would be
reimbursable under the proposed loan. Retroactive financing is recommended
for such expenditures provided they are consistent with the Bank's guidelines
and the relevant sections of the Loan Agreement.
Project Administration
5.02      The existing Project Unit, while continuing to serve as the implement-
ing and coordinating unit for tle first education project would be expanded to
assume similar responsibilities for this project. The expanded Project Unit
would consist of the following professional staff on a full-time basis: a
Project Director; a Deputy Project Director; two architects; a technical
educator; two general educators; and an eouipnent procurement specialist.
The appointrment of the above specialists would be a condition of effective-
ness of the loan agreement.
Professional Services
5.03      An adequate supply of qualified architects, engineers and quantity
surveyors is available in Ireland. Consultant architects agreeable to the
Bank would be annointed on terms and conditions acceptable to the Banl.
Field supervision of projects would be conducted on a periodic basis by the
consultant architect and on a dailv basis by the institutions participating
in the project, under the coordination of the Project Unit.
Sites
5.04      Adequate sites are alreadv available for the National Institute of
Higher Education, the Faculty of Agriculture, the Regional Technical Colleges
and the Technical Teachers' Training Institute; no problems are anticipated
in obtaining suitable sites for the remaining project items. A complete list
of all sites would be prepared in accordance with already agreed criteria on
their size and location and fon,arded to the Banlc for information and comments
prior to the scheduled start of construction.
Procurement
5.05      Civil works, furnitture and equipment supply contracts would be
awarded in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans.  Local manufacturers of furniture and eauipment would be allowed a



- 21 -
preferential margin of 15% of the CIF costs of competing imports or the
existing rate of duty, whichever is the lower. Bid comparisons would be made
in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on the application of domestic
preferences in bid evaluation. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable
to form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement. The Project
Unit would be responsible for preparing and issuing tenders, evaluating bids
and awarding contracts. Design development plans and the master lists and
prices of furniture and equipment would be submitted for Bank review and
approval prior to bidding. It is expected that only a few foreign firms would
submit bids, except for equipment, since Ireland has well developed and
competitive furniture manufacturing and construction industries.
5.06      Total construction under the project would correspond to about 4.5%
of the value of estimated construction activity in 1974. An adequate number
of qualified building contractors are available for the project and an
appropriate pre-qualification system is in operation.
Disbursements
5.07      Disbursement (Annex 20) for furniture and equipment would be on the
basis of 100% of their CIF cost or ex-factory price up to an amount of US$12.2
million, which is the estimated foreign exchange cost of furniture and equip-
ment, without contingencies. About 27.7% of the estimated total cost of
civil works will be financed by the proposed loan, but this percentage would
be adjusted as necessary to distribute disbursements over the implementation
period. Undisbursed funds would be available for cancellation.
Implementation Schedule
5.08      The project would be completed in about five years after the signing
of the Loan Agreement (Annex 20). Construction started during September, 1973,
and is expected to be completed by July, 1977; delivery and installation of
furniture and equipment for all institutions would be completed by December,
1977. A one year period would be allowed for guarantees and closing of ac-
counts following the completion of furniture and equipment installation.
The closing date would be December 31, 1978.
5.09      The tight implementation schedule reflects the government's view
of the urgent need for rapidly consolidating its educational reform programs
and supplying the trained manpower requirements of the country. In view of
the Project Unit's experience and its outstanding performance with the first
education project, the implementation schedule is regarded as realistic.



-22 -
VI. BENEFITS
6.01      All components of the project are fully consistent with the govern-
ment's overall education strategy and program of reforms which give priority
to promoting greater efficiency and productivity in the education system,
improving the distribution of educational opportunities, providing qualitative
improvements throughout the system and meeting the demand for a properly
trained and sufficiently flexible labor force.
6.02      The project supports and broadens the educational reforms initiated
under the first education project and contributes significantly to the
government's efforts to adapt the socio-economic structure, and in particular
the labor force, to the new conditions resulting from Ireland's entry into
the E.E.C. To help meet the manpower requirements through 1986, both quali-
tatively and quantitatively, the project institutions would: (i) meet about
42% of the estimated shortage of middle and high-level technicians; (ii) supply
about 30% of the skilled workers required by industry; (iii) supply 100% of
the teachers required in secondary level technical subjects; and (iv) provide
qualitative improvements in the facilities and programs of the faculty of
agriculture at University College, Dublin, which trains about 85% of all high-
level agricultural technicians in Ireland. About 65% of the project expendi-
tures are directed specifically toward meeting the most critical, shorter-
term manpower constraints; the remainder would be for comprehensive secondary
schools which, in the longer term, would provide a more viable base for entry
into the labor force and third-level technical training.
6.03      The project would help reduce economic and social disparities by
providing and equipping new facilities outside the main urban centers; about
70% of all project institutions would be so located in all sections of the
country. This would contribute significantly to redressing existing imbalances
in educational opportunities and is consistent with the government's development
strategy to increase economic and social opportunities in the less developed
regions of the country. In addition, the project gives special attention to
the problem of redundant workers and displaced farmers who need to be retrained
for employment in a changing labor market; the five industrial training centers
included in the project would represent about 77% of the available training
places in industrial training centers by 1977.



- A J l-11
VJI.  AGREFMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the government provided assurances that:
(i)   ar, integ;-ated computer development plan that would provide
for ;,evvicing the third level technical institutions included
in the project would be sent to the Bank for comment as soon as
the plan is completed;
(ii)   within two years after the signing of the Loan Agreement a
comprehensive national plan for the development of third
level technical education in Ireland would be formulated and sent
to the Bank for information (para 4.12); and
(iii)   consistent with the national needs for trained technicians and
with due regard to the existing training capacities of degree-
granting engineering institutions, the Regional Technical
Colleges in the project will offer only non-degree level
programs in technical/engineering studies unless otherwise
sanctioned in the national development plan.
7.02      Conditions of disbursement would be (a) for the Faculty of Agricul-
ture at University College, Dublin, the adoption by the University College,
Dublin, of a revised curriculum and development plan satisfactory to the
government and the Bank and (b) for the procurement of the computer systems
equipment, receipt by the Bank of an integrated computer development plan
satisfactory to the government and the Bank (paras 4.19 and 4.26).
7.03      A condlition of effectiveness would be the appointment of the pila
cipal officers of the Project Unit described in para 5.02.
7.04      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank Loan of US$25.0
million to Ireland for a term of 20 years including a grace period of 5 yeara.
The loan, which would finance 100% of the estimated foreign exchange costs,
would be equivalent to about 40% of the estimated project cost.






APPENDIX I
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
1.        Administration (Chart 1):  The administration of education in
Ireland at the primary and secondary levels is highly decentralized. Primary
schools are organized by religious denominations under local management. In
most cases, general secondary schools are owned and operated by religious
orders; technical and vocational schools are the responsibility of county
vocational committees. The Minister of Education is responsible for formula-
tion of policy, initiation of legislation, approval of curricula and terminal
examinations, and for the supervision of primary and secondary education.
However, the management of the schools retains the right to appoint staff but
is expected to conform with government regulations on teachers' qualifications,
salary schedules, class size and contact hours. A development section has
been established in the Department of Education to promote primary and second-
ary education development in relation to Irish needs and international trends
and to coordinate the development of curricula, teaching aids, and teaching
methods.
2.        A Higher Education Authority consisting of representatives of edu-
cational, agricultural and industrial interests advises the Minister of Edu-
cation on overall planning and coordination of higher education. Post-
secondary institutions operate under charter and are autonomous except that
they, like primary and secondary schools, are largely dependent upon govern-
ment grants to meet operating costs.
3.        Structure of Education (Chart 2):  The school system provides for a
nine-year compulsory course, normally beginning at the age of six.  The system
consists of a six year primary level; a secondary level with a three-year
junior (lower) and a two-year senior (upper) cycle; and, a higher level of
technical and university programs of varying duration.
4.        Primary Education:  Total primary school enrollment in 1972/73 was
406,000 (excluding infant classes); due to the presence of students below and
above the relevant age group (6-11), the total enrollment in primary education
was 107.2%. However, the picture is changing - an increasing number of
students enter school at the minimum compulsory school age of six - and by
1980, the primary school system is expected to have capacity for about 100l
of the age group 6-11. The enrollment is almost equally distributed between
boys and girls in both rural and urban areas. The primary school curriculum
provides instruction in both academic and practical subjects. A rotating
curriculum revision system is being implemented.
5.        The number of teachers in government primary schools was about
16,000 in 1972 (including infant classes), and of these 98% were qualified.
The teacher:pupil ratio was 1:33. The government expects a primary enroll-
ment of about 450,000 in 1980 and hopes to achieve a teacher:pupil ratio of
1:30.



- Page 2
6.        Secondary Education.  All jnzior and about 95% of senior secondary
education is government aided T1iere are approximately 600 academic general
secondary schools and 230 continuation secondary schools in the country with
an average size of about 200 + students. Many of the schools have old and
inadequate facilities whiich need replacement. The continuation schools have
a mainly academic prugrarm but offer pre-vocational subjects such as woodwork,
metalwork and typing; the general secondary courses prepare pupils mainly for
university entrance (School Leaving Certificate). Some 97% of the primary
school leavers entered secondary level in 1972. Almost 100% of the students
finish the first two years of the junior cycle and 75% finish the three-year
junior cycle. About 70X of the junior cycle leavers enter the senior cycle
and the dropout rate in the senior cycle is only about 4%.
7.        There is an undue emphasis on traditional academic programs in
secondary education and only 22% of senior cycle secondary students are
enrolled in any vocational or technical courses. The secondary system is
at present in the process of transition. Four pilot experimental comprehen-
sive schools incorporating both academic and practical education were started
in 1966 and the government plans to gradually replace the private academic
secondary institutions with a public system of comprehensive schools.
8.        An essential feature of the schools is the deferral of student
decision-making about a choice of career and consequent early selection of
a specific education program. The new emphasis is away from rote-learning
in the direction of self-motivated study and problem solving in a variety
of related subject fields. While the graduates of practical courses are
not regarded as fully trained, junior cycle programs provide a suitable
basis for future vocational and apprentice training and students completing
the senior cycle are well suited to enter the employment market or to further
post-secondary education, particularly in the technical fields.
9.        Industrial Training:  The training of workers for commerce and
industry is primarily the responsibility of AnCO, a semi-autonomous cor-
poration set up by the government in 1967 and financed from industrial
levies and government grants. AnCO sponsors a wide range of training and
retraining programs which are determined by regional advisory committees
comprised of representatives of local employers, trade unions, the Depart-
ments of Labor and of Education and AnCO; training is carried out in indus-
trial facilities, regional technical colleges, large vocational schools and
in six regional training centers and three mobile units which are directly
operated by AnCO. Output from the centers in 1972 was about 2,200, far
short of the requirements by 1977 of about 11,400 trained workers p.a. to
meet the country's skilled manpower needs during the transitional stage of
Ireland's entry into the European Economic Community.
10.       The unemployed and underemployed workforce is a major concern of
the government; the agriculture sector alone has, at a conservative estimate,
about 20,000 such workers. In those areas where the problem is most acute,
AnCO provides mobile training units for on-the-spot training of unemployed
workers; adult trainees are given grants during the training period commensu-
rate with their age and family commitments. Up to July, 1972, about 1,220
unemployed and redundant workers have been retrained and placed in suitable
jobs through this program.



APPENDIX I - Page 3
11.       The future pattern of apprenticeship training is being reviewed by
AnCO with the intention of reducing the traditional five year training pro-
gram to a more relevant accelerated training program of three years duration
in order to alleviate critical manpower constraints in industry. The first
year would be taken as off-the-job training in vocational schools or regional
technical colleges followed by modules of training undertaken both on-the-job
and off-the-job during the final years. Under this proposed arrangement AnCO
would establish procedures for the testing and certification of all apprentices
to ensure they are trained to agreed patterns and standards of skills.
12.       Technical Education:  The reorientation and expansion of the tech-
nical education system is being undertaken at all levels to meet the increas-
ing needs of industry. The comprehensive secondary schools which are being
provided under IBRD financing give particular emphasis to introducing practical
training at both levels of secondary education. The proposed output of middle
and high-level technicians from the National Institute for Higher Education and
the Regional Technical Colleges is consistent with O.E.C.D. and mission recom-
mendations for achieving a ratio of one engineer to nine technicians to service
the type of manufacturing industry currently being developed.
13.      Mlanagement and supervisory training in Ireland consists mainly of
special courses conducted by the Irish Management Institute and in the various
technical colleges. A technical information advisory service is also being
established as part of the National Institute for Higher Education at Limerick;
this program has the active support of government, the Management Institute
and industry and is intended as a service to developing industries on a
national basis.
14.       Agricultural Education and Training:  The Higher Education Authority
is responsible for third level education in Ireland, including agriculture,
while the Department of Education is responsible for the agricultural and
related science courses offered in government-aided secondary schools. All
other agricultural education, including farmer training which is undertaken
by the agricultural extension services, comes under the Department of Agri-
culture and Fisheries.
15.       Agricultural training is offered through the agricultural extension
services in agricultural education centers or in rented space (vocational
schools and hotels) and in nine rural domestic economy schools which offer
one-year courses for girls over the age of 15. In addition, there are eleven
small state-aided agricultural colleges each with an enrollment of from 40
to 130 students, which offer a one-year course leading to the National Cer-
tificate in Agriculture and special courses of 1 to 2 years duration in var-
ious agricultural specialities.
16.       The Government is expected to review the future role of these small
and uneconomical institutions with a view toward rationalizing all agricul-
tural diploma programs and introducing curricula reforms which are consistent
with the changing manpower needs of the country; the review of agricultural



APPENDIX I - Page 4
education would be of particular Importance because of the significant poten-
tial of the economically sized Regional Technical Colleges in providing a
wide range of modern course offerings for training diploma-level technicians
required by the agriculture and fisheries sector.
17.       About 85% of the degree level agricultural specialists in Ireland
are trained at the University College, Dublin, and the remainder at University
College, Cork, and Trinity College. The output of these institutions is
considered adequate for supplying the quantitative needs of the agricultural
sector; however, the duties and consequently the training of the graduates
will require changes in view of the rising level of the farmers' knowledge
in the husbandries, and on account of their increasing need for advice in farm
and business management and in a number of specialized subject areas.
18.       In order to cater for the replacement of obsolete facilities and
a moderate expansion (100 additional place* mainly in new specializations)
the proposed facilities for the Faculty of Agriculture at University College,
Dublin, would accomodate an enrollment of 550 students in undergraduate
and graduate programs. The majority of students will continue to follow
courses in general agriculture, horticulture and forestry, but the intake of
students in specialized agri-business programs is expected to increase signi-
ficantly in the foreseeable future. Likewise, the number of post-graduate
students (M.Sc. and Ph.D.) is expected to increase from about 60-65 to about
80-90, of which between 60-70 would need to use the Faculty's teaching and
research facilities on a full-time basis.
19.       Higher Education is increasingly in demand and enrollments have
grown from 17,000 in 196-566 to about 29,900 in 1972/73; the Higher Education
Authority has projected total enrollments to reach about 38,000 by 1980.
Most higher education is subsidized from public funds (about 75% of recurrent
costs in 1968-69) and only about 9% of the students are enrolled in non-aided
institutions. About one-third of the students are girls.
20.       The majority of students take courses in the arts and social
sciences; only about 12% are enrolled in engineering and related technical
fields. However, in view of the government's efforts to offset the growing
shortage of technically trained manpower, enrollments in technical fields
will increase to about 20% by 1980, resulting largely from the technical
orientation of the second education project. The government is expected to
continue in its efforts to rationalize and improve the efficiency of higher
education, including another major reassessment of this sector in the late
1970's when the effects of EEC membership will be more clearly evident.
21.       Primary Teacher Training:  Primary teacher training is offered in
a two-year course following completed secondary education. The enrollment
in 1970/71 was 1,700 students and the output 820. Training was given in six
colleges with an average size of about 280 and about two-thirds of the
students were girls.



APPENDIX I - Page 5
22.       Although the quality of primary teacher training is adequate to
meet current standards, training programs will be extended from two years
to three years by 1975 and will incorporate new courses which are consistent
with reforms being implemented at the primary and secondary levels of education.
In the interim, the Department of Education and private institutions are offer-
ing in-service program to help adapt the teachers to curriculum changes and
to introduce new teaching methods; about 4,500 teachers received in-service
training in 1971.
23.       General Seconda  Teacher Training: Secondary school teachers of
academic subjects are enrolled in degree courses of three years duration and,
in addition, a one-year part-time course for the Higher Diploma in Education.
Their training is offered at eight institutions; the output of teachers was
about 1,700 in 1972. The present 1972/73 stock of teachers in general subjects
is about 11,400. The total need for teachers by 1976/77 will be about 14,100
assuming a teacher:pupil ratio of about 1:20. An additional 5,500 trained
teachers are required to meet this need.
24.       Technical Teacher Training:  Five training centers for special
subjects teachers have developed over the years on an ad-hoc basis. These
centers have inadequate facilities and equipment and staffing arrangements
are ill-suited for teacher training purposes; the staff in most cases are on
secondment from various schools. In 1970, the Higher Education Authority
recommended the amalgamation of the technical teacher training system and
the construction of a single institute for the training of all special sub-
jects teachers on the campus of the National Institute for Higher Education
in Limerick; this recommendation will be implemented under the project.
25.       The projected output of technical teachers from the Institute by
category of training is as follows:



APPENDIX I - Page 6
Course              1973   1974   1975*   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
General & Rural Science      21      o21  20        20     20     35     35      35
Woodwork Trade entry         27      32     32      32     32     32     32      32
Woodwork School entry        16      16     30      16     16     16      16     16
Building Construction        13     16      16      10     10     16     16      16
Metalwork Trade entry        24      19     24      24     24     12     24      24
Metalwork School entry                                            24     24      24
Business and Secretarial                                                 36      36
Studies School entry
Business and Secretarial                            38     38     38     38     38
Studies Graduate entry
Lecturers and Specialists                           56     56     56     56      56
Remedial Education                                  48     48     48     48     48
Adult Education                                     40     40     40     40      40
School Administration                               40     40     40     40     40
Totals                      101     83    146      324    324    357    405    405
* Above figures presume the availability of the facilities by 1975
/ Transition to three year program.



APPENDIX II
ECONOMIC GROWTH
1.        Projections of Economic Growth:  In making the current set of pro-
jections to 1986, the Economic policy division of the department of finance
adhered to unofficial projections of employment made over a year ago in the
context of a population projections exercise on a 1991 horizon. The mission
introduced only marginal amendments in these projections, primarily because
the mission held the productivity assumptions to be overly optimistic. A
sector by sector description of the projections is given below.
2.        Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing:  The projection for sectoral
product of agriculture from 1971 to 1980 was 2.4% p.a. For 1981-86, having
regard to the expected improvements in land structure, age-composition, level
of training and enterprise of the farm labor force, as well as the increase
in EEC intervention prices over those assumed for the EEC White Paper assess-
ment, a growth rate of 2.7% p.a. was assumed. The employment projection worked
out at -3.6% p.a., on a percentage basis. This is well above the past trend
in percentage terms but is not out of line with rates of decline experienced
in Western Europe. On this basis, the increase in productivity in the sector
works out at 6.5% p.a. over 1981-86. This is certainly high but would be
attainable given the extensive scope for increasing stocking rates, yields,
etc. and narrowing the efficiency differential between the lowest and most
efficient units.
3.        Industry:  Productivity in this sector was projected to increase
at 5.0% p.a. This takes account of the very large value added per worker in
the Naven lead-zinc mine which will commence operation in 1975, the faster
productivity growth in building and construction in recent years than was
previously projected up to 1980 and the pressure to increase productivity and
capital intensity that will be exerted by full free trade for manufacturing
products after 1978. The product of the employment and productivity projec-
tions indicates a growth rate of 7.5% p.a. for sectoral product.
4.        Services:  In projecting sectoral|product, use was made of an estimated
relationship between increments in the sectoral product of the sector and in
the combined sectoral product of industry and agriculture. This indicated a
growth rate of 4% p.a. and the implied growth in productivity was 2.7% p.a.
This is slightly below the original forecast of the Department of Finance.
5.        Net Foreign Income:  For net foreign income a projection of 3% p.a.,
i.e. somewhat less than forecast up to 1980, was taken, having regard to the
expected falling off in emigration and to the likelihood of increased remit-
tances of profits abroad.
6.        GNP by Sector of Origin:  When aggregated, the projections yielded
the results summarized in the following table:



APPENDIX II - Page 2
Projected GNP in 1986 by sector of origin
Average
1980        Annual Change         1986
Sector                            (Lm 1968)          1981-86         (irm 1968)
Agriculture, forestry and fishing   256               + 2.7              300
Industry                              835            + 7.5             1,289
Services                              743            + 4.0               938
GDP                                 1834             + 5.5             2,527
Net foreign income                     82            + 3.0                98
Indirect taxes less subsidies         305            + 5.4               418
GNP at market prices                2 221            + 5.4             3,043
1986 GNP by sector of origin at 1972 prices
Agriculture, forestry and fishing                                445
Industry                                                       1,854
Services                                                       1,389
GDP at factor cost                                             3,688
Net foreign income                                               121
Indirect taxes less subsidies                                    637*
GNP at market prices                                           4,446
* Obtained residually
7.        Trends in Labor Productivity in Manufacturing Industries:  Since the
productivity assumptions are an integral part of the projections of economic
growths, a brief description of past trends in the manufacturing sector (the
key growth sector) is given below. Productivity (measured by output per man-
hour) improved by 50% between 1961 and 1971. The annual productivity increases
reached a peak in the two years 1967 and 1968, fell back sharply in 1969 but
have shown an upward trend since then. As summarized in the table below,
productivity gains were largely offset by increases in wage costs which in-
creased by about 75% between 1961 aDd 1971; most of this increase took place
during 1969-1971. Towards the end of the period Irish wage costs were increas-
ing at a faster rate than other European countries, with the exception of Italy
in the years 1969/70 and 1970/71.



APPENDIX II- Page 3
Manufacturing Industry - Productivity per Man-EIour, Earnings per
liour and Wage Costs per Unit of Output - 1961-71 (Base 1960=100)
Productivity  Annual    Earnings   Annual   Wage Costs per   Annual
________   Per man/hour  % Change  Per  hour         e Unit of Output   % Change
1961        105          5.0        106         6            101          1
1962        109          3.8        119        12.3          109          7.9
1963        111          1.8        123         3.4          111          1.8
1964        116.6        5.0       139         13.0          118.8        7.0
1965        122.1        4.7       143.9        3.5          117.7       0.9
1966        125.1.4      2.7       157.4        9.4          124.3        5.6
1967        133.2        6.2        168.5       7.1          126.5        1.8
1968        142.1        6.7        183.3       8.8          128.8        1.8
1969        145.4        2.3       206.6       12.7          142.1       10.3
1970        151.0        3.9       239.9       16.1          159.8       12.5
1971        157.6        4.4       279.2       16.4          176.5       10.4        .
Average
Annual
IT Change
1961-1971                  4.1                   10.2                       5.7
Source: NIEC Report on Economic Situation, 1965 Report No.11 (Prl. 8552).
Review of 1971 and Outlook for 1972 (Prl. 2357), cited in IDA, Regional
Industrial. Plans 1973-1977, part 1, p. 24.






APPENDIX III
MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS
1.        Background and Methodology:  In the absence of updated manpower data
at the time of project appraisal, the mission worked extensively with the De-
partment of Finance and government consultants in developing a projection of
Ireland's manpower requirements for the period 1972-1986. However, the mis-
sion considers it essential that the forecast be viewed as orders of magnitude
which will serve only as general guidelines to future manpower requirements.
This qualification results from a hesitancy to ascribe a high degree of ac-
curacy to any long term forecast and, more importantly, because of uncertain-
ties which are associated with Ireland's accession to the E.E.C. In this re-
gard, E.E.C. membership introduces new and complex factors which could be ex-
tremely beneficial to the development of the Irish economy; conversely, it
could harbor unpredictable results as the economy is opened to the competi-
tion of member markets. For these reasons, the mission has used the forecast
only as a broad guideline for purposes of project evaluation.
2.        Due to the need to assess the regional distribution of project in-
stitutions, as well as to provide a quantitative checkpoint, regional fore-
casts of manpower requirements were also undertaken. In the exercise, both
the regional and subsectoral forecasts were matched against the macro-economic
and demographic forecasts and a margin of tolerance of 2% discrepancy was
deemed acceptable.
3.        The following methodology was used in developing manpower require-
ments:
(i) conversion of employment into occupational categories;
(ii) estimation of shortage over the forecast period by occupa-
tional category;
(iii) conversion of the projected shortage into desirable levels
of educational attainment (demand);
(iv) the projected output of the educational system over the same
period was matched against the projected shortage (supply);
(v) the differences between the supply and the demand point were
used as guidelines in assessing the relevancy of the proposed
project in alleviating critical manpower constraints.
4.        Conversion of employment into occupational categories:  During the
time of project appraisal a study was made by the Department of Finance of
the distribution pattern of employment by occupational category. The result-
ing matrix of coefficients, representing the best obtainable data, was then
used in making subsectoral employment forecasts (Annex 1 of this Appendix).



APPENDIX III - Page 2
5.        Estimation of Shortages:  The estimation of manpower shortages by
occupational category is based on the anticipated attrition of the existing
labor force over the forecast periods. This yielded a series of coefficients
(proportion surviving) to be applied to the stock existing in 1971 (the first
point of the forecast period). These are summarized below:
Average Annual        Proportion
Attrition           Surviving
Occupational Category                           Rate              1971-1986
Prof. Technical, etc.                           5.2%                  45%
Managers, Officials, etc.                       4.7%                  49%
Clerical                                       4.7%                   49%
Sales                                           3.6%                  58%
Craftsmen                                      2.2%                   71%
Operatives                                      3.2%                  61%
Service Workers                                5.7%                   42%
Laborers except farm & mine                     2.6%                  67%
Farmers & Farm Lab.                            4.0%                   54%
6.        Redundancies:  Taking into consideration factors such as entry into
the E.E.C. and the "transition pains" associated with a changing manufacturing
and service sector, the redundancies were forecast as follows:
Estimated Redundancies per Year
Period              Manufacturing                 Services           Total
1972/78                3,500                        3,500            7,000
1978/86                1,000                        4,000            5,000
7.        These redundancies constitute a substantial part of the adult train-
ing requirements in Ireland during 1972-86. On the basis of this forecast and
the general economic and employment forecast, the adult training requirements
are expected to comprise approximately 65% of the total redundancies and the
bulk of workers displaced fron the agricultural sector.
8.        Conversion of Manpower Shortages by Educational Level: The coeffi-
cients of conversion of occupational category into the projected desirable
education level for flows into the labor force were derived from the previous
manpower forecast exercise. Minor adjustments, particularly at third level
non-university education in the training of professionals, technicians, man-
agers, officials and proprietors reflect the recent policy of emphasizing
non-university technical education. The conversion coefficients provided
the basis for determining the manpower requirements by educational levels
which are summarized in Annex 4 of the Appraisal Report.



FORECAST OF EMPLOYMENT BY ECONOMIC ACTIVITY SUBSECTOR 1970-1986
(in thousands)
i 4^Ct,.':IC    -       Y       1  19701           1971?J           1977           1978/           1981            1986
1 .~ i ;':ni'actrirng Industrz  1    218.0                                                        -25.0  :b-TF ZY64  _.
1.1  Food                   48.3         49.51           57.3            58.8           63.3             71.6
1.2  Drink & Tobacco     j 11.9          11.8            381.4           11.3           11.1             10.7
1.3  Textiles             28.3           28.4             28.9           29.0            29.3            29.7
1.t  Clothing & Footwrear  26            267              267            267            26.7            '26.7
1.5 Wood & Furniture | 93 q9.2                             8.3            8.2            7.8              7.?
1.6 Paper & Printing      18.2           18.1             17.4           17.3           170              16.4
1.7  Chemicals             8.6            8.6              8.5            8.4            8.3              8.2
1.8  Structural Clay       9 8           10.4             15.2           16.3           19.7             27.1
1.∞  Xotals & Engineerine £ 42           43.9             53.8           55.7           61.6             73.0
1.10  ascelluncous                 -     15.4             35.5           3¢.9           53.6             85.9
0tR-E _ndustrv                                   106.0                                           123.3    -
2.1  =h.alaing                           91.2                                          106.0            113.1
2.2  Uttilities                          14.8      _                                    17.3             18.4
3.0 A22.0'iCi,                                                          .0 tC. 1. 77 227.0  23.0
3 .    lz;_culture                      276.4                                          203.8            173.1
3.2  Forestry                             3.0                                            2.9              2.5
31.3 Fsin                                 171.3                                                           1.1
4.0                                    - _                           45Gl-.-0  499.0                         - 526.9   562.7
I 0.-1  Co:merce                        147-5            159.7                         168.6            180.0
|   L.2 Ac4inIitration                   46.1             49.9                          52.7             56-3
4.3 Prof 'ssional/IB F                  13'3.3           149.7                         158.1            168.8
I_____      Ot'i :                             1?2.1            139.7 ___--                    1475.           157.6
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT                                      I I   .j, 0 _1  1111122/   *  1,156.6                  11,2281.4
/ Represent base years of the IDA sub-sector forecasts of manufacturing industry.
/ 1971 figures varo thos7o obt'ained from the rerional forecasts given in the industrial development plans.           I
They differ slightly from the totals obtained from the macro-economic forecast.
/  1977 was talcen instead of 1976 because it matchss the regional forecasts.
4/ The regional forecasts yielded 265,0O0 for that sector in 1977. The difference, however, is so slight that  1H
no adjutenCnt was radc hero.
/ In accordance with note 4/above, the regional forecast totals were 1,114,000 persons.



APPENDIX III - Page 4
9.        Projected Output of the Education System:  On the basis of data pro-
vided by the statistical division of the Department of Education, the output
of the educational system over the period 1971-1986 is estimated as follows:
Primary                              226,600
Secondary General                    199,000
Secondary Vocational                  81,000
University                            90,000
Other 3rd Level                       26,000
10.       Results and General Recommendations:  A comparison of the estimated
output from the educational system at different levels of educational attain-
ment and the manpower requirements yields the following results:
Manpower Requirements and Output of the Educational System
by Level of Educational Attainment 1971-1986
Level of Educational
Attainments                   Requirements         Output        Differences
Primary School                    293,400           226,600          -66,800
Secondary General                 155,900           199,000          +42,900
Secondary Vocational               78,700            81,000          + 2,300
Non-Univ. Third Level              63,700            26,000          -37,300
University                         39,300            90,000          +50,700
11.       It should be noted that the differential above does not include
adjustments for participation ratios and unemployment. Hence, the surplus
figures should only be used as a general indicator of major imbalances in
the educational system with respect to manpower requirements. In this con-
text, a comparison of the projected demand and supply of manpower by level
of educational attainment suggests the following conclusions:
(i) Higher (third-level) education needs a substantial shift
from university to non-university education;
(ii) The expansion of the senior cycle general secondary schools
should be checked and simultaneously redirected towards voca-
tional or comprehensive-type education; efforts should be geared
towards promoting more entrants to non-university third level
technical education;
(iii) Junior cycle (comprehensive and/or vocational) should be expanded.
12.       The project as conceived, will not produce a surplus of manpower
in those categories of employment we are most concerned with; in fact, it is
expected that the output of skilled workers and technicians will require fur-
ther expansion by the late seventies. However, the extent, nature and loca-
tion of such expansion will be largely contingent upon the impact and results
stemming from Ireland's membership in E.E.C.



APPENDIX IV
EDUCA'IGN FINANCE
1.        Administration and Responsibilities:  The pattern of educational
financing in Ireland has changed significantly in recent years as educational
opportunities become increasingly available to all students. Financial respon-
-sibility for education now rests primarily with the central government and ex-
penditures are mainly administered by the Department of Education (90%) and the
Department of Agriculture (10%). The allocation of financial assistance varies
by level of education and is further described in the following paragraphs 2
through 6.
2.        Primary Schools:  At the primary level, 95% of enrollments are in
public schools and 5% in private schools. The distinction in Ireland between
"public" and "private" schools requires definition. The private schools do
not receive state funds and they charge fees. The public schools, although
almost entirely financed by the government, are largely managed by local clergy-
men; the sites are provided by religious orders.  Public primary schools are
free; teachers' salaries, other recurrent costs, and most capital costs are
paid by the government.
3.        Secondary Schools:  Prior to the pilot comprehensive school experi-
ment in 1966 all secondary schools were private (most being owned and operated
by religious orders) and charged fees while receiving some financial aid from
the government. Since 1967, most (97% of day students in 1971) students no
longer pay tuition fees; instead, the government gives these schools direct
supplemental grants (L 25 per pupil).  Needy students receive textbook grauts;
free transport in rural areas is provided from state funds. A large part of
teachers' salaries and their pensions are paid by the state; capitation grants
(E 13-M9 for junior secondary; L15-L24 for senior secondary) are paid to
those schools meeting certain requirements set by the Department of Educa-
tion. Schools also receive equipment grants (up to 70% of cost) for science
laboratories, geography rooms and other special facilities; building improve-
ment loans to schools are also arranged at very favorable conditions by the
Department of Education.
4.        Comprehensive Schools:  No school fees are paid in any of the com-
prehensive schools. Current and capital costs are met entirely by the gov-
ernment in the case of state comprehensive schools. Local communities con-
tribute to the capital costs of the community comprehensive schools, this
contribution most often takes the form of a sports hall or other ancillary
facilities.
5.        Vocational Education and Industrial Training:  The former is pro-
vided free of charge in most schools (only 5% of day pupils pay fees). About
70% of recurrent expenditure is financed through government grants to the Vo-
cational Education Committees; the remainder is provided by local revenlues
from a surcharge not exceeding 10% on the local rate. The greater part of
capital expenditure for vocational school building is financed by the gov-
ernment through loans to Vocational Education Committees or through grants
to Local Authorities. Industrial training is provided free of charge to



APPENDIX IV - Page 2
all participants; most training programs also include provisions for payment
of grants to adult trainees, depending on their age and family responsibil-
ities. The financing of training programs is mainly from government grants
(80-85%) and the remainder from industrial levies; however, the pattern of
financial support is changing and industry is expected to assume an increas-
ing share of the training costs.
6.        Third Level Education:  Fees are charged in universities and other
post-secondary institutions but the main source of financing is from the cen-
tral government which meets about 75% of recurrent and capital expenditures.
7.        Public expenditure on education:  Since 1958, public expenditure
on education has grown at 13.4% p.a. in monetary terms and at about 6-6.5%
p.a. at constant prices; as a percentage of GNP, public expenditures on edu-
cation increased from 2.9% in 1958 to 5.1% in 1972.  In 1972 recurrent ex-
penditures on education represented about 15% of current revenues and capital
expenditures on education accounted for 6.2% of the capital budget. Because
of the lack of information on private expenditures (especially for boarding),
no reliable data of national expenditure on education are available.
8.        Past Trends in Recurrent Costs:  Since the beginning of the 1960's
recurrent expenditures on education have grown much faster than total enroll-
ments. Price inflation, increases in teachers' salaries and the shift in the
compositon of total student populatioh brought about by the faster growth of
enrollments in the more expensive comprehensive secondary schools were major
factors. Moreover, under the Free Education Scheme (1967) and other recent
Acts there have been both a "widening" of the scope of government involvement
in education (more students are affected by the program) and a "deepening" of
transfers (the amount of grants per student has increased). For this reason,
the growth of public recurrent expenditures per student reflects both the in-
crease in unit costs and the increase in the share of unit costs paid by
the government:
Growth of Recurrent Costs per Student during the 1960's
(Government Contribution) Rate of Growth p.a.
1960                 1968      1960-1968
Ö(Irish b)--------
Primary /1                     21                   44           9.7%
Secondary /2                   49                  109          10.5%
Teacher Training /3           141                  346          11.9%
Diploma Technicians           112                  240          10.0%
University                    192                  331           7.0%
/1   Including kindergartens.
/2   All second level.
/3   Primary teachers and some vocational (woodwork, metalwork, domestic
science, motor maintenance).



APPENDIX IV - Page 3
9.        Projections of Recurrent Costs:  These are based on estimates of
expenditures per pupil by various levels and types of education in Ireland
for different target years. The estimates were arrived at through detailed
consultations between the Departments of Finance and Education. The results,
given in the table below, reflect the following assumptions: (a) decrease in
the number of primary schools and in the pupil:teacher ratio; (b) reform and
consolidation of secondary education (comprehensive schools); (c) increase in
the length of the training course for primary teachers to 3 years; (d) increas-
ing enrollments in the applied sciences at the third level; and, (e) increases
in scholarship grants.
Projected Recurrent Costs per Student
(1972 prices)
1972     1975      1980     1985
Primary                                    78.1    85.9       93.7      101.5
Secondary Level
Secondary General                       157.6   170.2      189.1      204.9
Secondary Comprehensive                 190.0   205.2      228.0      247.0
Vocational, RTC*                        266.0   287.3      319.2      345.8
Third Level
Vocational, RTC*                        935.0 1,075.2   1,168.0   1,246.0
Universities                            593.6   682.6      742.0      791.5
Notes:
Source: Department of Finance, April 1973.
*    Central Government and Local Authorities Expenditures included.  Unit
costs on the basis of full-time students only.
10.       The Distribution of Recurrent Costs:  The following changes are
expected in the percentage distribution of recurrent expenditures by educa-
tion levels:



APPENDIX IV - Page 4
1968      1972       1975      1980       1985
Primary                          45.9       40.0      37.9       32.6      33.9
Secondary and Continuation       40.0       39.4      39.0       43.4      40.0
Special Industrial                1.1        0.7       0.8        0.8       0.8
Post Secondary                   10.2       15.1      17.7       19.4      21.7
Administration                    2.8        4.8       4.6        3.8       3.6
Total                 100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0
The slow growth of population and a better utilization of educational facil-
ities and personnel explain the declining percentage of recurrent expenditures
at the primary level, which stabilizes by 1985. Although similar improvements
are expected in the operating efficiency of secondary and post-secondary edu-
cation, the accrued savings are offset by increasing enrollments and higher
unit costs resulting from expanded course offerings, particularly in technical
education.
11.       Past Trends in Capital Expenditures:  The distribution of public
capital expenditures on education by levels over the past five years was the
following:
% of
1968/69  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73   Total   Total
Ö             ------- (Irish i million)Ö----------
Primary            3.5       3.7      3.6        3.7     3.7      18.2    29%
Secondary         5.2        6.5      5.3        5.6     6.5      29.1    46%
Post Secondary    2.3        2.6      2.8        3.1     4.8      15.6    252
Total       11.0       12.8     11.7       12.4    15.0     62.9   100%
12.       Projected Capital Expenditures:  On the whole, it is anticipated
that Ireland will spend some i 325,000 million between 1972 and 1985 on the
improvement and expansion of its educational plant. Of these, about b 153
million (47% of total) will be required for expansion, while the remaining
i- 172.5 million will be allocated to improvements and replacements. About
43% of total investments is expected to go to secondary education, about 33%
to post-secondary institutions, and the balance (24%) being allocated to prim-
ary schools. The projected costs reflect an assumed gradual increase from
the current levels to allow for price increases in construction, greater
space allowances per pupil (secondary schools) and increases in specialized
facilities for the applied sciences in post-secondary institutions. The
following table summarizes the expected pattern of capital expenditures:



APPENDIX IV - Page 5
Total Capital Expenditures 1972-1985
(in millions of 1972 Irish pounds)
Level of Education            Improvement      Expansion    Total   % of the Total
Primary                           59.0            20.5       79.5          24%
Secondary & Continuation          72.0           60.0       132.0          41%
Special Industrial                 4.5             1.5        6.0           2%
Post-Secondary                    37.0            71.0      108.0          33%
Total                 172.5           153.0      325.5






OWtARSR2fCATIV UC OR  IR2O20ANRRI
abRic            3 of UOp           of Total Flao FfIr                    aodo             5          tsneae                          Mo.Ooo
Litarty     Edo..  fo-        feootd to    FPbito R.-   RetoR-  Ofdeat   ERIoll-                    Ra....d-ny     Rooda_        ifiRb..af ,o      fe-aOOhO
Poentaito        MflC2PITA -(of              Oar Capit         (ftbtie to-     Roed to    Ratio          Tagob-       Ratio Ra          t           Tnoboo        A8gelelto-           29.000
Aolts)    (M.'ekel            pe1.-doa       Ed-tait         Rot                                  toogotonalI  PURR-                 so           FPla.lo-
(9      (2)           ()              (4)             (50              (6)          (7)        (1)           (92            (it)           (11)          (12)              (13)
roetooegdaaottoo  gysfane aod lbo  A-o.att                            99            74 I..,lf0t F                  9I             03              4.               9.           59E         2460                                       12             24                701
odtoot(ongl dovolose,gof toonoen  Canada                  3570~~~~~~~~~~~~T  2.,4 F    SitF            93             339              9.R            22.3, A0      R           25            tOR            12E            1 7            9               513
aetoiatt.t1etga.  tnrloe                   GtayIFd    e.                     1969          61.0            2,9301          99              5              3.                .f0         54          O             66            2              2             25                  0
,-i-.    ~~~_,I                 1,Japa                            1969         103.40           1,920 F         99             50               3.9            205           99          26            90            20              1      21                      30so
ba boats of  hb. peasot data                ebafo                            1969          13:.00         0,43t1 F        9              20               7. 2             20.0         SIR        30            64            41              19            29                230
.o.a.p.ogte ...      400  tooIto          le  o-elod                        1972           2.nF273F                       99            Itt              4.  0             050        I           2              9...                          t2                              0
nao  ossoedt  th     -ott.,eo        eAF1970                                        3.9           2,R60           I              19               0.7              10.3        II          2'3           7t I            2C1 2                                          640
nol  bo  ba    olb.ta .         o1b.9      =loda                             197             .             ,00F            II                             9.0722                      10           2              95                            41                              4
hy -.tt  lan   -riga -d loon                     efdonA,                3949           557            2,2730P         97             94               3.              138          9SsI5                                    52             It            1;               1080
RoR,ntsoefebb  egtoi                       o   ..170                                      24.              .70             5             29533             1A               6.1        IF          25             4            .               20             7                 20
agof tb  lt.    nneblegal
eaaylefaoooo     hndbeak la llht                                             1971          33.0            1,022           840            22B             2.4             1150          9 3         1 9  3       59E            21 E1 311 4                                      6
sotbiOf to. Introv  tben oe,gon2- AIC
opooattooa  nik.  Ia 'h, on ,o   Aleenia                                     2971          13.5              300           25At           34              9 .l1           2 9.9 0        4         49             10            10             26             6                 22
fia-  dat. hIto   b Foltnta    oai-             taneo270                                    5062                          ...63.                                         09)o0          74E        48             A                            25             4                  7
aotd;                           ~~~~~~~~~~~           ~          ~~~~6.  C. A. R.  170  1,I4                    .                              4.4             20 .00        732        64              4 2          1              30....
2)L.dootof            ae2odo              7.  obhd                          1973           3.4               60            73D                           4.30           14.30         33          72             2             a              92
tba table. ItlidR   all altoto            I.CotoE0                          1970           0.1             300           30t             14              5.0            23.           000         S              31 0          I                            . .
,od nblgioint. orl Ir  ant  I_   ettata1972                                                24.40              8030                         3              4.00           IS.            t           1E            5              F             04            175
f.-i -d            lo1.  Aebon                        1909           2SF             6330           301D?          11C             3.30            13'7t         79         40            It            20ISE                          I
foenal:                       ~~~~~~~~~~            ~~~~12.obn    1070            1.              31           ..              13              4.              21.72         74          2A                                         1               S                  3
29'Ftaoodo...ttoeooffe                 12.  Iortat1160                                    4.9F            3141              A~         10              4.2C            22,.4         44         46              6             0             23
to edteli    at lb. fi-s  teogl           13.  llaaya                        1970          11.3              250           322             8n~            5.31           20.0           4          34            10              2             22            29D
god ~gotondory'~  odotattan eafaca  14.  Libati                   1972            1.5             243           I3              A              3.7             11.7          312        91             12 2                         20            12 C                I9C
oooladaataaao        -eetodar            15.  Iot07                                        300               7010        20               3              4.69           32.3          20          40             4             16             17            346
tato   onndin..   of  loh    ao         1.ogcooa17 19                                       2              24            i               245                            2.            20         2                             3             24            15..
geneegl,  toebetest.  ageleoltteetl;   27.  0000100      1~~~~ ~          ~~~   ~~970  15.5  230       10              1              4.15           217.4          34          33            1132                                          
1-1 -g.ldl...                  28.tfgtol                           1971          53.10            121          ..3ln                                           .              4           74                         29              3             16                  4
31)yoltt- e7-l0oa22- )Ci        1      19.   -tooa                        01969          3.90             2301                         210             3.3             22.2,         430         4              02           27             25              21                   A
ltltoofndooneeoiloaatatnle_b-    00.  li-taetoMA16                                  2.40            2900           73              4              2.AI3                        32b         301                          7A1                           7
eloal, oooooaotlol,  aeettoltaral.  21.  toeolt                    1971           2.9              70C                                           .               .2           6           2232                                                      00
.znoattooolaltoboee-eooooelo  ~~~~22.  lodge                      1970          215.7F             220         ..                4             3.30            22.01         30          442                            0             )             30
100100.;                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~                           ~~23 .  Ogo-ajo1971  13.3    lOOP          .               4              4.               64           3           5                                           11 
24.  Usodo                        290             a.              130           25k             I                .             24.9          44s        344I                         1              21             tO
4)'2I-,ao    aee(41. 32                25.te ot                            1912           3.40              A            5               2              4.0            27 .4         12          45             1             3              0              46
eaall oboloo.d feo  to.11.        H Ot    ni1970                                    18.0              902          13               6              5.01VIl"7                                4                            It            2100
tenenage.   Ioeooyeooettiag  lb5y ~~~2.  Oobt                     1971           4.10             4000          43             29              5.4             27.4           Ott        50            12             327                            
dt    h-l-o-  dtfI soy onlf27e de8tt2- 20    2oata
tlotof ften-t     boh-   a -          2.C .        Rite                  0971           1.70             SOOF7         e9             3                 .             8.             4         2              0                             3
foiioed ooaattly                           9.Onla  labli.                    1141           4.  F65                                                        2.I 70                      9            41                                         2610A
30t.   olAidn                      194            3.50             35060         490A           1010            0.2             13.040        431        31            150            320B           .             1507
5)        .o21   a0adit-l  Ic          31.    oaeto1140                                   5.20             6040         3000A            40             2.50           17.4          43          30             6            22             84             10 
odoiatioo)Oolo.4sodbleefeee   ~~~~~22   Hodo..s                   1172           2.70             2901          52             11              3.20            20.           eI           7            142           17             14              8                  40
33.    anak                                 004             1.90            670F          66             24              4.4             19.25           4          2            4                41                         .                   1
podlneg   ovtdoo-oo- ts           345ott17                                          3.                0             6              1               2.6            27.21Q        71          44            29             3023                         26 C2
by   obit nd. 9ooai.-pu -lt             35       gat                         99            20F             40F           53              10              2.             219.9         80          36            23              8             23            22                 15
agaL..;                                30. tria   sod 00408               2372           1.              9207          92             40               5.              28.9          95         35            49             1i             25            19                 14
62d  )   f Rnoieeolo    (442l..-        37.  tget                           1169          92.00              420         420D           10               3.2            14.2          64          31            14            17             . ..           20aC               35C0
7010 1) eafar  logobool 7001   30    ItOle                        169              .0             720 e         I              32               5.             21.2           0F        40             5531                         32A4          20C                41A
so   ns   be  eoeoo     f alot               ~lol,.                    207           21.              30             4              1               3.7A I            0.0        59 0        36            19 0          21              14            29                 30
bothapp 1ooa   'toabol                 40.  noondor98                                     6.1             1900          644              St.21                         21.30         72          39            28            292             034           200C               201
nailic  and 0000.00 9y tern!  42.  hoyana                ~~~~~         ~~~~~           ~~1949  2.0  370  054          "t               5.2            14.4          908         33A4          18C0           3 12831
tinyara  oteegojeltleetdb42.  pnooaa                                         1170           2.4              140           79                             2.2             14            RI          6172X                                      15            1229
n ieoo  nlnI  lede                     43.   Ft,                           197           234I52                          2             2                4.3512                       8           37             0052                                       2                 1
osrtos lo81    atto.             4.leooa27                                        10.4             980           01             45              4.9             2.1           8           535322it9
teanro of boalo                    ASn 3 I.A41
0l... nly_   RI toetb'   tb""            45   chioaTans19711                               24.00             3900          73             15              4.2            19.0          980         520           320            160            3SF           27F               079
enlho004000I972                                                                  33020             1100          29               3A,            2640            .            792         434           28             645            0200          114254
lasbeot9od   taooalye                           IdiX
gabol.  Rna0          ldOg1                    Idoaa21 71                                 154                80            5619                           2(06            13.00         700        395X                         26tt0
Ooel-stonlate dtenby            o-       40.  000                            2972          20.701           3000           37             2131                            10.0         42          3323                          3             340'2                            390
loteagigoOso                       49. ~~hIea                         1970           SF               320           24             10              0.              241.3         44          22           23              3             26            17S
nfaabaooe. 52.  Jado117                                       2~.9             250           15A4            7.3            4.0             17.1q         9t          24            35             5             22             1                 46
52.  (olga                1971~         ~~~~~            ~~~ 32.  0 22  F  03 1        13.2             3.0            14.7         19  0x       56            4441                         34             20               113
52.  latanoc             ~~~~~         ~~~~~1971  2.70   390            06F            210             4.0             21.0          79          UO            34            3614                                             t
S).  "olayel                       2170          M0,              300            090            17              4.7             19,50         RIA        31             290            3             25            14                 74
34.  Oot.                          1101            O.,6           4444          20              1)              2.3              36           240        33o.2x                       239
52.   palta                         972          44.0              225           39              2              2.5              8,2          40          33             A             5             ila70                            410
54.   PbtIipplRoe         8~~~    ~ ~~~970  34.0          22             2              4              3.              92           11X          32            71             834                         20                450
'h"'ooaae                        92            21               92            73             3034                            161           9           32            42            16             25             101t2
~~   25000004             1~~~         ~~~~~972  34.20    200           720             0              3.7             272            3         34             132           23             23233
39.   borkoy              2~~~    ~ ~~~~~~949  33.40      394           49k                            3.5R            17.t1         91          42            250           14             33             29                 41
49 =ooaAOneOnFob-               0972           3.70              201          00              20             1.000            9.40         12R         40t            12            3d            280sH                              IfA
2020081  FOR otawLPmol
tatefosotle                                                              4             00              60              37             00         60            40            60              39            54                 51
tango                                                     ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(1.981  (1-50)  41.0-9.0)  23.9-32.3)  (6.1192    (18-725  (.2-71)  61-492  (19-56)    (1-29)           (0-4373
QiactOles:   00080                                          79~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  11  4:.7          22.0          6          44            2              221            26            20                 29
Radian                                           55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  10  4.             17.           04           7             3            11 3I1                                           13
loner                                           ~~       ~      ~~              ~~~~           ~~~~     ~ ~~~            ~~      ~      ~      ~      ~~25  6  1.2  14.3  41  35  0  5  20  tO          0
Soob.lo;       -. 20m             Ubtlehl                                   ta-oa    A    1161 a  beftog        M9   -       tCoo     plina-gaoa    CAloo-   (15 and 22);    30.3d FTbIee  (35
-Ktgoto-den1   01 - alttt                      -                        2lgbl  960                  G . 2. 0.                                                                          PeoO IaiFgoe
eOWotttda Iosa lba, half of nttt epload                            C - 1967                    0 e  -tldlo    for... agid                                  CAta-  (3) . (9) sd
I  loeettnnablo                                    0~~~~~~~          ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~ - 196  C.-onr2 M-18iot  only                                       (1;       On2  Otasto.a
O  leetodna Onet-tOna atOdenne                      6 ~~~~~~         ~        ~~- 2969  2 b 041, sol                                       Cairns  (10)-(12) and
F a 1970                    v -11208petrel.  Eep-ndto-                                                     (13>;   18090   Ooataioal1 Yeaebook
C- 0971                    2X  loldtgooo d aadetts                                                                  and I800 Migto.a
H - 1972                    5    2160  soM    s
De.e. bSo1,1903






ANNEX 2
POPULATION AND LABOR FORCE FORECASTS
MALES
Net                          Population (Thousands)               Labor  Implied 2/
Period  Emigration      YEAR                By Age Groups                       Force Participation
(Thousands)             0-14   -44   4          65    Total   15!-64   (000)      Rate
1961-66      38         1966      459    534     305    150   1,s449    839   829         98.8
1 Q66-71     26         1971      472    568     306    149   1,495    874   845.6        96.8
1971-76      25         1976      500    613     296    155   1,564    909    857.0       94.3
1Q76-81      22.5       1981      544    671     282    161   1,657    953   8805         92.4
1981-86      20         1986      611    727     274    161   1,774   1001    921         92.0
FEMALES
1961-66      43         1966      441    524     297    173   1,435    821    289         35.2
1966-71      29        1971       452    551     302    177   1,482    853   297          34.8
1971-76      25         1976      478   594      297    183   1,553    891    303.4       34.1
1976-81      22.5      1981       519    652     284    190   1,645    936   309.9        33.1
1981-86      20        1986       583    707     274    195   1,759    981   323.7        33.0
Notes:
I/ The projections above prepared by the governmexit im=ly:
(i)  emigration will stabilize at 8,000 persons/year
by 1981; (ii) mortality decreasing; and (iii) fertility constant
for duration 0-4 yrs. and decreasing at 1.0% p.a. for duration
over 5 yrs.
2 Implied participation rate = total male or female labor force
divided by the male or female population aged 15-64 and mul-
tiplied by 100.
Source: Depirtment of Finance/Appraisal Mission; April, 1973.






ANNEX 3
Adjusted Employment Pro,jections
(in thousands)
Sector                   1            1976         1981         1986
Agriculture, etc.        283.6        246.8        211.6         176.6
Manufacturing Industry  232.0         268.0        302.3         349.1
Other Industries          96.0        102.0        109.3         122.9
Services                 463.o        489.1        516.6         558.2
Total                  1,074.6      1,105.9      1,139.8       1,206.8
Notes:   2  Adjusted from Macro- Economic forecasts prepared by the Economic
Policy division of the Department of Finance (March '73)
2] Includes Forestry & Mining
/ Building and Public Utilities
Source: Department of Finance/Appraisal Mission; April, 1973.



IREIAND: MANPOWER REQUDIEENITS 1971-1986
BY EDUCATIONAL LEVEL & OCCUPATIONAL CATEGORY
(IN THOUSA4DS)
1971    rPercentage
Absolute     of                      Estimated      Shortage        Projected Desirable Level
Distrib.    Stock       Stock        Manpower        to be    Educational Attainment for this Shortage
of        Surviving   Surviving   Requirements   Supplied  Primary  Secondary Cycle Third Level
Enpl.       to 1986     in 1986       1986         1971-1986 CYcle      Gen_        Voctl  Univ. OLh;r_
1. Professional and            95.3         .45        42.9         131.2          88.3      -       17.7       -     35.3  35.3
technical
2. M4anagers, Officials       58.9          .49        28.9         108.0         79.1       11.9    47.4       -      4.0  15.3
and Proprietors                                                                                                    _
3. Clerical                  115.7          .49        56.7         166.8        110.1       33.0    66.1       -      -    11.0
4. Sales                       72.8         .58        42.2          57.9         15.7        9.4     4.7       -      -     1.6
5. Craftsmen and Foreman      138.2         .71        93.1         168.4          70.3      14.1     -        56.2    -      -
6. Operatives                 149.2         .61        91.5         249.6        158.1      142.3     7.9       7.9    -      -
7. Service workers             91.0         .42        38.2         133.0         94.8       71.1     9.5      14.2    -      -
8. Laborers, except farm.     78.2          .67        52.4          58.4          6.o        6.o     -         -      -     -
and Mine
9. Farmers& Farm Workers      270.9         .54       146.3         154.9           8.6       5.6     2.6       0.4    -      -
TOTALS                  1,070.9          .56       597.2       1,228.2        631.0      293.4   155.9      78.7   39.3  63.7
Source: Department of Finance/Appraisal Mission; April, 1973.
.1                                                                     C C     A  



IRELAND
Population Breakdown by Age and Type of Education--1972/73
---------------t----------------------------------------------------------Institution--------------------------------------
Junior Cycle               Senior Cycle
Post Primar-               Post Primary |                 a *
Age                                                                         4 P)                                                                                              P .
,4  ~~~~~~~~~4  0                                                                            H-4a ~   40.0
14 C _ 1                                                                 _ i 0    I      D _ __ __ __ _
4 - 6   165,842         -         -       -         -        -     -        -        -           -           -            -        -        -         165,842   188,949   87.8
7      63,110        -         -        -         -        -     -        -        -           -           -            -        -        -          63,110    63,216   99.8
8      62,410         -        -        -         -        -     -        -        -           -           -            -        -        -          62,410    62,689   99.6
9      61,100        -         -        -         -        -     -        -        -           -           -            -        -        -          61,100    61,163   99.9
10      61,561         -        -        -         -        -     -        -        -           -           -            -        -        -          61,561    61,623   99.9
11      58,562      1,437       111        7               -               -                                                                          60,117    60,379   99.6
12      38,530    16,470    3,184        313       -        -     -            -          -           -        _                           -          58,497    58,688   99.7
13      10,788    32,677   12,375        688         1        3   -        -                                                      -        -          56,532    56,837   99.5
14       2,442    32,927   13,478        636       162       53     1        5      -                                             -        -          49,704    55,909   88.9
15          -      22,372    9,759       395    7,646       901   109       52      -           -           _-                             -          41,234    55,751   74.0
16            6     4,398    3,517       102   19,629   2,945   252        166   2,300(e)   2,900(e)        -               6     -        -          36,221    55,044   65.8
17            7       305       605       13   16,412   2,826   203        257   2,500(e)   2,900(e)        -          1,095      183      500(e)    27,806    51,194   54.3
18            7         21       50      -       3,952   1,468    75       393   1,900(e)       -         2,000(e)    3,579       627   3,000 (e)    17,072    50,744   33.6
19            3          1       19      -         359      336     6      166      -           -         1,720(e)     3,612      517   2,600(e)       9,339    46,773   20.0
20+          38          5       24      -          73      118      2     164      -           -           -         12,379      447   1,400(e)    14,650   226,072    6.5
Total   524,406   110,613   43,122   2,154   48,234   8,650   648   1,203   6,700(e)   5,800(e)   3,720(e)   20,671   1,774   7,500(e)    785,195
(e) Estimate for 1972/73. All other figures for February 1st, 1972.
Source: Department of Education; April, 1973.



ANNEx 6
IRELAND EDUCATION II
Enrollments, Graduates and Teachers
by Level and Type of Education 1972-73
Education Level                          Enrollments                             Average
and Type                                                     Teachers      Pupil/Teacher
Total        Graduates                       Ratio
Pre-Primary
Kindergarten                       96,000                      (
( i6,058
First Level
Primary                           429,00')          59,240
Sub-total                           525,ooo0 /                                        33il
.~~~~~~~~~~~3 2
Second Level
Junior cycle                      156,o00          40,000
11,400           19:1
Senior cycle                       57,500           27,000
Other secondary agriculture,
domestic science and ap-
prentices                        17,400          16,0oo          1,100           16:1
Sub-total                           230,900           83,000        12,500         18.51
Third Level
University                         20,671            4,65o                       various
Technology                          7,500            1,900
Teacher Training                    1,774            1,632
Sub-total                            29,945            8,182
I/ Excludes special classes for the handicaped.
Source: Statistical tables, Department of Education 1972/73



ANNEX 7
Projected Teacher Requirements (1972-86)
Primary Levelz gSecondary Level
1972/73                16,060                           12,470
1973/74                16,380                           13,170
197I/75                16,810                           13,840
1975/76                17,190                           14,510
1976/77                17,350                           15,180
1977/78                17,420                           15,860
1978/79                17,770                           16,520
1979/80                18, 120                          17, i40
1980/81                18,h70                           17,780
1981/82                19,110                           18,1410
1982/83                19,750                           19,030
1983/84                20,390                           19,670
1984/05                21,030                           20,320
1985/86                21,770                           20,970
Yincluded pre-primary education
2/includes general academic and technical subject teachers
Source: Department of Education; April, 1973.



IRELANlD
PROJECTED OUTPUT OF THE TECHHCCAL TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTE
Year          1973__              1974                 1975                 1976                 1977                   1978                 1979                    1980
4~aU      .     0    ~u        .~         0O       0            Wu      0.     050.   0        .    0    oo0        0      a      Qo      0       0    50        .
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04
Course                                           r   0~~~~~~~~~~~~4~  0:  04,4             0    4                     04.     0                                    O4'
0 0~0 
Science                  22    42    21    22    62         0     40    80    20    40    95    20    40    110    20    40              110    35    40        110    35j40    110          35
2  (Trader Entrv)           36    68    27    36    68    32    54    86    32            54   102    32    36    100         32    36      IN      32    36    100    32    36   100            32
3.I Woodwork
(School Entry)           18    64    16    18    64    16    18    64    30            18    50      16    18       50     16    18       50     16    18       5 0    1l6    18    50-    16
4. Woodwork and Building
Constructioni            18    1 8    13    18    18    16    24    24          16    18    28       1 0    18      34    10   -18        34     16    18  3_24    16          18    34      16
5. Metalwork and Engineer-
inaz(Trade Entry)  - 24    43    24    24    48    19    38    62    24    26    62    24    2 6                    62    24    26        74     12    26       74    24    26    74         24
b .  M4etalwork and Engineer- 
ing (School Entrv)        -      -      -      -      -      -    16    26       -    26    50        -    26       74      -    26       74     24    26       74    24    26    74         24
7.  Business and Secre- 
tarial Studies
(School Entry)            -      -                   -      -     40    40             40    7 6      -     40    112       -    40      148      -    40   1_4~8      36    40   148        36
8. Business end Secre-
tarial Studies
(Graduate Entry)          -      -                   -      -     40    40       -    40    40    38    40          40    38    40        40     38    40       40    38    40    40         38
9. Lecturers and
10.    Specialists                -      -                    -      -    30-   30       -    60    30    56    60          30    56    60        30     56    60       30    -56    60    30        56
11. Remedial
Education                 -      -             .      -      -    24    24    24    46        32    48    48        32    48    48        32    48    48        32    48    48    32          48
12. Adult
Education                 -      -             -      -      -      -      -      -    40      7    40    40         7_   40    40         7    40    40          7    40    40        7      40
13. School
a nnitration           -      -                                40    26       -    40    26    40    40          26    40    40        26    40    40        2 6    40 i40    26          40
Totals                    1118   235   101   118   240    83    374   502   146 1450   598   324   432    677  3-24   432                  725   357   432        725   403   432   725    405
(1) Courses 11-13 are inservice courses which can be substituted by other inservice course,S as required
(2) Courses 9-10 are both pre-entry and inser-vice
(3) Above figures presume the availability of the facilities by 1975
(4) Course No,l changes to 3 year program in 1974
Source: Department of Education - Technical Education Division; April, 1973.



ANNEX 9
IRELAND - EDUCATION II
PROJECTED OUTPUT BY REGION FROM AnCO INDUSTRIAL TRAINIIG CENTERS 1972/77
REGION              1972      1973     1974      1975     1976      1977
North east
(Dundalk)                    200       300       600      600       800
East
(Dublin)            400      65o       85o  - 165o       225o      3600
South east
(Waterford)         400      400       44o       810      960      1280
South west
(Cork)              272      472       672     1308      1368      1944
Mid west
(Limerick)          1400     450o      600       900      900      1200
West
(Galway)            472      472       472       708      708       984
North west
(Sligo)              -       100       160       240      300       400
North
(Donegal)           100      140       180       270      270       360
Midlands
(Athione)            72       72       196       594      654       872
Total Output        2216      2906     3870      7080     8010    11400
Source: AnCO Development Proposals; February, 1973.



IRELANID
Projected Annual Enrollment and Output of Qualified Engineers
1972/73 to 1984/85
National Institute of
University Colleges                                                Colleges of 1Technclogy             higher Education --- Li.eicc'
Year
Annual                                          Out uts                                       Annual                Out uts              Annual Iu   t
Enroll-!                     Electri-                Agricul-  Mechani-  Indus-               Enroll      I.etri   bechani               Eroll-  Elcri-  Mechani-
m entI General  Civil           cal      Chemical       tore      .cal       trial   Total   ment          c%atl'       call     Total Iceont I  cal               cal     Total
1972/73    1347         71        10        78          14           2        40          -      285       156          11         13         24       ---
1973/74    1368         75        85        83          15           3        42            6    301       162          13         17         30       50         --
1974/75    1359         79        90        88          16           4         45           7    317       169          16         19         35      160         --
1975/76    1371         83        95        93          17           5        48            8    334       175          13         19         36      205         25          16       41
1976/77    1423         89       100        98          18           5         50           9    353       182          16         20         38      290         26          32        58
1977/78    1503         93       119       103          19           6         52         10      372      190          19         21         40      620         62          62      124
1978/79    1610         98       110       109          20           6         55         11      393      197          19         22         41      680         68          68      136
1979/80    1720        103       112       115          22           7         58         12    414        205          20         23         43      860         86          86      172
1980/81   1840         109       115       120          24           7         61         14    437        214          21         24         45     1040        104         104      208
1981/82    1970        115       118       125          26           7         65         15    461        221          22         25         47     1222        122         122      244
1982/83    2110        122       122       131          28           8         70         16    487        231          23         26         49     1390        139         139      278
1983/84    2270        126       125       136          30           9         75         16    513        240          24         27         51     1530        153         153      306
1984/85    2430        130       130       142          32          10        80          18    542        250          25         28         53     1750        175         175      350
Projected Ann.eal E-rollmet and Outp.t of Middle and High-Level Technicians_(1972/81)
Technician courses           1972/73                1973/74               1974/75               1975/76                 1976/77                 1977/78                 1978/79.                1979/80                 1980/81
Areas of Study          E       C   ID         E      C      0       N      C      0        B              N CC                  0)       F       CI  0                                                                       
Building                  676   122    65       735   230      74     802   280    III    882   330   119          975      365   134    1087      408    152   1213       455    169   1260       471    175   1310       490   180
Civil                     270     80     13     304     97    20      343   120       30     389   146    40       443      165    48      506     190      55     534     200      65     560     210      68     589     220      72
Mechanical               495   133      38     553   172    50        630   217      70     700   262      87      798     298     95     898      336   112    1015       380    125   1065    429    141    1119         450    160
Electrical               468    174      33     505   187    58       569   210       62     613   226    70       686      257   75       757     284    .86    888       333      95     932     381    111      979     400    127
Totals  1909    509    149    2097    68&    202    2334    827    273   ~~~~2584   964   316   2902    1085 j355   3248   1218   405   3650    1368   454   3817    1491   495   3997    1560   539
Total technicians                                                                                                                                                             18229
all grades                        658                   888                   1550                  1280                    1440              j    1623      j              821986                                         29
B--Enrollment
C--Certified Technicians                                                                                                                  m
0--Diploma Certificate Technicians
Source: Department of Education; April, 1973.



Forecast Birollments in Post-Primary Education (1971/86)
(incl. pupils in non-state-aid schools)
Total Enrollments in Post-Primary              Leavers From Post-Primary              Entrants to
Year             Junior cycle         Senior cycle              Junior  Senior   Total                 Third Level
1971/72          155,980              61,310                    19,910  22,780   42,690                 7,650
1972/73          160,00C              66,220                    19,960  24,510   44,470                 8,380
1973/74          161690               71,120                    20,140  26,320   46,160                 9,060
1974/75          162,260              75,440                    20,O50  28,160   48,?10                 9,730
1975/76          162,810              79,200                    18,600  29,780   48,380                10,310
1976/77          163,200              83,870                    17,270  29,870   470130                10,810
1977/78          164,700              89,060                    14780  28,960   43,740                11,580
1978/79          16(,200              93,670                    12,570  30,140   42,710                12,180
1979/80          167,580              98,470                    10,600  31,420   42,020                12,800
1980/81          1690100             103,710                     9,230  31s,720   40,95D               13,090
1980/82          173,240             10532,0                     6,520  34h880   41s4oo                14,090
1982/83          177,180             106,890                     4h450  35,300   39,760                14,690
1983/84          1877170             1096840                     4,740  3535o0  4o.,o9o                15,300
1983/85          191,050             1130,220                    4;,880  35,51o   40,390               15.,910
1985/86          197,670             114,230                     5,130  36,980   42,110                16,510
*Including some students in 3rd year senior cycle
Source: Statistical Division, Department of Education; April, 1973.



ANNEX 12
The Output of Regional Technical Cq%leges and
Estimated Regional Manpower Requirements (1971/86)
Output          Requirements
Region          RTC           1971-1986         1971-1986          Remarks
1. North East     Dundalk          9,200            10,600             *
2. East           Dublin         42,900             53,200
3. South East     Waterford      10,700             10,900             *
4. South West     Cork           15,000             20,500
5. Mid West       Limerick         6,900             8,200
6. Midlandls      Athlone         5,900              6,Qoo             X
7. West           Galway         13,h00             14,400             *
8. North West     Sligo           7,300              8,000
9. Donegal        Letterkenny    4,000               4,600
10.Carlow          Carlow          8,000              8,ooo             *
Totals                      123,300            144t,500
i PROJECT INTTUTTOITS
Source: Department of Finance/Appraisal Mission; April, 1973.



IRELAN.D: PUBLIC _CPEiMITURE 01 EDUCATION (1958/73)
(Irish £ millions)
1'7,  j5,  i96j64  1964/65 1965/66   1966/67  1967/68  1968/69   196/ L70    9 -7        197 1/72  1972/L73
(estimated)
Public Expenditures on
EducatiLc 1/           17.6      27.3      34.?     40.2      41.1     46.8      58.8       70.1       80.       06       115.2
of which - RecurrenT,
Expenditures           16.2      2).2      30.1     34.2      36.2     39.0      47.8       57.3      68.3      78.2      100.2
Capital
Expenditures            1.4        3.6      4.8      6.0       4.9       7.8     11.0       12.8      11.7      12.4       15.0
- Recurrent Expendit-ures
on Education as a
Percentage of Current
Revenues                10.1      10.6      11.3     11.6      10.9     10.5      11.2       13.9      14.0      13.7       15.0
- Capital ExTenditures
on Edo-aticn as a
percentape of Capital
Expendliture 2/          3.7       5.5       6.0      6.8       5.'       7.7      3.4        7.3        6.0      5.8        6.2
- Public Exoenditures
on EducatiLn as a
percentage of GY1P       2.9        3.3      3.7       3.9      3.3       4.0      4.6        4.6        4.7      4.7        5.1
Source:  Depp:rtment of Finance - April 1973.
j Central end 'ocal government
2/ Inclu.din; extra-budLetary funds.



Projected Public Expenditures on Education
Selected Years
(Irish £ millions) (1972 Prices)
Capital Expenditure                  Current Expenditure
in selected years                    in selected years
1972    1975    1980    1985       1972    1975    1980    1985
Primary                         3.7     5.1     6.o      7.0      40.1    45.4    52.1    64.1
Secondary & Continuation        6.o     8.0    10.0    12.0       39.5    46.7    69.2    75.5
Industrial                      0.5     0.5     0.5     o.8        0.7     1.0     1.3      1.6
Post-Secondary                  14.8    6.o     8.o    10.0       15.1    21.2    30.9    41.1
Administration                   -       -       -        -        4.8     5.5      6.1     6.8
Total                    15.0    19.6    24.5    29.8    100.2   119.8   159.6   189.1
Source: Department of Finance, April, 1973.



NATIO,NAL INSTITUTE OF HIGHT.7ER EDUCATIONT
Degree and Diploma output by ma,jor area Prograns 1975/80
YIAJOR SMTDY AREA             1 975-7'             1976-77             1977-78            1978-79               1979-80
DIPLOMNA-DElRaE    DI:PLOMA-DEGREE    DIPLOMA-D-f REE    DIPLOMA-DEGREE    DIPLOMIA -DlrrRE7E
APPLIED S3IiT1KIC             11        _            22       -        22        -         28       -          33       -
I1ANUF.ACTURIG    .                     8            -       14         -         25        -       34          -       43
MATERIALs ENC                 -         8            _        1)4       -         2         -       34          -       43
ELECTRONICS                   11        2C           22       22        22       5∞        28       68         33       86
EUSIEEESS STUDIES             11        -            22       -         22        -        28       -          35       -
-iA.TdrETINCTG               -         13           -        13        -         25        -       34          -       43
MI N7AG2IET                   _         1 ,-                  15                  2 25      _       34                  43
SECIETARIAL SCIECE            12        1)4          23       27       22         50       28       68         33       86
EUROPEAN STUDIES              12        20           23       25        22        50       28       68         35       86
UN5PECIFIED MAJORS            20        -            23       40        60        50       70       70          81      90
77       95          135      170       170       300       210      410       2'50      520
SueT IT  D  I D en  ;A liY 319 3
Souarce: NIH,L Developmenlt Plan; April 1973                                                                                      1!



IRELAND - PROJECT COST BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
(In Millions)
I R I S H  L                   U. S. $%
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   %   o f~
Local     Forein      Total    Local     Foreign      Total    Total
1. Construction
a. Academic & Communal             7.93       3.24      11.17    19.67        8.03      27.70    55.5%
Facilities
b. Site Development                0.95       0.17         .1 2    2.35       0.42       2.77      5.5%
c. Professional Fees               1.48       0.00       1.48     3.66        0.00       3.66      7.3%
2 . Furniture                         0.92       0.36       1.28     2.29        0.89       3.18      6.4%
3. Equipment                          0.51       4.57       5.08      1.27      11.34      12.61    25.3%
Base Line (sub-total)             11.79       8.34      20.13      29.24     20.68      49.92   100.0%
4. Contingencies                      3.47       1.74       5.21       8.M0      4.32      12.92    25.9%
Total                             15.26      10.08      25.34      37.84     25-00      62.84
ON



ANNEX 17
0. = o.                              o0 C4 .4 
=-   S                 '0      _0    _4       '0          _. 
J0  0C
0'      0000                                    D'      o          ∞    ∞
'0II4.
H    >  w   ¢=c                   4      X '0  .  .4     0
z~~~                        ~          '0      '0      0  m 0  0          0.   =
.1                              4      0.      .0 e               4    ∞=
,,                                     4 .4 _                      .   0.
l0                      -
v~ ~~0 _4.0.
; .             wo     v=       e       o         ct   N                _1 .0  0.0
0.00N                                            £         g    
~~~~~~'                         .       '00    0   0.                   '0.0_
mW~~~~~~. 0 -                                                       00
____  _00                                                                         6-∞~
o´~~~~~~~~~ '00
?> ~   ~     ~    ~     I     0ve= 0                     .            0..
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 00 C0                                              .0100o 1o r1o 41



IRELAND - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
CONTINGENCY ALLCWANCES (US$ MILLIONS)
Site              Building      Professional      Furniture        Equipment      Sub-Total       Total
De-velopnent                       Services      _______
ocal Foreign  Local  Foreign   Local For_n Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign
Contingencv Percentages
(a) Unforeseen Physical
Increases             7%/     7 7%     7%     7∞%              N.A.    N.A.  N.A.       N.A.    N.A.                      .8%
(b) Price Increases       24%     18%'    2.14%    18%o     2 4     N.A.    180    18%       18%      18%                     21.1%
Total a & b           31%     250/%   31Z    25%        31%     N.A.-  18%    18%         18%     18%                     25.9%
Total Project Cost
before Contingencies       2.35    0.42   19.67   8.03       3.66    0.00    2.29   0.89       1.27   11.34   29.24  20.68   49.92
Contingency Anounts
(a) Unforeseen Physical
Increases             0.16    0.03    1.38  056        0.26    0.00    0.00   0.00      0.00    0.00    1.80   0.59    2.39
(b) Price Increase        o.56    o.o8    4.72   1.!j5      0.88    0.00    0.41   0.16       0.23    2.04    6.80   3.73   10.53
Total a & b           0.72    0.11    6.10   2.01       1.14    0,00    0.41   0.16       0.23    2.04    8.60   4.32   12192
Total Project Cost
including Contingencies   3.07    0.53   25.17  o1004        4.680    0,00    2.70   1.05      1.50   13.38   37.84  25.o00   62.84
co



ANNEX 19
Estimated Recurrent Expenditure for the Project Institutions
(Irish Pounds)
1975 - 1976
Institute                        Student        Cost per        Recurrent
Places        Student Place   Expenditure
1975/76        (Rounded)        1975/76
Faculty of Agriculture, U.C.D.                 550           680            374,000
National Institute for
Higher Education                           2,000         1,100          2,200,000
Industrial Training Centers                 1,650          2,100    /    3,465,00O
Regional Technical Colleges                  7,300           290          2,117,000
Technical Teacher Training College             700           45r  2/        315,000
Community Comprehensive Schools            10,700            200          2,140,000
Total                                                           10,611,000 o
j As each training place will enable an output of 4 + trainees p.a., Irish pounds
per student output is about 495.
These figures do not include student maintenance costs.
/ This figure represents about 94 of total estimated recurrent expenditure on
education in 1975/76.



ANNEX 20
IRELAND
Second Education ProJect
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
Quarterly     Accumulated      As % of    Undisbursed  As % of
FY 1973-74   Disbursement  Disbursements    loan         Balanced      Loan
1            -               -              _            _           _
2                            -              -           25.00      100.0
3           (0.30) /       (0.30)          1.2          24.70       98.8
4            0.35           o.65           2.6          24.35       97.4
FY 1974-75
1            0.50           1.15          4.6           23.85       95.4
2            0.70           1.85          7.4           23.15       92.6
3            1.20           3.05          12.2          21.95       87.8
4            1.45           4.50          18.0          20.50       82.0
FY 1975-76
1            2.55           7.05         28.2           17.95       71.8
2            2.65           9.70         38.8           15.30       61.2
3            3.05          12.75         51.0           12.25       49.0
4            2.60          15.35         61.4            9.65       38.6
FY 1976-77
1            1.70          17.05         68.2            7.95       31.8
2            1.50          18.55         74.2            6.45       25.8
3            1.70          20.25         81.0            4.75       19.0
4            1.65          21.90         87.6            3.10       12.4
FY 1977-78
1            0.75          22.65         90.6            2.35      9.4
2            0.40          23.05         92.2            1.95       7.8
3            0.50          23.55         94.2            1.45       5.8
4            0.55          24.10         96.4            0.90       3.6
FY 1978-79
1            0.60          24.70         98.8            0.30       1.2
2 2          0.30          25.00         100.0           0.00      0.0
/ Numbers in paraenthesis (    ) indicate estimated disbursements applicable to
retroactive financing on expenditures made prior to Loan Agreement signing.
?/ Closing date of December 31,1978.



IRELAND SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT:
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1973                       1974                      1975                     1976                       1977                         1978
1     2      3-4          1      2     3      4      1     2      3     4      1      2      3     4      1      2     3      4    1       2     3      4
Community Comprehensive
Schools:
Phase I:  (5 schools)                                               usage musline mmi.                                      oo   _oo      _    ooo oc000  00000
Phase II: (5 schools)                                                                                                                0 00000 00o00o  00000
ilIlli  111111 listii,.        sits-      0-00..0 -00001 .OOOO  ooo
Phase III:(4 schools)                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00000 00000 000  )00000
Phase III:(4 RTChoos)                                                                         smm immu stiool mmmiii1 _ _  o                        ooo0 oooooooooooo  o0     oooo.
- 11111m1 L ec|  t-  ei00s_00000 000003000  00000
Recional Technical
Colleges:
Phase I:  (3 RTC's)       |                                   ....,.                                     00 0000000) oooo ooooo ooooo
Phase II: (4 RTC's)                                                                           let|  miiu  a   m scii.  ,ooooc oooo   ,oooc oooo0
___  --    -  00000000000__
NIHEa   Limerick:                                                                         0 0 0 0 0_000 00 000 0_00000
'moo o      m snmi00000 300000 0000 0.00001 
Technical Teacher                                                      mmi          ...    u.o0oo". 000(0 oooo0 O000
Training (TTTC):                                                      .        .     o ....... ....... _                               4m   m -    4m     oooo ooool' oooooo      1
Industrial Training
Centers: (ITC's)
Phase I : (3 Centers)                           Equiment  mammmllato                           ooo   oooo.  |oooxo
oo  -G00000a00000 00000P000000
Phase II: (2 Centers)                                ~4 0-00                                               1--   0 0000040000009,000001.
- -- 00000o 00000 00000 00000
Faculty of Agriculture                                                                                              I      1== ~          00J000:
at Belfield (UCD):                                              uuu  mu,..11  lIstl mam,n insmui                                         000  000  000    00
________________________  -               j                                                       mm    m m    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m m   0.00  00 Oo0  0 0000Oc 000001
Legend:           mumummimunb Planning, Preparation, Acquisition of Sites, etc.R
isismomConstruction
mmmu  Furniture & Equipment Installation                                                                                   o
ooooooo  Guarantee Period 






|MINISTER   |IRELAND
'              ~~~ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
rSECR SECRETAR
OF EDUCATION                                            L    HEADQUARTERS, UNESCO, NAT. LIBRiARY,
NAT. GALLERY MUSEUM
_   PRINCIPL _
ER~~~~ HIGHER EDUCATION, FILMS,|
PSYCHOLOGY, INSPECTION|
ASSISTANTCE
SECRETARYI
PLANNING|
-   HYSICAL EDUCATION, SPORT|
IOFFICERI
SECRETARY              IOFFICER                  PLNIGIRGAMIG  UGTN
PRINIPA                   POST-PRIMARY SALRANTS,
OFFICER          ~~~IN-SERVICE TRAINING
PRINCIPAL.         PRIMA~RY SCHOLSDMIISRAIO
-1 SPECIAL SCHOOLS ADMINISTRATIONl
ASST.~~~~~~~~      PRIAR + POST-PRIMARY SCOOS ANSPECORATE |
POSTPRIARYSCHOLSINSECTORATE,
CUHRICULUM~orl COURSS, EAMS7






IRELAND
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
LOWER           UPPER
PRIMARY             _*   SECONDARY -_ -SECONDARY_                       POST SECONDARY AND UNIVERSITY                o
ARTS, SOCIAL STUDIES, CELTIC STUDIES, LAW, SCIENCE, MEDICINE,
GENERAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS       ENGINEERING STUDIES, AGRICULTURAL STUDIES
COMMUNITY COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOLS| TEACHER TRAINING - SECONDARY|
PROFESSIONAL TRAINING - ARCHITECTS, SOLICITORS,|
oVCE ICATNL SCHOOLS        SURVEYORS, HIGHER TECHNICIANS
TEACHER TRAINING * PRIMARY, WOODWORK, METALWORK,
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION, APPLIED ENGINEERING
TEACHER TRAINING L  HOME ECONOMICS, WOODWORK,
PHYS. ED., ART, RURAL SCIENCE
REGIONAL TECHNICAL COLLEGES
TRADE APPRENTICE, TECHNICIAN (PART-TIME)
O  CERTIFICATE           TECHNICAL ASSISTANT
4   DIPLOMA             {E1        . L                                                              JL
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGESl
r                                                                    l            z~~
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION CENTERS                                             I:
NOTE: PRIMARY EDUCATION NORMALLY STARTS AT AGE SIXi
World Bank-7798






IRELAND: EDUCATION PYRAMID 1970-71
BY AGE AND LEVEL EDUCATION
GRADE/AGE                                                                                                                                        UNADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
THIRD LEVEL
'           POPULATION                                POPULATION
15   20----.---.. ..  1,,-, i_, ,,,,.,, ,,,,.                                                                                                              9.8%
14   19                                   .............................. * ..,.,,   11   6% AVAE.
14   19          .--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------------------11.6%                                                                              12.3%
13   18                                                                                                                                                   12.%.........  ------  , .......  .  12.7%
1 2  1 7                     ...............................  ,...             .........  .. ... ..... I -- - - - - - - -  ;~                  1 5.0 %
SECOND LEVEL
UPPER                                . . . . . . . . . . .                                                  - - - - - - - - - -
11  16                             . .46.I1%
10  1 5                                    .         ,,                                                                           -                       63.7%
SECOND LEVEL                                                                                                                                                            AVE.
LOWER                                 .......                                                                                                                       75.6%
9  14                                       I                                     j                                .1                                    78.1%
8   13                                                                                                                                                   90.5%
7   12                                   .. :...                                  1                                                                      99.4%
FIRST LEVEL
6   11                                                                                                                                                  106.4%
5   10                                                                                                                                                  107.9%
4    9                                     EN~~~~~~~~~ROLLMENT   ~          ENROLLMIENT                                                             AE
4    9                              =.                                                    ..  ... ..   .    :::                                         109. 1%    1 07.2%
3    8                                                                                                                                                  106.3%
2    7                                                                                                                                                  106.4%
1    6                                                                                                                                                  107.2%
35       30       25       20       15       10       5        0        5        10       15       20        25       30       35
BOYS                    (IN THOUSANDS)                        GIRLS
]/ Not including 21-24 age group with enrollment ratio of about 0.3%
World Bank-5511(2R)






IBRD 10550R
.     l                                  I                             ~~~~~~I          I                                             I                                    [R    O  0
Ir                                                               R r-                                                           7.                             *.    / 
IRE LAND
L5-  2nd. EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                      ;                                     v
u23\~~~~~~~ D 07i NDNE YAT TRI
0   N  EGA        1                                                            r-
*    UNIVERSITY COLLEGE OF DUBLIN / FACULTY OF AGRICULTURE                                                                    N       O    R    T                R        N
C    NATIONAL iNSTITVTEOF HIGHER EDUCATION LIMEERCKfI
*    INCIJSTRIAL TRAINING CENTER5S
A    REGIONALTECHNICAl.COLLEGES                                                  TN E
*   TECHNICALTEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTE
*    COMMUNITY COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOLS
ROTE SEE LST CE sAROEuS N REPORT TUE<SLrE                                          SgC3         >             X     g                                          D    O     W
669t  H \>1h402 >,\~~~~~~~~~~FE                              R     MN A G  11(XAGHA 
. I i M ) ~~~~~~~RAI                    r                           I   L                       CA57LEroof
54-
bl~~                  ~    - -  GrAI  E  B  R O       Y dr'W\71b
I '                                                     B .) ,. b - o o o         .     R
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r f_-m^                                                    am 6.1 0 A'w 
N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U .RTRTR E.="E -N EGO,g    Nt5TR R                        N Y  TNE
-  Z 9 g ;;kK $-f~Gy                                                      :6.7) 7Ct3a OREGN
--'   a/AOTGG  8'                                                                     7'                               6'
l  |                      |                               . |                                |                               | D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECEMSER 1773






IMAP ATTACHINT A
IRELAN,Th - PROPOSED SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
LIST OF SCHOOLS AND LOCATIONS
Location
P'ROJE.CT NUM          NAME OF 3CH0OOL                COUNTY LOCATION
I. TrIUNIVRSITC CE-LLEGEt OF DUBLI1N/FACULTY OF AGRICULTURE
1.01              U.C.D.                         DUBLIN
II, NATIO.IHAL, INSTITUTE OF HIGHER TEUCATION - LIMERICK
2.01              NIHE                           LIMERICK
III.  THDTUSTRThT TRAINTING CER,7TTERS
3 .01             DUBLINT                        DUBTIN
3.02              CORK                           CO RK
3.03              SLIGO                          SL3LTG
3 .04             ATHLOTE                        ATHLONE
3 05              TIEIP. ICTI                    LIIIERICK
I\J. REGION.AL TECHT,TNICAL COLLE,GES
4. 01             T)U1JALK                       DUlDAL-K
1i.02             ST0W0                          SLIGO
14.03             ATI 7r0NE                      AT1.ONTHE
1' .14            CARLJ T                        CARLCYLT
14.               G A _T,ATA7                    GALF kY
)4. 0 oS          TE        WV-FO,.7             T,7ATERFRD
14.07             TETTE,R`,_I IN                 T)0 CEGAL
V. TECTUNICAL TEACTERR TRTIING IiSTITUTE
, .01            LIT3MRICK                       LIMErDRICK
VI. COMMUNITY COMPREHENSIltE SCHOOLS
6.01              HOLY LANDS                     DUBLIN:
6.o?              EDENMORE                       DUBLIN
6.03              BALLYNAMTY                     LIMERICK
6.014             MERVUE                         GAIWAY
6.o5              DUNSHAUGHLIN                   MEATH
6.06              BALLYFERMOT                    DUBLIN
6.07              PASSAGE WNEST                  CORK
6.08              RATHKEALE                      LIMERICK
6.09              BEIMULLET                      MAYO
6.10              RAMSGRAN GE                    WEXFORD
6.11              BALLYHAUNIS                    MAYO
6.1?              PORTARLINGTON                  IAOIS
6.13              BALLYJAMESDUFF                 CAVAN
6.14              EDENDERRY                      OFFALY



