Document of
The World Bank                          F
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4329
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRELAND - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 959-IRE)
January 1983
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regions
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IRELAND SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 959-IRE
Glossary
AnCo   - An Comhairle Oiliuna, (Industrial Training
Authority)
BSI    -  British Standards Institute
EEC    -  European Economic Community
FIRA   - British Furniture Industry Research Association
IIRS   -  Irish Institute for Industrial Research and
Standards
ITC    -  Industrial Training Center
NCEA   - National Council for Educational Awards
NIHED  -  National Institute of Higher Education, Dublin
NIHEL  -  National Institute of Higher Education, Limerick
OECD   - Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
RTC    -  Regional Technical College
TCE    - Thomond College of Education
TTTI   -  Technical Teacher Training Institute
VEC    -  Vocational Education Committee
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRELAND SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(Loan 959-IRE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
PREFACE .....       ................................... (i)
PROJECT PERFORMANCE BASIC DATA SHEET .................................... (ii)
HIGHLIGHTS                ................................... (iv)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS             ............................. (vi)
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                              1
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND .1
Socio-Economic Setting .
Education Development Strategy.                                       2
Project Formulation.                                                  4
Changes in Project Composition.                                       5
Project Objectives.                                                   6
III.      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.                                               7
Overview.                                                              7
Project Management Performance.                                       8
Physical Implementation
- Sites.                                                            9
- Designs.                                                          9
Appraisal of Designs .10
Areas .11
Construction .12
Reaction of Users .12
Maintenance .12
Furniture and Equipment .13
Computer System Equipment .14
Implementation of Software Inputs
- General .15
- Structural Changes .16
Curricula .16
Teachers .22
Consumable Materials .25
Covenants and Conditions .25
Bank Performance .25



Table of Contents (Cont.)
Page No.
IV.     PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .       .................................... 25
Capital Costs .       ............................................ 25
Unit Capital Costs ............................................. 26
Disbursements .............................................          27
V.     PROJECT OPERATING OUTPUT AND OUTCOMES ........................... 27
External Productivity Outcomes .................................. 27
Employment of Graduates ......................................... 31
Liaison with Industry ........................................... 32
Equity .............................................               32
Operating Indicators ............................................ 34
Staff/Student Ratios ............................................ 34
Examination Results and Dropout ................................. 35
Space Utilization Factors ....................................... 37
Unit Recurrent Cost ............................................. 38
ANNEXES
I   Implementation Schedule ......................................... 41
II   Unit Space Allocation per Student ............................... 42
III Reaction of Users .43
IV   Institutions Where Respondents are Engaged in Further Studies ...44
V   Community/Comprehensive Schools - Schedules of Accommodation ....45
VI   Fulfillment of Major Covenants and Conditions .40
VII   Capital Cost per Student Place (US$)            0..... 50
VIII   Thomond College of Education - Comparison Between Planned and
Actual Enrollments by Courses .51
CHART
Structure of the Education System .53
TABLES
1    Student Places and Gross Floor Areas of Project Institutions,
As Appraised.                                                      5
2    Staff of the NIHEs and the TCE .................................. 22
3    Teaching Staff of the RTCs ...................................... 23
4    Estimated and Actual Froject Costs .............................. 26
5    Estimated and Actual Loan Disbursements by Category of
Expenditure .................................................... 27
6    Planned Student Places/Output and Actual Equivalent
Full-Time Numbers .............................................. 28
7    Destination of Community School Leavers from Project
Schools and All Schools ........................................ 30



Table of Contents (Cont.)
Page No.
TABLES (Cont.)
8    Location of Employment of Graduates .............................. 31
9    Socioeconomic Background of Entrants to NIHEL and
Higher Education Institutions .................................. 33
10    Planned and Actual Teacher;Student Ratios in
Project Institutions ........................................... 34
11    Intermediate Examination (1980) - Pass Rates .................... 37
12    Appraised and Actual Space Utilization Factors for RTCs ......... 37
13    Estimated and Actual Recurrent Cost in Project Institutions ..... 38
ATTACHMENT
Comments from the Borrower ....................................... 55






(i)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRELAND - SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 959-IRE)
PREFACE
This is a Completion Report of the Second Education Project in
Ireland, for which a loan of US$25.0 million was approved on January 5,
1974. The loan was closed on December 31, 1981 and an undisbursed balance
of US$45,774 was cancelled effective June 15, 1982.
The Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Borrower
subsequent to a Bank pre-completion mission during July 1981. Following
the Project Department's review, the PCR was sent to the Borrower for
comments. The Borrower replied on October 8, 1982, stating that he had no
comments to make.
The project has not been subjected to an audit by the Operations
Evaluation Department.






(ii)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IRELAND
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 959-IRE)
Basic Data Sheet
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal   Actual or
Item                                                        Estimated   Estimated
Total Project Cost (US$ million) 1/                           62.84       87.89
Overrun (%)                                                             39.90
Loan Amount (US$ million)                                     25.00       25.00
Disbursed                                                               24.95
Cancelled                                                                 .05
Repaid                                                                    -
Outstanding as of January 1982                                            1.72
Date Physical Components Completed                            12/77        12/81
- in months since loan signature                             47          95
Proportion Completed by Above Date (%)                         15          95
Proportion of Time Overrun (%)                                  -         102
Institutional Performance                                     Good        Good
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL AND ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS (US$ Million)
FY74  FY75  FY76   FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81   FY82
Appraisal Estimate         0.65  4.50  15.35 21.90 24.10 25.00    -     -      -
Actual Disbursement          -   1.20   2.60   5.00  7.50 12.10 16.76 20.82 24.95
Actual as % of Estimate      -    27     17     23    31    48    67    83    100
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original
Plan            Revisions         Actual
First Mention in Files                                                 Mar 1972
Government Application                                                 Feb 1973
Negotiations                                                           Nov 1973
Board Approval                                                         01/05/74
Loan Agreement Date                                                    01/30/74
Effectiveness Date                  Apr 1974              -            04/19/74
Revision of Project Components          -              02/17/75           -
06/25/75
Closing Date                        12/31/78           12/31/80        12/31/81
Borrower                           Government of Ireland
Executing Agency                   Project Unit, Department of Education
Fiscal Year of Borrower            April 1 - March 31
Follow-on Project                  None
1/ The appraisal estimate of total project cost was £IR25.34 million, while
actual cost was £IR45.78 million, giving a cost overrun of 81.0%.






(iii)
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                             Irish Pounds (EIR)
Year:
Appraisal Year
US$1 = £IRO.403
Intervening Years 1974-1976 Average
us$1 = £ IRO.450
Intervening Years 1977-1980 Average
US$1 = £IRO.521
Completion Year 1981
US$1 = £IRO.625
MISSION DATA
No. of    No. of       No. of      Date of
Mission                 Month/Year   Weeks      Persons*    Man-Weeks   Report
Project Identification     Mar 1972      1            2          1.8
Preparation                Jul 1972       1           1          0.6
Appraisal                Mar/Apr 1972    3-1/2        7         22.8      10/12/73
Total                                                           25.2
Supervision I            Apr/May 1974                1(A)        1.0
Supervision II           Nov/Dec 1974                1(B)        0.7     12/05/74
Supervision III          May/Jun 1975                1(C)        0.8     06/10/75
Supervision IV             Feb 1976               1(B), 1(C)     1.2     03/02/76
Supervision V              Jan 1977                  1(C)        0.5     03/21/77
Supervision VI             Mar 1978                  1(F)        0.5     04/19/78
Supervision VII            Jun 1979               1(A), 1(D)     1.1     07/20/79
Supervision VIII           Jan 1980                  1(F)        1.0     01/31/80
Supervision IX             Jul 1981            1(A), 1(C), 1(E)  3.2     03/21/81
Total of man-weeks devoted to this project            10.0
Completion             Dec 1981/Jan 1982
*  A = Architect; B = Facilities Planner; C = Technical Educator;
D = General Educator; E = Agricultural Educator; F = Deputy Division Chief






(iv)
HIGHLIGHTS
The Second Education Project in Ireland--Loan 959-IRE--provided a
loan of US$25 million to; (i) consolidate the program of reforming secondary
education; (ii) extend the reforms into technical teacher training and higher
agricultural and technical education; and (iii) assist in meeting manpower
training needs at the skilled worker, technician and higher levels.
The project has been satisfactorily implemented with the exception of
the following changes made during implementation;
(a) deletion of two comprehensive schools due to changed plans of the
local education authorities (PCR, para. 2.12a);
(b) deletion of two industrial training centers (ITCs) due to the
Government's decision to defer capital works during the poor economic
climate of the 1970s (PCR, para. 2.12c); and
(c) transfer of the College of Commerce from the first education project
to the second education project (PCR, para. 2.12b).
The completion of the project was extended by nearly 100% beyond that
projected at appraisal (PCR, para. 3.02). The principal reasons for the
delayed completion were; (i) difficulties in reaching agreements with the
local authorities over programs and sites of some of the comprehensive schools
(PCR, para. 3.01); (ii) problems in determining the respective roles of the
regional technical colleges (RTCs) and the ITCs in off-the-job apprentice
training (PCR, para. 3.01); and (iii) protracted national policy debate on
higher education, affecting particularly the College of Commerce (PCR, para.
3.01).
The project was a key element in the development of a new diversified
education pyramid in Ireland (PCR, para. 3.30). It responded well to the
manpower targets determined at appraisal; (i) apprentice output from the RTCs
closely matched the targetted 30% of total demand; (ii) the technician output
from the RTCs and the National Institute of Higher Education, Limerick,
(NIHEL), fully met the envisaged 42% of the projected shortage of this
category; and (iii) the output of agricultural technologists was fully on
target (PCR, paras. 5.01 and 5.03). The development of the technical teacher
training institute (TTTI), however, fell short of expectations (PCR,
para. 5.04) due, in large measure, to change in emphasis from the originally
planned short-duration courses of study to a new four-year degree program of
studies.
The other points of special interest are;
(a) all institutions have developed close links with industry, both
formally and informally. A notable example is the work of the
Cooperative Education Division of the NIHEL (PCR, para. 5.07);



(v)
(b) NIHEL successfully introduced the program of studies on the module
and the credit system (PCR, para. 3.31) as well as attracted the
establishment of four industrial R & D centers on its campus (PCR,
para 5.07).
(c) establishment of a well-developed cost-planning and control system
within the Building Unit of the Department of Education (PCR,
para. 3.04);
(d) the designs, which in all cases responded well to the educational and
functional stipulations of the well-developed educational briefs,
have been well within acceptable cost limits and conformed to
approved area limits (PCR, paras. 3.07, 3.10, 3.13 and 4.03); and
(e) the bidding process for furniture and equipment proved to be very
successful in attracting highly competitive bidders (PCR,
para. 3.19)--a high degree of satisfaction was expressed by the user
staff at the appropriateness and quality of the equipment supplied,
including the computing facilities for the RTC and NIHEL (PCR,
paras. 3.21 and 3.22).



(vi)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Introduction
i.       An IBRD loan of US$25 million was extended to Ireland in January 1974
to (i) consolidate the program for reforming secondary education; (ii) extend
the reforms into technical teacher training and higher agricultural and
technical education; and (iii) assist in meeting manpower training needs at
the skilled worker, technician and higher levels. The project, as originally
agreed, was intended to provide for the construction and equipping of fourteen
new comprehensive schools, five new industrial training centers (ITC), the
expansion of seven regional technical colleges (RTC), the first phase of a
National Institute of Higher Education, Limerick (NIHEL) (technological), a
technical teacher training institute (TTTI), a faculty of agriculture and
equipment for the Project Unit. The number of comprehensive schools and ITCs
was reduced to twelve and three, respectively, during implementation, and a
College of Commerce was added by transfer from the first project.
ii.      This report was prepared by the Project Unit staff.    As a lead-in to
the preparation of the completion report, project-institutions were visited
and discussions took place with school staff. Comments were obtained from
trainees and students on a sample basis.
Project Administration
iii.     Project implementation was administered by an experienced Project
Unit established for implementing the Bank's first education project within
the Building Unit of the Department of Education. The loan condition
requirement that the Project Unit be strengthened was fulfilled at an early
stage. The availability of a strong multi-disciplinary team within the
Project Unit was important, not only in relation to project execution, but
also as the basis for the important role which the Unit played as the
experimental and developmental arm for the total school building program. The
impact has been far-reaching in design development, development of furniture
standards and designs, standardizing furniture and equipment lists and room
layouts, and, most importantly, the establishment through the Unit of a
coordinating mechanism to ensure effective educational inputs and ongoing
review of educational requirements related to the school building program.
The cost data available through the project has been the major source of such
data for the comprehensive system of cost planning and control operated by the
Building Unit.
iv.      Implementation targets set at appraisal were considered realistic in
the context of planning and execution capability in Ireland. Physical
completion of individual institutions was delayed, nevertheless, by two to
four years. The diverse factors which resulted in delays included protracted
discussions on various policy issues; delays in reaching agreement with local
interests - local education committees, secondary school authorities, parent



(vii)
committees, etc. - on the establishment of comprehensive schools in many of
the designated locations and consequent changes in locations; and, to a lesser
extent, financial constraints at an intermediate stage particularly affecting
the ITCs. A further underlying factor was the arrangement made to phase
construction completion and equipment procurement for each institution to
match enrollment growth; first phase construction completion of individual
institutions was up to 18 months ahead of final completion. The Closing Date
was, as a result, extended from December 31, 1978, to becember 31, 1980, and
then to December 31, 1981, the latter mainly to permit final procurement of
equipment.
Physical Execution
v.       Apart from the delays arising from the above-mentioned factors,
physical execution proceeded satisfactorily. The designs have in all cases
responded well to the exacting educational ano functional requirements of the
brief, and have conformed to the stipulated area and cost limits. Users have
expressed satisfaction with designs and layout, as well as with the overall
quality of the finished buildings.
vi.      The process of design development has been rewarding and has provided
the Building Unit of the Department of Education with a bank of information
and experience on design and cost factors. The Building Unit has, in turn,
assisted school designers in responding more effectively to educational,
functional, design and cost considerations. It has also led to a variety of
important studies on building structures, designs and specifications as well
as on energy conservation and cost in use. The further process of review of
execution performance has also highlighted problems being encountered in
achieving construction completion targets on which an in-depth study has been
mounted, related to improving on-site construction management and monitoring.
vii.     The project has also provided a suitable range of furniture and
equipment for the project institutions. A high degree of satisfaction was
expressed by the staff and by industrialists in the regions on the
appropriateness and quality of the equipment supplied. The rigorous process
of development of furniture and equipment lists and specifications was pursued
to provide the basis for procurement for the project institutions and, as a
follow-on, for application under the general building program. No
difficulties were experienced in procurement of furniture and equipment, and
the bidding process proved to be highly effective in attracting competitive
bids. Among the more notable features of the procurement process were;
(a)  the decision to evaluate and award contracts on an item-by-item or
group of items basis, which gave a very satisfactory outcome in terms
of cost and suitability of items procured, but required a very
considerable input in evaluation and managing the very large number
of contracts which resulted; and,



(viii)
(b) the requirement in the loan agreement that bidders must bid for at
least 85% of a package only proved practicable in the context of the
large number of packages which were developed--44 for the community
schools and 43 for the RTCs.
Educational Objectives
viii.    The project achieved a high degree of success in meeting the
educational objectives set forth at appraisal. The project was a key element
in the development of a new education pyramid in Ireland under which the
project institutions dovetail together to provide a diversified
technical/technological education and training system, and in which course
structures provide, through a National Council of Educational Awards (NCEA),
horizontal and vertical mobility for students. The project broadened the
initiatives of the first education project in consolidating the general
application of a comprehensive school system, in supporting apprenticeship
training, and in expanding and reforming industrial, commercial and
agricultural education.
ix.      The well-qualified teaching staff, the suitability of the facilities
provided, and the degree of attention given to the development of the programs
and curricula in coordination with industry have been the major factors in
ensuring the high quality of the output of the project institutions. All the
institutions have developed close links with industry, both formally and
informally. A notable example is the work of the Cooperative Education
Division of NIHEL which arranges for the placement of all students in
employment relevant to their academic interests for one or more terms during
their full-time course, while the external liaison section of that Division
promotes awareness among industry of the functions and facilities of NIHEL and
obtains feedback on needs and trends within industry. A further notable
achievement is the productive liaison that is being established between the
community schools and industry, a development that is being studied with
interest by other second-level schools, as well as the introduction of special
pre-employment courses, again, linked with industry.
x.       The project has responded well to the manpower targets determined at
appraisal. The output of 1,330 apprentices from the RTCs represents 33% of
the total required output, and closely matches the targetted 30%. In relation
to the training in the ITCs for other than apprentices, special emphasis was
placed on the training of school leavers from agricultural backgrounds and on
the training of redundant workers. With more than 10,000 such trainees in
1980, targets were fully met including those for the project locations, where
required temporary facilities were rented pending completion of the new
facilities. Similarly, the output of technicians from the RTCs and NIHEL
provides about 47% of total output, and is thereby fully meeting the envisaged
42% of the projected shortage of middle and higher level technicians. In
addition, the planned output of agricultural technologists is fully on target,



(ix)
while the planned output of graduates in engineering and business studies will
be reached shortly. The employment prospects for the outputs of the project
technical institutions are excellent.
xi.      The TTTI was expected to meet all the requirements of practical
subject teachers for second level schools. As such, its role in the
development of the comprehensive school system is a critical one. To date,
however, development of the institute has fallen short of expectations and,
with the limited existing provision already phased out, there is a serious
shortfall in the supply of such teachers. For a variety of reasons - most
especially, the attraction of technical/technological courses nearer home and
the reluctance of potential trade entrants to forego high earnings for the
required three to four years - the anticipated input has not yet been
achieved. It is felt that the problem is a short-term one and that the
attraction of guaranteed, well-paid employment in a difficult labor market
will ensure an adequate intake in the near future.
xii.     An important theme in the project development was that of
contributing to an improved socio-economic mix at the various educational
levels. The effect is already marked at the second level, and there is a real
expectation that the contribution of the RTCs in this respect at the higher
level will be significant; improvement to date at the highest level has been
limited, but is expected to improve. A further important dimension of the
overall project is that of improved regional distribution of educational and
training opportunities as well as support for regional economic growth. In
short, one of the most exciting developments which has occurred as a
consequence of the creation of the project institutions at strategic locations
throughout the country is the interaction between them and other educational
and training institutions at the local level, between them and industry, and
between them and the community. Key personnel from the project institutions
fill positions at the nodes of the network and as members of professional
associations and of various planning committees concerned with educational,
training and manpower matters. They generally exert a concerted and informed
influence on local and national opinion and on educational and economic
development. The project community schools have already become community
focal points because of (i) the links they have established with feeder
primary schools, (ii) their success in breaking down class and ability
barriers among pupils, and (iii) their concern to serve all the people in the
neighborhood.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     A Bank mission which visited Ireland in July 1981 discussed with the
Project Unit the preparation of a completion report for the second education
project. The mission gave considerable help and advice to the Project Unit in
relation to the anticipated content and scope of the report, and left copies
of appropriate guidelines.
1.02     The report was prepared by staff of the Project Unit following
extensive discussions and consultation with staff of the project institutions,
from whom every assistance was obtained in the gathering of relevant data.
The Project Unit staff took into account and reflected in the report the
objectives and targets set at appraisal, and, perhaps more importantly, the
role of the project institutions in the major educational changes which have
taken place since appraisal.
1.03     Every effort was made to involve as many people in the Project Unit
as possible in the preparation of the report as a learning exercise for all
concerned. The exercise was also seen as a very valuable input in the process
of appraisal of operation and efficiency of the project institutions and
related institutions, which is presently underway. This process will involve
more in-depth analysis by the staff of the Department of Education who are
concerned with recurrent expenditures, with the objective of establishing
yardsticks of unit recurrent costs for educational institutions. It will also
entail setting more rigid standards on minimum class sizes and for approval of
courses, aimed at improving overall efficiency and costs.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socioeconomic Setting
2.01     Until the late 1950s the economic situation in the country was
characterized by economic stagnation, high rates of unemployment and
emigration, and a declining population. The dependency ratio was high: it
still stood at 73% in 1974, and was among the most unfavourable in Europe.
According to the 1966 census, out of 2.0 million adults, about 1.2 million had
only primary education, and only 73,000 (3.7%) had attended post-secondary
education.
2.02     During the 1960s the GNP growth rate increased to 4% annually
(compared with 1.5% in the previous decade) and Ireland changed from a
basically agricultural economy to one in which industry plays a major role.
Industry raised its share of GDP from about 27% in the mid 1950s to some 36%
with Ireland's entry into the European Economic Community (EEC) in the early
1970s. The outlook appeared favourable for further major industrial
involvement in the 1970s, depending on the extent to which existing
constraints were resolved. These included, inter alia, the limited size of
the domestic market, shortage of development funds, an uneven quality of
management, and the increasing shortage of high-level technicians and skilled



- 2 -
workers. Projections of additional manpower requirements for the period
1971-1986 indicated additional needs of 631,000 in the following major
categories; professionals and technicians, 88,000 (14% of the total);
managers, officials and proprietors, 79,000 (13%); clerical, 110,000 (17%);
foremen, craftsmen and operators, 228,000 (36%); service workers, 95,000
(15%); and the remaining 31,000 (5%) consisting of sales workers, labourers
and farmers.
2.03     At the same time, agriculture continued to occupy a central role in
the economy, employing 25% of the labour force and accounting for over 40% of
export earnings. Ireland's accession into the EEC was expected to bring a new
prosperity to this sector, contingent upon programmes to increase farm
production through improved technology, the improved training of farmers,
agricultural professionals and technicians, and the continued absorption of
farm labour into other sectors.
Education Development Strategy
2.04     Economic development needs brought with them the need for a more
practically oriented general education and for a greater emphasis on technical
and skill training programmes. Following a period of major growth, the
education system at the time of appraisal was characterized by virtually full
participation of the age group at primary level, 75.6% participation of the
age group in secondary education, and 12.3% of the 17-20 age group in higher
education. As a result, the education strategy for the 1970s was aimed
essentially at quality improvements, a process of rationalization at all
levels to make the system more cost-effective and relevant, and the
development of technical/technological education and training.
2.05     A significant element of this strategy at the secondary level was the
thrust towards the development of community/comprehensive schools. The aim of
these schools as they have evolved over time may be summarized as;
(a)  to serve the whole of a given locality and thus have non-selective
entry;
(b)  to combine both academic and practical subjects in one broad
curriculum, thus substituting a flexible system for the fixed
alternatives formerly available and delaying final orientation as
long as possible;
(c)  to make available in designated schools additional facilities to
enable seriously physically handicapped and mildly mentally
handicapped children to be successfully integrated into the normal
system of education;
(d)  to serve as centers of educational innovation; and
(e)  to respond to the principle of life-long education in the context of
adult education and community development.



-3-
2.06     The first steps towards developing comprehensive secondary education
in Ireland were taken in 1966 through the establishment of four pilot
comprehensive schools by the Department of Education. Further comprehensive
schools or community schools, as they were later called, would be established
in areas not served by secondary schools or in growing suburban or urban
areas. Alternatively, they could be established through the amalgamation of
small, uneconomic, private secondary schools--often under religious orders--
and small vocational schools under local education authorities. Community
schools would have a Board of Management consisting of representatives of
local religious authorities, the local education authority, and parents.
While such schools would be a small minority of all post-primary schools, they
would provide the necessary initiatives and experimentation for the
development of a comprehensive secondary school system. In parallel to the
establishment of community schools, the secondary and vocational schools,
scheduled to continue as such, would be supported in the development of a
comprehensive curriculum through the allocation of appropriate teachers and
facilities.
2.07     In addition to its educational and social objectives, the community
school programme also formed part of a process of rationalization of second
level schools in line with the recommendations of an Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) sponsored study leading to the publication
of a major report (Investment in Education, 1965). The programme of
amalgamation of schools which followed slowed somewhat after the mid-1970s to
permit, wherever economically feasible, the retention of a variety of school
types, different in management structures but with all offering a
comprehensive curriculum. The average school size has, however, increased
from about 140 in the 1960s to 350 in 1980.
2.08     Prior to 1967, third-level education in Ireland was dominated by
academically oriented, university-level training in the arts and sciences;
technological programmes accounted for only about 12% of enrollments and were
characterized by undue emphasis on theoretical training, ill-suited to the
needs of industry. These imbalances resulted in a serious shortage of middle-
and high-level technicians and an over-supply of university-level
non-technical graduates, clearly beyond the absorptive capacity of the labour
market. It was estimated that, if the current patterns were to continue, the
over-supply of non-technical graduates would be 45,000 - 50,000 by 1986, while
an almost equal shortage would result in the output of technologists from
third-level institutions. To prevent this development, programmes were
initiated to emphasize third-level technical education and to rationalize its
structure, thereby enabling it to meet the projected needs of an expanding
industrial sector in a competitive international market. The lack of an
adequate base in technical education on a nationwide level was emphasized by
the Steering Committee on Technical Education appointed by the Minister in
1966 to advise on the planning and development of the Regional Colleges
project. The Steering Committee went on to stress the importance of giving a
regional structure to the development of technical education as a contribution
to the creation of a cultural and social environment which would promote
economic expansion throughout Ireland.



- 4 -
2.09     The most important measures taken to address the deficiencies and to
provide the context for the development of the first and second education
projects were:
(a)  increased emphasis on technical and applied science subjects in
general post-primary education programmes;
(b)  building eight RTCs and the Limerick Technical College during
1968-74, thereby helping the development of technical education and
providing facilities necessary to produce the skilled workers and
technicians required by industry;
(c)  the establishment of two National Institutes of Higher Education
(NIHE) in Limerick and Dublin in 1970 and 1975 respectively with the
primary function of (i) preparing students for careers in industrial,
commercial and public service sectors in Ireland, and (ii) providing
these sectors with highly qualified personnel at technician, higher
technician and professional levels;
(d)  setting up the Industrial Training Authority (AnCo)l/ in 1967 to
develop and promote training within industry, to provide training and
re-training programmes, and to develop the apprenticeship system;
(e)  setting up the National Manpower Service in 1970 in the Department of
Labor to forecast the supply and demand of labour by sector and to
operate a placement service;
(f)  the establishment of a scholarship system on a means-test basis for
third-level non-degree students, and the establishment of the higher
education grants for students attending either universities or
professional courses in third level institutions;
(g)  the establishment of the NCEA in 1972 to promote, coordinate and
develop technical, commercial, industrial, scientific and
professional education by granting certificates, diplomas and degrees
to students who have followed approved courses of study; and
(h)  increasing emphasis on coordination of third-level activities in
order to (i) avoid wasteful duplication of programmes; (ii) avoid
unnecessary and uneconomical expansion of expensive departments; and
(iii) ensure transferability of students between institutions and
courses.
Project Formulation
2.10     A Bank mission visited Ireland in February 1972 and again in July
1972 to identify education projects suitable for Bank financing and to advise
the Government on the preparation of a second education project. The
1/ An Comhairle Oiliuna



- 5 -
Government subsequently prepared the project. The project was appraised in
March/April 1973, and was modified somewhat during appraisal by agreement with
the Government; the extension of three primary teacher training colleges was
withdrawn from the request to permit further study and the rationalization of
the training provision, and computer equipment was added to serve the combined
needs of the NIHEL, the RTCs and the TTTI.
2.11     The project as approved consisted of:
Table 1
STUDENT PLACES AND GROSS FLOOR AREAS OF PROJECT INSTITUTIONS,
AS APPRAISED
No. of additional            Gross
student places               floor
Item                                                                     area(m2)
Faculty of Agriculture                              550                    12,900
National Institute of Higher Education,
Limerick (1st phase)                             1,500                    17,000
5 Industrial Training Centers                     1,650                   20,000
7 Regional Technical Colleges (extensions)       4,650                    26,500
Technical Teacher Training Institute                710                     5,200
14 Secondary Comprehensive Schools                9,660                   74,600
Computer Equipment
Equipment for the Project Unit
Changes in Project Composition
2.12     After Loan signature some significant changes were made to the
project content without invalidating the basic objectives of the project:
(a) Of the 14 locations for community/comprehensive schools listed in the
Loan Agreement, three (Dunshaughlin, Ramsgrange, Ballyhaunis) were
transferred to the first education project and one (Birr) was
transferred from the first to the second education project. Eight
others of the originally selected locations were substituted by eight



- 6 -
alternative locations. The net effect was to reduce the number of
schools from 14 to 12, yet also to increase the number of pupil
places from 9,660 to 10,140. The case of Birr was interesting, as
agreement was eventually reached between the authorities of the three
existing small schools to combine their resources, both human and
material, in forming a new community/comprehensive school. In the
case of two other locations, Ballyfermot and Ballymun in Dublin,
senior schools with suitable facilities would be provided in areas
where participation beyond the compulsory schooling stage (age 15) is
notoriously low. Also, in the case of Mervue in Galway, a
traditional vocational school would be developed into a community
college (a community school but with a different management structure
under the local Vocational Education Authority). The other schools
in the project would be expected to follow the general pattern set in
the first project for schools in developing areas.
(b)  The first Loan Agreement had made provision for a College of Commerce
for approximately 800 students as an increment in a third-level
technological institution to be sited at Ballymun, Dublin. Due to
delays in the Government's decision on whether the College
management's structure should be similar to that of the Colleges of
Technology under the City of Dublin's Vocational Education Committee
or as part of a new NIHE, this item had to be dropped from the first
loan project. Following a Government decision that the College would
form part of the new National Institute for Higher Education, Dublin
(NIHED), the Bank agreed to its inclusion in the second Bank
project. The College of Commerce substituted the Ballyhaunis
Community school that was transferred to the first Bank project.
(c)  The number of ITCs was reduced from five to three with the agreement
of the Bank. The uncertain economic climate of the 1970s led to the
deferment of some capital works. In addition, the effect of high
inflation meant that the overall costs of implementing the project
far exceeded those visualized at appraisal, with the result that it
was possible to include only three of the five centers within the
financing available under the loan. The Government is proceeding
with the funding of the remaining two centers from its own resources,
and in the meantime has met short-term needs through rental
arrangements.
Project Objectives
2.13     The project was specifically designed to promote both the economic
and social policies of the Irish Government, and to consolidate and advance
the developments made in the first education project.
2.14     The Government sought an improved general education base to ensure
improved and expanded education and training capabilities, and a related
output of specialist teachers to ensure that this objective could be
achieved. But these developments, particularly the generalization of the
comprehensive school concept through the project (along the lines of the first
education project), aimed at something more than satisfying manpower needs.



- 7-
The aim also encompassed democratic and progressive developments in Irish
education. Thus, the project schools were to help provide the educational
infrastructure for needed technological developments; but, the aim was also to
provide second-level education which was non-selective, to offer a broad range
of educational programmes, to develop the counselling service in schools, to
promote educational innovation, and to foster community activity and adult
education.
2.15     The project was intended primarily to serve as a catalyst and to
provide a needed and sustained thrust. The emphasis of the project was on
reform which enhances the role of technical and science education, expands
training and re-training opportunities, and, more particularly, would
considerably expand and improve industrial, technical and business education
as well as third-level technical and agricultural training.
2.16     The project was designed accordingly to support and broaden the
educational reforms initiated under the first education project and to
contribute significantly to the Government's efforts to adapt the
socioeconomic structure and, in particular, the labour force to the new
conditions resulting from Ireland's entry into the EEC. To help meet the
manpower requirements through 1986, the project institutions would: (i) meet
about 42% of the estimated shortage of middle- and high-level technicians;
(ii) supply about 30% of the skilled workers required by industry; (iii)
supply 100% of the teachers required in ses,,ndary-level technical subjects;
and (iv) provide qualitative improvements in the facilities and programmes of
the Faculty of Agriculture at University College, Dublin, which trains about
85% of all high-level agricultural specialists in Ireland. About 65% of the
project expenditures would be directed specifically towards meeting the most
critical, short-term manpower constraints; the remainder would be for
community/ comprehensive schools which, in the longer term, would provide a
more viable base for entry into the labour force, and third-level technical
training. Additionally, the project would help reduce economic and social
disparities by providing and equipping new facilities outside the main urban
centers; about 70% of all project institutions would be located accordingly in
all regions of the country. This should contribute significantly to
redressing existing imbalances in educational opportunities, and would be
consistent with the Government's development strategy of increasing economic
and social opportunities in the less developed regions of the country.
Finally, the project would give special attention to the problem of redundant
workers and displaced farmers in need of re-training for employment in a
changing labour market; the five ITCs originally included in the project would
represent about 77% of the available training places in ITCs by 1977.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
3.01     At appraisal, physical execution (construction, furnishing and
equipping) was expected to be completed in phases between September 1975 and
December 1977. The targets were set by the Government in consultation with
the appraisal mission and were, in all cases, realistic in the context of



- 8 -
execution capability in Ireland. Yet, with the exception of the NIHEL, which
was completed basically on schedule, completion of the other institutions was
delayed by two to four years. Planned and actual implementation schedules are
given in Annex I. The reasons for delayed execution were diverse, and the
most important were; (i) difficulties in reaching agreement with local
interests - local education committees, secondary school authorities, parent
committees, etc. - on the establishment of community schools in many of the
designated institutions, and the delays resulting from changes in locations;
(ii) problems, and resultant construction commencement delays, in determining
the respective roles of the RTCs and the AnCo ITCs in first year off-the-job
apprentice training; (iii) protracted negotiations between the Bank and the
Project Unit on the one hand and AnCo on the other related to the increased
space standards being sought by AnCo for the second ITC to be constructed;
(iv) protracted policy debate on higher education affecting the College of
Commerce; and (v) to a lesser extent, financial constraints at an intermediate
stage affecting particularly the ITCs. In addition to these considerations,
however, completion was prolonged because, in addition to the phasing of the
construction programme, construction was also completed in two phases on many
individual sites to match enrollment growth.   First phase construction
completion was up to 18 months ahead of final completion for individual
institutions.  Equipment procurement was also extended over a prolonged period
to match enrollment growth and also to match progress in construction.
3.02     The Closing Date was extended by two years to December 31, 1980, and
finally until December 31, 1981. The project was virtually completed by the
latter date, with one ITC remaining to be completed in 1982.
Project Management Performance
3.03     The Project Unit, established within the Building Unit of the
Department of Education for the execution of the first education project, was
also given responsibility for the execution of the second education project.
The Loan Agreement required that the Project Unit be staffed with full-time
officers consisting of one Project Director, one Deputy Project Director, two
Project Architects, one Project Technical Educator, two Project General
Educators, and one Project Procurement Officer. By agreement with the Bank, a
second Deputy Project Director was appointed so that the Project Director
could continue to function as head of the Building Unit. The additional staff
necessary to make up the required complement were recruited at an early stage
and functioned very effectively as a team in the implementation of the
project. In general the delays that occurred in implementation were beyond
the control of the Project Unit.
3.04     The completion report for the first education project comments
favourably on the operation of the Project Unit, and summarizes the main
achievements of the Unit. The essential elements of its effective operation
are seen to be;
(a) its location within the Building Unit of the Department of Education,
which has a monitoring and control responsibility for the totality of
educational building at second and higher levels. Through the
Project Unit Director, as head also of the Building Unit, its



-9-
activities were closely linked with the mainstream of educational
building for which it was indeed the experimental and developmental
arm;
(b)  at the same time, the designation of full-time officers for the
project ensured follow-up on the diverse physical and educational
aspects of the project, particularly in relation to its developmental
nature;
(c)  the availability through such designated officers of a
multi-disciplinary team, highly motivated and experienced, which
ensured the necessary design and educational inputs, particularly
through close links with other educators in the Department of
Education, related to curricula requirements, furniture and equipment
lists, room layouts, etc. The absence of input from a full-time
mechanical and electrical engineer, particularly in assisting the
cost specialists of the Building Unit in the control of service
costs, is a weakness which has only recently been addressed; and
(d)  the background of a well-developed cost planning and control system
readily applicable to the project institutions and with appropriate
staff for its application within the Building Unit.
Physical Implementation
3.05     Sites.  Site selection and acquisition, where new locations were in
question, did not prove a problem in the implementation of the project. Site
areas for the community schools varied from 5 to 14 acres compared with a norm
of 10 to 15 acres. All sites are suitable. Two of the smaller sites are
lacking outdoor games areas, though they are adequate for building development
purposes; they are considered the most suitable available, however, because of
their excellent location. The other smaller sites have adjacent local
authority amenity areas available for use by the schools.
3.06     Design.   Design, engineering and cost planning for each project
institution was undertaken by an appointed consultant design team consisting
of architects, structural and services engineers, and quantity surveyor/cost
controllers. Ireland has an adequate supply of professionals in these
disciplines within the private sector.
3.07     For the initiation of the community school building programme, the
underlying theme in design was the development of a master plan capable of
meeting the building programme's requirements for a variety of school sizes
ranging from 500 to 1,100 pupils. The master plan was successfully applied to
18 of the 23 community schools in the first education project and was adjudged
to have been a most important step forward in relation to developing the
architectural brief for school building and its application in design terms,
and to meeting the exacting educational requirements within strict cost
limits. It was considered, however, that the further repetition of this
design, where the Minister for Education was the direct client, could be
pernicious on architectural thought in general (a fact which was borne out by
the inferior derivative designs which some architects began to submit to the



- 10 -
Building Unit in relation to other schemes). Accordingly, for the remaining
schools in the first project and the schools in the second project, the
opportunity was presented to designers to develop individual designs. As a
first step, the Building Unit implemented a development project, synthesizing
the experience already gained and providing the basis for an expanded flow of
advice for outside consultants. Design teams were then appointed for the
schools of the second project and other schools, initially on the basis of
design submissions under an "ideas" competition - in some cases leading to
multiple commissions using the same design - and subsequently on the basis of
interviews on a regional basis. In all cases, designs were required to meet
the educational and functional stipulations of a well-developed educational
brief and to conform to strict area and cost limits.
3.08     The community schools' designs as developed had due regard to site
and environmental considerations. Flat sites were provided with single-storey
buildings. Sloping sites entailed ramped and/or partial two-storey
solutions. An even distribution of natural daylight was the aim in almost all
teaching spaces, as well as a view out where occupants would spend lengthy
periods of time. All the design solutions were greatly influenced by these
particular considerations. Improved insulation standards were applied in all
project schools, in line with energy conservation policy. Standard layouts
for teaching spaces were incorporated into all schools with the exception of
Ballynanty wher2 a special roofing material (GRP) was used in the design, and
spatial treatment was more innovative but less than 100% successful. Balance
between teaching and ancillary areas, clustering of teaching spaces, etc. were
imaginatively achieved in all cases in accordance with the requirements of the
brief, but the organization of the cloak rooms/lockers provision proved to be
a continuing problem because of the lack of precision in feedback information
from existing schools.
3.09     In the original design of the RTCs, a consortium was appointed which
developed a common design and structural solution for the eight colleges. The
team working on the original design was appointed for the extensions to the
Colleges in order to capitalize on the experience previously gained and to
ensure uniformity of approach to the extensions. For the other institutions
under the project, design teams were appointed on an individual institution
basis and institution-specific designs were developed. The design of the
NIHEL formed part of the master plan development.
Appraisal of Designs
3.10     The designs in all cases have responded well to the needs of the
educational brief, have been built within acceptable cost limits, and have
conformed to approved area limits. Users have declared themselves satisfied
with design and layout.
3.11     The completion mission for the first education project recommended
that a full-scale evaluation study of school building be undertaken in order
to fully benefit from project experimentation experience. Studies are ongoing
and have given attention to;



- 11 -
(a) frame building versus traditional structural technology, including
considerations of maximum use of local materials and simplified
domestic construction;
(b) the economics of single- versus two-storey approaches;
(c) roof finishes, in the light of adverse experience in the 1970s due to
varying weather conditions;
(d) treatment of circulation, clustering and the interrelationship of
teaching spaces;
(e) provision for natural day lighting and its design implications;
(f) the implications for location and design of the concept "community"
school; and
(g) the overwhelming importance now and in the future of energy
conservation and cost in use. Regarding the latter, a major study
has been completed setting out energy use requirements and guidelines
related to the design and construction of buildings and to the
building operation. A further control introduced as a result of the
study is that of a limit for the aspect ratio (the proportion between
the building envelope and the floor area).
3.12     These various initiatives in design development, stemming from the
first education project and reinforced under the second project, have had a
major impact in assisting school designers generally to respond more
effectively to educational, functional design and cost considerations. The
Building Unit is now involved in a further development project with the
assistance of outside consultants. Through this project, it is hoped to focus
due attention in a practical way on what may be regarded as the most basic
considerations in school design for the foreseeable future and to make a
further significant contribution to the clarification and development of the
design brief.
Areas
3.13     The unit areas as built compared with those planned at appraisal are
given in Annex II. For the community schools, the planned areas of 7.7m2
per place, included the equivalent of 1.7m2 per place related to the
provision of sports facilities for school and community use. This latter
provision is being made on a phased basis outside of the project as funds
become available. Regarding the RTCs as an extension of existing facilities
for the existing student body which was in question, in addition to the
provision of new places, an area per place related to the total number of
places available was considered more meaningful. Eleven square meters per
place is considered satisfactory.   The floor area for the TTTI at Limerick was
increased with the agreement of the Bank; at 8.6m2 per place, the floor area
provision is quite satisfactory. The area for the Faculty of Agriculture was
also adjusted somewhat; the actual area is also considered satisfactory. The



- 12 -
average area for the ITCs of 12.1m2. per place covered a range of 9.3m2 for
Dublin (Baldoyle), through 12.31m2 for Cork, to 14.65m2 for Athlone. The
Athlone center was built as planned, but following prolonged discussions
between the Project Unit and AnCo with the involvement of the Bank, floor
areas of 16.4m2 and 14.5m2 per place were approved for Cork (for which the
capacity was also increased from 492 to 700) and Dublin, respectively.
Construction
3.14     Building contractors were appointed through international competitive
bidding. All contracts were won by Irish firms. Successful bidders ranged
from large construction firms to smaller rural-based builders. Some of the
best results were obtained by smaller units with adequate support facilities
(e.g., their own specialist joinery workshops).
3.15     With the exception of one school, where arbitration proceedings are
pending, no serious problem occurred in civil works execution. The review of
the programme for the community schools indicates, however, a serious
deterioration in completion timing as against appraisal estimates, which were
based on experience with the first group of community schools. Timing
completion averaged 27 months against an estimated 15 months. This is partly
accounted for by arrangements made to have the first phase of building
completed by a set date - to meet initial enrollments needs - with some
consequent disruption of the building schedule and less pressure for final
completion. It appears that the departure from more systematized building, as
in the first programme of schools, may also have had its effect on timing.
Finally, it suggests weaknesses in on-site management and monitoring. These
matters are now the subject of an in-depth study.
Reaction of Users
3.16     A questionnaire was sent to the schools seeking the views of the
teaching staff on specific aspects of the buildings, with the particular aim
of obtaining feedback for future projects. A summary of the replies is
contained in Annex III. Reaction generally is favourable, but further
research is necessary regarding reaction to specific elements in order to
determine the basis for any dissatisfaction.
Maintenance
3.17     Maintenance of the project institutions is the responsibility of the
individual institution authority. The Building Unit of the Department of
Education provides advice as necessary. The Building Unit has found it
difficult, however, to recruit suitable maintenance staff and, pending the
setting up of a full maintenance section, is arranging with the individual
institution to appoint technical advisors for any major repair work, and to
have a craftsman-level maintenance officer/janitor available on the staff for
minor works.
3.18     The project institutions are generally well-maintained, with adequate
attention to cleaning and repairs. Provision for maintenance, therefore, is



- 13 -
made within the institution's annual budget. To advise further on maintenance
procedures and funding levels for maintenance, a committee has been recently
set up consisting of representatives of Principals and Vice-Principals of the
community schools and representatives of the Department's Building Unit and
recurrent expenditure section.
Furniture and Equipment
3.19     An adequate range of furniture and equipment related to the agreed
education and training objectives has been installed in the project
institutions. All the items conform to related international standard
specifications and were acquired by the Project Unit under international
competitive bidding. The bidding process proved to be very successful in
attracting highly competitive tenders.
3.20     The furniture specifications for the loose furniture were prepared by
the Project Unit in conjunction with the Irish Institute for Industrial
Research and Standards (IIRS), and on the basis of data received from the
British Standards Institute (BSI) and the British Furniture Industry Research
Association (FIRA). The IIRS was also commissioned to test prototypes of
certain items for robustness and durability. Some manufacturers indicated
that they would.prefer an 'expanded form' of performance specifications which
would include more detailed information on materials and' construction; this
information was made available, but suppliers were still encouraged to offer
their own designs where such conformed to the appropriate anthropometric data
and other IIRS requirements. The lowest tenders were mainly submitted by
Irish manufacturers (about 95%), although a number of products included
elements manufactured outside the country, e.g., in the case of library
shelving, these were manufactured in the Netherlands, while the slotted
vertical members were manufactured in Ireland. No serious problems were
encountered with the supply and delivery of furniture, but it was found
essential to carefully monitor the quality at the time of delivery. A number
of modifications were made during the implementation stage based on ongoing
feedback from schools and colleges, viz.; (i) pressed steel doors to
students' lockers had to be strengthened by use of boxed and fully welded
corners; (ii) sheet steel coat hanging units which were located in corridors
were not successful and had to be replaced with small cloakrooms; and
(iii) new drawing desks and improved audio typing systems were developed for
second-level schools. The performance specifications, norms and standards
developed for the project community schools have been adopted for all
second-level institutions.
3.21     Extensive research was undertaken at national and international
levels into the appropriateness of the equipment for the project institutions
which would give maximum return on the investment in educational, training and
economic terms. The lists were prepared by the Project Unit in conjunction
with the Department's inspectors and the staff of the project institutions.
No major difficulties were encountered with the evaluation of tenders. Since
the break in 1979 between the Irish Pound and Sterling, Italian and Spanish
manufacturers have become more competitive than their U.K. counterparts in
areas such as heavy engineering machinery, and have won a number of contracts



- 14 -
which previously went to U.K. firms. The quality of the equipment supplied to
the project institutions was excellent; a high degree of satisfaction was
expressed by the staff of the institutions as well as by industrialists in the
region at the appropriateness and quality of the equipment supplied.
3.22     The lists were divided into packages for bidding purposes, with a
requirement that bidders must bid for 85% of a package. This requirement did
not prove to be a constraint in view of the large number of packages - e.g.,
44 packages for the community schools and 43 for the RTCs. While tenders were
received on a package basis, evaluation was undertaken on an item basis in
relation to cost considerations, and also to confirm the suitability of the
particular item being purchased. Subject to ensuring compatibility of
equipment where necessary, contracts were awarded on the basis of the lowest
evaluated tenders for items or groups of items. The input required in
evaluation and in handling the large number of contracts which resulted was
considerable. Of the 608 furniture and equipment contracts for all
institutions, except the Faculty of Agriculture and the ITCs, 468 were valued
at £IR40,000, representing over 26% of total value. Nevertheless, in view of
the very satisfactory level of furniture and equipment which was purchased
from a cost and quality point of view, the input was considered justifiable.
Computer System Equipment
3.23     An inter-departmental committee reported to the Department of
Education on the facilities required for the satisfactory conduct of courses
in the RTCs and the NIHEL in 1976. This report was submitted to the Bank and
was accepted pending clarification of some points. Computer systems were
tendered, benchmarked and purchased in 1978.
3.24     The major benefits resulting from the purchase of a computing
facility were;
(a) economy of scale, i.e., purchasing a multiple system has resulted in
significantly reduced initial costs;
(b) common maintenance of both hardware and software resulted in the
ability to negotiate a multi-user contract agreement for hardware and
software maintenance;
(c) training programmes were organized in the country and in the
particular context of the institutions concerned. In addition,
clinical sessions were organized on a rotational basis in the
colleges;
(d) compatibility of facilities within colleges with similar educational
programmes lead to free exchange of software through user groups; and
(e) inter-communication among systems, when specific software or system
requirements became essential, was possible. Also, the ability to
off-load excess computing requirements was possible but not utilized
significantly due to the expandable nature of the system.



- 15 -
3.25     It was considered, at planning stage, that a single system with
communication links to the various colleges was a possible path for
development. This was not pursued due to;
(a) the nature of the telephone communication system in the country; and
(b) the cost of providing leased lines.
This decision has since been substantiated in that the telecommunications
system has not improved at the necessary rate, and the cost considerations of
leased lines are still prohibitive. The latter is particularly the case in
view of the reduced costs of the facilities through the reduction in price for
the necessary peripherals and the increased utilization of the systems in the
college.
3.26     The direct access environment has proven to be the ideal educatLonal
environment for both the specialist and the general student. In addition, the
capability of simultaneous programming in different languages has resulted in
maximum utilization of the facility. Both have been attainable through the
provision of a multi-user, multi-programming system. It is considered that
the project institutions have performed particularly well in the national
context through the provision of the necessary manpower to meet particular
shortages in the computing area. This is evidenced through the rapid
development of computer-related industries in the country.
3.27     The average cost of the computing facilities in the RTCs is
approximately £IR35,000 which, in comparison with other specialist facilities,
is very moderate. There is high utilization considering that most college
courses now require access. The envisaged number of specialist courses in
computer programming and related topics was greatly exceeded. A one-year
programming course was planned for three RTCs, whereas now there are two-year
programming courses in each of the colleges, with a three-year course
(diploma) in one and two degree programmes in two colleges. Additionally, the
computing component in the general courses has been significantly increased.
This has been achieved through the enhancing of existing facilities with, in
the main, purchase of additional terminals, disk-drives and expanding CPU
memory. The computing facility at NIHEL is presently meeting the needs of all
the students at the Institute. Over 100 students from Thomond College are
accessing the NIHEL system, and it is intended to cater to the full needs of
the College through a modest expansion of the system. However, due to
developing technology and reduction in costs of computing systems, it is hoped
that the continued low cost per student access will be maintained.
Implementation of Software Inputs
3.28     General.  The period in question was revolutionary in many respects.
It saw educational and training objectives being clarified, new systems being
developed, and complementary and diversified institutions playing cooperative
and supportive roles. The project institutions were central to these
developments and acted as catalysts for a nation in transition from
agriculture to industry, from relative insularity to being part of a larger



- 16 -
community, and from protectionism to free trade. Curricula generally
reflected this philosophy and, while many new programmes have emerged since
appraisal, the broad educational and training objectives initially set for the
project institutions have remained virtually unchanged.
3.29     Structural Changes.   Governmental decisions over the decade were
motivated by the determination to effect rational development throughout the
system, while, at the same time, the primary concern was to ensure that the
best educational returns would be gained without any deterioration in the
quality of education. Significant among these developments were: (i) the
structural enactment of the NIHEL Act 1980 establishing the Institute as a
statutory body; (ii) the establishment of the NIHED--the project institution
titled the College of Commerce now forms an integral part of this institute;
(iii) the establishment of Thomond College of Education (TCE) on a statutory
basis--TCE includes the project institution titled the TTTI and the National
College for Physical Education which was opened in 1973; (iv) the expansion of
the seven RTCs and the restructuring of the Colleges' Boards of Management to
provide for wider representation; (v) the expansion of the industrial training
system; (vi) the introduction of a new scheme for the training and education
of apprentices; and (vii) the establishment of the NCEA on a statutory basis
to provide an awards structure for educational institutions in the
non-university sector comparable to that traditionally afforded to
universities in their own areas. (Among the designated institutions to which
the NCEA Act applies are NIHEL, NIHED, TCE and RTCs.)
3.30     The following institutions were established to provide a variety of
levels of education and training, viz.,
(a) NIHEL and NIHED--higher education, including diploma, graduate and
postgraduate levels,
(b) RTCs--vocationally oriented programmes, including craft certificate,
technician certificate and diploma levels,
(c) TCE incorporating the TTTI--including graduate and postgraduate
levels for teachers of second-level specialist subjects, and
(d) ITCs--industrial training for adults, youths and apprentices.
As the pattern of levels shows, the institutions dovetail together to provide
a technical/technological education and training system whose course
structures provide, through the NCEA system, horizontal and vertical mobility
for the student.
Curricula
3.31     The courses and curricula proposed at appraisal stage for NIHEL have
been expanded and updated. The Institute provides education and training in
engineering and applied science, business studies, secretarial sciences, and
European studies. The Institute is fully operational and currently provides
21 different course programmes at the following levels: (i) a one-year



- 17 -
Preliminary Engineering and Science Course, (ii) two Technician Certificate
Courses, (iii) six Technician Diploma Courses, (iv) two Degree Courses,
(v) five Postgraduate Diploma Courses, and (vi) two Postgraduate Degree
Courses. The programmes of study are based on the module and credit system
envisaged at the appraisal stage. While certain modules are 'core modules'
and must be taken by all students enrolled in a particular course,
considerable flexibility is possible in constructing from a variety of
elective modules a course of study suited to the individual's attributes or
particular goals. A full-time student normally takes four, five or six
modules during each 11-week term and about 60 during a four-year programme of
study. The student's success or failure is basically determined by
accumulated performances measured at the end of each term; thus, the
importance of a final examination is de-emphasized or eliminated. The system
has operated efficiently and effectively for the Institute. A cooperative
education element in the programmes plays an important role--students are
placed in employment relevant to their academic interests for one or more
terms during their full-time course programme. Over 200 employer
organizations are presently participating in the scheme and, while 80%
placements have been made within Ireland, increasing efforts are being made to
place students, particularly European Studies students, in countries abroad.
For example, some placements have been made in Germany, France, the United
States, Australia, Holland, Belgium, the United Kingdom, and the USSR. A
library services division consisting of the library, the audio visual
production facilities, and the audio-tuition center plays an important role in
the Institute. These services are also available to TCE students.
3.32     The Faculty of Agriculture project was a most significant development
for higher agricultural education in Ireland. It was instrumental in unifying
the faculty with the extensive communal and other related facilities already
provided at the Belfield campus of University College, Dublin. The new
comprehensive and interdisciplinary programmes, whose formal adoption was a
condition of disbursement, have been fully implemented. The faculty now
provides a four-year comprehensive programme leading to the award of the
B.Agr.Sc. degree. The degree may be taken in (i) general agriculture,
(ii) commercial horticulture, (iii) landscape horticulture, (iv) forestry,
(v) agricultural economics, (vi) animal production, (vii) crop production,
(viii) agricultural chemistry, and (ix) soil science. During the 1980/81
academic year the percentages of graduates choosing options were as follows;
general agriculture 68%, horticulture 14%, forestry 10%, and agricultural
economics 7%. A wide range of electives are also available for selection by
the students. Many of these courses provide opportunities for further study
in subject areas already included in the various programmes while others allow
students to pursue new areas of study in the Faculty of Agriculture or in
other faculties within the college. Much thought and time were given by the
teaching staff to the apportioning of time and of courses between the new
building, the college farm, and the horticultural field station. There was a
clear consensus in favour of having all four years on the main campus with the
field stations being used primarily for practicals, reasearch, and related
lectures. The field stations are also used extensively for seminars and open
days. Research commitment of the staff affects programme policy, particularly
at postgraduate level. A summary of the faculty's research published recently



- 18 -
indicates that 170 major research projects were undertaken in the faculty
during 1978/80. The faculty also provides courses leading to M.Agr.Sc.,
M.Sc.(Agr) and Ph.D. degrees.
3.33     Significant modifications to the curricula envisaged for the TTTI of
the TCE were introduced during implementation. In keeping with the
Government's policy of promoting the harmonization of second-level teacher
qualifications, the Minister for Education decided that TCE graduates should
be conferred with primary degrees at the end of their training programme.
This decision was statutorily effected by the enactment of TCE Act in 1980.
In structural terms, because of the criteria used by the NCEA for the
recognition of courses leading to the award of a degree, this decision
resulted in an increase in the duration of technical teacher training
programmes from three to four years for school entrants in rural and general
science, woodwork and building science, and metalwork and engineering science
courses. However, the programmes of two to three years duration envisaged for
trade entrants in woodwork and building science, and metalwork and engineering
science courses were more seriously affected and gave rise to delays in the
development of curricula. Common four-year degree programmes have been
developed for school and trade entrants which exempt the latter from the first
year of the course. Supplementary study modules are provided during the
course for this category of entrants to make up any deficiencies in areas such
as pedagogics, resulting from the shorter formal programme. Research is
continuing on curricula content, interdisciplinary study and levels of
recognition which may be granted for work experience, and for formal and
informal education achievements. To gain entry to the course, trade
applicants must have completed a full apprenticeship, be in possession of a
Senior Trade Certificate, be at least 20 years of age, and succeed in a
competitive examination which includes craft practice, mathematics, technical
drawing, Irish and English plus an interview. School entrants must fulfill
the normal matriculation level requirements for entry to a degree programme.
The Thomand College is presently providing four-year degree courses in:
(i) rural and general science; (ii) woodwork and building science;
(iii) metalwork and engineering science; and (iv) physical education. A
postgraduate diploma course has also been developed for Business Studies
graduates who intend to teach business-related subjects in second-level
schools. Since the development of full-time courses is nearing completion,
more rapid progress is anticipated in implementation over the next few years
of the range of short courses envisaged at appraisal.
3.34     The RTCs provide a comprehensive range of programmes at craft
apprentice, technician and higher technician level. Under a new scheme of
apprenticeship training introduced in 1975, apprentices undertake one year
off-the-job training in AnCo training centers while also attending an RTC or
other approved educational institution for one or one-and-a-half days per week
during the period of training, which may range from 24 to 49 weeks depending
on trade category (normally, the release to the educational institution is the
equivalent of 8-11 weeks). There is no significant change in the form of the
apprentice's education in the second and third year--he or she is released to
atte'nd an RTC or other educational institution on a day or block release basis
for the equivalent of 8-11 weeks each year. During this period the apprentice



- 19 -
is in the college full-time pursuing integrated education and training
programmes. A joint Curriculum Advisory Committee was established with
members drawn from AnCo, the Department of Education, RTCs and other
educational institutions, employers, and unions to produce new curricula for
all elements of the programme including a testing and certification system.
Progression of the apprentice throughout his four years of apprenticeship is
automatic, resulting in intake equalling output, except for some natural
wastage. Apprentices continue to sit for the Department of Education's Junior
and Senior Trade examination at the end of their first and third year of
apprenticeship. Success in these examinations is not required for completion
of apprenticeship but the examinations are important for apprentices who wish
to pursue further studies. The structure of technician courses has remained
as envisaged at appraisal. Entry level to the programmes is generally of a
School Leaving Certificate standard. The courses are divided into three main
areas--engineering, science and business studies.    The qualification awarded
after two years of study is a National Certificate. Selected certificate
holders may then or later proceed to a further year's study which leads to a
National Diploma. Diploma-level courses are generally of a more specialized
nature and, in many cases, reflect the predominantly industrial activity of
the college region; for example, Athlone--plastics, Galway--hotel management,
Dundalk--electronics, Carlow--food science. Course standards are assessed and
certificates and diplomas are awarded by the NCEA. It is now possible for
students, under certain conditions, to proceed from National Certificate and
Diploma courses to degree level courses in the NIHEs or other colleges where
degree-level courses are established. Annex IV shows the pattern of transfers
during 1980. The RTCs also provide a very wide range of part-time courses
organized on an evening, day release, or intensive short-course basis to meet
the needs of particular groups or industries. Specialized degree-level
courses are provided in RTCs where resources are considered adequate, but, in
the main, such courses will continue to be confined to the NIHEs and the
Dublin Colleges of Technology.
3.35     The College of Commerce which was deleted from the first education
project was introduced into the second project following the Government's
decision to establish the NIHED. The College now forms an integral part of
NIHED and contains two faculties in the Institute; (i) the Faculty of
Administration and Business Studies; and (ii) the Faculty of Communications
and Human Studies. The curricula envisaged for the College at appraisal were
reviewed during the preparation of the Development Plan for the NIHED. Some
new courses were introduced which were considered to be more in keeping with
the level of education which the Institute was established to provide. The
courses range from certificate to postgraduate level and include 2 two-year
certificate courses, 8 postgraduate and past-experience courses, 1 three-year
and 4 four-year degree courses, and professional institution-related courses.
The Institute opened in 1980 in an existing building on the NIHED campus with
an intake of 200 students; 135 entered business-studies-related degree
courses, viz., Business Studies, Accounting and Finance, Computer
Applications, and Communications. The other students entered engineering and
science-related courses. A Phase II Science and Technology building is
presently being planned for the Institute to cater for additional students,
bringing the total number of places in the Institute to 3,000. The overall



- 20 -
plan for the campus provides for 5,000 student places. The new College of
Commerce (Phase I NIHED) was opened to students in October 1981. The number
of business-studies-related courses was increased by the addition of two
further degree courses and a diploma course including Languages,
Languages/Marketing and Business Studies. In the short life of the Institute
to date, much consideration has been given to curricula structures and course
types which will meet newly acknowledged and specific needs; but, the
conviction remains that, whatever the programme structures it will create and
operate, the Institute will continue to be sufficiently flexible to meet
particular needs as they arise.
3.36     The Athlone ITC, the only fully operational ITC project item, is
providing the range of programmes envisaged at appraisal; but, the mix between
adult and apprentice trainees has shifted from approximately 2:1 to 1;1
because of the decision to provide for the industrial training element of the
apprentices' first year programme in the ITCs, and also as a result of an
increase in the annual intake of apprentices--a development that has also
increased workshop utilization in the RTCs. The Cork ITC has recently been
commissioned, and trainees are currently being transferred into the project
center from temporary centers which had been acquired by AnCo. It will be
fully operational starting in 1982. The new draft curricula recently prepared
by the joint Curriculum Advisory Committee are in use in the Athlone center,
but feedback on the appropriateness of the curricula is not yet available.
The adult programme for men and women aged 16 and over who have left school is
being provided primarily to meet local industrial needs. Curricula for these
programmes have been prepared by a central Curriculum Development Center in
AnCo. Its role includes job analysis, course design, production and
implementation of training manuals and functions related to direct training,
such as providing a system of feedback on courses. Community youth training
courses for first time job seekers under 20 years of age are also provided in
the center. These programmes are linked to related community projects which
provide the trainees with work experience outside the center.
3.37     The rationale which formed the community/comprehensive schools
programme (para. 2.05) provided the basis for the schedules of accommodation
for the individual schools. Annex V contains the relevant data on;
(i) general parameters; (ii) balanced curriculum for junior cycle;
(iii) viable senior cycle; (iv) remedial education; and (v) pastoral care.
3.38     Curriculum development for the schools is ongoing and evolutionary.
Evaluation of specific curriculum innovations pioneered in community schools
has been carried out by the Curriculum Unit of the Department of Education.
These include: (i) Social and Environmental Studies Project, 1976;
(ii) Transition Year Project, 1980; and (iii) Integrated Science Project in
Junior Cycle, 1981. The role of the Curriculum Unit (established in 1977)
includes such functions as coordination, evaluation, diagnosis and
prescription. It works with and through the existing professional and
administrative structures of the Department of Education. Here its
coordinative function has considerable potential; change in one area of the
curriculum tends to affect other areas, and the growing complexity of
educational needs places pressures on the curriculum. Such an overview offers



- 21 -
a perspective from which the outcomes of policy can be identified and
monitored.
3.39     In line with the Government's overall strategy, a number of actions
have been taken in recent years that are aimed at assisting young people in
the transition from school to adult and working life. This follows the
widespread recognition in many countries that young people need special help
and support during this period of transition so that they can learn to cope
with the duties and responsibilities not only of employment and career choice
but also of adults living within the community. Among the most notable
actions taken in this country are; (i) Pre-Employment Courses; (ii) Schools/
Industry Liaison Schemes; and (iii) Pilot Projects on Transition from School
to Working Life.
3.40     The recent White Paper on Educational Development (1980) indicates
the lines along which pupil guidance provision (first established in the
1960s, the physical accommodation for which was worked out in the first Bank
project loan) may be expected to develop over the next decade. Notably, there
is an emphasis on the importance of "closer links between schools and the
world of employment" and the need to "secure exposure to industrial employment
environments" for guidance teachers, reflecting the widespread concern at the
lack of industrial knowledge and experience of many teachers. A more
systematic, programmed approach to guidance provisions is also being
encouraged as a means of bringing about a closer coordination of the overall
goals of the school with those of guidance personnel, and ensuring that
resources are focused on groups having the greatest need.
3.41     The transformation of the secondary comprehensive schools into the
community schools under the first project loan and the endorsement of this
trend under the second project is an interesting development. The community
schools offer: (i) junior cycle courses of 3-4 years duration that lead to
group certificates and intermediate certificates; (ii) senior cycle courses of
2 years duration that lead to a leaving certificate at pass and honor levels;
and (iii) pre-employment and secretarial courses. As community institutions
the schools also offer adult education evening courses which are overseen by
the country adult education organizer (since 1979/80), as well as day. courses
for mothers, for whom creches are made available whenever practicable. The
community schools in general are open from 9:00 a.m. to 10;00 p.m., and in
some enterprising institutions their facilities, such as library, games hall,
craft rooms, etc., are open during the summer vacation for neighborhood
mothers and children or as recreational-cum-residential centers for the
physically handicapped, etc. The need for coordination of such programmes and
for a national policy and plan covering this 'whole area was emphasized by the
Murphy Report on Adult Education (1973). A significant development in line
with the report's recommendations was the sanctioning of 50 adult education
organizers by the Minister for Education from the commencement of the 1979/80
school year. The organizers, three of whom are to act on a regional basis
with duties specifically related to the Arts, have been appointed by the
Vocational Education Committees (VEC). They discharge duties of an organizing
and coordinating nature, including liaison with all appropriate community
interests. They report to Adult Education Sub-Committees established by each
VEC. These sub-committees represent all local second-level schools and



- 22 -
relevant voluntary and statutory organizations. The appointment of the
organizers is seen as only a first step forward. A recent Government decision
has been made to give priority to all aspects of adult and continuing
education and to establish a special support unit in the Department of
Education. A representative National Advisory Body on Adult Education is to
be established to recommend and help prepare a national development plan for
adult and continuing education.
Teachers
3.42     All project institutions are adequately staffed with highly qualified
personnel recruited from Ireland or abroad. Salary levels seem adequate to
attract such personnel. No special problems were encountered in recruitment
and appointment, though some delays occurred in recruiting staff for the NIHEs
and the RTCs in specific areas such as electronics and business management.
3.43     The Faculty of Agriculture is staffed by a dean, 6 professors and 50
lecturers. All hold postgraduate qualifications and 88% have Ph.D. degrees.
In addition to lecturing, the staff undertake extensive research work in the
faculty.
3.44     NIHEL and NIHED staff have had extensive experience in industrial
research and lecturing work in Ireland and abroad, including the United
Kingdom, Germany, France, the United States and Canada. Most hold
postgraduate qualifications. While the teaching role of the staff is the
primary consideration, considerable emphasis is being placed on the staff's
commitment to and involvement in applied research with emphasis on
development. TCE staff were recruited primarily in Ireland, but many have
gained experience abroad. All staff must hold an honors primary degree or
approved equivalent qualification to be eligible for appointment. The table
below shows the staff numbers and levels in NIHEL, NIHED and TCE.
Table 2
STAFF OF THE NIHEs AND THE TCE
Institute/ Director Principal    Senior    Lecturers  Assistant    Teaching   Total
College              Lecturer    Lecturer              Lecturer    Assistant
NIHEL       1         8          26         61         13          6           115
NIHED       1         8           5         38         10          --           62
TCE        1         --          10         40         12          --           63
Total      3         16          41         139        35          6           240



- 23 -
3.45     The following Table shows the staff structure and staff numbers in
the RTCs;
Table 3
TEACHING STAFF OF THE BRTC&
College   Senior  Lecturer IX Lecturer I  Lecturer   College Teacher Part-time
(RTC)     Lecturer Structured' Structured  Teaching  (Second/Third  Teachers  Total
(Read of (Head of   (Sect. Head)            Level)
School)  Department)
(1)       (2)      (3)         (4)         (5)        (6)           (7)     (8)
Athlone    3       4           3           55         15            3.6       83.6
Carlov     3       4           3           60         L5            8.6       93.6
Dundalk    3       5           4           70         29            8.1      119.1
Galvay     4        8          7           110        43            5.7      177.7
Latter-
Kenny      3       3           2           42         13            1.5       64.5
Sligo      3       4           3           64         18            2.9       94.9
Waterford  3       6           6           87         35            7.5      144.5
22       34         28           488       168           37.9      777.9
To be eligible for appointment to posts in columns 3, 4, 5 and 7, teachers
must hold an honors degree or an equivalent professional qualification and
have at least three years subsequent experience. A college teacher must hold
a degree (with the subject or subjects in question in the degree final
examination) or an equivalent qualification together with two years' post-
qualification experience. Teachers of trade subjects are appointed at the
College teacher level and must have either a specialist teacher qualification
or have served a full apprenticeship, hold the Trade Certificate of the
Department and have a minimum of five years post-apprenticeship experience;
however, it is normal for such teachers to also hold technological
qualifications in related subjects. Provision is made in the structure for
the proportion of college teacher to lecturer under an internal ratio
promotion system.



- 24 -
3.46     The Athlone ITC is staffed by one manager, three senior instructors,
and 38 instructors. All have extensive industrial experience and must
undertake a special training programme in systems and methods of training.
All recruitment qualifications are related to specific job analysis.
3.47     Teachers in community/comprehensive schools fall into two major
categories; (i) teachers of general subjects who must be university graduates
and hold a teacher training qualification acceptable to the Ministry of
Education; and (ii) teachers of specialist subjects who must hold recognized
teaching qualifications awarded as a result of having completed training
courses in colleges of art, domestic science, or physical education, or in
institutions where approved courses are provided for the training of woodwork
and metalwork teachers. All teachers in the project schools are fully
qualified in accordance with these criteria.
3.48     As regards in-service training for teachers, twenty Teachers' Centers
(three on College of Education campuses) have been established throughout the
country, and courses, generally of a week's duration, are provided each summer
on various aspects of curricula and organization. The following gives an
indication of the range of activities engaged in:
(a)  management/administrative courses have been developed for principal
teachers and others in management and/or administrative roles as well
as courses on aspects of human relations, organizational skills and
decision-making;
(b)  basic training in remedial education for second-level teachers is
provided on an in-service basis. This takes the form of block
release and in-school training during the course of the school year;
(c)  workshop, micro-teaching techniques and experimental learning
approaches have become a feature of in-service training;
(d)  regular series of half- and one-day seminars throughout the school
year have become a feature of the in-service training of particular
categories of teachers at the second level, e.g., guidance teachers
and remedial teachers. The topics reflect the expressed needs of the
participating teachers;
(e)  seminars for the entire staff of schools have been occurring with
increased frequency in order to encourage teamwork and cooperation in
teaching and planning;
(f)  in-service training of participating teachers is an integral part of
the curriculum development projects; and
(g)  the Steering Committee on In-service Training is examining ways and
means of further developing the approach to in-service training.



- 25 -
Consumable Materials
3.49     No problems have been experienced in any of the project institutions
in the supply or funding of required consumable materials.
Covenants and Conditions
3.50     The loan covenants and conditions were met.    Annex VI details the
status of fulfillment of the major covenants.
Bank Performance
3.51     From the initial contacts in the development of the first education
project, relationships among the Bank and concerned departments and officials
in Ireland have been excellent. The constructive comments of the Bank staff
and, in particular, the support and advice given to the Project Unit in
meeting Bank requirements and procedures were greatly appreciated. In the
development of the first project and the subsequent second project, Bank staff
focused on the staffing and organizational needs of the Project Unit in
effectively implementing the projects. The arrangements made to meet the
stipulated staffing requirements were a major factor in building up the
capacity and capability of the Building Unit, of which the Project Unit is an
integral element, for the implementation of the overall building programme in
Ireland. Also, as a result of these arrangements, it became possible to
reduce the Bank supervision input without detriment to the implementation of
the project. The ease of telephone and written communication between the Bank
and Ireland also facilitated the resolution of issues. In these
circumstances, the Project Unit staff found mission visits satisfactory,
though they would have welcomed better consultation with regard to the timing.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Capital Costs
4.01     The total project cost was originally estimated at £IR25.34 million
as against actual costs of £IR45.78 million, an increase of 81% on a project
for which physical completion extended over eight years as against an
estimated five years. The following table compares planned and actual
expenditures by category:



- 26 -
Table 4
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
Category of   Appraisal of Estimates      % of                                   % of
Expenditure    (incl. contingencies)   Appraisal         Actual Costs          Actual
US$     Irish Pounds                 US$      Irish Pounds
(millions)  (millions)               (millions)   (millions)
Civil Works    44.06        17.77          70        65.16       33.94            74
Furniture        3.83        1.54            6        3.30        1.72             4
Equipment       14.95        6.03           24       19.43       10.12            22
62.84       25.34          100       87.89       45.78           100
Exchange Rates:   Appraisal   2.48 US$ = 1 EIR
Actual       1.92 US$ = 1 EIR (1977-80 average)
4.02     The major cost overrun occurred in civil works and reflects the
escalation of building costs between 1973 and 1979. The approved unit cost of
school building increased on average by 23% annually over that period, and
construction completion extended to September 1980; total price increases as
anticipated in 1973 were 24% for local and 18% for foreign costs and all
construction was expected to be completed by mid-1978. The increase in total
gross floor areas of the project institutions over appraisal estimates was
insignificant for, although the College of Commerce was addeded to the second
project (para. 2.12 b), this was done in substitution of a community school
that was transferred to the first project. The overall cost was offset partly
in dollar terms by the devaluation of the Irish pound against the dollar
(EIR=US$2.48 in 1973 as against £IR=US$1.60 in 1981). For equipment,
inflation in costs was offset in dollar terms by the relative decrease in the
value of the Irish pound. Equipment costs were also affected by the ongoing
review of equipment needs, particularly for the technical institutions
(including the College of Commerce).
Unit Capital Costs
4.03     A comparison between appraisal estimates and actual capital costs per
student place by type of project institution is given in Annex VII. The only
major variation not accounted for by cost inflation is that of the industrial
training centers which were also affected by the increases in unit floor areas
and by the fact that unit costs per m2 were higher than estimated at
appraisal, even after discounting for inflation.



- 27 -
Disbursements
4.04     Estimated and actual disbursements are shown in the Key Project
Data. Disbursement delays were directly related to delays in implementation.
Claims for reimbursement were made promptly and there were no problems with
either procedures or reimbursement.
4.05     The following table shows the actual total disbursements from the
loan by category of expenditure.
Table 5
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Original    1st Revision   2nd Revision     Actual
Type of Expenditures         Allocation     (6/13/80)     (1/16/81)    Disbursement
I. Civil Works
(a) Fac. of Agric.        828,000     1,278,000       1,278,000     1,314,518.58
(b) Other Civil Works     7,622,000    10,172,000      11,337,467    12,176,502.63
II. Furniture                 890,000       890,000         890,000       261,385.56
III. Equipment
(a) Computer Equipment    800,000       800,000         954,533       954,532.91
(b) Other Equipment    10,540,000    10,540,000      10,540,000    10,247,286.08
IV. Unallocated             4,320,000     1,320,000           -
Total            25,000,000    25,000,000      25,000,000    24,954,225.76
V. PROJECT OPERATING OUTPUT AND OUTCOMES
External Productivity Outcomes
5.01     Forecasts at the time of appraisal indicated that the project
institutions would meet the demand for about 42% of the estimated shortage of
middle and higher level technicians, 30% of the total supply of the skilled
work force required for industry, 100% of the specialist subject teachers for
second-level schools, 85% of the agricultural science graduates required in
the country, and about 300 technologists in engineering, science and business
studies required to meet manpower shortages in new-type industry.



- 28 -
5.02     The following table gives the enrollments and output, planned and
actual, from the project institutions.
Table 6
PLANNED STUDENT PLACES/OUTPUT AND ACTUAL
EQUIVALENT FULL-TIME NUMBERS
Institution    Places     Expected       Enrollments         1/     Output
Planned     Output        1979/80     1980/81          1981
Faculty of
Agriculture      550        120          499           469           133
NIHEL            1500        470          1250         1594          312
RTCs (7)         7280       4100          6481         7214         3985   2/
TCE               710 3/     405  3/        61  3/      205  3/
NIHED             780        300           135          395
ITCs (3)         1436       5774          --            --
*(Athlone ITC)   (232)      (955)         (211)        (234)         (669)
Community       10440      1340  4/      4277          5515           714  4/
Schools
1/ Equivalent full-time
2/  Includes 1758 technicians, 1330 apprentices and 897 from other second level
and part-time third level courses.
3/ Excludes physical education students.
4/ Senior cycle.
5.03     As shown in the above table;   (i) the expected output of graduates
for the Faculty of Agriculture has been exceeded; (ii) student enrollments in
NIHEL for 1980/81 have exceeded those planned, and planned output numbers will
be reached in 1982; (iii) NIHED student enrollments will be achieved in
1982/83 and expected output should be achieved by 1986; (iv) RTC student
enrollments and output are virtually on target; and (v) the trainee numbers in
the Athlone ITC during 1980/81 have exceeded those planned, but output numbers
are lower due to the longer duration of the courses. The consequences of the
above are that the manpower targets in agriculture,, and in technician and
apprenticeship training are already being met, while the envisaged output of
graduates in engineering and business studies will follow shortly. The output



- 29 -
of 1,758 technicians from the RTCs, and a further 80 from NIHEL, provides
about 47% of the total national output (total required output for the next
decade is presently under review); while the output of 1,330 apprentices from
the RTC represents 33% of the total required output of apprentices. The
output from the ITCs is not included in the output of apprentices as they are
only in their first year of apprenticeship. In relation to the training at
the ITCs for other than apprenticeship, special emphasis continues to be
placed on the training of school leavers from agricultural backgrounds in the
AnCo centers as well as on the re-training of redundant workers. Despite the
many economic difficulties experienced in 1980, AnCo exceeded the projected
targets and trained a total of 10,531 persons excluding apprentices.
Fifty-two percent of the total number trained during 1980 were trained in the
three project locations-- Dublin, Cork and Athlone. The trainees who would
have been assigned to the project centers at Dublin and Cork were accommodated
in temporary facilities pending completion of the new facilities.
5.04     On the other hand, the development of the TTTI within tne TCE has
fallen short of expectations. Annex VIII provides a comparison between
planned and actual enrollments by courses in the TTTI. It will be noted that
the planned shorter courses have not yet commenced, while intake into the
major courses is far less than planned. A number of reasons have been put
forward for the low level of demand for places in the major courses:
(i) students interested in pursuing technical/technological-related courses
have a wide range of attractive courses to choose from in their own region,
allowing them to live at home; (ii) school entrants must hold a Leaving
Certificate in specified subjects; this requirement reduced the potential pool
of applicants considerably; and (iii) trade entrants are not attracted to the
courses because they last from three to four years, resulting in a high loss
of earnings. Grants and scholarships are provided, but to date the level of
stipend does not appear to be sufficiently attractive. In 1980/81 the output
from the existing teacher training institutions showed a supply shortfall of
105 teachers. These institutions have now been phased out, and the first
output from the TTTI will not occur until 1983. The Department of Education
is currently reviewing this development with a view to bridging the shortfall
in the supply of specialist subject teachers. The TCE is located in an
attractive setting, provides an excellent learning environment, is adequately
staffed, and is equipped to the highest international standards. Teaching
posts are almost guaranteed to the graduates after qualifying, and salaries
are good with excellent opportunities for promotion. In these circumstances,
and in view of the difficult labour market generally, it is felt that the
problem of inadequate intake is only short-term 1/. To compensate for an
increase in the duration of training from three to four years, the number of
1/ Division comments; The flexibility in duration of TTTI courses was lost
with NCEA's emphasis on four-year duration programs. The implementation of
the new program was untimely as (i) secondary school leavers have
attractive options in the RTCs and NIHEs, and (ii) trade entrants were
unlikely to forego loss in earnings. Furthermore, although the TCE is an
autonomous institution, it has been overshadowed by its neighbor, the
NIHEL, with its successful programs of technological studies.



- 30 -
places available for the major courses will be increased correspondingly so as
to achieve the planned output. The shorter courses will be phased in over the
next few years. For this purpose, accommodations provided under the project
will be supplemented by a general lecturing accommodation available in the
National College of Physical Education which is now part of the (TCE).
5.05     Overall enrollments in project community schools in 1980/81 reached
5515 as against a target figure of 5618; this represented a 98% achievement
rate. There were no major shortfalls of note. The Ballyfermot Senior School,
however, exceeded expectations by 180 pupils and is now fully occupied, mainly
due to the popularity of the pre-employment and secretarial courses in which
enrollments increased by 500% and 225% respectively in 1980/81 over 1979/80.
Only 4 of the 12 project community schools had completed senior cycle
programmes by 1980, namely, Ballymun and Ballyfermot (senior schools), Birr
(which resulted from the amalgamation of three existing schools), and Mervue
(where a traditional vocational school was transformed into a community
college). The destinations of terminal leavers from these project schools
compared with those from community schools as a group and with leavers from
all schools is given below;
Table 7
DESTINATION OF COMMUNITY SCHOOL LEAVERS
FROM PROJECT SCHOOLS AND ALL SCHOOLS
All
Community        All
Project Schools (4)        Schools        Leavers
_____________________(% )_______________________
Apprenticeships                    19                    18             9
Other Employment                   52                    55            59
Unemployed                          4                     7             8
Student                            21                    16            20
Unavailable for Work                2                     2             2
Emigrated                           2                     2             2
100                   100           100



- 31 -
Employment of Graduates
5.06     The employment prospects for the graduates of the project technical
institutions are excellent. Those from the Faculty of Agriculture and the TCE
are assured of immediate employment. Similarly, the demand for apprentices is
sufficient to absorb the national output. A survey of all NCEA awards
recipients--including those from the Project RTCs and the NIHEL--of
Certificates, Diplomas and Degrees was undertaken in December, 1980. It had
an 85.5% response rate, which makes the findings reasonably representative.
The results showed that 57% of the recipients went directly into employment--
of these, 80% gained employment within three months, 31% continued their
studies, 11.5% were still seeking employment and the remainder were otherwise
engaged. Overall, 79% found employment relevant to the area in which they
qualified, and it was encouraging to see that 87% regarded the course which
they followed to be relevant to their occupation. In keeping with the policy
envisaged at appraisal, the institutions are providing for local and regional
demands. As an illustration of this regional dimension, locational patterns
showed that 61% of the employed recipients have found employment in the county
where the institution is located or in surrounding counties, and 69% found
employment in their home counties or surrounding counties. The following
Table shows the relationship between the place of employment and the RTC
attended by the respondents;
Table 8
LOCATION OF EMPLOYMENT OF GRADUATES
Respondents   Respondents    Respondents
Location of        Employed in    Employed in   Employed      Respondents
Institution        County of     Adjoining      Elsewhere     Employed
Attended            Institution   Counties      in Ireland    Abroad
------------------------  M  --------------------(- -)
Carlow Carlow RTC      29.9            37.3           31.2           1.5
Donegal Letterkenny
RTC      58.8            17.6           23.5          ---
Galway Galway RTC       59.6            7.6           28.1           4.7
Louth Dundalk RTC      43.6             9.6           44.7           2.1
Sligo Sligo RTC        29.8            25.5           42.5          2.1
Waterford Waterford
RTC       26.3            29.3            42.4         2.0
Westmeath Athlone RTC   37.8           35.2            48.1 _
Total                40.8            23.1            37.2          2.5



- 32 -
Liaison with Industry
5.07     The well-qualified teaching staff, the suitability of the facilities
provided, and the degree of attention given to the development of programmes
and curricula in coordination with industry have been the major factors in
ensuring the high quality of output of the project institutions. All the
institutions have developed close links with industry, both formally and
informally. NIHEL, for example, has developed within its Cooperative
Education Division an external liaison section whose main objectives are;
(i) to promote awareness and appreciation within industry of *the role,
functions and facilities of NIHEL in industry and commercre; (ii) to provide
regular feedback on changing needs and trends within industry; and (iii) to
liaise with firms for the purpose of identifying problems and ascertaining the
extent to which these can be solved within the institute or elsewhere.
Arrangements have been made with the Mid-West Regional Development
Organization to facilitate community access to the various library services
available in the Institute. A number of research and development centers
which serve the Mid-West Region have also been located on the campus viz.,
(i) the IIRS; (ii) the Confederation of Irish Industry; (iii) the Innovation
Center (to give active support to small industries); (iv) the Regional
Management Center; and (v) the Microelectronics Application Center (this
center has resulted from efforts by NIHEL, Shannon Development, AnCo and the
National Board for Science and Technology). The aim of the last center is to
play a major national role in the development and design of new products based
on the application of microelectronics. Any company will be free to ask the
Center for assistance. A wide range of facilities and expertise, including a
link to the NIHEL, will be available. The NIHEL, with 29 excellently equipped
laboratories and 114 highly qualified staff, has already attracted research
and development contracts valued at almost EIR 0.5 million. Employers have
contributed at the various levels to the development of course programmes. In
relation to apprentices, the Curriculum Advisory Committee includes employer
representatives. They have expressed satisfaction with the new off-the-job
apprenticeship scheme and with the quality of the apprentices at the end of
the programme. All technician programmes are developed in the individual RTCs
by their academic boards after extensive consultation with the employers and
other interested parties in the region as well as at the national level. A
further notable achievement is the productive liaison that is being
established between the community schools and industry, a development that is
being studied with interest by other second-level schools, as well as the
introduction of special pre-employment courses again linking with industry.
Equity
5.08     An important theme in the project development was that of
contributing to an improved socioeconomic mix at the various educational
levels. Most of the community schools are still developing, but they all
report that a satisfactory balance in student intake is being achieved
gradually, reflecting the mix of socioeconomic grouping in the catchment
area. However, in a number of cases the bulk of students is, so far, from the
lower-income groups. This is fairly representative of the type of catchment
area involved, but in a few cases it is because the catchment areas have not
been fully developed, and the mix of housing between the public-rented type



- 33 -
and the private-purchased type has not yet been effected. The ability spread
is generally normal. Again, in some schools, where there is a majority of the
low-income groupings, there is so far, a low reading age. Principals are
confident that, in due course, they will attract the large majority of
eligible pupils from their areas, and they are pleased with the cooperation
they are receiving from the feeder schools, even from those which were
previously feeding the traditional-type schools.
5.09     The project technical institutions, as the major elements of a new
technical education pyramid, were also intended to enable those from the lower
socioeconomic groups to proceed to higher levels of education.     In support of
this objective, the level and extent of scholarships and grants have been
greatly extended on a means test basis.    Data on the effects of these measures
are not yet available for the Regional Technical Colleges where their impact
is expected to be the greatest. The expectation is that over time the
socioeconomic mix at the highest level will improve. The following Table
which compares the socioeconomic mix of the intake into NIEEL with that of
other higher education institutions:
Table 9
sOCZOECDNOCC BACKGRUND OF ENTRANTS
TO NIIML AND HIGHU EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS
Other                                  Inter-
Agri-                                 mediate
cultural Righer Lower  Employare      Non-    Other
occu-  Prof.,- Profc-  and   Salaried  Manual  Yon-  Skilled Semi-  U_-
Farmer pations sional sional Managers  Zmployees  Workers Manual Manual Skilled Skilled Others
3IHZL         20      2      16    8      6        8        9      4      5      4      S      13
Higher Education
institutions  16     -       16    8      22       10       8      4      7      2      1     6
5.10     The further equity dimension of the project is that of improved
regional distribution of education opportunities as well as support for
regional economic growth.   In both of these areas the RTCs have played a
dramatic part.   The data furnished in para. 5.06 on the regional.employment of
the graduates is one important indicator of the role being played by the
colleges in regional growth. The development of two higher institutions at
Limerick--NIHEL and TCE--was a major contribution to growth in that area,
while the community school programme included investment in educational
development in a wide range of areas. In short, one of the most exciting
developments which has occurred as a consequence of the creation of the above
institutions at strategic locations throughout the country is the interaction



- 34 -
between them and other educational and training institutions at the local
level, and between them and industry and between them and the community. What
has in fact developed is a network of interacting elements so that the
totality of its efforts is greater in effect than the aggregated efforts of
its individual parts. Key personnel from the project institutions fill
positions at the modules of the network and as members of professional
associations and various planning committees concerned with educational,
training and manpower matters. They exert a concerted and informed influence
on local and national opinion and on educational and economic development
generally.
Operating Indicators
5.11     Operational efficiency in the project institutions is enhanced by the
high quality of staff, good working relationships between staff and students,
excellent physical resources, and an adequate range of support staff.
Staff/Student Ratios
5.12     The following table shows the teacher:student ratio, both planned and
actual, for the project institutions during 1980/81.
Table 10
PLANNED AND ACTUAL TEACHER;STUDENT RATIOS
IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
Teacher:Student Ratios 1/
Institution                               Planned            Actual
Faculty of Agriculture                      1;9              1;7.8
NIHEL                                       1;10             1;12
RTCs (7)                                    1;13             1;10
TCE                                         1:11 2/          1:6.6
NIHED                                       1;10               -
ITCs                                       1;12
(Athlone)                                                   (1;7.5)
Community Schools                           1;20             1;18
1/ Full-time equivalent
2/ Excluding physical education students.



- 35 -
5.13     As shown in the above Table, the actual teacher;student ratio in the
Faculty of Agriculture is below that planned; but, taking into account the
range of research projects currently being undertaken in the faculty, the
ratio of 1;7.8 is satisfactory.   The actual teacher;student ratio Ln NIHEL is
higher than that specified at appraisal; this level is in keeping with
Department of Education policy on staffing levels. As NIHED is only in its
initial year, it would be premature to comment on actual staffing levels, but
it is envisaged that the ratio level will be similar to that in the NIHEL.
For the TCE, the current ratio refers to all activities, including the
training of technical teachers and physical education teachers, as the staff
for general subjects are common to both the TTTI and the College of Physical
Education. A temporary reduction in enrollments in physical education teacher
training as well as the currently low level of enrollments in other programmes
are responsible for the present low staff;student ratios in the TCE. The
target of 1:12 is expected to be achieved over the next few years as
enrollments expand.
5.14     The RTCs' teacher:student ratio is below the level envisaged for the
following reasons: (i) the introduction of new staff structures and lower
teacher:student contact hours; and (ii) lower than planned group sizes in
apprentice and some technician diploma level programmes. Apprentices are now
sent for training by AnCo in groups of 12 instead of the 16 envisaged, while
some of the diploma level courses were introduced before numbers had reached a
viable level. Technician-level programmes are being reviewed with a view to
determining critical minimum class sizes, and it is anticipated that, over the
next few years, the Department of Education policy of 1:12 for the
teacher:student ratio in RTCs will be implemented. The inclusion of a greater
number of lecture/demonstration rooms which can accommodate up to three class
groups will contribute to the improvement in the teacher;student ratio. The
instructor:trainee ratio in the Athlone ITC is also below that envisaged due
to (i) apprentices being arranged in group sizes which are smaller than those
planned; and (ii) staff devoting part of their time to survey work and other
external activities in the region. In 1977, the teacher:pupil ratio for
community schools was reduced from 1:20 to 1;18 (not including principal,
vice-principal, guidance counsellor and remedial teacher or chaplain), thereby
increasing the staffing allowance in project schools by about 12-15% over the
appraisal figure. It is worth noting that, whereas excess teaching staff in
project schools totalled 18.75 in October 1979 (including 8 teachers in Birr
community school where absorption of staffs from three existing schools
inflated the numbers), the excess in October 1980 had already been reduced to
7.35 teachers, six of whom were in Birr. It is clear therefore that, apart
from the exceptional case of Birr, stabilization of staffing according to
present norms is well-advanced in all project schools.
Examination Results and Dropout
5.15     Examination results for the NIHEL and the RTCs parallel closely the
national levels, viz., pass levels are: 75% from one-year Certificate
Examinations; 85% from National Certificate Examinations (two-year Technician
Certificate Programs); and 92% from National Diploma Examinations (three-year
Technician Diploma Program). Over 94% success rates are being achieved in



- 36 -
Degree Examinations in the Faculty of Agriculture and the NIHEL. Actual
wastage rates have dropped considerably to an average of about 5%.
5.16     For the community schools, dropout rates through junior cycle are low
in project schools, ranging from 5 to 12%. The higher rate prevails generally
where girls can get jobs in local clothing factories without any formal
qualifications if they are skilled at needlework and/or dress design.
Dropouts after junior cycle tend to decrease in those schools that provide a
post-junior short course such as pre-employment and/or a junior secretarial
course. For example, in The Donahies, 41% of the pupils left on completion of
the junior cycle in 1980, whereas only 21% of such pupils left in 1981 because
a pre-employment course was provided which attracted 18% of those who
completed the junior cycle. The most recent national report on school leavers
indicates that 47% of community school pupils leave either after completing
junior cycle or after a short post-junior cycle course. (The figure for all
schools is 33%.) This may appear high compared to overall figures, but there
is no doubt that the community schools in this instance are meeting an
important need by providing short post-junior courses which enable some 20% of
the pupils to gain extra qualifications and a place in the work area, which
they may not have gained a year earlier, specially in the current economic
climate.
5.17     The project community schools are still at a very early stage of
development, and only six of them were in a position to present pupils for the
Intermediate Certificate Examination of 1980. This was their first
presentation of students for the Examination, except for Mervue which is a
well-established school. The results, under the circumstances, were
creditable, and about 75% of the candidates secured five pass grades. It is
not possible to compare these results with the 1980 results for all schools
because the necessity to secure five pass grades for the award of a
certificate was discontinued in the case of the Intermediate and Leaving
Certificate examinations in 1974. However, the pass rates in the various
subjects can be compared, and the Table below compares the results of the
project schools in certain subject with those for all schools in the
Intermediate Certificate Examination for 1980. It is noted that, in most
practical subjects, the pass rates are above the national figures.



- 37 -
Table 11
INTERMEDIATE EXAMINATION (1980)
PASS RATES (%)
Subject Examined          All Schools    Project Schools
Woodwork                               87.4             90.0
Metalwork                               83.2            91.0
Mechanical Drawing                     69.9             73.0
Home Economics                         86.6             88.0
Commerce                               82.2             73.5
Science                                76.0             60.0
Art                                    88.7             83.9
French                                 68.8             44.2
Mathematics (Lower Course)              78.6            76.8
Mathematics (Higher Course)             93.8           100.0
Irish (Lower Course)                   66.0             43.0
Irish (Higher Course)                  92.5             83.3
English (Lower Course)                 91.2             90.7
English (Higher Course)                95.0             97.5
5.18     Only three of the schools were in a position to present candidates
for the School Leaving Certificate in 1980, and results were generally in line
with those obtained by Intermediate Certificate Examination candidates.
Space Utilization Factors
5.19     Actual space utilization in the NIHEL is higher than envisaged at
appraisal (85% against 80% for classrooms and 80% against 60% for
laboratories). This primarily results from the higher intake of students into
the Institute. Some temporary classrooms are being used to accommodate the
excess student numbers. The level of space utilization in the RTCs which were
close to their projected enrollments in 1980/81 are as follows;
Table 12
APPRAISED AND ACTUAL SPACE UTILIZATION FACTORS FOR RTCs
% Utilization
Room Type                          Appraisal       Actual
Classrooms                             76             76
Science Laboratories                   74             73
Drawing Offices                        76             85
Workshops                               74            53



- 38 -
5.20     As shown in the above Table, the projected utilization is being
achieved in all teaching spaces with the exception of the workshops. However,
as a result of the increased apprentice numbers, project utilization of
workshops for 1981/82 will be significantly higher. The level of space
utilization in the Faculty of Agriculture varied during the year; however,
during peak utilization periods, the utilization levels exceed the 70% and 60%
specified at appraisal stage for classrooms and laboratories respectively.
The Athlone ITC has an average space utilization of about 78%, which is
somewhat lower than that envisaged at appraisal, although the Manager of the
ITC considers the current utilization to be extremely high for a center which
has such a diverse range of programmes.
5.21     For the community schools, the care taken in devising schedules of
accommodation, in providing standard layouts of teaching spaces, and in
ensuring a high quality of design and construction as well as a high quality
of teacher supply would lead to an expectation of efficient utilization which,
to date, has been amply fulfilled. Since most of the schools are still well
short of their ultimate target enrollments, they have experienced as yet
little pressure on space and few of the timetabling difficulties which could
be encountered because of the general changes which have come about in
staffing allowances and in organizational patterns since 1977 (see Annex V).
Where spare capacity has been provided well in advance of need, e.g.,
Springfield and Churchfield, the facilities have been used to accommodate
primary school pupils and a special education unit. Facilities are being well
maintained in all project schools.
Unit Recurrent Cost
5.22     The following table shows the unit recurrent cost per student
enrolled for the project institutions;
Table 13
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL RECURRENT COST IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
Institutions                         Unit Cost EIR
Appraisal Report            Actual
(1975/76 terms)          (1980 terms)
Faculty of Agriculture              680                   4,669
NIHEL                             1,110                   1,631
RTCs (7)                          1,075.2   1/            1,817
TCE                                 450                   4,176
NIHED                                - 
ITC(3)                            2,100                    --
(Athlone)                      --                    5,530   2/
Community Schools                   200                     650
1/ This figure is included in Appendix IV of the Appraisal Report; a figure of
£IR290 seems to have been incorrectly entered in Annex 19 of the report.
2/ Including cost of accommodation, travelling, canteen, allowances to
students and protective clothing.



- 39 -
5.23     The recurrent cost per student place included in the Appraisal Report
for the Faculty of Agriculture was related to the average recurrent cost per
student place in the university but not specifically to the Faculty of
Agriculture. Taking into account the diverse elements of this faculty,
including the extent of the research undertaken, current unit costs are
considered to be satisfactory. The unit cost for the TCE appears to have been
underestimated at appraisal, while the present actual costs are considered
excessive, reflecting the low staff;student ratios and current under-
enrollments. Unit costs include the cost of the Physical Education teacher
trainees where unit costs were expected to be high. Costs are expected to
drop dramatically as enrollment capacity is reached and staff:student ratios
stabilize at 1;12, but would nevertheless be expected to remain somewhat
higher than the adjoining NIHEL. The other unit costs reflect cost inflation
since 1975/76, with some setback for the ITCs due to a lower
instructorzstudent ratio than planned.
5.24     Unit costs in project community schools for 1980 ranged from £IR591
(Lisduggan and Mervue) to £IR741 (Blakestown). Considering that most of the
schools were at an early development stage, these figures compare more than
favourably with national norms which were; Secondary (Grammar) School, £IR636
(including 8% private financing); Community/Comprehensive School, £IR653; and
Vocational School/Community College, £IR676 (excluding 4% for central VEC
administration). Instruction costs in project schools accounted for from 67%
of the total in Ballyfermot senior school to 86% in the Birr community school
(which was considerably overstaffed), and averaged 77%. In Ballyfermot
instruction costs were kept comparatively low because of a management decision
to employ in this "post-compulsory" institution a considerable number of
part-time instructors (at half the rate for permanent teachers), always
matching trainer skill to client need. In comparison with appraisal
estimates, instruction costs overall were from 10% to 15% higher than
anticipated, mainly because of the change in teacherzpupil ratio made in
1977. Unit costs for the community schools exceed those estimated at
appraisal, even adjusting for general inflation, as a result of both a more
generous teacher provision than planned, and an increase in teacher salaries
far beyond the general level of inflation.






IRELAND - SECONCO EOIUCATION PROJECT - LOAN 959 IRE
COMPLEITON REPORT
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL IMPLErMENA1lION
1373      1973     1975      1976  _   q7        11978    1979  .   . 0
.04  )*~  ~,.4  00~  3 *  2   1  41  2  3                     IIi[.i 
C9mWn99llF 9-DFFhSPVESchO>ls I II   7 ] 3 4 I  F  - T1 30E *1    T  I 
b__ow.____  ______  -   1'7                    21    L b277
PIaflnIhq CqC  OOOflOOO900~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~0.        0
FRegunaic9 I1 .chni-at Co ulege
Nationalinsit,utefog i.esi  .J!0|0f-0t0llG                               1      l1      r   j    1    f 
-ucalion                                          L-llWIJ
Ienstitutlen         ,   _
F@r";tsrt, Eqfip - wnt 1. *o..r  @e *ot ~00-_00



- 42 -
Annex II
IRELAND
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 959-IRE)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Unit Soace Allocation per Student
Gross Unit Areas in m2
Type of Institution         Appraisal 1/         Actual              Difference
(percent)
Community Schools          7.7  (74,600)      6.00  (62,640)           -22.1
Regional Technical
Colleges                 5.7  (26,500)     11.0 2/ (25,660)          +93.0
Technical Teacher
Training Institute
Limerick                 7.4   (5,200)      8.6   ( 6,120)           +16.2
National Institute
of Higher Education
Limerick                11.3  (17,000)     11.3   (17,030)            -0-
Faculty of Agriculture    15.6  ( 8,622)     16.6   ( 9,135)           + 6.4
Industrial Training
Centers                 12.1  (14,600)     15.5   (22,265)           +28.1
1/ Total gross areas are in parenthesis.
2/ Relates to area per place including existing and new.



- 42 -
Annex II
IRELAND
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 959-IRE)
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
Unit Soace Allocation per Student
Gross Unit Areas in m2
Type of Institution         Appraisal 1/         Actual              Difference
(percent)
Community Schools          7.7  (74,600)      6.00  (62,640)           -22.1
Regional Technical
Colleges                 5.7  (26,500)     11.0 2/ (25,660)          +93.0
Technical Teacher
Training Institute
Limerick                 7.4   (5,200)      8.6   ( 6,120)           +16.2
National Institute
of Higher Education
Limerick                11.3  (17,000)     11.3   (17,030)            -0-
Faculty of Agriculture    15.6  ( 8,622)     16.6   ( 9,135)           + 6.4
Industrial Training
Centers                 12.1  (14,600)     15.5   (22,265)           +28.1
1/ Total gross areas are in parenthesis.
2/ Relates to area per place including existing and new.



- 44 -
Annex IV
IRELAND
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 959-LRE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Institutions Where ResDondents Are Engaged in Further Studies
College attended by     Universities     RTCs  *NIEEs   Other      Others    Abroad  TOTAL
Award Recipients         in Ireland                      VEC         in
Colleges   Ireland
NIHEL                         5                  25                   6        3       39
RTCs (7)                     11         312      35       29        39         4      430
TCE                                               1                            1        2
TOTAL                        16         312      61       29        45         8      471



- 45 -
Annex V
Page 1 of 4
IRELAND
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 959-TRE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Community/Comprehensive Schools
Schedules of Accommodation, Curriculum and Other Programs
A. General Parameters
Schedules of accommotdation for all project schools were based on the
following planning norms;
(1) Target enrollments were set which postulated a three-year junior
cycle and a two-year senior cycle as well as a one-year post-junior
cycle secretarial course. (Note; In fact, there is a general
growing tendency to extend the basic school period for a considerable
number of second-level pupils by an extra year, often without seeking
Departmental permission. When this situation is compounded by the
provision of transition-year courses, pre-employment courses, etc.,
in addition to those originally envisaged, the result has serious
implications in the medium- and long-term as regards overall cost and
pressure on accommodation.)
(2) A 30-hour working week, e.g., 45 minutes x 40 periods, etc. (Note;
In practice, many schools have developed a 26-28 hour work week,
thereby reducing the comprehensive range of the pupil's week and at
the same time increasing pressure on accommodation.)
(3) A 1:20 teacher/pupil ratio for per-quota staffing. (Note. In 1977
revised T;P ratios of 1;19 for secondary schools, 1;18 for
community/comprehensive schools, and 1:16.5 for vocational schools
were introduced. The result, generally, is larger staffs and smaller
classes, thus adding to unit costs and increasing pressure on
accommodation.)
(4) Principal, vice-principal and guidance counsellor to be ex-quota.
(Note; Since 1976, some schools have also been allowed a remedial
teacher or chaplain ex-quota, thus increasing the unit cost.)
(5) Teachers' workloads to comprise on average 22 hours class contact,
not including principal, vice-principal and guidance counsellor.
(Note; This now varies from 18 to 22 hours as the large number of
teachers in posts of responsibility become more involved in general
organization and pastoral care.)



- 46 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 4
(6) An 85% to 90% use factor for general-type teaching spaces. (Note:
See (1) to (3) above.)
(7) A 75% to 80% use factor for laboratories and workshops. (Note: See
(1) to (3) above.)
(8) Class groups of up to 30 for academic subjects, for science, for
art/crafts and for business/secretarial subjects. (Note: Some
schools are aiming to reduce this figure to 24; see (3j above.
Science classes are now limited to 24, thus bringing pressure to bear
on science accommodation.)
(9) Class groups of up to 20 for home economics. (Note: This limic has
been long established.)
(10) Class groups of up to 24 for practical arts.    (Note: MIany teachers
think 24 is too high, although it has been long-established in
Vocational Schools.)
(11) Area Limit (not including Physical Education requirements);
Number of pupils x
6m2.  (Note:  The intention was that, in time, each school would be p
rovided with a P.E. hall.)
(12) Space allocation to be divided broadly as follows:
Teaching Area     : 67%
Ancillary Areas   : 20%
Circulation       ;  132
(13) Teaching areas to include;
(a)   General and specialist classroom spaces and associated stores,
preparation/resource areas and project areas;
(b)   Library and associated workroom and store;
(c)   General purpose/Dining/Assembly Area and associated kitchenette
and store;
(d)   Guidance suite.
(14) Ancillary areas to include;
(a)   Social/Pastoral/Cloaks/Lockers/Resource areas;
(b)   Administration offices;



- 47 -
Annex V
Page 3 of 4
Cc)   Staff accommodation;
(d)   Toilets and stores;
(e)   Boiler house.
(15) Standard layouts to be made available for teaching spaces.
(16) No extra accommodation to be made available for adult education, etc
(17) Cost Limit; As per Building Unit norm currently applicable to second
level schools.
B. Balanced Curriculum for Junior Cycle
Notional Time Distribution
School Week (30 hours)                                          Periods
(a)  Irish                          4
EXAMINATION SUBJECTS     (b)  English                       4
(7)                      (c)  Mathematics                   4
Time;  21 hrs.           (d)  Science                       4
(e)  Applied Science                4         28
(f)  Social Studies                 4
(g)  Foreign Language               4
Religion                       2
NON-EXAMINATION               Physical Education             2
ACTIVITIES                    Art (informal)                 2          8
Time:  6 hrs.                 Civics                         1
Music (informal)               1
Extra examination subject
e.g. Mechanical Drawing/
Commerce option
or
Extra periods for subjects
above
"POoL"                        or                                        4
Time;  3 hrs.                 Private study
or
Games and recreation
or
"Pool" not available
40



- 48 -
Annex V
?age 4 of 4
C. Viable Senior Cvcle
Minimum Range of Subjects           No.
Irish                                 1
English                               1
Two other languages                   2
Mathematics                           1
Two science subjects                  2
Two applied science subjects          2
Two social studies subjects           2
One business studies subject          1
12
NB   As Leaving Certificate courses are sanctioned at Higher Level and at
Ordinary Level, it is desirable that curricular options are provided
at both levels in such subjects as mathematics, science subjects, etc.
D. Remedial Education
On average about 18%. of junior-cycle pupils will need remedial
education. About half of these may be fit to take their places in mixed
ability classes for most activities, but will need to be withdrawn in small
groups at about 5-8 and coached systematically in reading and arithmetic for a
period each day by a qualified remedial teacher. The remaining junior-cycle
pupils in need of remedial education might best be catered for in special
classes, each having a maximun of 15 pupils. These classes would follow a
special programme, but would use the full range of facilities within the
school in doing so. Although most of their education would be the
responsibility of qualified remedial teachers, some of their activities, e.g.,
home economics and practical arts, might best be conducted under the
jurisdiction of specialist teachers in these subjects.
E. Pastoral Care
Members of staff to be assigned as "tutors" to each basic class group
of around 15-30. Year masters (with Post of Responsibility allowances) to be
responsible for coordinating activities of tutors.
School design required to facilitate pastoral organization and
promote socialization.



- 49 -                                  Annex VI
IRELAND
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 959-IRE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Fulfillment of Major Covenants and Conditions
Source of                  Description of Covenant                  Coments
Covenant
Schedule 5    The Borrower shall maintain and operate the        Fulfilled
Para. 2       project unit with full-time officers. Project      April 1974
Director, Deputy Project Director, two project
architects, a project technical educator, two
general educators and a procurement officer
Schedule 1    No withdrawals of civil works and equipment for    Fulfilled
Section 3(b)  the Faculty of Agriculture (University College,    October 1975
Dublin) until a revised curriculum and .develop
ment plan satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank has been adopted.
Schedule 1    No withdrawals in respect of expenditures on      Pulfilled
Section 3(c)  computer equipment until the Bauk is furnished    April 1978
with an integrated computer development plan
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Sideletter    Comprehensive National Plan for the development   Fulfilled on
01/31/74      of third-level technical institutions to be       basis of white
prepared.                                         paper on
Educational Dev.
(December 1980)
Sideletter    In accordance with the National Plan, the         Statutory autonomy
01/31/74      National Institute of Higher Education in         granted by Act 25
Limerick to be granted a constitution with        of 1980
appropriate autonomy.



SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 959-IRE)
PROJECT COHPLE.TION REPORT
Capital Cost Per Student Place (USt)
Civil Works               Furnittire             Equipment                    Total
Appraisal 1/ Actual 2/ Appraisal 1/ Actual 2/     Appraisal t/ Actual 2/     Appraisal      Actual
Co=uzunity Schools      1,305          1,830     126           104          195           206       1,626          2,140
InJustrial Training
Centera               1,899          8,440      97           119        1,390         2,006       3,386         10,565
Regional Technical
Colleges              1,258          1,803     125           101          434           807       1,817          2,711             c
Technical Teacher
Training Institute    1,793          3,527     170           176           707         1,302      2.670          5,005
NIIIE (Limerick)        3,078          2,509     467            94        2,413         1,356       5,958          3,959
Faculty of Agriculture  6,109 3/      10,728     727 3/        777        2,563 31      5,033      9,399 3/       16,538
1/ Exchange rate. 2.48 USt - £IRI
2J Exchange rate;   1.60 US$ - LIRI
3I An error in the preparation of the Unit Cost in thiei category in the appraisal documents has been
aD
adjusted. 



- 51 -                                       Annex VIII
IRELMID
SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT (Loan 959-IRE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Thomond College of Education
CoSMarison Betveen Planned and Actual Enrollments by Courses
Planned                                   Actual
Duration     Intake    Stock   Output    Duration    intake   Stock    Output
1. Rural & Cuneral       3 years     40        110      35       4 years     19         36        -
Sciaenc
2. Woodwork (Trade
entry)             3            36        100     32        3           12         20
3. Woodwork (School
entry)             3            18         s0     16        4           31         73       -
4. Woodvork & Building
Construction       2            16         32     16        3           -          -         -
S. Metalwork
(School entry)     3            26         74     24        4           28         55       -
6. metalwork
(Trade entry)      3            26         74     24        3           14         21       -
7.Ca) Businss Studios
(Graduatee ntry) 1             20         20     18        1           - I                 -
(b) business & Secre-
tarial Studies
(Graduat   entry) 1            20         20     18        1                     -         -
L.(a) Secretarial
studies
(Craduate entry) 1             20         20     18        1          -          -         -
(b) SecretarLal
studies
(Certificate
entry)            2            30         60     26        2                -               -
9. lacturers & Asst.
Lecturers in
College            5 routhc     60         30      56       5 meaths    -          -         -
10.  Specialist trades   -            -          -      --
11. Remedial
Education          1 ern       48         24     48        1 term      -          -         -
12. Adult Education
6 weeks      40          7     40        6 weks      -          -
13.  Educational
Nanagenent         2 terms      40         27     40        2 terms     -          --        -
Total                 -         440        648    411          -        104        205






- 53 -
TECHNICAL   EDUCATION   STRUCTURE             c.aP-.
NNII-E &  OTHER THI,RD LEVEL INSIITUTIOQS
.,I   TEC HNOL.OGI sr T
Postcraduate Deg
7X            Post aducte Dip.
De,9ree    ,
>   ', S  ,      FTC
,~~~~P T.
TECHNICIAN
4          R Tech.Dip
Tech. Cert.
L4C 3   C 2          CRAFTSMAN
2          '    -   '      rS~~~~~~~T  4 
LIJ
leaving cert with         OeERATr.q
2 hons.                    pcss
KI                     I                                _ 
i  C O h"MJN1~IT Y  r rouD or inter cert \       du
SCHOOMUIT                                  yo uth
SCHOOL-                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ad ult s
!_________ _E_ 7T   Soecial entrance  tesc to TCZ
Senior trade e.---.
TJ    . Tech cert wit credits
pre-eo loy:er.c






- 55-,
136EDUC EI                                                  ATTA.;MENT
COMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
MR. SHIV S. APUR, DrRECTOR OP T_IONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT,
INTBAFRAD, WASHINGTON D. C..
RE LOAN 959 IRE
RE YOUR LETTER DATED SEPT. 15, 1982, THE PROJECT UNIT HAS NO
FURTHER COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT.
KINDEST REGARDS.
LONDSAY, PROJECT: DIRECTOR .DEPT. OF EDUCATION, DUBLIN.
8 OCTOBER, 1982 /
:Co.Ru,£Tt, wk,iw 
LAST LINE - NAME SHOULD READ LINDSAY, PROJECT DIRECTOR.
31136EDUC El



