Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rvport No. 9428-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MEXICO
MINING SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MAY 30, 1991
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department II
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY UNIT PESO (MEX$)
On May 20, 1991, the exchange rate in the controlled market was US$
Mex$2980.40; and in the free market US$1 = Mex$3002. The controlled exchange
rate is currently being devaluec by Mex$0.40 a day.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CETES           Certificados de Tesoreria (Treasury Bills)
CFM             Comisi6n de Fomento Minero (Mining Development Commission)
CRM             Consejo de Recursos Minerales (Mineral Resources Council)
DGM             Direcci6n General de Minas (General Directorate of Mines)
FFM             Fideicomiso de Fomento Minero (Trust Fund for Mining
Development)
FMNMM           Fideicomiso de Minerales No Metalicos Mexicanos (Trust Fund
for Mexican Non-Metallic Minerals)
FRR             Financial Rate of Return
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
LIBOR           London Interbank Offered Rate
NAFIN           Nacional Financiera, S.N.C.
NMMP            National Mining Modernization Program
NMR             National Mining Reserve
PECAN           Programa Especial Complementario de Apoyo a a Pequefia y
Mediana Mineria (Small and Medium Scale Mining Project)
PFI             Participating Financial Intermediary
SEDUE           Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia (Ministry of Urban
Development and Ecology)
SEMIP           Secretaria de Energia, Minas e Industria Paraestatal (Ministry
of Energy, Mines and Parastatal Industry)
SMM             Small and Medium Scale Mining Enterprise



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MINING SECTOR RESTRUCTURfNG PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....**.............* *O*OQ**p***                      1
I.   THE ECONOMY AND THE MINING SECTOR .............................            4
A. Macroeconomic Context . . . .  .. ....             . .*****s.....   *  4
B. Sectoral Context ................ ........                            5
1. Structure and Importance ....... .................                 5
2. Institutional Framework ........ . . . . . . .   . . . .  ........... .  6
11.  REFORM AND RESTRUCTURING OF THE MINING SECTOR .................            8
A. Mining Sector Potential so .......                         ...       8
B. National Mining Modernization Program, 1990-1994                      9
C. Mineral Rights Policies  . .....                                     10
1. Mineral Rights Allocation System                                  10
2. Mineral Rights Payments ..................se*........             11
D. Foreign Participation ........... *.. .............                  12
E. Institutional Modernization                                          14
1. General Directorate of Mines (DGM)..........               ...    14
2. Mining Development Commission (CFM)..CF...)...........            14
3. Trust Funl for Mining Development (FFM)                           16
4. Mineral Resources Council (CRM)... ...........17
F. Mining and the Environment ......... .... ts ..............          18
1. Background .........        ... . ..     . ..  ,**      ....      18
2. Mining Sector Environmental Issues .......st............          19
II. TEPOCT......................o...................s..........             21
A. Project History .......        ............ .. ..............        21
B. Project Obj ectives and Jus         tification ................. .   22
C. Project Description  .................... . ..........               22
D. Loan Amount and Terms  ..... ses....            .....                23
E. Financing Plan ....... .......... . ...            .. .....          24
F. Institutional Arrangements                            .25
G. Relending Terms and Conditions        ..................             27
H. Procurement  ............. .................. .  .....               28
I. Disbursement .  .......                ...... .. . ..                30
J. Retroactive Financing  .. .................... t  ... ......         30
K. Monitoring, Reporting and Auditing        . *.30
L.  Benefits  and  Risks   ..... ....  .................. .    .  .     .....  31
IV. AGREEMENrS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......... . ..soo ...........        32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission and a post-
appraisal mission, which visited Mexico in September 1990 ard January 1991.
Mission members were: Messrs. Alberto F. Jim6nez de Lucio (Task Manager,
LAZIE), N. Hughes (Original Task Manager, AS11E), F. Remy (AFTIE), P. Fozzard
(AFTIE), I. Rizo (LA2IE), I. Rivera (LA2C2). M. Stoller (Cons.), T. Heintz
(Cons.), T. Loomis (Cons.) and K. Rock (Cons.). Mrs. Rafaela Reff assisted in
the production of this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
List of Annexes
Paso No.
Annex 1. Technical Assistance Program ........................     34
Annex 2. Auditing Requirement3                                      38
Annex 3. Financial Analysis of NAFIN ......39
Annex 4. Financial Analysis of CFM and FFM ...                      46
Annex 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...........      53
Annex 6. Estimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements**.*.*nt      54
Annex 7. Selected Data and Documents Available
in the Project File         .................             55
Annex 8. Supporting Tables and Charts                               56
Table 1. Mining Sector Share in Output,
Exports and Employment, 1970-1990 ..........     56
Table 2. Mining-Metallurgical Output, 1970-1990 .....     57
Table 3. Mexico in World Mineral Production, 1989 ...    58
Table 4. Value of Mining-Metallurgical Output
1970-1990   ...............  o...     ...        59
Table 4A. Structure of the Value of Mining-Metallurgical
Output, 1970-1990 ......................  ....   60
Table 5. Mining-Metallurgical Exports, 1970-1990 ....    61
Table 5A. Structure of Mining-Metallurgical
Exports 1970-1990 ..... ... .......  ...........  62
Table 6. Investment in the Mining-Metallurgical
Sector, 1970-1990   ............. .......... .   63
Table 7. National Mining Reserves, 1990 .............    64
Table 8. Land Assigned Outside National
Mining Reserves, 1990 .....    .................  65
Table 9. Land Under Concession to the
Private Sector, 1990 ...0 .... ................  66
Table 10. Cost of Holding a Mineral Concession
for Exploration ....... ..   ...................    67
Table IOA. Cost of Holding a Mineral Concession
for Exploitat*oi ...... ..    .................  68
Table 11. SEMIP Organizational Chart ................     69
Table 11A. DGlM Organizational Chart .................    70
Table 12. CFM Organizational Chart    ...............     71
Table 13. CFM Participation in State-.wned Enterprises    72
Table 14. CRM Organizational Chart . ................    73
Table 15. CRH Balance Sheet, 1986-19V0 ...............    74
Table 16. CRM Income Statement, 1986-1990 ...........    75
Map      IBRD 22988



MEXICO
MINING SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Nacional Financiera, S.N.C. (NAFIN)
Guarantor:        United Mexican States
Executing         Comisi6n de Pomento Minero (CFM), Fideicomiso de Fomento
Aaenciest         Minero (FFM), Consejo de Recursos Minerales (CRM) and
Direcci6n General de Minas (DGM)
Amount:           US$200 million equivalent.
Terms:            17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending         NAPIN would relend the proceeds of the Loan to the Guarantor
Terms:            and CRM.  The Guarantor would further onlend to FFM the
amount (US$191.5 million) to be relent through the
commercial banking system to small and medium scale mining
enterprises (SMMs). Subloans would be denominated in
Mexican pesos or U.S. dollars at the option of the
subborrower. The cost to FFM of peso funds would be the 28-
day CETES (Treasury Bills) rate and the cost of dollar funds
would be the three month LIBOR (London Interbank Offered
Rate) plus 0.5:, in line with Mexican Internal guidelines on
the transfer of external resources from the Government to
trust funds. The cost to participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs) in pesos and dollars would be the
respective rates plus an FFM fee, adequate to cover
financial intermediation costs. For both peso and dollar
denominated subloans PFIs would be free to set the lending
rate to final borrowers. The Government of Mexico would
assume the foreign exchange and cross-currency risks on peso
subloans and the cross-currency risk on dollar denominated
subloans.
Prolect           The main objectives of the proposed project are tot a)
Obiectives:       support the Government's program to deregulate the mining
sector and stimulate private domestic and foreign investment
through the establishment of an appropriate policy and
institutional framework; b) build broader financial market
support to the mining industry; and c) help finance the
surge in demand for investment funding that is expected to
result from the improved policy and institutional setting
for mining operations.



. 2 -
Project            To accomplish its objectives the project, in addition to
e9c?irtion:        providing financing for 8MMs, would support the following
policy changes and institutional reforms in the mining
sector: (i) liberalizing private sector access to land with
mineral potential and releasing state-held mining reserves;
(ii) reducing barriers to foreign investment in mining
enterprises; (iii) impl.mentin8 a mineral rights policy that
is conducive to an improved allocation of resources; (iv)
reforming the system of mining concessions; (v) phasing out
state ownership of enterprises in the sector; (vi)
modernizing the government agencies providing support to
small and medium scale mining enterprises; (vii)
establishing environmental standards for the mining sector;
and (viii) phasing out direct Government financing of mining
activities.
The proposed loan would provide financing fort
(i) a credit component of US$191.5 million, representing
95.751 of the loan, to help fund subloans to 8MMs fcr the
acquisition of fixeC assets (including pollution control
equipment), permanent working capital and the development of
existing mineral reserves; and (ii) technical assistance of
US$8.5 million, representing 4.252 of the loan, mainly to
help fund institutional strengthening programs for DGM and
CRM.
Proiect            The proposed project would help develop Mexico's mining
Benefits and       sector, which is believed to have strong growth potential,
Risks:             in an environmentally sound manner.  The recent changes in
the regulatory framework providing f    inter alia,
increased private sector access to i -d and mineral rights,
and for the streamlining of concession procedures and
majority foreign ownership of mining firms, should result in
higher investment by private domestic and foreign companies.
Furthermore, the reorientation of the sector's policies and
public institutions in favor of sctivities that directly
support private mining exploration and exploitation, and the
increase in commercial bank lending for mining operations
that would be expected to be initiated by the project,
should also lead to higher investment in the sector.
Increased investment would in turn result over time in
higher mining output, exports and employment. Moreover, the
establishment of environmental standards for the mining
industry should help ensure that the sector's development is
sustainable.
Policy reversals, which would be the main concern to private
investors, seem unlikely given Mexico's impressive and
sustained efforts to open up and deregulate its economy.
Hence, the main project risks relate to issues that could
adversely affect loan disbursements: a) continued low



- 3 -
international metal pricese b) an overvalued exchange rate;
and c) lower than expected commzrcial bank participation in
lending to mining, particularly during the coming years when
these banks are to be privatized. The potential negative
impact of these risks is, however, ameliorated by the fact
that Mexico is a low cost mineral producer, the Government
has export promotion as a key objective of its economic
policy and CFMIFFM have been sunceseful in the past in
attracting commercial banks to financing non-metallic mining
operations. Moreover, the proposed loan amount has been
based on a conservative demand estimate for financial
resources. In this context, the risks faced by the project
are considered acceptable.
Estimated Costs:                 Local         Foreian         Total
(Millions of U.S. Dollars)
Equipment                         114.0         191.5          305.5
Civil Works (Mine Dev.)           58.0            7.0           65.0
Working Capital                    31.0              -          31.0
Exploration                        21.0           3.0           24.0
Techaical Assistance                2.5           8.5           11.0
TOTAL                       226.5          210.0          436.5
Financina Plan:
Beneficiaries                     138.9          10.0          148.9
World Bank                            -         200.0          200.0
Government (CFM)                   66.3              -          66.3
PFIs                              21.3              -           21.3
TOTAL                       226.5          210.0          436.5
Estimated                       FY92    FY93      FY94    FY95    FY96
Disbursements:
50.0    40.0      45.0    45.0    20.0
50.0    90.0    135.0   180.0   200.0
Rate of            Eligible subprojects should have financial rates
Return:            of return (FRR) of at least 12%, reflecting the cost of
capital in the ZAexican market.



-4-
I. THE ECONOMY AND THE MINING SECTOR
A. Macroeconomic Context
1.1       Over the past three years macroeconomic policy in Mexico centered
around the "Economic Solidarity Pact" (Pacto), an agreement between business,
labor and government. This agreement called for accelerated structural
reform, further tightoen:ng of monetary and fiscal policy, a freeze of minimum
wages and of basic public and private sector prices, and, the cornerstone of
the Pacto, a freeze of the nominal exchange rate against the U.S. dollar. This
partial freeze was extended at three-month intervals through the end of 1988,
and was renewed with some modifications by the present Mexican Administration,
under the name of "Pact for Stabilization and Growth" (PECE). The main change
under the PECE was a daily adjustment of the exchange rate against the U.S.
dollar. The recent extensions of the Pacto have reduced price controls.
Moreover, remaining controlled and public sector prices have been increased
considerably. Thus, progress has been made towards the reduction of
interference in private price setting behavior. The PECE is currently running
until the end of 1991.
1.2       The fiscal measures, backed by the temporary exchange rate freeze
aed the array of formal and informal wage and price controls, have had
dramatic success in reducing the rate of inflation, from 1592 in 1987 to 201
in 1989. Some rebounding occurred in 1990, however, as inflation rose to 30X.
The increase in inflation observed in 1990 cannot be ascribed to lack cf
fiscal austerity. It is due, instead, to the above mentioned loosening of
price controls and upward adjustment of controlled and public sector prices.
On the whole, the program has clearly been a success. It is in particular
noteworthy that a major recession has been avoided; in fact, this period has
seen the recovery of economic growth, as GDP rose by 3.12 in 1989 and an
estimated 3.9Z in 1990.
1.3       Mexico has transformed itself throughout this period of
macroeconomic turmoil into one of the most open economies in the world by
undertaking an extensive trade reform. Trade liberalization, most of which
took place between 1985 and 1988, has lowered the percentage of domestic (non-
oil) tradeable production covered by import quotas from 100 percent in 1984 to
less than 15 percent at present. Maximum import tariffs were cut by similar
magnitudes. Non-oil merchandise exports, which represented less than one-
third of total exports in 1984, have since doubled their share.
1.4       The aforementioned reforms have been complemented by several
others. Foreign investment regulations were considerably relaxed and made
more transparent. The tax system underwent a series of reforms, as marginal
tax rates were brought more in line with levels in major industrial countries,
repatriation of flight capital was encouraged, and sanctions for tax evasion
were increased. In addition, the impact of inflation on the corporate tax
system was eliminated by removing purely inflationary gains from the tax base.
At the same time, the Government initiated a process of financial market
liberalization. Ceilings on commercial banks' deposit interest rates and



forced allocation of commercial credit towards favored sectors were abolished,
and credit subsidies through official development banks were substantially
eliminated. More recently, the privatization of the commercial banks, which
were nationalized in 1982, was announcel. The process of bank privatization
was initiated early this year.
1.5       Notwitbstanding the far reaching reforms implemented in Mexico,
international capital markets did not provide the resources needed to service
the external debt. The Government therefore initiated negotiations to
restructure its external debt in early 1989. On Septembor 15, 1989, the
Government of Mexico and the Bank Advisory Committee representing the
commercial bank creditors reached agreement on a financing package covering
the period 1989-92, that entailed restructuring US$48.9 billion of Mexico's
external debt. The debt relief package has reduced Mexico's net transfer to
its creditors by almost $4 billion per -ear over the 1989-1994 period, i.e.
slightly below 2 percent of GDP on average.
1.6       The increase in oil prices caused by the Gulf crisis has had a
substantial impact on the Mexican balance of payments. The oil windfall gain
in 1990 is estimated to have been around US$3 billion. The situation,
however, is one of uncertainty as to the future course of oil prices. Thus,
the Government recently created an oil contingency fund to insulate its 1991
budget from oil price fluctuations, assuming oil prices don't fall below US$10
per barrel on average. Finally, the Government is scheduled to begin
negotiations on a free trade agreement with the United States and Canada later
this year. This agreement should help to both consolidate the structural
change achieved so far, and to accelerate structural change in areas where
adjustment has lagged, e.g. agriculture and services.
1.7       Mexico's fiscal adjustment over the past decade has been
extraordinary, its primary balance turned from a deficit of 72 of GDP into a
surplus of around 5X in the mid-eighties. This surplus was further increased
to between 71 and 81 of GDP in the last couple of years. The period over
which the adjustment has been sustained is as impressive as its extent.
Today, the fiscal balance exerts no inflationary impulse, as it can be
financed without reliance on monetary financing. Thus, Mexico's fiscal
adjustment is more than adequate for controlling inflation and provides cause
for optimism regarding future economic growth.
B. Sectoral Context
1. Structure and Importance
1.8       The mining sector in Mexico contributes 1.5X and 12 to total GDP
and employment, respectively (see Annex 8, Table 1). The sector is
characterized by the concentration of production in 1 few big enterprises,
mostly private, that coexist with a large number of small and a handful of



medium firms '8. The total value of Mexico's mining production in 1990 Was
US$2.5 billion, of which about 902 was accounted for by the big firms.
Another characteristic of the sector is the wide variety of metallic and non-
metallic minerals produced (see Annex 8, Table 2).
1.9       Notwithstanding its relatively small GDP share, the Mexican mining
sector is a world leading producer of a number of minerals, in addition to its
traditional first place in world silver production. As of 1989, Mexico was
the largest world producer of bismuth, sodium sulfate and strontium. It was
second in barite and fluorspar, third in graphite, antimony and soda ash; and
was a leading producer of many other minerals (see Annex 8, Table 3).
1.10      While Mexican mineral production includes a large variety of
minerals, it is highly concentrated in a few products. Three minerals,
silver, copper and zinc, accounted for 55-65% of the gross value of production
in the last decade. However, their relative contribution changed
significantly over the period. Thus, between 1980 and 1990 silver (partly
reflecting historic lows in silver prices) reduced its participation from 422
to 14%, copper increased its share from 162 to 302 and zinc also increased its
share from 8% to 202 (see Annex 8, Tables 4 and 4A).
1.11      A substantial part (about 602) of Mexico's mineral production is
exported. Thus, mining output is more linked to international mineral prices
than to fluctuations in domestic market demand. Mining sector exports reached
US$1.5 billion in 1990, accounting for 5.72 of total exports (see Annex 8,
Table 1). Export growth over the past 10 years has been due mainly to the
increased production of copper and zinc, and to a lesser extent of non-
metallic minerals; which have more than offset the decline in the value of
silver exports, resulting from the collapse of its price during the last
decade (see Annex 8, Tables 2, 5 and 5A). Nonetheless, silver remains at the
ceutter of Mexican mining today.
2. Institutional Framework
1.12      Mining in Mexico is guided by Article 27 of the ConstituticI, and
the Mining Law and its "Reglamento"I (implementing regulations).  The
Government's supervisory body for the sector is the Secretaria de Energia,
Minas e Industria Paraestatal (SEMIP), through the Subsecretaria de Minas e
Industria BAsica (see Annex 8, Table 11), with the support of two General
Directorates (Direcci6n General de Minas and Direcci6n General de Operaciones
Minero-Metaldrgicas) and three semi-autonomous agencies (Comisi6n de Fomento
Minero, Fideicomiso de Fomento Hinero and Consejo do Recursos Minerales).
1/ A small (medium) scale mining enterprise, SMM, is defined by CPM as having
an annual production value not in excess of US$3.0 (US$35.0) million and a
daily production capacity of less than 200-300 (2,000-2,500) tons a day for
metallic and non-metallic operations, respectively. This definition is also
being used to determine eligibility for Bank financing under the proposed
project.



-7-
1.13      The Direcci6n General de Minas (General Directorate of Mines; DGM)
administers the sector and consequently is responeible for: a) establishing
mining policy; b) granting and controlling mineral concessions and
assignments; c) establishing and assigning National Mining Reserves (NMRo); d)
keeping the Mining Public Registry and the Mining Cadastre; and e) applying
and supervising the observance of the Mining Law and its "Reglamento". The
GDM employs 259 people, 127 in its central office in Mexico City and 132 in
its 8 regional offices throughout the country (see Annex 8, Table 11A).
1.14      The Direcci6n General de Operacioues Minero-Metalirgicas (General
Directorate of Mining-Metallurgical Operations) is responsible fors a)
coordinating and controlling mining parastatal enterprises; b) preparing and
reviewing sectoral programs; and c) coordinating the activities of the public
institutions that provide financial and technical assistance to miners,
including managing their budgets. In addition, until mid-1989 it supervised
the "Programa Especial Complementario de Apoyo a la Pequena y Mediana Mineria"
(Small and Medium Scale Mining Project; PECAM), established under previous
Bank lending for the sector
1.15      The Comisi6n de Fomento Minero (Mining Development Commission;
CFM), was established in 1934 as a multi-purpose public entity to promote and
develop mining, particularly SMMs, in the metallic subsector. CFM functions
as: a) a holding company for state participation in mining enterprises; b) an
owner and operator of mines and beneficiation plants; c) a credit and
technical assistance agency; d) qn operator of research plants and
laboratories, selling services to private and parastatal enterprises; and e) a
major holder of land in National Mining Reserves. CFM has a staff of 1,206
people, including 506 professionals, located mostly in its Mexico City office
(see Annex 8, Table 12).
1.16      The Fideicomiso de Fomento Minero (Trust Fund for Mining
Development; FFM), was created in early 1990 to replace and supersede the
Fideicomiso de Minerales No Metalicos Mexicanos (FMNMM), which had been
established in 1974 as a trust fund of the Government under NAFIN. The main
functions of FMNMN were to promote the development of non-metallic minerals
and to allow indigenous agricultural communities ("ejidos") to benefit from
the non-metallic operations located within their territory. Over time FM0MM
had moved away from exploration and investment activities and become mainly an
efficient and fast growing credit agency; however, it remained limited to the
non-metallic subsector. The new trust fund, FFM, remains under NAFIN but is
administered by CFM and provides financing and technical assistance to both
metallic and non-metallic SMMs.
1.17      The Consejo de Recursos Minerales (Mineral Resources Council; CRM),
was established in 1955 as the public institution responsible for: a) carrying
out geologic-mining exploration and quantifying the country's mineral
resources; b) supporting SMMs through financial and technical assistance; c)
providing recommendations to the Government on the areas and minerals that
should be considered NMRs; d) advising the Government on matters related to
the exploration, exploitation and preservation of mineral resources; and e)
coordinating its research work with other public entities and preparing the



country's mining Seology inventory. In the paot, CRM has not limited itself
to the basic infrastructure and research work characteristic of w geological
survey institute, but has also spent considerabl effoit in undertaking a wide
range of exploration activities, including detailed exploration and pre-
feasibility work under contract and in areas over which it has control. CRH
has a full time payroll of 503 people and a larger pert-time and temporary
staff, spread among its central office, four regional offices and a Mexico
City office (see Annex 8, Tables 14, 15 and 16).
II. REFORM AND RESTRUCTURING OF THE MINING SECTOR
A. Mining Sector Potential
2.1       Mexico is a countr, with vast mining potential.  Its comparative
advantage as a mineral producer includes: a) polymetallic ores of high quality
and high precious metal content, b) a wide range of exportable non-metallic
minerals, c) a low wage structure, d) a broad base o' experienced mine workers
and professionals, and e) a strategic location next to its most important
market, the United States, plus access to both oceans. This comparative
advantage is so significant, that although exploration efforts to date have
been relatively modest, Mexico is a major mineral produc6r and exporte- (para.
1.9).
2.2       Notwithstanding the above, mining is today a relatively small and
declining sector within the Mexican economy. Over the past 50 years mining
output has decreased from 4.01 to 1.51 of GDP. Stringent policy barriers to
entry to domestic and foreign investors, as well as a complex and
discretionary regulatory framework, have impeded the realization of the
sector's full potential by restricting private participation (e.g. 50S of the
12 million hectares of discovered mineral land are currantly reserved for the
State). This regulatory framework also resulted in a very bureaucratic and
inefficient administrative structure in the public agencies that deal w-ch the
sector.
2.3       The Bank shares the view of the Government that Mexico's mining
sector has significant growth potential. Total annual exploration investment
in the recent past is estimated at US$40 million; however, based on statistics
from other countries, exploration investment could reach 8 to 1OZ of output
value or about US$200 million a year, i.e. five times the current level (see
Annex 8, Table 6). A comprehensive 1989 Bank study of Hexico's mining sector,
entitled Reoublic of Mexico-Minina Sector Review, states that increased access
to land and mineral rights, reduced foreign ownership limitations, a revision
of mining tax legislation, a restructuring of the existing institutional
setup, and stabilization of the macroeconomic environment are the basic
elements for Mexico to more fuslly exploit its comparative advantage in the
mining sector. By helping to eliminate the sector's main policy and
institutional constraints, the proposed project is expected to stimulate
private investment in mining by both domestic and foreign firms.



-9-
B. National Mining Modernization Program. 1990-1994
2.4       The National Development Plan 1989-1994, which provides the global
context for economic policy, sets as the general objectives for the mining
sector: a) providing an adequate supply of mining-metallurgical inputs for
local industry, b) strengthening the commercialization of mining-metallurgical
products in international markets, with emphasis on those of higher value
added, and c) promoting profitable transformation processes. These objectives
are to be reached through the modernization of the sector.
2.5       In 1990 the Government issued a sectoral strategy program entitled
"National Mining Modernization Program 1990-1994" (NMMP), which complements
the National Development Plan by providing the specific policy framework for
the mining sector. The objectives of said program are: increasing mining
exploration; revising and updating mining legislation; modernizing mining
administration with emphasis on decentralization; updating tax legislation to
make mining internationally competitive and to encourage investment;
strengthening the Government's promotional role, and encouraging a more direct
participation by the national private and social sectors, as well as by
foreign investment; maintaining state participation only in those firms that
exploit strategic minerals as defined by the Constitution and the Mining Law;
developing mining projects in backward areas; promoting better industrial
safety and social welfare conditions for miners; and taking measures to
protect the environment, reducing the contamination caused by the mining-
metallurgical activity.
2.6       In order to attain the above objectives, the Government has
prepared a number of specific operational programs, where detail is provided
on the various actions to be taken in each case. Moreover, the Government has
already taken significant steps towards executing these programs, including in
particular the recent iscuance of new implementing regulations ("Reglamento")
to the Mining Law, which are discussed below. Given the importance of the new
regulations, agreement was reached at loan negotiations that any material
change in the "Reglamento" that could adversely affect the objectives of the
proposed project or any occurrence that would prevent its implementation,
would be an event of default (para. 4.1, i).
2.7       It is expected that the implementation of the NMMP will result in:
a 2.2-2.6S annual real mining sector output growth for the 1990-1991 period,
rising to 4.5-5.0Z for the 1992-1994 period; the release for private sector
devolopment of half the land currontly under National Mining Reserves (NMRs)
between 1990 and 1994; and a 3.72 annual employment increase in the mining
industry. Progress towards achieving these goals would be monitored through
annual reviews, to be conducted joint.< between the Government and the Bank
(para. 4.1, Wi).
C. Mineral Rights Policies
2.8       Ownership of all mineral deposits by the Mexican Nation creates a
situation in which market processes cannot operate efficiently. Therefore,



- 10 -
appropriate Government mineral rights policies are needed, in particular for
two closely related issues that affect mineral output: a) the criteria and
procedures for allocating mineral rights to private firms and individuals, and
b) the taxes and other payments attached to mineral righ.s concessions and to
mineral production. A brief description of the previous situation and of the
major changes introduced by the new "Reglamento" of the Mining Law in relation
to these matters is provided tbelow.
1. Mineral Rights Allocation System
2.9       Two aspects of the mineral rights allocation system have been
hindering development of and investment in Mexico's mineral resources: a) the
vast amount of land tied up by the State and thus unavailable to the private
sector for exploration, and b) the inefficient administration of the
concession system. Private sector access to land and mineral rights is an
essential factor for vigorous mining development, but in the past was severely
limited by the Government through the establishment of national mining
reserves and the issuance of decrees assigning land to public entities, and
the protracted, often discretionary, processing of requests for mining rights.
2.10      NMRs can be established with respect to both areas and minerals;
afterwards they can be assigned to CFM, CRM, a state-owned enterprise (SOE) or
may remain unassigned (see Annex 8, Table 7). When not dealing with
"strategic" or "priority" minerals, special mining concessions within reserves
can be granted to private parties. The area under NMRs at year-end 1990 was
4.4 million hectares. The Government can also assign land directly to public
entities and institutions by decree (see Annex 8, Table 8). The areas
assigned are often those where mineralization has been detected, thus, the
negative impact of this policy is more significant than may be inferred from
the absolute number of hectares involved, 1.9 million as of December 31, 1990.
2.11      Mineral land not reserved by the State is made available for
private sector use through concessions; at year-end 1990 the total area tinder
concession was 6.1 million hectares (see Annex 8, Table 9). However, due to
cumbersome procedures and inefficient administrative practices, the award of a
mineral concession took on average 6 years from the date of application.
Since exploration concessions were issued for 3 years and could be renewed for
3 more years, the filing of an application for a concession could effectively
lock up an area for up to 12 years. Moreover, the procedures for approving
the transfer of a mineral concession were also slow and complicated.
2.12      Mexican mineral rights policies are in the process of being
substantially reformed to promote more etfficient development of the mineral
endowment. Noteworthy are! a) the release of state-held mining reserves and
restrictions on future establishment of such reserves, and b) the
modernization of the admir.istrative systems for processing concessions, as to
substantially reduce the time required to obtain or transfer a mir.eral
concession.
2.13      With regard to its land reservation policy, the Government has
decided to: (i) release for private sector development not less than 502 of



- 11 -
existing NRM within four years, which under the new regulation. only require.
Ministerial approvall and (ii) limit the designation of new reserves to
minerals for which future scarcity can be proved. Furthermore, SEMIP now
Intends to release 2.7 million hectares in 1991, thereby exceeding in a single
year the four year goal set in the NMMP and significantly increasing the area
with mineral potential available for concession to the private sector.
2.14      With regard to its concessions policy, the Government hass (i)
*treamlined administrative practices and substituted automaticity for
discretion, thereby reducing the time required to issue an ordinary concession
to 1 year, which a new computerized cadastral system will further reduce to
three months in the near future; (ii) eliminated the requirement for DGM prior
authorization for transferring concessions, making the same similar to any
other transfer of rights and providing a major stimulus to the secondary
market in mineral rights, and (iii) introduced an auction mechanism for
allocating "special" (i.e. within NMRs) concessions.
2. Mineral Rights Payments
2.15      An important issue in the discussion of mineral rights payments is
their effect on the efficient allocation of resources. Mexico uses three
types of payments: royalties (ad valorem), surface taxes and work
requirements.  In the past, substantial ad valorem taxes applied to mining
output, whereas surface taxes and work requirements became increasingly
irrelevant due to inflation.  This resulted in significant distortions in
resource allocation, high ad valorem taxes discouraged production and minimal
surface taxes and work requirements encouraged holding idle land.
2.16      The new "Reglamento" has introduced changes in relation to mineral
rights payments that complement the modernization of the mineral rights
allocation procedures. Surface taxes and work requirements have been
increased from negligible to moderate levels and have been tied to inflation
(see Annex 8, Tables 10 and IOA). In addition, the recent Federal Rights Law
eliminated royalty payments from 1991 onwards. These changes shift payments
from the production phase, during which they reduce the incentive to produce,
to the exploration phase, during which they provide an incentive not to hold
concessions that are not worth investment in explorAtion. Moreover, the new
"Reglamento" provides that the surface taxes and work requirements apply
equally to private holders and to reserve holders of mineral land, thereby
Introducing an incentive for public entities to release those holdings they do
not intend to explore or exploit soon.
2.17      The changes recently introduced regarding the allocation system and
payments for mineral rights represent a major improvement over previous land
management policies. In order to evaluate the impact of the new regulations
and to provide an analytical basis for adjusting the same in the future, the
proposed project would include financing for two studiess a) a first one on
the effectiveness of the recent changes in the regulatory framework,
particularly in terms of increasing private domestic and foreign investment in
mining exploration and exploitation, and b) a second one on alternative
approaches to mineral rights allocation and payments, which would include a



- 12 -
comparative analysis of mining policy in other countries. Before evaluating
the results of the new regulations they must be in place for a reasonable
period. Therefore the terms of reference and timing for the studies, to be
conducted by consultants satisfactory to the Bank, would be discussed and
agreed upon during the first joint annual project review (para. 4.1, iii).
D. Foreign Participation
2.18      A major constraint to the growth of the mining sector, until
recently, originated from a provision of the Mining Law restricting direct
foreign investment. Foreign ownership of mining enterprises operating in
ordinary concessions was limited to a 492 equity share, and ownership of
companies obtaining special concessions on national mining reserves was
further limited to a 342 equity share only. Moreover, some of the "priority"
minerals (i.e. sulfur, potassium and phosphates) could only be exploited by
enterprises with state majority ownership. Such limits constituted a
significant barrier to entry of foreign companies and thereby discouraged
foreign investment in the mining sector.
2.19      The most effective measure to promote foreign investment in the
mining sector would be to eliminate the existing foreign ownership
restrictions. However, such a change entails modifying the Mining Law, an
action the Government considers not desirable at present. Instead, the new
"Reglamento" has introduced ownership alternatives, based on the use of trust
funds and a pyramiding scheme, that enable foreign investors to circumvent the
limits established under the Mining Law. These ownership alternatives,
discussed below, represent a very significant advance in opening up the mining
sector to foreign investment.
2.20      The new "Reglamento" extends to mining the trust fund mechanism
successfully used for many years in the real estate and tourism sectors. The
mechanism is simple. Foreign investors can own up to 100X of a trust fund
established by a Mexican financial institution, which in turn can purchase the
512 equity share of a firm reserved for Mexican ownership by the Mining Law,
as the trust fund is considered to be Mexican (the other 492 can be owned
outright). There are two basic types of trust funds, the first one requires
prior approval from SECOFI (Ministry of Trade and Industrial Development),
whereas the second one needs only be recorded in the Mining Public Registry.
The first type was already contemplated in existing legislation for other
sectors and has now been made applicable to mining; however, the second type
of trust funds has been introduced by the new "Reglamento" and applies
exclusively to mining.
2.21      Under the new type of trust funds foreign investors interested in
an exploration concession can establish a 30 year, renewable, exploration
trust fund. If interested in an exploitation concession, they can establish a
13 year, non-renewable, exploitation trust fund. After that period the trust
fund must be Mexicanized (512 ownership must be sold to Mexicans); however,
the time limit only starts to run when the beneficiation plant begins
industrial scale production. In other words, the exploration, development and



- 13 -
construction phases are covered by the exploration trust fund. Moreover, the
foreign investor can retain ownership and control of the firm beyond said time
limit by pyramiding his investment, as described below.
2.22      The other important ownership alternative introduced by the new
"Reglamento" relies on a pyramiding scheme, which in the case of a firm
holding an ordinary concession operates as followes foreign investors acquire
492 of the stock in firm A (the other 51% is owned by Mexicans according to
the Mining Law), which in turn acquires the 51% of firm B owned by Mexicans
(the other 49Z of firm B is purchased directly by the foreign investors); firm
B in turn acquires the 51% of firm C owned by Mexicans (the other 492 is again
purchased directly by the foreign investors), and so on. In practice, foreign
investors own 872 of firm C (742 of firm B), however, since the initial firm
(A) acquiring 512 of firm B owned by Mexicans is itself 512 owned by Mexicans,
both firms B and C are considered to be majority owned by Mexicans, and
therefore in compliance with the limits set by the Mining Law. In the case of
a firm holding a special concession the scheme operates in an analogous
manner, except that foreign investors can only own directly 34Z of all firms
(A, B, C...).
2.23      The new "Reglamento" also extends to mining an ownership
alternative already applicable to other sectors, whereby international
financial development institutions can acquire stock in mining companies
without limits. However, said stock does not entitle its owner to management
control (it is considered neutral), which remains in Mexican hands. Finally,
the new regulations allow local private firms to exploit priority minerals
previously limited to enterprises with state majority participation.
2.24      As a result of the aforementioned changes, the business climate for
private investment in the mining sector has improved considerably and there
are already indications of significant investor interest, reflected in the
hiring of local law firms by foreign companies to set up trust funds for
investment in mining. The potential contribution of foreign firms to the
Mexican mining sector is not only investment in general, but also opening new
mining districts outside the traditional mining areas where local firms prefer
to invest, and improving the efficiency and productivity of the sector through
the use of modern technologies. In addition, the geographical locatior- of
Mexico should attract small scale foreign miners, who could bring risk capital
and adequate technologies to the small and medium mining subsector.



- 14 -
E. Institutional Modernization
1.   General Directorate of Mines (DGM)
2.25      The implementation of the Mining Law's new "Reglamento"  requires
the use of modern technology and oystems, which will represent a qualitative
change in the way DGM presently functions. More specifically, DGM's document
control system, mining cadastral system (including both the public registry
and cartographic offices), obligation control system and the statistics office
are being reformed. This modernization will result in decentralization of
many processes and increased effectiveness by: a) establishing more
systematic, automatic and computerized internal controls and procedures, b)
eliminating redundant and unnecessary requirements, and c) utilizing state of
the art technology.
2.26      Agreement has been reached with DGM on a program to implement the
modernization described above, to be partly funded by the proposed Bank loan
(para. 4.1, iv).   At present, off-the-shelf specialized software is being
adapted and hardware is being installed for the areas of Document Control,
Public Registry and Cartography, with financing under the Bank's seccnd small
and medium scale mining project (PECAM II, Loan 2546-HE). In addition to the
activities already under way, the program entails the acquisition of sottware
and hardware for the areas of Control of Obligations and Statistics, the
completion of the mining geodetic net of Mexico and the interconnection
between DGM offices. These activities would require an estimated US$1.257
million in financing from PECAM II and US$0.790 million from the technical
assistance component of the proposed loan (see Annex 1).
2.27      CFM would make loans to mining experts for the acquisition of
positioning equipment, necessary to complement the installation of the mining
geodetic net; up to an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million. In addition, the
program requires the Government to train and hire adequate personnel, as well
as to relocate DGM's head office, i.e. to provide DGM with the appropriate
staff and working environment to achieve its objectives. Progress in the
implementation of the modernization program would be assessed during the joint
annual project reviews (para. 4.1, ii).
2.   Mining Development Commission (CFM)
2.28      In early 1988, while preparing the Mining Sector Review, the Bank
found that CFM was experiencing difficulties in all its activities. It could
not manage effectively the large number of companies in which it held equity
positions, its beneficiation plants were suffering substantial operating
losses, and its direct lending operations were plagued by mounting loan
arrears. Moreover, this adverse situation was not adequately reflected in the
financial statements due to an inadequate accounting policy. Since FMNMM's
competent former management assumed control of the institution in 1989,
significant steps heve been taken to transform CFM into a more effective and
efficient development agency.



- 15 -
2.29      First, CFM began an active policy of divestment and transfer of its
equity participation in mining companies to the private sector, decreasing
from 44 to 11 the firms in which it has an ownership interest, and intends to
sell three more companies during 1991 (see Annex 8, Table 13). Moreover, it
discontinued its involvement in the promotion (i.e. taking equity positions)
of new mining projects.
2.30      Second, CFM sharply raised the traditionally low ore processing
fees charged by its money-losing beneficiation plants. Furthermore, given the
persistent deficits of its beneficiation plants, during 1990 CFM decided to
sell or close down its main loss makers, and to experiment with the purchase
of ore instead of tolling it for a fee. Ore trading is, however, expected to
present its own difficulties due to fluctuations in the p-ice of metals. The
economic viablity and overall adequacy of CFM's ore purc 4sing practices would
be assessed during the joint annual project reviews, and adjustments
introduced as needed (para. 4.1, ii). At present CFM operates 14
beneftciation plants and one mine ("El Bote").
2.31      Third,  CFM management introduced proper accounting policies and
procedures for its loans, which made evident a serious portfolio problem.
CFM's response to the problem was to significantly increase the provision for
loan losses and to establish a committee to determine each project's true
condition. The committee has determined that additional provisions for an
estimated amount of Mex$72,000 million are still needed to fully write off
CFM's non-recoverable loans, i.e. to clean up the institution's balance sheet.
Agreement was reached during loan negotiations regarding the size and timing
(September 30, 1991) of the necessary additional loan-loss provisions (para.
4.1, v). Non-recoverable loans (about 500) are being transferred to private
collection agencies for collection on a commission basis. The salvageable
portion of the portfolio (about 100 loans) will be subject to a restructuring
exercise focussed on the 35 largest loans, which account for most of the
arrears (see Annex 4).
2.32      Fourth, as a result of the difficulties on its credit operations
CFM decided to: a) substantially suspend its long term first-tier lending
operations (see para. 2.39); b) ckannel PECAM reflows to FFM for onlending
through commercial banks; and c) upgrade staff capabilities in (i) credit
analysis and management and (ii) technical appraisal and feasibility studies
(plus use external geologic consultants for larger projects). Agreement was
reached during loan negotiations to include under the project's technical
assistance component training for CFM staff on project evaluation and
supervision (para. 4.1, iv).
2.33      The decisions taken by CFM's managemer.. aim in the right direction
and have improved the financial position of the institution, but need to be
complemented with additional measures taken within a long term framework, i.e.
with a clear view of the institution's future role. Thus, institutional
restructuring and strengthening of CFM would focus on establishing: a) a
planning and programming capability, and b) sound operating policies and
procedures that ensure financial viability. To this effect, a comprehensive
policy statement and a five-year financial plan have been prepared by CFM,



- 16 -
reviewed by the Bank, and agreed upon during loan negotiations (para. 4.1,
vi).
2.34      Another major element in defining CFM's framework for future
operations is the preparation of a 5-year business plan for its beneficiation
plants, currently under way. Presentation of said plan by December 31, 1991,
and a comitment to put it into effect, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
not later than June 30, 1992, were agreed to during loan negotiations (para.
4.1, vii). The remaining "El Botes mine will be sold In line with CFM's
recent Board decision. In addition, a program to deal with its problem
portfolio has also been prepared by CmH, reviewed by the Bank, and agreed upon
during loan negotiations (para. 4.1, vi). Progress in the implementation of
both CPM's plan for beneficiation plants and its program for dealing with the
problem portfolio would be examined during the joint annual project reviews
(para. 4.1, ii).
2.35      Finally, CFM has retained a consultant to study its organizational
structure in the context of: a) the Government's mandate to decentralize its
operations, b) its emergence as a large second-tier financial institution
serving the entire mining sector, c) its sharply reduced role as a holding
company for state-owned enterprises, and d) its 5-year business plan for
beneficiation plants. The consultant's report is expected by mid-1991. At
loan negotiations agreement was reached that this report be furnished to the
Bank for review not later than September 30, 1991, and that the Bank be kept
informed of any proposed modification to CFM'E organizational structure (para.
4.1, viii).
3. Trust Fund For Hining Development (FFN)
2.36      For many years since its establishment, FMNMM was virtually the
sole direct lender to SMMs in the non-metallic mining subsector. It was only
when FMNMM, with the support of the Bank, established a second-tier facility
offering technical assistance in subproject identification and evaluation, as
well as long-term financing to complement working capital financing from
commercial banks, that the latter began to show interest in the subsector.
Today, all financing provided to non-metallic enterprises is channelled
through rediscount operations. Meanwhile, CFM maintained a direct lending
relationship with metallic mining enterprises and commercial banks refrained
from financing the subsector, mainly due to their inability to compete against
CFM on account of its relaxed policy concerning arrears.
2.37      In 1989 the Government integrated the organization and operations
of CFM and FMNMM, though they remained two separate legal entities, in an
effort to rationalize its financiel and technical assistance support to small
and medium mining. Furthermore, ia 1990 the Government broadened FMNMM's
mandate to include the metallic mining subsector and changed its name, as
indicated above. The new institution, FFM, remains a separate legal entity,
but has no organizational structure and staffing of its own. An agreement
between FFM and CFM, formalizing the latter's responsibility for the
administration of the trust fund, has been signed and a copy provided to the
Bank.



- 17 -
2.38      'he next step towards meeting the objective of phasing out direct
financing of mining activities by the Government is to induce commercial banks
to lend more to mining enterprises, particularly in the metallic subsector. A
basic condition to this effect has already been fulfilled with the
introduction of appropriate accounting and credit policies regarding overdue
loans. Now it is necessary to familiarize commercial banks with the subsector
and to develop their capability to evaluate metallic mining projects. Thus,
CAM has prepared an ^dhoe program of promotion and technical assistance.
This program has been reviewed by the Bank and agreed upon during loan
negotiations (para. 4.1, vi).
2.39      At p-esent commercial banks finance 512 of the borrowing needs of
SMMs, the Government's objective is to increase that percentage to 701 by
1994. Progress towards achieving the objective of increasing commercial bank
financing to the sector would be assessed during the joint annual project
reviews, together with a discussion of further measures that may be required
(para. 4.1, ii).
2.40      During the transitional period until such time as commercial banks
begin to actively seek and compete for mining business, CFM intends to
continue to exercise its mandate to lend directly to artisan and small scale
metallic miners. However, CFM would channel most of its resources, including
all the proceeds from the proposed Bank loan and the reflows from the two
PECAM projects, through its second-tier facility (FFH). During loan
negotiations agreement was reached that CFM would engage in first-tier lending
only for financing short-term working capital needs of SMs, and that its
combined (CFM plus FFM) direct financing operations as percentage of total
annual lending volume would not exceed, on an annual average basis, .:5X for
1991, 23% for 1992, 20% for 1993, 17Z for 1994, and 152 for 1995 and
thereafter (para. 4.1, ix).
4.   Mineral Resources Council (CRM)
2.41      The new management of CRM, in line with Bank reco-mendations, has
been working over the past year to reorient the institution's activities away
from the exploration and promotion of prospects in reserved areas and toward
the data gathering and development work characteristic of a geological survey
institute. The emphasis in CRM's future work will be on mapping, regional
exploration, mineral inventories, collection and storage of relevant
geological data, dissemination of geological information, deposit-model
recognition, technical assistance (geology/deposit appraisal) to small scale
miners and other similar related activities.
2.42      CRM has prepared a 5-year business plan, which spells out the
institutional reorientation being pursued in terms of objectives, strategies
and specific programs for the 1991-1995 period. The Bank has reviewed the
plan and found it to be consistent with CRM's goal of becoming a modern
geological survey institute. This document, agreed upon during loan
negotiations, includes the recommendations resulting from three recently
completed expert consultancy studies, a first one on CRM's aerial
reconnaissance and ground verification work, a second one on CRE's laboratory



- 18 -
operations, and a third one on CRM's information network (para. 4.1, vi).
Progress in the implementation of the business plan would be assessed during
the joint annual project reviews (para. 4.1, ii).
2.43      To support CRM in its efforts to become a modern geologic survey
institute, funds would be provided under the technical assistance component of
the project for: a) development of a computerized information network to
handle exploratory and administrative work data; b) evaluation visits to sites
with mineral potential; c) acquisition of laboratory equipment and the general
upgrading of laboratory facilities; d) purchase of cartography and geophysical
equipment; and e) training of personnel in Mexico and outside. These
activities have an estimated total cost of US$6.812 million (see Annex 1) and
were agreed to during loan negotiations (para. 4.1, iv).
F. Mining and the Environment
1. Background
2.44      Over the last three years there has been increasing environmental
concern and awareness in Mexico, reflected in the enactment of the General
Ecology Law in early 1988, as well as in the establishment of mandatory
environmental assessments (EAs) for new projects and for expansion of existing
projects. In addition, the Ministry of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE),
created in 1982, has promulgated general standards for air, water, and solid
(including hazardous) wastes; and is now in the process of establishing
industry-specific norms.
2.45      SEDUE is the public entity responsible for the implementation of
the General Ecology Law, its functions include: a) establishment of
regulations and norms or standards for the various industries and guidance on
and review of EAs; b) identification and designation of ecologically sensitive
or unique areas and ensuring that new projects do not conflict with these
protected areas; c) inspection of facilities and operations for environmental
compliance and responding to citizen complaints or requests by other agencies;
and d) environmental education and community participation in environmental
protection.
2.46      SEDUE maintains a delegation in each of Mexico's 31 States.  These
delegations monitor and enforce compliance by local firms with the general
standards for discharges to air and water. Much of the enforcement is based
on local complaints and it is generally sought to resolve problems by reaching
agreement with the companies involved. SEDUE "letters of compliance",
instructing companies to take corrective action, are often issued after minor
problems are detected. For larger and more significant environmental
problems, an assessment is made and formal agreements negotiated between SEDUR
and the company involved. These agreements involve commitments for
significant investments in environmental controls and are generally undertaken
only by large companies.



- 19 -
2.47      Regulations for environmental assessments of new projects were
published in late 1989, which are satisfactory. These regulat4Ons establish
detailed requirements for the contents of an EA. The first step in the EA
process is for the applicant to submit basic project information (i.e. a brief
description of the project and process) to SEDUE. The information is used to
determinet a) if the project site lies within an ecological reserve area as
shown on maps prepared by SEDUE, and b) if not, which of three types of EAs
will be required for the project.
2.48      Present SEDUE policy is to reject any projects proposed within
ecological reserve areas. If the Gite is not within a restricted area, a
decision is then made about whether to require a general, intermediate, or
specific EA; which must be prepared by experts registered with SEDUE.
Although EAs are required for all projects (including CFM financed mining
projects), small projects with relatively minor environmental impact usually
require only a general EA. Large projects, however, require a specific EA,
which entails a detailed assessment of potential environmental problems. Once
completed the EA is sent to SEDUE for review. Currently, SEDUZ's capability
to effectively review mining sector environmental assessments is limited and
only in few cases are EAs rejected.
2.49      SEDUE is ir. the process of establishing an ordering system for
different ecological reserve areas. The ecological order assigned to an area
will help determine if a proposed use is prohibited outright, allowed with
conditions, or allowed with no conditions. The ecological ordering system is
being developed with input from industry and is currently in a formative
stage. Ultimate plans at SEDUE are to establish a framework for environmental
and ecological planning that can be used by all 31 States in Mexico. The plan
would require the States to notify SEDUE at an early stage about the major
projects (including mining projects) that are intended to be carried out in
their jurisdiction, and thus would help ensure that the potential
environmental impact of these projects is considered in the planning process.
SEDUE anticipates that the framework will be introduced in 1992.
2.50      At present the Bank is advanced in the preparation of an
Environmental Project for Mexico, which aims to: a) reform and strengthen the
administrative structure of SEDUE's federal and state offices; b) support
development of a sectoral strategy and a coherent policy framework; and c)
support SEDUE's efforts in three critical areas: (i) monitoring and control of
water and air pollution, (ii) minimizing negative environmental impacts of
investment projects, and (iii) conservation of biodiversity. This project
would improve SEDUE's overall capacity to design and enforce environmental
policy.
2. Mining Sector Environmental Issues
2.51      From the proposed project's perspective, the major shortcoming of
the present environmental regulatory context is the lack of specific standards
for the mining industry. Existing norms for industrial discharges to air and



- 20 -
water are general in nature and do not addreGs the major environmental and
safety problems associated with mining operations, which includes stability of
tailings impoundments, discharges to air from smelters and refineries, mine
dumps, wastewater discharges and reclamation. Industry-specific standards
would provide a rational basis for project planning, meaningful environmental
assessment and would facilitate monitoring and enforcement.
2.52      A second significant shortcoming refers to the limited
effectiveness of the current mining environmental risk evaluation process.
Existing legislation and regulations have established the framework for an
effective environmental assessment and review process for mining sector
projects.   Unfortunately, the EA process is not yet well established at SEDUE
and needs to be improved. Viewed within a broader context, including other
governwent agencies and private industry, the process of environmental
planning, impact assessment, and mitigation for the mining sector is generally
at an early stage of development.
..53      Under the proposed project, industry-specific standards would be
established for tailings dams, smelters and refineries, mine dumps and
wastewater discharges. To this effect, SEMIP has signed an agreement with
SEDUE, CFM and CMM (Camara Minera de Mexico) to establish a working group.
The working group would initially attend a specially designed course at the
University of Colorado School of Mines. Upon its return it would begin
drafting the standards with the assistance of an international expert on the
subject. The process would include a two month diagnosis of the environmental
impact of mining operations in the major mining districts and would take into
consideration the results of a study to be conducted by Japan's International
Cooperation Agency on three of CFM's beneficiation plants. During loan
negotiations agreement was reachec to have the new standards, satisfactory to
the Bank, established by June 30, 1992 (para. 4.1, x).
2.54      To support the Government's efforts to establish environmental
standards for mining operations US$0.155 million would be provided under PECAM
II to: a) train the working group that would draft the standards, b) implement
the two month study of environmental problems associated with current mining
operations, and c) carry out other activities directly related to setting the
standards. In addition, in order to facilitate implementation, monitoring and
compliance with the standards to be issued, the proposed project would include
US$0.150 million to fund workshops and other related activities, aimed at
raising awareness and explaining the new environmental regulations (see Annex
1). Progress in the establishment and enforcement of the environmental
standards would be monitored during the joint annual project reviews (para.
4.1, ii).
2.55      Once in place, the new environmental standards for the mining
sector would apply to all new projects, including all subprojects presented
for Bank financing under the proposed loan. In the meantime, all subprojects
would have to comply with existing SEDUE regulations and procedures. In
addition, CPM would be required to provide to the Bank a concise statement
concerning the environmental impact of each subproject before any subloan is
approved. Moreover, CFM would assume the obligation to provide advice to SMMs



- 21 -
on how to deal with their respective project's potential environmental
problems. Agreement to this effect was reached during loan negotiations
(para. 4.1, xi). In order to satisfactorily fulfill the above two commitments
CEM would strengthen its environmental capability, mainly through training, as
agreed during loan negotiations (para. 4.1, iv).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect History
3.1       Past Bank Experience.  Past Bank lending for mining has been mostly
oriented towards specific investment projects, limited experience exists with
directed lines of credit to the sector as a whole (Loan 1290-BO, Credit 455-
BO, Loan 1820-ME and Loan 2546-ME). Nonetheless, some important lessons
emerge from previous operations, the main one is that investment in mining
exploration and exploitation depends not only on the availability of funds,
but more importantly on the existing policy and institutional framework.
Policies that hinder private sector participation and institutions that impose
cumbersome and unnecessary controls and procedures, constitute serious
constraints to mining sector growth.
3.2       As indicated above, there have been two line of credit operations
for mining to Mexico: the First Small and Medium Scale Mining Project (Loan
1820-ME) and the Second Small and Medium Scale Mining Project (Loan 2546-ME),
i.e. the PECAM projects. In addition to the lesson outlined in the preceding
paragraph, other lessons extracted from the PCR for the first PECAM project
and the supervision reports for the second one, are the importance of avoiding
lending segmentation and of addressing environmental issues. Under the PECAM
projects there were three public institutions lending to SMMs and up to five
investment categories. These arrangements proved highly inefficient.
Furthermore, under those projects the potential environmental impact of mining
projects was given cursory consideration.  All these lessons have been taken
into account in the design of the proposed project.
3.3       Proiect Origin.  Notwithstanding previous Government efforts and
the two Bank PECAM projects, investment in the mining sector remained below
the levels reached in other countries with similar mining potential.  A 1989
Bank Mining Sector Review (Report No.7379-ME) identified an inadequate
regulatory and institutional framework as the major constraint to increased
private investment and further growth (para. 2.3). The Government agreed with
the report's findings, began to implement key recommendations and requested
Bank support in achieving a full transformation of the mining sector. Thust
the Mining Sector Restructuring Project (MSRP) was identified in conjunction
with the Government in FY89, during discussion of the above mentioned mining
sector report. The project was appraised during September 9-28, 1990 and a
post-appraisal mission visited Mexico from January 21 to February 1, 1991.
Loan negotiations took place in Washington from May 8 to May 16, 1991. The
Mexican delegation was headed by Mr. Jose Garcia Torres from NAFIN.



- 22 -
B. Project Obiectives and Justification
3.4       Ob1ectives.  The main objectives of the proposed MSRP are tot a)
support the Government's program to deregulate the mining sector and stimulate
private domestic and foreign investment, through the establishment of an
appropriate policy and institutional framework; b) build broader financial
market support to the mining industry; and c) help finance the surge in demand
for investment funding that is expected to result from the improved policy and
institutional setting for mining operations.
3.5       Justification.  In the more developed countries venture capital
plays a major role in financing mining exploration and thereby sector growth.
In Mexico no such market exists for small and medium scale mining enterprises.
The Bank has partially filled this gap through the two PECAM operations, which
made available almost US$145 million in term credit facilities to the sector;
most of which were channr ed through the banking system and CFM's small mining
credit operation. The Bank projects were instrumental in providing SMM8 with
access to otherwise unavailable long- .erm investment financing.  It has been
estimated that the resotnrces mobilized by the two projects led to a 7%
increase in sector output.
3.6       Mexico's financial sector is undergoing a major reform.  It has
become essentially market oriented, with the Government phasing out subsidized
interest rates and first-tier lending by developmant banks and trust funds.
Moreover, initial actions to privatize the commercial banks have been taken, a
process that is expected to be completed in about two years. During that
period and for sometime afterwards the newly privatized commercial banks are
likely to be reluctant to engage in lending to sectors with a limited track
record to assess risks (for a sample of 10 major banks the mining portfolio
accounted for only 0.22 of their total portfolio), in particular to a sector
such as mining, which is itself undergoing major policy reforms. This
situation justifies the proposed Bank loan, that would provide credit to the
mining sector during the transitional period until commercial banks become
actively engaged in funding mining operations. In line with present Bank
policy on directed credit, this loan is expected to be the last line of credit
operation for mining to Mexico.
C.  Proiect DescriRtion
3.7       To accomplish its objectives the  proposed MSRP, in addition to
providing financing for SMMs, would support the following policy changes and
institutional reforms in the mining sectort (i) liberalizing private sector
access to land with mineral potential and releasing state-held mining reserves
(paras. 2.7, 2.13); (ii) reducing barriers to foreign investment in mining
enterprises (paras. 2.20-2.23); (iii) implementing a mineral rights policy
that is conducive to an improved allocation of resources (para. 2.16); (iv)
reforming the system of mining concessions (para. 2.14); (v) phasing out state
ownership of enterprises in the mining sector (para. 2.29); (vi) modernizing
the government agencies providing support to small and medium scale mining
enterprises (paras. 2.25-2.27, 2.28-2.35, 2.41-2.43); (vii) establiching



- 23 -
environmental standards for the mining sector (paras. 2.53-2.54); and (viii)
phasing out direct Government financing of mining activities (paras. 2.38-
2.40).
3.8       More specifically, the objectives of the proposed project would be
reached throughs (i) helping to implement a revised legal framework
("Reglamento" of the Mining Law) which, inter alia, liberalizes private sector
access to land and provides for the release of NMRs, permits majority foreign
investment in mining enterprises and establishes a modern mineral rights
policy; (ii) streamlining the present system for granting and administering
mining concessions; (iii) implementing a comprehensive and well focused five-
year business plan for CFM, that includes a policy statement, a five-year
financial plan, a business plan for its beneficiation plants and a program to
deal with its problem portfolio; (iv) implementing a suitable five-year
business plan for CRM, that includes a program for aerial reconnaissance, the
modernization of laboratory services and the establishment of a computerized
information network; (v) setting up an inter-agency work group to establish
environmental standards for mining sector operations; and (vi) undertakinag a
program to induce commercial banks to finance mining projects, particularly in
the metallic subsector.
3.9       The proposed project has a significant technical assistance
component that would help improve the capabilities of DGM, CFM and CRM to
perform their new roles more effectively (paras. 2.25, 2.26, 2.42 and 2.43).
Importan.t elements of the proposed MSRP include: a) the modernization of DGM's
system of mining administration and control; b) two studies, one to evaluate
the results from the recently introduced ihanges to mining regulations and the
other to explore the possibility for as %urther policy adjustmonts in the
future; c) the establishment of industry-specific environmental standards for
mining; d) the training of CFM personnel to improve their project evaluation
and supervision skills, as well as their capability to provide advice on the
potential environmental impact of mining projects; and e) the upgrading of
CRM's capability to generate, process and -'..vulge geological information (see
Annex 1).
3.10      The proposed loan would provide fi ancing for: (i) a credit
component of US$191.5 million, representing 95.752 of the loan, to help fund
subloans to small and m3dium scale mining ezterprises for the acquisition of
fixed assets (including pollution control equipment), permanent 3rking
capital and the developmont of existing proven mineral reserves; and (ii)
technical assistance of US$8.5 million, representing 4.252 of the loan, mainly
to help fund institutional strengthening programs for DGM and CRM.
D. Loan Amount and Terms
3.11      The proposed Bank loan would be for US$200 million.  The loan would
have a maturity of 17 years, including 5 years of grace, and it would be made
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 24 -
3. Financing Plan
3.12      The proceeds from the Bank loan would help finance investments in
metallic and non-metallic mining suLprojects for an estimated total amount of
US$436.5 million equivalent. This figure includes project related technical
assistance in the amount of US$11 million. Based upon the experience from
PECAM II, the proposed Bank loan would be expected to finance 46Z of total
project costs (see table below). The balance would be covered as follows: 341
by the beneficiaries, 151 by CFM 151 and 52 by the participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs). PFIs would bear the credit risk on all subprojects and
would be required to gradually increase their minimum average financing
contribution using their own resources to: 52 during the period from July 1,
19i2 to June 30, 1993; 102 from July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1994; and 202
thereafter. Agreement to this effect was reached during loan negotiations
(para. 4.1, xii).
Proiect Financing Plan
(Millions of U.S. Dollars)
Mining Credit   T. Assistance   Total Proiect
nSS      z      USS      I       uss       s
Beneficiaries       148.9    35.0    -         -      148.9     34.1
World Bank          191.5    45.0    8.5    77.3   200.0        45.8
Government (CFM)    63.8    15.0    2.5    22.7    66.3         15.2
PFIs                 21.3      5.0    -        -      21.3       4.9
Total          425.5   100.0   11.0   100.0   436.5    100.0
3.13      Taking into consideration the different financing needs of
individual subprojects and in order to allow sufficient flexibility in the
application of project funds, the 502 Bank financing guideline would be
applied on an average basis for subprojects as a whole rather than for each
individual subproject. However, the maximum financinrg to be provided with
Bank funds for any individual subproject would be 802 of its total cost. If
the cumulative share of funding provided by the Bank is found to exceed the
502 average guideline, the ceiling on individual subprojects would be reduced
temporarily. To monitor that the financing provided is in line with this
agreement, CFM would inform the Bank quarterly, starting on September 30,
1991, on t1a funding granted to each subproject and would provide annually,
starting on June 30, 1992, a composite financial plan for the project based
upon actual disbursements. Agreement to this effect was reached during loan
negotiations (pars. 4.1, xiii).



- 25 -
F. Institutional Arrangements
3.14      Prolect Implementation.  Under the Bank's previous two loans (the
PECAN projects) to the mining sector a coordinating agency was organized to
serve, inter alia, as a credit committee that would review a percentage of the
projects presented for financing. In practice, however, the coordination and
credit committee functions proved to be of little value and in the past two
years the coordinating agency has become inactive. Under the proposed loan
CFM would act as project coordinator and would therefore be the main
interlocutor with the Bank on project implementation. Specific implementation
responsibilities are outlined in the following paragraphs.
3.15      The Borrower and Guarantor.  The Borrower for the proposed Bank
loan would be NAFIN and the Guarantor would be the United Mexican States.
NAFIN, established in 1934, is Mexico's largest development bank and is the
borrower under 22 Bank loans currently in the stage of execution. NAFIN would
be responsible for the establishment and management of the Special Account
that would be set up for the project (para. 3.30). In addition, NAFIN would
also be responsible for relending the proceeds of the Loan to the Guarantor
and to CRM, as appropriate. The Guarantor would further onlend to FFM the
proceeds of the loan allocated to finance the credit component of the proposed
project. Presentation to the Bank of satisfactory signed and legally binding
contractual arrangements between NAFIN, the Guarantor, FFM and CRM, would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.2).
3.16      Financial Position of NAFIN.  NAEIN is a financially sound and
creditworthy institution (see Annex 3). As described briefly below, NAFIN'S
financial position has improved significantly since its reorganization in
early 1989, due to: a) new operating policies, i.e. (i) focusing on low risk
second-tier lending, (ii) limiting equity participation in private sector
companies to 25% or less of the company's outstanding shares, and (iii)
divesting itself from its holdings on public sector enterprises; and b) the
sale to the Government of its huge non-performing public sector portfolio.
3.17      Until year-end 1988 NAFIN was a highly leveraged institution with a
thin capital base. However, during 1989 the institution's net capital
increased by about US$817 million equivalent, a consequence of the: a)
merging of sevoral trust funds, with their own resources, which NAFIN and
Banco de Mexico previously administered; b) capitalization of overdue interest
payments on loans to the Government; and c) surplus from the revaluation of
its remaining investments. As a result, the ratio of net worth to total
assets increased from 5.9% at year-end 1988 to 11.31 as of December 31, 1989.
This ratio declined to 10.7% at year-end 1990 due to write-offs on its "Minera
de Cananea" investment, however, it remains very satisfactory for a second
tier institution.
3.18      The quality of NAFIN's first-tier portfolio, in which the
institution bears the full credit risk, has also improved significantly since
the reorganization. This improvement is primarily the result of: a) the sale
to the Government of US$4.7 billion equivalent of non-performing loans to



- 26 -
parastatals and public trust funds, and b) US$563 million equivalent in write-
offs related to its "Minera de Cananea" and "Minera de Autlan" portfolio.
Arrears as a percentage of total first-tier outstanding loans (US$ 1.2 billion
equivalent) reached 5.7Z as of December 31, 1990. However, NAFIN's remaining
portfolio is well diversified and adequate loan loss provisions have been
made. In addition, NAFIN's investment portfolio, with a book value of about
US$124 million equivalent, is well diversified among 31 mostly public sector
companies, several of which are being privatized.
3.19      Finally, NAFIN's profitability has also improved in recent years.
Return on assets (ROA) increased from 0.212 in 1988 to 0.692 by year-end 1990,
while return on equity (ROE) increased from 3.52 to 5.72 over the same period.
The low return for 1990 reflects large charges for bad loans made against the
year's results, otherwise ROE would have been 28.22, i.e. about equal to the
rate of inflation. NAFIN's financial margin was about 1.92 in both 1989 and
1990, slightly below the average for international money center banks.
3.20      Executina Agencies.  The executing agencies for the proposed loan
would be CFM/FFM, CRM and DGM.  All are experienced and capable institutions
that can be expected to perform adequately their respective functions under
the proposed project. CFM/FFM would onlend the proceeds of the loan to PFFI,
in accordance to terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (an analyeis of
the financial situation of CFM and FFM is presented in Annex 4).  Agreement
was reached during loan negotiations on the operating guidelines applicable to
subloans (para. 4.1, vi). In addition, agreement was reached with CFM during
loan negotiations on maintaining adequate staffing to discharge all its
functions under the project effectively (para. 4.1, xiv). CFM would also
participate in the technical assistance component of the project, along with
CRM and DGM. All executing agencies would be involved in the joint annual
project reviews.
3.21      Financial Intermediaries.   The financial intermediaries eligible
to participate in the project would be all legally established commercial
banks, that are willing to comply with the following -equirements: a) observe
CFM/FFM's operating guidelines; b) ensure that Bank procurement and
disbursement provisions are met; c) provide all reasonable project related
information requested by CFM and the Bank; and d) assume the credit risk for
the subprojects rediscounted with CFM/FFM.
3.22      Over the past several years all major commercial banks and many of
the smaller ones have developed adequate capacity to undertake term lending
operations in the industrial, agro-industrial and the non-metallic mining
sectors. However, the limited experience of commercial banks in term lending
to SMMs operating in the metallic subsector would require that CFM carry out
initially the technical evaluation for this type of subprojects. Supervision
would be performed jointly by the commercial banks and CFM. With the purpose
of progressively transferring to the banks the responsibility for subproject
appraisal and supervision, CFM would implement a technical assistance program
to train thia commercial banks' staff, as discussed above (para. 2.38).



- 27 -
G. ellnding Terms and Conditions
3.23      OnIgnding Rateo.  The loan proceeds allocated to the credit
component of the proposed project (US$191.5 million) would be onlent by YFM,
through PFIs, to help fund subloans to SMM8. Subloans would be denominated in
Mexican pesos or U.S. dollar., at the option of the subborrower. The cost to
FFM of peso funds would be the 28-day CETES (Treasury Bills) rate and the cost
of dollar funds would be the three month LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate)
plus 0.52, in line with Mexican internal guidelines on the transfer of
external resources from the Government to trust funds. The cost to PFIs in
pesos and dollars would be the respective rates plus an PFM intermediation
fee, satisfactory to the Bank, which would be adequate to cover financial
intermediation costs, including administrative costs, an adequate return on
capital and provision for losses. For both peso and dollar denominated
subloans PIle would be free to set the lending rate to final borrowers, i.e.
the interest rates charged under the proposed project would be based upon
market conditions.
3.24       The loan proceeds allocated to the technical assistance component
of the proposed project (US$8.5 million) would be transferred to DGM and CRM
in pesos at the CETES rate. Agreement on the interest rates and fees
applicable under the project, as well as on examining their adequacy during
the joint annual project reviews, was reached during loan negotiations (para.
4.1, xv).
3.25      Maturities and Grace Periods.  The terms for each specific subloan
would take into account the economic life of the assets to be financed and the
repayment capacity of subborrowers. Fixed assets subloans would have a
maximum maturity of 13 years, including a grace period of up to three years;
and working capital subloans would have a maximum maturity of five years,
including a grace period of up to one year.
3.26      Maximum Loan Amount and Free Limit.  The maximum amount of Bank
financing to any individual subproject would be US$5 million equivalent. A
cumulative limit of to US$10 million equivalent would apply for subloans made
to any SMM, individually or together with its related companies. Based on the
positive experience with the PECAM I and II operations, aubprojects under a
free limit of US$1.5 million equivalent would not require prior Bank approval.
It is expected that about 202 of the subprojects, representing about 401 of
loan resources, would be subject to prior Bank approval. 3ubprojects financed
through subloans would have to yield financial rates of 'Aturn of not less
than 12Z, reflecting the cost of capital in the Mexican .'et.



- 28 -
H. Procurement
3.27      Procurement of Goods and Works under tho Technical Assistance
Component.  The participating institutions (CRM and DGM) would have the
responsibility for ensuring the competitiveness, in price and quality, of the
items procured and their suitability for the purpose intended. Consultant
services financed with loan proceeds would be open to international
recruitment, and corresponding Bank guidelines would be applied. Goods and
works estimated to cost per contract: (i) less than US$50,000, would be
procured under local shopping provided, however, that the aggregate amount for
works does not exceed US$250,000; (ii) between US$50,000 and US$250,000, would
be procured under local competitive bidding; and (iii) more than US$250,000,
would be procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) according to
Bank guidelines.
3.28      Procurement of Goods and Works under the Line of Credit Component.
Contracts estimated to cost US$5 million equivalent or more would be procured
under ICB procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts estimated
to cost between US$1.5 million and US$5 million equivalent, would be procured
through shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, requiring at least three
responsive price quotations from eligible suppliers. For contracts costing
less than US$1.5 million, procurement would be done under established
commercial procurement practices acceptable to the Bank. In all cases under
both the technical assistance and the credit line components, a preference
margin of 15i or the applicable duty, whichever is lower, may be granted to
local producers under ICB contracts for goods, in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
3.29      Prior Review of Procurement Decisions.  Procurement documentation
for all ICB contracts for goods and works would be subject to the Bank's prior
review. In addition, the procurement documentation for the first three
contracts for goods and works under the line of credit component, estimated to
cost US$1.5 million or more but less than US$5 million equivalent (i.e.
subject to shopping procedures), and the first three LCB contracts under the
technical assistance component, would also be subject to the Bank's prior
review.



- 29 -
Procurement Method
(Millions of U.S. Dollars)
Project Element                 ICB      LCB       Other        .AS.     Total
1. Technical Assistance
1.1  Civil Works                               0.3        0.4        0.7
(0.3)      (0.0)      (0.3)
1.2  Goods                 6.0       0.9                  1.4        8.3
(6.0)    (0.9)                 (0.0)      (6.9)
1.3  Consultants                               0.8                   0.8
(0.8)                 (0.8)
1.4  Operating Costs                           0.5        0.8         1.3
(0.5)      (0.0)      (0.5)
2.   Line of Credit
2.1  Works                 0.0                65.0 b/       -       65.0
(0.0)              (7.0)                  (7.0)
2.2  Goods                 0.0               360.5 bl       -      360.5
(0.0)            (184.5)                (184.5)
Total                      6.0       0.9     427.1        2.6       436.5
(6.0)    (0.9)   (193.1)       (0.0)    (200.0)
Note:    Figures in parenthesis correspond to the amounts financed from the
proceeds of the Bank loan.
al       Government financed.
b/       Procurement would be done under ICB, shopping procedures and
established commercial procurement practices acceptable to the Bank
(para. 3.28).



- 30 -
I. Disbursement
3.30     In order to facilitate project execution, a Special Account would be
opened and maintained in US dollars, with an initial deposit of US$20.0
million, representing the estimated loan disbursements over the peak four
months. NAFIN, as financial agent of the Government, would manage withdrawals
under the Loan, including the Special Account. Withdrawal applications would
be made on the basis of statements of expenditures for contracts costing less
than US$1 million. NAFIN would ensure that all supporting documentation is
adequately maintained and made available for review upon the Bank's request.
NAFIN would be required to submit to the Bank a monthly statement of the
transactions of the Special Account, it would also be responsible for
compliance with the corresponding audit requirements (see Annex 2). Only
expenditures made no more than 180 days prior to the date of receipt by the
Bank of the corresponding financing request would be eligible for
reimbursement under the proposed Loan.
3.31     The Bank would finance 100% of amounts rediscounted by PFIs with FFM,
under the line of credit component. It would also finance 1002 of
expenditures for consultant services and equipment, operating costs and works,
under the technical assistance component. The final date for submission of
subloan requests to the Bank for approval would be June 30, 1995, and the
Closing Date would be June 30, 1996.
J. Retroactive Financing
3.32     Resources from loan 2546-ME were fully committed as of December 1990.
It is proposed to permit retroactive financing of eligible expenditures
incurred since September 10, 1990 (the date of project appraisal), up to a
maximum amount of US$20 million.
K.  Monitoring. Reporting and Auditing
3.33     The Bank would monitor progress of project implementation through
normal project supervision and the regular exchange of views with the
Guarantor, the Borrower and the Executing Agencies. In addition, agreement
was reached during loan negotiation3 on conducting joint annual reviews of the
project to evaluate overall project progress, and to discuss the need and
agree on further measures to achieve the project's objectives (para. 4.1, ii).
The initial joint project review would take place not later than February 28,
1992.
3.34     The coordinating agency (CFM) would prepare annual reports on the
progress of the project, starting on January 31, 1! 92. These reports would
include, inter alia, an assessment of progress in the implementation of the
provisions of the new "Reglamento" of the Mining Law, the institutional
development programs for the public entities that support SMMs, and the
environmental standards for the mining sector. The reports would also include



- 31 -
information on the overall status of the project (credit and technical
assistance components), the project's financial situation and portfolio
quality, subprojects and their expected impact, and other relevant project
elements (see Annex 5).
3.35     The executing agencies (CFM and CRM) would maintain adequate records
to reflect their operations and financial situation, in accordance with sound
accounting principles applied consistently. DGM would only be required to
maintain and submit annual audit reports of pzaject related records. The
accounts of the executing agencies including those kept for the purposes of
the project, the Special Account, and the statements of expenditure, would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (see Annex 2).
The audit reports, with scope and format satisfactory to the Bank, including
an opinion regarding the supporting documentation for disbursements based on
statements of expenditure, would be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the end of each institution's fiscal year.
L. Benefits and Risks
3.36     The proposed project would help develop Mexico's mining sector, which
is believed to have strong growth potential, in an environmentally sound
manner. The recent changes in the regulatory framework providing for, inter
alia, increased private sector access to land and mineral rights, and for the
streamlining of concession procedures and majority foreign ownership of mining
firms, should result in higher investment by private domestic and foreign
companies. Furthermore, the reorientation of the sector's policies and public
institutions in favor of activities that directly support private mining
exploration and exploitation, and the increase in commercial bank lending for
mining operations that would be expected to be initiated by the project,
should also lead to higher investment in the sector. Increased investment
would in turn result over time in higher mining output, exports and
employment. Moreover, the establishment of environmental standards for the
mining industry would help ensure that the sector's development is
sustainable.
3.37     Policy reversals, which would be the main concern to private
investors, seem unlikely given Mexico's impressive efforts to open up and
deregulate its economy. Hence the main project risks relate to issues that
could adversely affect loan disbursements: a) continued low international
metal prices; b) an overvalued exchange rate; and c) lower than expected
commercial bank participation in lending to mining, particularly during the
coming years when these banks are to be privatized. The potential negative
impact of these risks is, however, ameliorated by the fact that Mexico is a
low cost mineral producer, the Government has export promotion as a key
objective of its economic policy and CFM/FFM has been successful in the past
in attracting commercial banks to finance non-metallic mining operations.
Moreover, the proposed loan amount has been based on a conservative demand
estimate for financial resources. In this context, the risks faced by the
project are considered acceptable.



- 32 -
IV. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4.1 During loan negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
(the Guarantor), NAFIN (the Borrower), CFM and CRM ons
(i) considering any material change in the "Reglamento" of the Mining Law
that could adversely affect the objectives of the proposed project or any
occurrence that would prevent its implementation, an event of default (para.
2.6);
(ii) joint annual reviews of the project to exchange views on overall
project progress and to discuss the need for further measures to achieve the
project's objectives. These reviews would focus, inter alia, on the: a)
release of National Mining Reserves; b) institutional modernization of CFM,
CRM and DGM; c) implementation of the technical assistance component; d)
economic viability and overall adequacy of CFM's ore purchasing practices; e)
participation of commercial banks in lending for mining projects; f)
environmental standards for the mining industry; g) adequacy of interest rates
and fees charged; and h) level of investment in the mining sector (paras. 2.7,
2.26, 2.27, 2.30, 2.32, 2.34, 2.39, 2.42, 2.43, 2.54, 2.55 and 3.24). The
initial joint project review woulu take place not later than February 28,
1992;
(iii) undertaking two studies, by consultants satisfactory to the Bank, to:
a) evaluate the effectiveness of the changes introduced by the new
"Reglamento" of the Mining Law and b) explore alternative approaches to
mineral rights allocation and payments. The terms of reference, timing and
cost of the studies would be discussed and agreed upon during the first joint
annual project review (para. 2.17);
(iv) the technical assistance component of the project (paras. 2.26, 2.27,
2.32, 2.43, 2.54 and 2.55);
(v) the approval by CFM's Board by September 30, 1991 of the additional
loan-loss provision needed to fully write-off non-recoverable loans (para.
2.31);
(vi) the following documents: a policy statement and five-year financial
plan for CFM, a program to deal with CFM's problem portfolio, a program of
promotion and technical assistance aimed at increasing commercial bank lending
for mining operations, a five-year business plan for CRM, and the project
operating guidelines (paras. 2.33, 2.34, 2.38, 2.42 and 3.20);
(vii) presentation to the Bank by December 31, 1991 of a business plan for
CPm's beneficiation plants, including a commitment to put it into effect not
later than June 30, 1992 (para. 2.34);
(viii) presentation to the Bank by September 30, 1991 of the consultancy study
on CFM's new organizational structure, and keeping the Bank informed of any
proposed modification to CFM's organizational structure (para. 2.35);



- 33 -
(ix) the scope of CFM's first-tier lending, which would be limited to
financing short term working capital needs of SMM.s and on the combined (CFM
plus FFM) direct financing operations as percentage of total annual lending
volume which would not exceed, on an annual average basis, 252 for 1991, 232
for 1992, 20Z for 1993, 172 for 1994, and 152 for 1995 and thereafter (para.
2.40);
(x) the issuance of environmental standards for the mining industry,
satisfactory to the Bank, by June 30, 1992 (para. 2.53);
(xi) providing the Bank a concise statement concerning the environmental
impact of each subproject before any subloan is approved, and strengthening
CFM's environmental capability as to be able to provide advice to SMMs on how
to deal with the environmental impact of their projects (para. 2.55);
(xii) requiring PFIs to bear the credit risk on all subprojects, and on
having PFIs gradually increase their minimum financing contribution using
their own resources to: 52 during the period from July 1, 1992 to June 30,
1993; 102 from July 1, 1993 to June 30, 1994g and 202 thereafter (para. 3.12);
(xiii) providing the Bank information to monitor the 502 average Bank
financing guideline; quarterly, starting on September 30, 1991, the funding
granted to each subproject, and annually, starting on June 30, 1992, a
composite financial plan based upon actual disbursements (para. 3.13);
(xiv) CFM maintaining adequate staffing to discharge all its functions under
the project effectively (para. 3.20); and
(xv) the applicable interest rates and fees, and an examination of their
adequacy during the joint annual project review (para. 3.24).
4.2      A condition of effectiveness would be that contractual arrangements
for the transfer of loan proceeds between NAFIN, the Guarantor, FFM and CRM,
which are satisfactory to the Bank, have been signed and are legally binding
(para. 3.15).
4.3      Subject to the above assurances and conditions the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$200 million to NAFIN, for a period of
17 years, including a grace period of 5 years, at the standard variable rate.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
- 34 -
Technical Assistance Program
1.   The proposed project includes a technical assistance component of
US$11.0 million, of which US$8.5 million, representing 4.25% of the total loan
amount, would be Bank financed. The technical assistance comporent would help
fund: (i) the modernization of DGM's system of min%ng administration and
control; (ii) two studies, one to evaluate the results from the recently
introduced changes to mining regulations and the other to explore the
possibility for any further policy adjustments; (iii) the establishment of
industry-specific environmental standards for mining; (iv) training for CFM
personnel to improve their project evaluation and supervision skills, and to
increase their environmental knowledge and expertise and (v) the upgrading of
CRM's capability to generate, process and divulge geological information (see
table 1).
A. General Directorate of Mines (DGM)
2.   The implementation of the new "Reglamento" of the Mining Law requires
the use of modern technology and systems by DGM to achieve the goal of
administrative deregulation and simplification. To this effect, the project
would provide financing for the: a) implementation of a mining geodetic net,
and b) automation and interconnection of DGM offices. The estimated cost of
these activities is US$0.790 million (see table). In addition, the Bank would
also finance under PECAM II the: a) purchase of hardware and software for the
areas of Document Control, Public Registry, Cartography, Control of
Obligations and Statistics, and b) training of personnel. The estimated cost
for these activities is US$1.257 million, of which US$1.1 million have already
been approved and are being disbursed. CFM would make loans to mining experts
for the acquisition of positioning equipment, up to an aggregate amount of
US$0.8 million. In addition, the Government would provide DGN the financing
necessary to relocate its head office and acquire miscellaneous equipment.
3. The establishment of a mining geodetic net would simplify the
preparation of the expert report that parties interested in obtaining a mining
concession or assignment must present to DGM, as it would only be necessary to
determine the distance and the astronomical direction between a control point
and the starting point of the mining lot in question to clearly identify the
same. The modernization of the positioning equipment used by mining experts
to establish a lot's location is a necessary complement to the above effort.
Finall-, the automation and interconnection of DGM's field offices would
expedite the issuance and registration of mining concessions.
4. The new "Reglamento" of the Mining Law is expected to lead to increased
investment in the mining sector and to significantly increase the sector's
efficiency. In order to assess the effectiveness of the recently introduced
changes in the allocation system and payments for mineral rights, and to
provide the analytical basis for further improvements in the regulatory
framework, the project would finance two studiess a) one to evaluate the
impact of the new legislation, particularly on the level of investment in
mining exploration and exploitation, and b) another one to explore alternative
approaches to mineral rights allocation and payments, which would include a



ANNEX 1
roage 2 f 4
- 35 -
comparative analysis of mining policy in other countries. The terms of
reference, timing and cost of undertaking the two studies would be determined
at the time of the first joint annual project review.
5.   A major element of the proposed project is the issuance of standards to
address the major environmental problems generated by mining operations. To
assist in this effort, the Bank would provide US$0.155 million under PECAM II
for: a) training the working group that would draft the standards, b) a
diagnosis of the environmental impact of mining operations in Mexico's main
mining districts, and c) other activities directly related to the
establishment of the standards. In addition, the Bank would provide US$0.150
million in financing under the MSRP for carrying out workshops and other
related activities aimed at raising awareness and explaining the new
environmental regulations, i.e. ensuring compliance with the same.
B. Minin, DeveloRment Commission (CPM)
6.   An examination of CFM's problem portfolio showed that weaknesses in the
technical appraisal of projects, as well as in credit analysis and management,
were a major factor behind the large number of bad loans. To help address
CPM's shortcomings in these areas the proposed project would include personnel
training. The nature and cost of the training program would be determined
after further evaluation of the institution's specific needs and how best to
meet them. CFM would finance the training program with its own resources.
7.   Under the project CGM would be required to provide to the Bank a
statement concerning the environmental imoact of each subproject. Moreover,
it would assume the obligation to give advice to SMNs on how to best deal with
potential environmental problems in their operations. In order to
satisfactorily fulfill these two commitments CFM needs to strengthen its in-
house environmental capability, mainly through training. The various
activities to be undertaken to this effect have been discussed and agreed with
the Bank, and would be self-financed by CFM.
C. Mineral Resources Council (CRM)
8.   The five-year business plan prepared by CRM envisions the organization
do-emphasizing its role as an evaluator and developer of mineral resources and
gradually becoming a modern geological survey institute. To assist in the
transition process, the Bank would help finance the: a) development of a
computerized information network to handle exploratory and administrative work
data, b) evaluation visits to sites with mineral potential, c) purchase of
laboratory equipment and general upgrading of laboratory facilities, d)
purchase of cartography and geophysical equipment, and e) training of
personnel. The estimated total Bank contribution to the above activities
amounts to US$6.812 million (see table 1).
9.   A vital element in CRM's efforts to become a modern and efficient
organization is the implementation of an automated system, that will improve
its technical and administrative capacity. In addition to financial



ANNEX 1
Pag-e3 of 4
- 36 -
management and planning functions, the system will enable CRM to carry out
specialized functions such as the creation of a geological-mining information
center providing services to the public and the compilation of a technical
data base. Recent consultancy advice to CRM etrongly reco-mmends the careful
introduction of this system, with considerable attention placed on training.
10. With the objective of increasing the country's mining production, survey
visits will be carried out at the request of small and medium scale miners.
This technical assistance work will provide miners with recommendations for
exploration and evaluation activities that should take place to ensure the
development of more efficient mining operations.
11. Modern equipment is required to upgrade CRM's physical-chemical
laboratory activities, which are vital to proving the correct assessment of
contained minerals, ore grades, and the geological and mineralogical setting
of mineral deposits. The present equipmer.t is becoming obsolete and expensive
or impossible to maintain. In addition, laboratory facilities will be
upgraded through minor civil works to improve deficient work areas. This will
enable CRM to adequately support its field activities.
12. The upgrading of cartography and drafting equipment will allow CRM to
better produce maps and plans for both internal reporting, and publication and
general dissemination of information. CRM's exploration programs also require
the systematic carrying out of geophysical investigations to analyze and
evaluate geological and mining potential. Modern geophysical equipment is
needed to provide accurate geophysical information. The new equipment will
also permit CRM to effectively undetake contracting assignments for third
parties.
13. Training of CRM staff is esseitial, both within and outside Mexico, to
increase professional knowledge of state-of-the-art technology and procedures.
It is particularly important in relation to the implementation of the
computerized management and information system, as well as in the early
recognition of mineral deposits. Moreover, CRM provides an early training
ground for young earth science graduates.



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
- 37 -
Table 1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Estimated
feginning    Duratton           Cost         Financing
(Millions of
.S. Dollars)
A. General Directorate of Mines (DGI)
1. Hardware and software for the areoa of Document Control,
Public Registry and Cartography                                     under vay    until          1.057            PECAM 11
_____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____ _____Jun.91          _ _ _ _ _  _ _
2. Software for the area of Control of Obligations                     under way    until          0.037            PECAN 11
3. Hardware *nd software for the area of Statistics                    under way    until         0.0S2             PECAN It
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  Jul.   91
4. Load of historical data base for the ares of Ccntrol of             Peb. 91       5 ao.         0.051            PECAN 11
Obligations
5. Establishment of ecology norms and standers f,r the mining          May 91        20 so.        0.155            PECAM II
industrn                                                           _                           0.150            _RF
6. Training of DQG  persomnnl                                          Jan. 91       4 no.         0.030            PECAN 11
7. Purchese of positioning equipment                                   Jul. 91       6 no.        0.800             GOtl
S. Implenatation of mining geodetic net                                Jul. 91       6 so.         0.500       _    tSRP
9. Automtion and interconnection of DGtS offices                       Jul. 91       6 so.         0.290            HSRP
IV. Provision of adequate buildin  for D0G                              Jul. 91       6 so.         0.370            012
11. Acquisition and renewsl of miscellaneous equlpment                  under way    until         0.596             GM
To be         id           Id                MSRP
12. Two studies On the effectiveness of the changes Introduced          defined
by the new  leglento" of the Mining Law and the
possibilities for further improvemet
Sub-Total Ba   finncing Under MSRP (A).                 -                    0.940
D. M.InDvelo             Commission (C.)                          ...              ..
1. Personnel training                                                 To be          Id            id               GQf
defined
C. Mineral Resources Council (CRI1)
1  Information network                                                under wsY    60 no.         3.697             MSRP
2. Property evaluation visits                                          Jul. 91       48 mo.        0.395 $SRP
_________ _________  0.758             GON4
3. Laboratory *qulmnt and upgrading of laboratory facilities          under wy    1a mo           1.785            HSRP
4. Cartography equipment                                               under wuy    1me o          0.281             ISRP
5. Geopbysical equLEment                                               under way      8 no.        0 234            MSRP
6. Personrnel training                                                 under way    48 mo          0.420            MSRP
Sub-Total Bank Financing Under MSRP (C).                                       6 812
Unalloceted Amotnt                                                     To be                       0 748            MSRP
defined _               _
Total Blank Financing for Technical Assistance Under the MSRP                  -8.300                                   _____
''~~~~~~ -                                                                   =         =        -  .    _  .....,'...'.



ANNEX 2
- 38 -
AuditinR Requirements
A.   The Executing Agencies (CFM. FFM. CRM and DGM)
The audit report should include an examination of and an opinion on thet
(a) Basic Financial Statements.
- Statement of financial position
- Statement of income (and retained earnings)
- Statement of changes in financial position, or statement of cash
flow.
The following special reports should also be presented to the Bank:
(b) Compliance Opinions. Covering the loan's financial-managerial
covenants.
(c) Management Letter. As a complement to the audit of the financial
statements.
(d) Disclosure of the audit procedures utilized.
(e) Supplementarv Financial Information. Should include a summary of:
(i) the budgetary execution and (ii) the financial performance of
the entity execusting the project.
(f) Audit of the Proiect. This audit report covers the financial
execution re'orded in the "separate or identified accounts" for the
project.
(g) Auditor's ORinion on the Certificates of Expenditures. The scope
of the audit is an examination of the expenditures with respect of
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made during the fiscal
year on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Note:     DGM would only be required to comply with (f).
B.   The Borrower (NAFIN)
In addition to (b) and (d) the following report should also be presented
to the Bank:
(h) Audit of the Special Account. This audit report covers the move
ment and availability of the funds in the Special Account. The
scope of the audit is an examination of and an opinion on: ti) the
statement of transactions and availability of funds, (ii) the
accounting, administrative and control procedures, as well as the
system of authorizations maintained by the Central Bank.



liNNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
- 39 -
Financial Analysis of NAFIN
Background
1.   NAFIN is the Government's main development bank for supporting the
industrial sector and has been the borrower for the majority of Bank loans to
Mexico, including the two previous loans to the mining industry. NAFIN is
both a financial agent (FA) of the Mexican Government and a development bank.
As a FA, NAFIN borrows funds from external sources (mainly the World Bank,
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the EXIMBANKS), and onlends these
resources to public agencies (Government entities, trust funds and parastatal
enterprises) to fund their operations. As a development bank, NAFIN provides
resources, through a variety of credit programs, to meet the long-term credit
needs of micro, small and medium-size private industrial companies. NAFIN
also functions as an investment and holding company, taking temporary minority
equity positions in private industrial companies. For its operations as a
development bank, NAFIN relies mainly on funds from bilateral and multilateral
agencies. In addition, it has started to raise, on a limited scale, long-term
funds in foreign and domestic capital markets.
2.   Under its bylaws, NAPIN is managed by a "Consejo de Administracion"
(Board of Directors), which is composed of top level Government officials plus
the institution's General Manager. The Chairman of the Board is the Minister
of Finance, other members include the Ministers of Programming and Budgeting,
Trade and Industrial Development, and of Energy, Mines and Parastatal
Industry, the General Managers of Banco de Mexico and Petroleos Mexicanos, the
Chairman of the Confederation of Industrial Chambers (CONCAMIN), and two other
representatives of the private sector.
3.   NAPIN has experienced a major change in the scope of its operations
since it embarked in early 1989 on a reorganization program that included: a)
closingdown its retail deposit-taking activities, b) discontinuing first-tier
lending, c) phasing out its lending and investment activities with the public
sector, and d) absorbing the functions and assets of the trust funds that
rediscounted loans to the industrial sector.
Asset/ Liability Com2osition
4.   The bulk of NAPIN's assets is concentrated on those operations in which
NAPIN acts as a FA of the Government. As of December 31, 1990, lAPIN's total
assets amounted to about US$14.9 billion equivalent, of which loans to the
Government and Government agencies as PA accounted for 712. In terms of
currency, 702 of total assets and a corresponding percentage of the
liabilities are denominated in foreign currency. NAFIN's asset composition
changed between 1988 and 1990, as a result of management's decision to become
a second-tier lending institution. Cash and liquid assets declined from 1.652
to 0.412 of total assets, as NAPIN closed-down its retail banking operations;
and the second-tier lending portfolio increased to 6.742 of total assets as of
December 31, 1990. Moreover, total assets declined by US$3.30 billion during
that period, due to the acquisition by the Government of about US$4.7 billion



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
- 40 -
equivalent of NAFIN's non-performing public portfolio and the write-off of
about US$337 million equivalent in loans to two mining compani.s,"Minera de
Cananea" and "Minera Autlan".
5.   NAPIN's liabilities are re cated mainly to loans received from
multilateral agencies. Since the Mexican crisis of 1982 until recently, NAPIN
was excluded from access to long-term international financial market. (the
last foreign bond placement was in July 1982). The World Bank, the IDB and
the EXIMBANKS continued to be the major sources of foreign funds throughout
this period; however, most of these funds corresponded to loans in which RAFIN
acted as a FA of the Government. From 1985 to year-end 1990 the World Bank
approved 22 loans with NAFIN as the borrower, but NAFIN is the executing
agency for only five of those loans. NAFIN is currently trying to diversify
its sources of funds. In June 1990, for the first time in eight years, NAFIN
was able to place bonds in the international capital markets (US$85 million in
Eurobonds with a five year maturity). Domestic funding has been based on
short-term instruments; however, in 1989 NAPIN issued succesfully long-term
bonds (BONDIS). NAFIN is expected to continue to rely on the World Bank and
1DB for its long-term funding needs. Table A-1 provides a sumary of KAPIN's
financial statements.
Capital Base
6.   As of December 31, 1990, NAPIN's equity was about US$1.7 billion
equivalent (including subordinated debentures). Until yaar-ond 1989 lAPIN was
a highly leveraged institution, with a very thin capital base; however, this
situation has now greatly improved. The ratio of net worth to total assets
has increased from 1.061 in i986 to 6.36 1 in 1900 (10.68Z including
subordinated debentures). Between year-end 1988 and December 31, 1990,
NAPIN's capital base increased by about US$620 million equivalent, net of the
deduction of about US$226 million equivalent from the write-off of its "Minera
de Cananea" investment. The merger of two trust funds (FOGAIN and FON8l) that
NAPIN and Banco de Mexico had previously managed off-books contributed about
US$646 million equivalent, and the capitalization of overdue interest owed by
the Government and the surplus from revaluation of investmcnts added about
US$200 million equivalent. NAFIN is further strengthening its capital base by
setting aside 102 of its net Income into the legal reserve. This practice
will continue until the legal reserve is equal to its paid-in capital. As of
December 31, 1990, NAPIN's capital base is very satisfactory to support the
type of low risk operations that the institution intends to undertake in the
future.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
- 41 -
TABLE A-I
NACIC-AL FINANCIERA S.N.C.
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1985-1990
(Millions of U.S. Dollars)
1985     1986      1987     1988      1989       1990
Total Revenues            3,178    3,133    3,445    3,131    2,930    1,276
Interest Expenses         3,027    3,013    3,183    2,808    2,528         916
Financial Margin             151      120       262      323       402      360
Operating Income             43        39        47       49        74       113
Net Income                    31       28        34       38        69       110
Total Assets             15,956   16,067   17,118   18,306   16,809   15,912
(Cash & Securities)        (842)    (625)    (745)  (1,879)  (1,494)  (1,508)
(Loan Portfolio)        (14,599) (14,917) (15,873) (15,395) (13,711) (12,900)
Total Liabilities        15,777   15,896   16,964   17,913   15,999   13,981
(Financial Debentures)    (683)    (492)    (360)    (200)    (596)  (1,775)
(Bank Loans)            (11,340) (12,491) (13,673) (13,110) (11,938) (11,280)
(Subordinate Debentures)  (436)    (486)    (686)    (686)    (686)    (686)
Capital and Reserves         179      170       154      393    1,210    1,244
Number of Employees         -         -         -      4,586    3,457    3,291
Sources  NAPIN audited financial statements, except for 1990.
Liauidity
7.   Liquidity risk is not a problem for NAFIN since its portfolio, both as a
PA and as an executing agency, is tied to liabilities of the same maturity.
Interest rate risk is also minimal, because the entire portfolio is
denominated in variable rate instruments. Moreover, since NAFIN is no longer
in retail banking, it does not have to face an unexpected demand from
depositors. The only liquidity risk NAPIN might face is from loan demand.



ANNEX 3
Fagoe 4 f 7
- 42 -
However, demand for NAFIN's funds has slowed-down recently due to high
liquidity in the commercial banking system. The privatization of the
commercial banking system will likely affect future demand for NAFIN's funds,
as NAFIN and the Government will no longer be able to have a strong influence
on the lending decisions of commercial banks. As of December 31, 1990 NAPIN
held about US$1.01 billion equivalent, 6.392 of its assets, in highly liquid
Government securities, primarily Certificados de Tesoreria (CETES) and Bonos
de Desarrollo (BONDES). However, 5.95Z of NAFIN's liabilities are in short-
term instruments, mainly bankers acceptances (BAs), a proportion which is
considered high for an institution concentrated in long-term lending. This is
expected to be transitory.
Portfolio and Investments
8.   Portfolio.  Given the nature of NAFIN's operations, about 901 of its
US$12.9 billion equivalent portfolio is implicitly or explicitly guaranteed by
the Government. The quality of NAFIN's first-tier portfolio, in which the
institution bears the full credit risk, has improved considerably s.'nce the
reorganization. Up to year-end 1988, NAFIN continuously restructured and
refinanced its loans to parastatal enterprises and public trust funds. These
operations were very costly to NAFIN, because it funded these loans by issuing
expensive bankers acceptances. To correct this situation the Government and
NAFIN undertook two major transactions during 1989 and 1990. In the first
transaction, known as the "Bankers Acceptances Agreement", the Government
acquired US$0.9 billion of NAFIN's bankers acceptances in exchange for an
equal amount of NAFIN's portfolio. In the second transaction, the Governwent
assumed US$3.8 billion of NAFIN's restructured foreign debt, again in exchange
for an equal amount of the institution's portfolio. Thus, NAFIN was able to
dispose of US$4.7 billion equivalent of its non-performing portfolio, which
had originated from loans made as a first-tier lender to public trust funds
and parastatal enterprises.
9.   In September 1989 "Minera de Cananea", a company ir, which NAFIN had an
exposure of about US$1 billion equivalent between loans and investments,
declared bankruptcy. Later in the same year "Minera Autlan" defaulted on a
major loan guarantee. This serious situation has now been resolved. In mid-
1990 "Minera de Cananea" was sold to provate investors for US$475 million
equivalent, proceeds from the sale were used to partially offset outstanding
loans and the balance was written-off against provisions that NAPIN had made
during 1989 and 1990. Total NAFIN write offs, related to its loans and
holdings in "Minera de Cananea" and "Minera Autlan", amounted to US$ 563
million equivalent. Existing provisions for bad loans were affected ir the
amount of US$337 million equivalent, and US$226 million equivalent were
charged against equity.



ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
_ .443 -
TABLE,A-2
NAFIN'S PORTFOLIO STATUS
(Millions of U.S. Dollars)
Amount    S2                 Status
A. Financial Agent         9,055     70.03     Fully guaranteed by Gov.
B. Debt Service            1,819     14.07     The Gov. has assumed full
Assumed by Government                       service of the debts.
C. Second-tier loans         871      6.74     Low risk, guaranteed by CBs
D. First-tier loans        1,185      9.16     5.71 of it is in arrears.
Source: NAlIN report on status of loan portfolio, December 1990.
10. Investments. Following its new investment policy, NAPIN will now invest
only in privately held companies, and its equity participation will be limited
to no more than 252 of the company's outstanding shares. As of December 31,
1990, NAFIN's equity investments were concentrated mostly in 31 public sector
companies with a book value of about US$124.0 million equivalent. The
investment portfolio is well diversified, the largest investment is in
"Carbonifera Rio Escondido", which accounts for only 2.71 of the total
investment portfolio. The Government and KAFIN have embarked on a dis-
investment and privatization program. NAFIN has already divested itself from
a number of firms and fully expects to recover its investments from the
remaining ones.



ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
- 44 -
TABLE A-3
NAMIN'S LARGEST EQUITY INVESTMENTS
(AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1989)
VALUE           EQUITY
(Millions of       OWNED
COMPANY                          ACTIVITY       US Dollars)           M
Carbonifera Rio Escondido        Coal Mining           9.3           24.8
Mexinox, S.A.                     Steel                9.0           39.7
Intermex Holding                 Banking              6.2            13.7
Altos Hornos de Mexico            Steel                6.0           56.9
Fertilizantes Mexicanos          Fertilizers           4.5           59.9
Gine Komatsu                      Ind. Machinery       3.1           31.5
ICA Plasticos                    Plastics              3.1           24.0
Celulosa y Papel de Durango      Celulose              2.8           21.6
Total Equity Investments                             124.0
Source: NAFIN annual reports.
Financial Performance
11. NAFIN steadily improved its profitability between 1986 and 1990. Its
return on assets (ROA) rose from 0.17Z in 1986 to 0.392 in 1988 and 0.69Z in
1990. The return on equity (ROE) also improved, rising from 4.21 in 1986 to
5.712 in 1990. The low return for 1990 reflects large charges (about USS 615
million equivalent) made against the year's results as pro-isions for bad
loans. Including these charges ROE for 1990 rises to 28.23Z, which is about
equal to the rate of inflation for the year. The improvement of NAFIN's
financial performance during 1989 and 1990 is mainly a result of the: a)
incorporation of FOGAIN's and FONEI's highly profitable portfolio, b) gains
from transactions in the securities market, and c) disposal of its parastatal
enterprises investments and non-performing portfolio. Net income, after
staying around 0.201 of average assets between 1968 and 1988, increased to
0.38% in 1989 and to 0.47Z in 1990. Table A-4 presents some selected
financial ratios.



ANNEX 3
- 45 -Page 7 of 7
TABLE A-4
NACIONAL FINANCIERA S.N.C.
Selected Financial Ratios
(In Percentages)
1986      18        1988     1989        1990
I. Financial Structure Ratios
1. Total Assets/Net Worth             94.30    118.9      46.5      13.88     12.20
2. Net Worth/Total Assets              1.06       0.9      2.0       7.20       8.18
3. Total Equity/Total Assets           4.00       4.9      5.9      11.28      12.68
II. Operating Expanses Ratios
1. Operating Expenses/
Operating Revenues                 98.70      98.6     98.4      97.5      91.10
III. Profitability Ratios
1. Net Income/Total Assets (ROA)       0.17       0.20     0.21      0.39      0.69
2. Net Income/Equity (ROE)             4.20       4.04     3.51      3.64      5.71
Source: NAFIN annual reports.
Overhead Costs
12. NAFIN's overhead costs, as a percentage of average assets, increased from 0.36Z in 1986
to 0.652 in 1988, and declined to 0.60Z in 1990. The decline is the result of a staff
reduction of about 1129 persons between 1988 and 1989. Many people retired from the
institution and others decided to leave once NAFIN allowed them to keep their benefits
regarding housing and car loans. As a percentage of overhead costs, salaries and fringe
benefits have increased from 582 in 1988 to 802 in 1990, as a result of salary adjustments.
NAFIN's salaries are now competitive with those of the commercial banking system. NAPIN's
present overhead costs are not out of line with those of other Mexican development banks;
moreover, its overhead costs should decrease significantly over time due to NAFIN's shift to
second-tier operations, which are less labor intensive than first-tier operations.
Creditworthiness
13. The above analysis of NAFIN, focussing on the institution's financial position, quality
of portfolio and profitability, indicates that during the last two years NAEIN's
creditworthiness has improved as a result of: a) better portfolio quality, b) higher
profitability and financial margins, c) a strengthened capital base, and d) phasing out both
first-tier lending and off-balance sheet activities, and focusing on second-tier operations.
It confirms that NAFIN is a financially sound and creditworthy institution.



ANNEX 4
- 46-                              Page 1 of 7
Finanigal Analysis of CFM and FFI
A. Miining Develogment Commission (CFM)
1.  Financial structure and 08sition: CFM's total resources in Mexican pesos
were reported to be equal to about US$300 million as of December 319 1990.
These resources originated mainly from CFM'. paid-in capital and more recently
from the reflowe of the Bank's PECAM loans. CFM currently has a 98X capital
to total asset ratio and operates free of debt service charges.  CFM'e capital
structure has been diminished by almost MP$145,000 million in the past two
years because it is classified as an industrial operation, rather than a
financial or holding company, and must therefore take substantial write-offs
for all monetary assets that are not offset oy debt (the accounting
adjustments are actually made by devaluing fixed assets).
2.   CFM has dramatically changed the structure of its assets in the recent
past. About 43% of CFM'e total assets (US$130 million equivalent) are
currently liquid and int3rest earning, up from 102 in 1988. Of these, about
60% are on deposit or in short-term paper, while the balance is on loan to FFM
for reinvestment in its second-tier operations. CIM's term loan portfolio and
overdue collectables amounted to 172 of total assets at the end of 1990,
compared with 46% in 1988, aS a result of a major provision for bad debts (see
para 5). Finally, fixed assets presently account for about 25S of total
assets, down from almost 40Z, two years ago, i.e. prior to their downward
accounting adjustment.
3.   CFM's balance sheet is currently stronger and more realistically
established than it has been in the past for the following reasons: a) CRM
made a major loan-loss provision and wrote-off more than MPP$70,000 million in
overdue and uncollectable loans that it had been carrying on its booksa b) its
new term lending operations in 1990 were limited to about 202 of term loan
reflows, thus reducing risk while building a strong cash basel and, c) it
wrote off about US$40 million (equivalent) of plant and equipment, mostly
inflation gains. In short, CFM has cleaned out a substantial portion of its
balance sheet and is now poised to take on the costs of decentralization and
reduction of staff.
4.   Overatina results:  CFM has suffered losses from its operations in four
of the past five years. These losses have been more than compensated for by
budgetary allocations in support of CFM's social lending programs, equal to
about US$13 million (equivalent) in 1990. Thus, CFM has been able to report
net profits in each of the past five years (Table 2). CFM's operating losses
result mainly from the losses sustained by its beneficiation plants. In 1990,
despite sharp increases in the plants' tolling fees to approximate market
rates, CFM suffered a loss of about US$7.5 million from plant operations
(inclusive of the metal buying and selling activities and overhead associated
with it). These operations, established to promote artisan and small mining
operations in remote provinces, are currently under study to establish a
program to rationalize, close or sell plants.
5.   CFM has consistently earned profits on lending operations and cash
investments, as they bear no interest expenses. Its high interest income of
about US$30 million in 1990 (332 return on average invested liquid asset. plus
loan portfolio) was adequate to offset a major loan-loss provision of US$25



ANNEX 4
- 47 -                           TPage 2 of 7
million, that was taken to write ofr bad loans and interest accrual that past
CFM administrations had continued to carry on corporate books. Considering
the size and delayed timing of the provision taken, it is clear that CFM's
prior years' earnings were overstated. Based upon its new policy on income
accruals and provisions for bad debt, it is expected that CFH's profit and
loss statements will fully reflect operating results. C1M's future profits
will depend upon the pace at which: (a) the current cost reduction program
reduces operating expenses below the US$20 million level reached in 1990; (b)
interest income can be increased by improving the overall quality of portfolio
operations through: (i) continued shifting of its portfolio reflow. to FIM for
investment in second-tier lending operations and (ii) tightening the criteria
for lending under its reduced direct lending programs, through the creation of
a credit officer system; and (c) the scope of plant operations is reduced and
the efficiency of surviving plant operations is improved.
6.   Cash flow from oDerations: CFM's cash flow results for 1990, as shown
below, present a view of the outcome of its operations that is unaffected by
accounting conventions and adjustments. CFH had a total inflow of funds of
aboLt US$185 million (equivalent). It received about US$23.5 million in cash
from its operations and spent US$26.3 million in cash to fund these
operations, the difference was funded by a cash contribution from the
government.  As a result of more vigorous enforcement of debt collection
policy, CFM recuperated about US$136 million in outstanding debt, about 302
more than was recuperated in the prior year. CFM'. lending operations were
sharply reduced in 1990, reflecting its management's determination to raise
the quality of its lending and the depressed state of silver prices. Thus,
only about one-half of 1990's reflows were reloaned, with 712 of those funds
being channeled through FFM for second tier operations.
7.   Loan portfolio:  In 1989 CPM's new management adopted appropriate
policies on income recognition and reexamined and reclassified its loan
portfolio, including the 292 loans advanced under PECAM I and II. More than
552 of the loans reviewed were found to be non-performing, most of these were
overdue for more than one year and were considered not recoverable. About 35
large loans, accounting for more than half of arrears, were reviewed and found
to be subjects for restructuring. Management responded to these findings by
instituting an aggressive collection program, taking some write-offs and
setting plans to launch a restructuring effort. By the end of 1990, with
silver prices at a highly depressed US$4 per oz., it was clear that rescue
efforts could not solve the problems of most non-performing loans and despite
some earlier success, collections of bad debt slowed in the face of an
industry wide crisis.
8. As of December 31, 1990 CFM's portfolio of loans and interest due
amounted to MP$238,000 million (excluding FPM's dues to CFM), of which almost
MP$100,000 million (42Z) were overdue for more than six months. In line with
discussions held with the Bank, CFM's Board of Directors approved an
extraordinary loan-loss provision of almost NP$71,000 million in April 1991,
which raised CPM's total provisions for bad debt to 862 of debt more than six
months in arrears and covered about 702 of the total amounts affected. This
provision is satisfactory in the context of CYM's total debt recovery program.
CFM clearly has the capital strength needed to take the further provision that
could be necessary, if the silver mining industry continues to suffer from
highly depressed prices.



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
- 48 -
9. Measures to strenQAhen portfollo: To overcome the difficulties
experienced with direct term lending operations, CEM sharply red" ad direct
term operations in 1990 and directed almost all PECAM reflowe th.rough FNf. In
1991 and beyond its main portfolio strengthening tasks will be to help
commercial banks to finance eound mineral projects, while continuing to reduce
its own direct lending operations. This will require that CFIf
(a) improve its capability to prepare technically sound projectst (b) develop
policy and technical guidelines to ensure that the projects advanced for
financing are fully bankable; and (c) develop credit officers, skilled in
credit and financial analysis to prepare and supervise projects from a bankers
perspective. CFM's capability to take ouch measures would be reinforced under
the proposed project's technical assistance program.
B. trust Fund for M4inina DeveloDment (FFM)
10. Financial Structure and Condition: FFM's total resources were almost
US$117 million at the end of 1990, compared with its small resource base of
US$11.9 million in 1985. Despite its ten-fold growth, FFM remains very
conservatively structured, with a capital to total asset ratio of 531. All of
its borrowings are from CFM, that onlends reflow. from PECAM I and II to FFM
for rechanneling through commercial banks to the mining sector.
11. FFM's second tier lending operation is very profitable, given the
unusually high financial margins that it receives, 9.51 on average assets
(low-risk bearing second tier institutions often work with a spread of 2.52 or
less). However, FFM's administrative plus payroll expenses are also
exceptionally high for a service-based financial institution. Its operating
costs of 5.72 on average assets are twice those of a commercial bank and at
least 352 higher than the expense ratios that prevail in full line development
finance companies. FFM has ample scope to reduce costs, margins and spreads.
In 1990 it earned 222 on average assets (successful commecial banks operate on
1.52 on assets) and made a net profit of MP$66,529 million, which is equal to
372 on capital.
12. Portfolio Conditior,: As of December 31, 1990 FFM's total loan portfolio
was equal tc US$105 million, of which 852 were rediscounts of commercial bank
loans to the non-metallic mining sector. All 23 participating banks are
servicing their debt to FFM on time. Banks reported no subloan failures to
FFM. During the first half decade of operations, FFM's predecessor made 40
direct social sector loans to cooperatives ("ejidos"). These account for
about 12.52 of total portfolio and have presented continuous problems of
arrearages and collection. FFM has undertaken a more aggressive program of
collection aimed at reducing this problem and has written-off the
uncollectables, so that its portfolio is currently in excellent shape. Its
mandate to lend directly to the social sector continues, though FFM plans to
reduce such lending to 102 of the portfolio.



- 49-                                        ANNEX 4
iage 4 of 7
Table 1. CFM BALANCE SHEET, 1986 - 1990
..****      (Millions of Mexican Pesos)
1986     1987     1988    1989    1990
......................................................................................................
1.   Assets
1.   Cash and Equivalent                             7,585   13,686    9,215   63,185  215,352
2.   Documents and Loans Due                        19,578   55,456   92,264  179,892   23,045
3.   Due from Subsidiaries                           7,432   18,905   36,836   14,334  153,525
4.   Inventories                                    16,344   24,854   21,716   21,299   24,408
A.  Current Assets (1+2+3+4)                   50,939  112,901  160,031  278,710  416,330
........................                   .............................  ............ .......  ........... ....... ...... ...............
5.   Long Term Loans                                11,012   31,831  105,423  19 928  128,677
6.   Advances to Subsidiarles                        3,024       760   13,643   12,428    4,763
7.   Equity Investments (Subsid.)                   19,414   46,800   42,064   51,764   82,831
8.   Plant & Equipment                              81,560  129,594  187,704  193,124  239,111
9.   Other Assets                                    5,023    9,604    3,619       261    1,911
S.  Total Assets (A+5+6+7+8+9)                170,972  331,490  512,484  656,215  873,614
..........................               ................................     . .......    ........... .......  ...................... ... ..........
II.   Liabilities & Capital
.....................
10.  Due to Vendors                                  3,574    7,816    3,995    1,763   17,357
11.  Other Short Term Dues                           4,352   18,405    6,769   15,544    3.613
C.  Current Liabilities (10+11)                 7,926   26,221   10,764   17,307   20,970
....................          .       . .............................. .......... ......   ......... ...... .............. ...
12.  Other Liabilities                                  40       103      109      120       20
D.  Total Liabilities (C+12)                    7,966   26,324   10,873   17,427   20,990
........................                    .............................. .......... ......   ......... ...... .............. ...
13.  Paid-In Capital                               139,342  228,778  343,105  468,063  559,024
14.  Pecam Grant                                    18,862   42,973  147,370  214,432  395,299
15.  Accumulated Surplus (Losses) 2/                 4,802   33,415   11,136   43,707 (101,699)
E.  Total Capital & Reserves (13+14+1;,       163,006  305,166  501,611  638,788  852,624
III.  Total Liabilities and Capital (D+E)                   170,972  331,490  612,484  656,215  873,614
..............................................................................................
1/ Non-ConsoLideted equity holdings in non-banking subsidiaries are
carried at net worth.
2/ Includes adjustments for monetary posItlon In 1989 and 1990, in Line with
new accounting regulations.



- 50 -                                      ANNEX] 4
Table 2.  CFM INCOME STATEMENT, 1986 - 1990                Page 5 of 7
.----..   (Nil lions of Mexican Pesos)
............ ........................ n........................................ ........... ....................... .. .......................... 
1986        1987     1988        1989        1990
1.  Sale of Minerals                                     78,716      55,545      40,764      18,405      13,850
2.   Other Income from Operations 1/                     11,265      Y.460       32,441      14,815      18,182
A.  Gross Income Plant Operations (1.2)             89,981      94,505      73,211      33,220      32,032
3.   Cost of Mineral Sales                             (101,608)    (51,219)   C 71,723)  ( 16,770)    C 18,659)
4.   Other Costs of Operations 1/                      C 28,291)    (39,429)   ( 29,290)  ( 28,399)    C 28,994)
B. Tottl Expenses Plant Operation (3+4)           (129,899)    (90,648)   (101,013)  ( 45,169)    ( 47,643)
I.    Net Income (Loss) Plant Operations (A-B)                C 39,918)    ( 3,857)   ( 27,802)  ( 11,949)    ( 15,611)
5.   Interest Income 2/                                  23,479      17,396      32,897      43,698      86,441
6.   Dividend Income                                     17,968      21,832      25,304      19,508      13,680
C.  Gross Income Loans & Equities (5+6)             40,447      39,228      58,201      63,206     100,121
7.  Provisions for Losses or Valuation Gains 3/          11,342      22,285         270    C 20,022)   C 70,685)
II.   Net Income (Loss) Financial Operations (C+7)              51.789      61,513      58,471      43,184      29,436
111.   Income from Plant and Financial Operations (l+1l)        11,87'      65,370      30,669      31,235      13,825
8.  Costs of Admfnistration  & Other                   C 32,475)    (27,752)   ( 47,494)   C 34,157)   C 60,021)
9.  Misc. Incowe (Costs)                                  2,910     C 3,983)   ( 6,435)          (0)     22,334
IV.    Profit (Loss) from Total Operati,ns (111-8+9)          ( 17,694)     33,635    ( 23,260)   ( 2,922)   C 23,862)
..............................................           ......      .....       ......      ......      ......
10.  Grants & Allocations                                45,151      43,671      40,057      27,413      40,971
V.     Net Gain (Loss), (IV+10)                                 28,457      76,405      16,790      24,491      17,109
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...... ..............  ......  ......     ..... .     .......      ......
11.  Less Monetary Adjustment 4/                                                           ( 68,198)   (118,788)
VI.   Net Results (V-11)                                                                          ( 43,707)   (101,699)
1/ Income (Expenses) from operations of beneficiatlon plants, mines, mills snd laboratories.
2/ Interest Income for 1989 and 1990 reftlects new accounting policy under which interest accruals are suspended
for non-performing loans (overdue 180 days).
3/  IncluPes other costs for 1989.
4/ Initiated in 1989.



- 51 ~~~~~~ANNBX 4
- 51-                                         -WX'
Page 6 of 7
Table 3.  fFM BALANCE SHEET, 1986 - 1990
- ------   ((Mllions of Mexican Pesos)
1986     1987     1988      1989      1990
I.    Assets
1.  Cash in Banks e Equivalent                       864   10,064   16,471   86,424   35,085
2.  Loans & Interest Due                           4,056    7,249   24,953   52,704   56,477
3.  Due fron Subsidiaries                            234        95     -
4.  Other Accounts Due                             1,157       404    3,807    4,043       330
5.  Paid in Advance                                    8        44       63       14        54
A.  Current Assets (1+2+3+4+5)                 6,300   17,856   45,299  143,185   89.952
6.  Long Term Loans                                4,786   22,252   96,470  115,473  248,352
7.  Equity Ihvestment                              2.230    1,228   26,856      -
8.  Machinery & Equipment                             59       477      408      673       674
9.  Deferred Charges                                  S8        95      102         1        1
B.  Total Assets (C+6+7+8+9)                 12,718   67,524  142,279  259,333  338,981
II. Liabilities & Capital
10.  Due to CFM                                    1,010    1,686    3,877   38,366   40,060
11.  Other PayabLes                                  318      819    2,131       414    7,090
C.  Current Liabilities (10+11)               1,328    2,505    6,008   38,780   47.151
12.  CFN, .ong term loans                          5,509   20,768   87,374  107,539  112,287
0.  Total Liabilities (C+12)                  6,837   23,273   93,382  146,319  159,438
13.  Paid In Capftal                               2,911    3,644    3,644    4,944    4,944
14.  Anmuol Allocations                              491    3,408   13,923   45,066  107,874
15.  Reserves to be Applied                          429   27,101       196      196      195
16. Retained Earnings                              2,500   10,097   31,134   62,818   66,529
E.  Total Capital & Reserves (13+14+15+16)   6,330   44,252   48,897  113,015  179,542
111.       Total Liabilities and Capital (D+E)          12,718   67,524  142,279  259,333  338,981



Table 4. FFN INCOME STATEMENT, 1986-1990
--- -----        (Niltiots of Meican Pesos)
1986              1987               1988               1989          1990
1.   Interest & Comission  income                            4,465             11,656            37,765             60,250             80,747
2.   Interest Expense                                           628             2,226              8,174             15,940            52,437
A.  Finnmcial Margin (1-2)                             3,837             9,430             29,591             44,310            28.310
3.   Costs of Administration & Other                            767             2,098              4,167              4,173            16,884
I.       Met Income from Lending Activity tA-3)                        3,070             7,333             25,424            40,137             11,426
...............................................................  . ......  .    ...........       ------            ......             ------
4.   Income from Short Tenm  Investments                        208             3,501              7,965            23,583             57,619
5.   Other income                                                 19               195                178                195               293
it.      Financial  Income (1+4+5)                                     3,297            11,029             33,567            63,915             69,338
... ............. .............................               -----            ------.           . ......            ------... ......
6.  Provision for Debt                                             0               621             1,984                955             2,631
7.  Depreciation & Amort. & Other                               798                309               447                143                177
111.    Net Profit for the Period (11-6-7)                             2,500            10,097             31,135            62,818             66,529
.......... ................... .....                          .....            .... ..            ......            ......             .. .....
..... ................................................................................................................................... ........................................



ANNEX 5
- 53 -
Rev Indicators for Prolect Implementation
CFM would prepare the following information:
1. Socio-economic aspects (annually):
a) Incremental jobs and cost per job generated;
b) Incremental output;
c) Direct and indirect exports generated;
d) Subproject location;
e) Type of subproject, expansion or new;
f) Investment in mining, private and public, domestic and foreign.
2. Lending asDects (annually):
a) Number of subprojects financed, total investment, financing breakdown
by source;
b) Number of subprojects financed and total investment, classified by
investment item (fixed assets, permanent working capital, etc.),
by participating financial intermediary, by size of subloan and by type
of mineral;
c) Same information as in a) and b) for subprojects under consideration
for a possible subloan.
3. Operating aspects (annually):
a) Progress report on the implementation of CFM's and CRM's business
plans;
b) Progress report on the execution of the technical assistance program
for DGN, CFM and CRM;
c) Number of hectares released from National Mining Reserves;
d) Number of concessions granted, by type and size.



ANNEX 6
- 54 -
MEXICO
MINING SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements
(Millions of U.S. Dollars)
IBRD Fiscal Year                     Quarterly
and Quarter (Ending Date)          Disbursements              Cumulative
1992
September 30, 1991                   27.5 1/                  27.5
December  31, 1991                   10.0                     37.5
March     31, 1992                    7.5                     45.0
June      30, 1992                    5.0                     50.0
99_3
September 30, 1992                    7.5                     57.5
December  31, 1992                   10.0                     67.5
March     31, 1993                   11.0                     78.5
June      30, 1993                   11.5                     90.0
1994
September 30, 1992                   13.0                    103.0
December  31, 1993                   11.0                    114.0
March     31, 1994                   11.0                    125.0
June      30, 1994                   10.0                    135.0
1995
September 30, 1994                   11.0                    146.0
December  31, 1994                   12.0                    158.0
March     31, 1995                   12.0                    170.0
June      30, 1995                   10.0                    180.0
1996
September 30, 1995                    8.0                    188.0
December  31, 1995                    5.0                    193.0
March     31, 1996                    4.0                    197.0
June      30, 1996                    3.0                    200.0
A/ Special Account



ANNEX 7
- 55 -
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Proiect File
A. tinins
1. Reglamento de la Ley Reglamentaria del Articulo 27 Conotitucional en
Materia Minera 1990. New implementing regulations of the Mining Law.
2. Programa Nacional de Modernizacion de la Mineria, 1990-1994. The
National Mining Program for 1990-1994.
3. SEMIP-SEDUE Agreement to Establish Environmental Norms for Mining.
B. Institutions
1. CFM-Policy Statement and Five-Year Financial Plan.
2. CRM-Five-Year Business Plan.
3. CFM-Program to Increase Commercial Bank Lending for Mining Projects.
4. CFM-Program to Handle its Problem Portfolio.
5. CFM/FFM-Credit Regulations.
6. FFM-CFM Management Agreement.
7. NAFIN-Financial Statements, 1986-1990.



Table 1. PINING SECTOR SHARE IN OUTPUT, EXPORTS AND EMPLOYMENT, 1970 - 1990
1970      1975       1980      1985      1986       1987       1988       1989        1990
1.   Ouput
(Billions of 1980 pesos)
1)  ining GDP                  40.2       48.0      62.2      75.4       74.9      78.4       76.1       75.5 p/      71.7 ef
2) Total 0P                 2,340.6   3,171.4   4,470.1  4,919.9   4,738.6   4,819.5   4,888.9   5,040.9 p/  5,237.5 e/
3) Nfnfno Share (X)             1.7        1.5        1.4      1.5        1.6        1.6       1.6          1.5        1.4
II.  Expowts
(MiioLs of U.S. Dolltrs)
1) Mining                     198.7      462.9   1,296.5    905.6       967.9   1,172.5   1,410.2       1,555.9   1,526.0           0'
2) Total                    1,289.6   3,062.4  15,511.9 21,663.8  16,031.0  20,656.0  20,565.1    22,764.9  26,M.1
3) Nining Share                15.4       15.1       8.4       4.2        6.0        5.7       6.9          6.8        5.7
4) Mon-oIl                     N.A.       N.A.   5,070.5  6,897.1   9,723.8  12,026.4  13,853.9    14,888.9  16,669.4
5) Nining Share (2)               -          -      25.6      13.1       10.0       9.7       10.2         10.5        9.2
I I I. Eeptoy ent
(Thoinands)
1) Mining                     110.2      138.9     182.5    213.4       212.0     217.7      224.3      252.6 p/    284.4 e/
2) Total                   13,873.0  16,510.0  20,282.0 21,956.0  21,640.0  21,842.0  21,892.0  23,621.5 p/ 25,487.6 e/
3) Nining Share (X)             0.8        0.8       0.9       1.0        1.0        1.0       1.0          1.1        1.1
........._._..------------.---.----.----..'.'.''.''.''''''.''''.'''''''.'.'....... ............ ........... ............ ...........
p/ Prelinwry.
@  Esttimted.                                                                                                                                   Ii'OR
0



Table 2. MINING-METALLURGICAL OUTPUT, 1970-1990
-------        (Thousands of Metric Tons)
1970      1975      1980     1985    1986    1987    1988        1989      1990
............. .......................... .................... .............................................. . ...........................  .
1.   Precious Metals (a)
1) Gotd (Thous. of Kg.)                 6.2        4.5      6.1      7.5      7.8      8.0      9.1        8.6      8.3
2) Silver (Thous. of Kg.)           1,332.4    1,182.8  1,472.6  2,153.0  2,303.1  2,415.0  2,358.9   2,306.1  2,346.3
11.  Non-Ferrous Industrial Metals (a)
.............     ....    ....
3) Lead                               176.4      178.6   145.1   206.7   182.7   177.2   171.3           163.0   179.9
4) Copper                              61.0       78.2   175.4   168.0   174.6   230.6   268.4           249.3   298.7
5) Zinc                               266.4      228.9   238.2   275.4   271.4   271.5   262.2           284.1   322.5
6) Antimony                             4.5        3.1      2.2      4.3      3.3      2.8      2.2        1.9      2.6
7) Arsenic                              6.9        4.6      5.3      4.8      5.3      5.3      5.2        5.6      4.8
8) Bismith                              0.6        0.4      0.8      0.9      0.7      1.0      1.0        0.9      0.7
9) Tin                                  0.5        0.4      0.1      0.4      0.6      0.4      0.3        0.2      0.0
10) Cadsium                              2.0        1.6      1.8      1.1      1.2      1.2      1.7        1.4      1.4
11) Setenium                             0.1        0.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0
12) Tungsten                             0.3        0.3      0.3      0.3      0.3      0.2      0.2        0.2      0.2
13) Nolibdenu                            0.1        0.0      0.1      3.8      3.4      4.4      4.5        4.2      2.0
III.  Foundry Netals and Ninerats
------    .- -----------------
14) Coal       (b)                     188.1      176.8   408.5  2,440.4  3,677.6 4,251.7 4,210.8   4,243.8  4,219.8
15)  Coke      (b)                   1,299.6    2,088.0  2,409.2  2,390.0  2,050.0 2,340.3  2,332.2   2,260.5  2,337.2
16)  Iron      (a)                   2,612.4   3,369.3  5,586.7  5,161.1  4,817.4 4,965.1  5,564.5    5,373.1  5,327.9
17) Manganese (a)                       98.6      154.2   161.0   150.6   174.4   146.4   168.6           149.9   138.9
IV.  Mon-Metallic Minerals (b)
. ... ... ... . . . . . .
18) Sulfur                           1,380.8    2,164.3  2,102.3  2,019.8  2,050.7  2,303.8  2,138.2    2,086.3  2,047.8
19) Graphite                            55.6       60.8    44.5    35.4    37.8    37.9    43.8            40.2    24.9
20)  Barite                            319.1      300.0    269.3   467.7   321.2   401.3    535.0         324.7   305.0
21) Dolomite                           474.5      348.7   378.3   318.1   376.2   361.7   340.7           469.6   482.2
22) Fluorite                           978.5    1,088.8   916.5   697.4   756.8   723.6   756.1           779.4   633.8
23) Kaolin                              78.5      120.4    29.5      33.0    10.1      12.8    11.6        15.7      5.4
24) Silica                             355.9      519.0   728.3   976.2   893.6  1,083.1  1,081.3    1,216.4  1,298.3
25) Gypsum                           1,290 .9   1,255.9  1,708.9  2,366.0 2,625.2 2,457.8  2,649.3    2,898.6  2,814.4
26) Phosphorite                         46.7      282.5    283.2   645.3   660.4   633.2   666.8          625.4   557.1
27) Salt                                N.A.       N.A.    M.A.  5,450.9  5,926.8 6,393.2 6,965.2   6,942.2  7,135.1
28)  Woltastonite                       N.A.       N.A.    N.A.       2.3      0.2    N.A.       0.3        0.6      0.5
29)  Celestite                          N.A.       N.A.    N.A.    30.5    24.3    32.4    38.8            37.8    51.3
~~... . . ..  . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .................. ..... ... .. ..... . . . . . . .. ...             OQ1 
(a) Metallic content.                                                                                                                              N
(b)  Gross weIght.                                                                                                                                 0co



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 20
- 58 -
TabLe 3. MEXICO IN WORLD MINERAL PRODUCTION, 1989
...................................................................
Domestic     World     Share
........     -----  . ................. .....
Mineral            Unit       Production  Productlon   (X)   Rank
..........................  ....  ---- ----  ..........      ............. ..................
.................................. ............ ........................... ..................... ..................
Silver              metric tons          2,306      14,452   16.0    1
Bismuth             metric tons          1,050       2,762  38.0    1
Sodium SuLfate      th. short tons         500       2,432   20.6    1
Strontiun           metric tons         91.000     244,300   37.3    1
Barite              th. metric tons        566       5,700   9.9    2
Fluorspar           th. metric tons        861       5,731   15.0    2
Graphite            th. metric tons         47         631    7.5    3
Antimony            metric tons          2,500      68,362    3.7    3
Soda Ash            th. short tons         198      34,910    0.6    3
Arsenic             metric tons          5.100      52,000    9.8    4
Mercury             metric tons            300       5,840   5.1    4
Cadmciun            metric tons          1,200      21,002    5.7   5
Molybdenun          th. kiLograms        4,490     115,404    3.9    5
Nitrogen            th. short tons       2,310     109,340    2.1    5
Lime                th. short tons       6,610     149,184    4.4    6
Lead                th. metric tons        163       3,400    4.8    7
Zinc                th. metric tons        284       7,140   4.0    7
Sulfur              th. metric tons      2,367      58,348   4.1    7
Manganese           th. short tons         473      26,500    1.8   8
Salt                th. short tons       8,435     209,988   4.0.   8
Diatomite           th. metric tons         35       1,838    1.9   9
Selenium            metric tons             20       1,553    1.3  10
Gypsum              th. short tons       5,305     108,624    4.9   10
....................................................................
Source: Mineral Comnmodity Summaries 1991



Table 4. VALUE OF NINING-NETALLURGICAL OUTPUT. 1970-1990
..     .   -     - - Nlittions  of U.S. Dollers)
................................... ................................................................................ ............... ....................... ............... ............  .....................
1970          1975          1960          1985         1966          1967          1968          1969          1990
................................. ........................................................................... .................................. .........................................  ... ........... .......... 
I.     Pvecous Metals (a)                                         83.1         191.5      1,101.1          505.2         501.4         666.5        617.9         512.?         463.5
..------                                                              --- . ---                   ..... . ...... . .......                  ---            ---.          i
1)  Gold                                                7.1         23.4         122.9          80.3          95.8         117.8         127.0         105.2         102.3
2)  Silver                                             76.0         168.1        978.2         424.9         405.6         548.7         490.9         407.5         361.2
11.    krn-Fe'rous Industrial Metals (a)                         311.4         409.7         733.8         568.5         515.3         710.9      1,138.6       1,391.5       1,484.5
...  ...  .  .   ...... ...........                      ..  ..--.--                      -.          . .....---                            - -  -         --  -        - -  -
3)  Lead                                              61.8           79.4        140.5           74.7          70.2        111.1         127.6         128.1         164.0
4)  Copper                                             88.4          92.8        377.0         221.9         213.0         331.3         637.9         704.1         764.5
5)  Zinc                                              93.3         196.7         184.4         215.1         185.4         217.7         297.5         491.0         518.5
6)  Antiony                                            25.4          11.0           6.5          10.8           8.4           6.8           5.5           4.3           5.1
7)  Arsenic                                             1.0           2.1           3.8           4.2           4.3           4.5          4.6            4.4          3.7
8)  Bismuth                                             7.5           6.8           4.1           9.6           4.5           6.0         10.4          11.0            5.8
9)  Tin                                                 2.1           3.0           1.1           4.8           4.6           3.1          2.5            1.9         N.S.
10)  Cadiu                                              16.2          10.8          10.1           2.2           2.3           3.5         22.4          20.0          11.3
11)  hercury                                            11.4           2.6           0.0           2.2           2.2           2.6           3.4         N.A.          N.A.
12)  Selenius                                            2.2           1.8           0.9           0.6           0.2           0.3           0.3           0.3           0.2
13)  Tungsten                                            1.5           2.6           3.8           1.8           1.3           0.9           1.2           0.9           0.8
14)  Nolibdeni                                           0.6           0.1           1.6          20.6          18.9          23.1         25.3          25.5          10.6
111.  Fouridry Metals and Ninerals                               100.0         228.5         237.9         149.1         112.0          86.4        175.2         190.2         210.9
15)  Cosl          (b)                                   1.6           2.2           2.9           1.5           1.0           0.5         27.8          25.9          22.5
16)  Coke          (b)                                  32.0          94.4          59.2           5.3           1.9           1.0         54.3          48.6          44.0
17)  Iron          (a)                                  53.3         111.4        150.8         123.7          88.5          68.0          69.4          88.?          99.6
18)    _anganese (a)                                    13.1          20.5          25.0          18.6          20.6          16.9         23.7          27.0          44.8
IV.   Non-Metallic Ninrrals (b)                                  100.2         196.5         264.1        372.0         380.3         412.1         436.5         403.0         353.6
19)  Sulphur                                            47.2          99.9        149.7         246.1         243.3         257.7         249.2         218.7         193.6
20)  Graphite                                            2.8           3.0           3.3           3.3           3.6           3.8           4.6           4.2           2.7
21)  Barite                                              5.7           7.6          11.8          19.7          11.0          13.4          18.9          11.4         10.8
22)  DolomIte                                            2.2           1.7           1.0           0.1          h.S.           0.1           0.7           1.0           0.9
23)  Fluorite                                           32.7          71.0          83.5         55.5           56.3          56.6         63.7          65.7          53.2
24)  Kaolin                                              0.5           0.8           0.1          N.S.          N.S.         U.S.          U.S.          U.S.          N.S.
25)  Silica                                              4.2           6.2           4.7           0.6           0.2           0.4           2.4           2.5           2.3
26)  6s                                                  4.6           4.5           3.7           0.5           0.2           0.5           3.5           3.5           3.0
27)  Phosphorite                                         0.3           1.8           6.3           1.3           0.6           0.4           1.5           1.3           1.0
28)  Salt                                               N.A.          N.A.          N.A.         64.9          65.1           79.2         91.9          94.6          86.0
29)  Woltlastonite                                      N.A.          N.A.          N.A.           0.0          N.S.           0.0         u.S.          M.S.          M.S.
30)  Celestite                                          N.A.          N.A.          N.A.          1.S.           0.0         U.S.            0.1           0.1           0.1
V.     Total (I+11+11+IV)                                       594.7      1,026.2       2,336.9       1,594.6       1,509.2       1.875.8       2,368.2       2,497.5       2,512.S
., ....... .................. ....... ........  ......   .......   ........  .........  ........ ..........  ......... .......... _.......... 
---- -------------------.-9............................................................................... ......................... ........................................, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
(a)  Metallic content.                                                                                                                                                                               
(b) Gross weight.



Table 4A. STRUCTURE OF THE VALUE OF MINING-METALLURGICAL OUTPUT, 1970-1990 (X)
1970     1975     1980     1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     1990
1.    Precious Wetals                              14.0     18.7    47.2      31.6    33.3    35.6    26.1        20.5      18.5
-- - - - -   --                              --     - -       -  -     - - ....          .. .     . .       - -     . .
1) Gold                                   1.2       2.3      5.3      5.0      6.4      6.3      5.4      4.2       4.1
2)  Silver                                12.8    16.4    41.9       26.6    26.9    29.3       20.7      16.3     14.4
11.   Non-Ferrous Industrial MetaLs               52.6    40.1       31.5     35.6    34.4      37.9    48.0      55.7    58.9
.......--     - -- -- - -- -                 ....  . ... ---   ---      ---      -- -     - -   .   -  -     - -      .. ..
3)  Lead                                  10.4      7.7      6.0      4.7      4.7      5.9      5.4      5.1       6.5
4)  Copper                                14.9      9.0     16.1     13.9    14.1      17.7    26.9       28.2    30.4
5)  zinc                                  15.7     19.2      7.9     13.5     12.3    11.6    12.6        19.7    20.6
6) Antimony                               4.3       1.1      0.3      0.7      0.6      0.4      0.2      0.2       0.2
7) Arsenic                                0.2       0.2      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.2      0.2      0.2       0.1
8)  Bismuth                                1.3      0.7      0.2      0.6      0.3      0.3      0.4      G.4       0.2
9)  Tin                                   0.4       0.3      0.1      0.3      0.3      0.2      0.1      0.1       0.0
10)  Cadmium                               2.7       1.1      0.4      0.1      0.2      0.2      0.9      0.8      0.5
11)  Mercury                               1.9      0.3       0.0      0.1      0.2      0.1      0.1     N.A.     N.A.
12)  Selenium                              0.4      0.2       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
13)  Tungsten                              0.3      0.3       0.2      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0
14)  Molibdenum                            0.1      0.0       0.1      1.3      1.3      1.2      1.1      1.0      0.4
111.  Foundry Metals and Minerals                 16.9    22.3       10.2      9.4      7.5      4.6      7.4      7.7      8.5
15)  Coat                                  0.3      0.2       0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0      1.2      1.0      0.9            0
16)  Coke                                  5.4      9.2       2.5      0.3      0.1      0.1      2.3      2.0      1.8            1
17)  iron                                  9.0      10.9     6.5       7.8      5.9      3.6      2.9      3.6      4.0
18)  anganese                              2.2      2.0       1.1      1.2      1.4      0.9      1.0      1.1      1.8
IV.   Non-Metallic Minerals                       17.0    19.1       11.3    23.2    25.0       21.!     18.5     16.2     13.9
19)  Sulphur                               7.9      9.7      6.4      15.4    16.1      13.7     10.5      8.8      7.7
20)  Graphite                              0.5      0.3       0.1      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.1
21)  Barite                                1.0      0.7       0.5      1.2      0.7      0.7      0.8      0.5      0.4
22)  Oolomite                              0.4      0.2       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
23)  Fluorite                              5.5      6.9       3.6      3.5      3.7      3.0      2.7      2.6      2.1
24)  KaoLin                                0.1      0.1       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
25)  Silica                                0.7      0.6       0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.1
26) Gypsum                                 0.8      0.4       0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.2      0.1      0.1
27) Phosphorite                            0.1      0.2      0.3       0.1      0.0      0.0      0.1      0.1      0.0
28) Salt                                  N.A.    N.A.       N.A.      2.8      4.3      4.2      3.9      3.8      3.4
29)  dolLastonfte                         N.A.     N.A.      N.A.      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
30) Celestite                             N.A.     N.A.      L.A.      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
V.   Total t IIIIIIIV)                           100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0
......................                   .....    .....   .....    .....    .....    .....    - - .....    ......
... ... ... ... ... ... .. ... ... ... ... ... ... .. ... ... ... ... ... .. ... ... ... ... ... ... .. ... ... ... ... ... ..
----  -                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 



Table 5. MINING - METALLURGICAL EXPORTS, 1970-1990
~~-----          (Millions of U.S. Dollars)
1970     1975     1980     1985    1986      1987    1988    1989    1990
1.   Precious Metals                           31.2   128.0   677.0   262.6   309.3   362.5   319.0   347.3   301.3
1)  Silver concentrates                                 N.A.      0.8      1.2      1.2      0.8      0.5      0.1
2)  Silver, bars                                        N.A.   261.8   308.1    361.4   318.2   346.8   301.1
11.  Non-Ferrous Industrial Metals             90.8   184.5   363.3   361.4   377.1   492.1    741.6   875.1    915.7
3)  Lead concentrates                                    7.7      7.5      9.6     16.8    15.1       7.7      7.3
4) Copper concentrates                                 155.7   148.3   162.0   161.4   200.4   147.9   180.0
5)  Zinc concentrates                                   60.9    38.5    26.1       23.6    36.2    79.1    85.5
6) Bismuth concentrates                                  0.8      1.2      0.5      1.6      2.5      0.0      0.0
7) Mercury metatlic                                      3.5      0.9      1.1      0.9      1.1      0.7      0.2
8)  Tungsten concentrates                                1.9      1.2      0.7      0.8      0.8      0.6      0.6
9) Other                                                16.4    30.4    27.1       51.9    53.7    34.8    34.2
10) Copper bars                                           0.5      3.8      9.0    44.8   144.8   209.1    169.3
11) Lead refined                                         55.5    35.1    38.0    45.5    58.9    56.1          91.7
12) Zinc refined                                         46.6    59.4    53.8    60.0    93.2   147.3   137.5
13) Bismuth refined                                       0.0      3.4      2.8      3.2      7.6      9.1      4.3
14) Cadmiun refined                                       3.0      1.0      1.0      2.6      9.9      6.2      1.6
15)  Other                                               10.8    30.7    45.5       79.1    117.4    176.6   203.5                        cb
[i1.  Foundry Metals and Minerals               0.6      9.0      5.3     10.4    12.1      11.8    13.1      151      8.9
16) Manganese concentrates                                5.3      9.7    10.4       9.8    10.7    12.9        8.4
17)  Coal mineral                                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
18)  Other                                                0.0      0.8      1.7      2.1      2.5      2.2      0.5
IV.  Non-Metallic Minerals                    59.1    125.0    250.9   271.1    269.4   306.0   336.4   318.4   300.0
---------------------  ----    ....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..... ....   .....    .....   .....   .....  ..
19)  Sulphur                                            107.5   113.0   134.9   159.2   184.4   146.5   146.6
20)  Fluorspar                                           68.6    42.8    32.6    35.1    43.6    54.6    37.3
21)  Salt                                                51.2    52.2    51.7    54.9    57.5    65.9    79.3
22)  Barium Sulfate                                       4.7      1.3      1.0      1.6      1.1      2.6      2.2
23)  Gypsum                                               9.1     34.0    37.0      35.2    35.9    37.0       20.0
24)  Other                                                9.8     27.7    12.2    20.1       13.9    1t.8    14.5
V.   Total (I1IIIII+IV)                      181.6   446.5  1,296.5   905.5   967.9  1,172.5  1,410.2  1,555.9  1,526.0
0D
- - - - -                                                                                            o X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Table 5A. STRUCTURE OF MINING - METALLURGICAL EXPORTS, 1970 - 1990 (X)
1970     1975    1980      1985     1986    1987    1988      1989     1990
1.   Precious Metals                   17.2    28.7    52.2    29.0    32.0    30.9    22.6    22.3    19.7
1) Silver concentrates                          N.A.      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0
2) Silver, bars                                 N.A.    28.9    31.8    30.8    22.6    22.3          19.7
11.  Non-Ferrous Industrial Metals   50.0    41.3    28.0    39.9    39.0    42.0    52.6    56.2    60.0
3) Lead concentrates                             0.6      0.8      1.0      1.4      1.1      0.5      0.5
4) Copper concentrates                          12.0    16.4    16.7    13.8    14.2          9.5     11.8
5) Zinc concentrates                             4.7      4.3      2.7      2.0      2.6      5.1      5.6
6) Bismuth concentrates                          0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2      0.0      0.0
7) Mercury metallic                              0.3      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0
8)  Tungsten concentrates                        0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.0      0.0
9) Other                                         1.3      3.4      2.8      4.4      3.8      2.2      2.2
10) Copper bars                                   0.0      0.4      0.9      3.8    10.3    13.4    11.1
11) Lead refined                                 4.3       3.9      3.9      3.9     4.2      3.6      6.0
12) Zinc refined                                  3.6      6.6      5.6      5.1     6.6       9.5      9.0                          1
13) Bismuth refined                               0.0      0.4      0.3      0.3      0.5     0.6       0.3
14) Cadmium refined                               0.2      0.1      0.1      0.2      0.7     0.4       0.1
15) Other                                         0.8      3.4      4.7      6.8     8.3      11.4    13.3
111.  Foundry Metals and Minerals       0.3      2.0      0.4      1.2      1.3      1.0     0.9       1.0     0.6
16) Manganese concentrates                        0.4      1.1      1.1      0.8     0.8      0.8       0.6
17) Coal mineral                                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0
18) Other                                         0.0      0.1      0.2      0.2     0.2       0.1     0.0
IV.  Non-Metallic Minerals            32.5    28.0    19.4    29.9    27.8    26.1    23.9    20.5    19.7
19) Sulphur                                      8.3    12.5    13.9    13.6    13.1          9.4      9.6
20) Fluorspar                                     5.3      4.7      3.4      3.0     3.1      3.5      2.4
21) Salt                                          3.9      5.8      5.3      4.7     4.1      4.2      5.2
22) Barium Sulfate                                0.4      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.2      0.1
23) Gypsum                                        0.7      3.8      3.8     3.0      2.6       2.4      1.3
24) Other                                         0.8     3.1       1.3      1.7      1.0     0.8       1.0
V.   Total (1+1II+I1+IV)              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
0



Toble 6.   INVESTMENT  IN  THE NINING-METALLURGICAL SECTOR, 1970-1990
-------                    Cil lionrs of U.S. Dollars)
4'.70       19          180         1985         1966        1987        1968        1969         1990
.............. .................................................. ..............................................................................
1.          Exploration                                   N.A.         N.A.        39.0        25.6         15;7        16.2        23.6        31.9         42.1
It.         New Projects                                  N.A.         N.A.       277.5        81.5         49.1        32.0        72.3        36.9       157.6
Ill.        Increase Capdcity and                          N.A.        N.A.       161.5
Improve Efficiency                                                                172.1        78.7         32.6        37.5        99.8       190.6
IV.         Other                                          N.A.        N.A.        64.0        64.9         63.1        19.6        40.5         17.0        25.4
V.          Total Investment (+II*III*IV)                 80.0       240.0       542.0       344.1        206.5       100.4       173.8       185.6       415.7                                   0'
............................. .  ....  ---                  .....       -----       ----_ _-
VI.         Pub1ic Investment                              N.A.        N.A.         l.A.        97.6        98.6        72.9        67.1         57.2       145.6
tX)                                                                  (28.4)    (47.7)    (72.6)    (38.6)    (30.8)    (35.0)
VIl.        Private  Investment                            N.A.         l.A.        l.A.      246.5        108.0        27.6       106.8       128.4        270.0
(X)                                                                 ( 71.6)   ( 52.3)   ( 27.4)   C 61.4)   C 69.2)   C 65.0)
.......................................................................................................................
O X
N



ANNE 8
rage 9 of 20
- 64 -
Tablo 7. NATIONAL MINING -ESERVES 1990
*w@^*X9rw"9vvjbwwv......................................................................................  
Assigned by Special Agreement to:
................................
)        N1ining Development Commission                                1,185,604.5
2)        Mineral Resources Cmoncil                                    1,387.435.6
3)        Cie. de Real del Monte y Pachuca, S.A.                          52,200.0
4)        Siderurgica Lazaro Cardenas Las Truchas, S.A.                    2,372.0
5)        Barite de Sonora, S.A.                                           4,800.0
6)        Azufrera Pansamricana, S.A.                                    605,473.0
7)        Compania Exploradora del Istmo, S.A.                             8,379.1
8)        Comision Nacional de Energie Nuclear                            96,632.2
9)        Unassigned                                                   1,043,363.9
Total                                              4,386,260.2
............................................................ ....... ............. ..............



ANNEX 8
Page  I0 of 20
- 65 -
Table 8. LAND ASSIGNED OUTSIDE NATIONAL NINING RESERVES, 1990
.......                   (Hectar")
....... ............. ..................................... .............................................
1.       Assigned by Ordinary Agreement to:
.................................
1.  Comnison Naciorial de Energfa Nuclear                   49,623.0
2.  Roca Foeforica Nexicena, S.A. de C.V.                    7,551.0
3.  M/nera Carbonifera Rio Escondido, S.A.                  37,816.1
4.  Mining Development Comnission                        1,8044090.6
Total                                         1,899.080.7
.....                             ~~~~~~~~...........
it.      Assigned by Ordinary Request to:
...............................
1.  Mining Development Conmmissfon                             342.8
2.  Mineral Resources Council                                3,505.2
Total                                             3,848.0



Table 9. LAND UNDER CONCESSION TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR, 190
.... ... ... .... ... ... ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Type of Concession                     Size                     NLUber of           X              Area                X
(Hectares)                   Titles                         (Hectares)
I.   Exploration
0-50                         7,859          30.1          182,271.1           3.0
51-100                        2,972           11.4         242,252.6            4.0
101-500                        3,728           14.3         925,800.0           15.2
501-1,000                         441           1.7         320,626.6            5.2
1,001-5,000                         495           1.9       1,151,137.9           18.9
5,001-10,000                         99           0.4          694,755.8          11.4
10,001-20,000                         51           0.2          690,138.2          11.3
20,001-50,000                         35           0.1        1,265,805.8          20.7
Sut-Total                             15,680         60.1        5,472,787.9          89.7
.... ...                    ------..        ....        ...........- .-I
IL.  Exploitation                     0-50                          7,295          27.9          119,761.8            2.0                                   0'
------------              51-100                         1,921           7.4          162,230.8           2.6
101-500                         1,193          4.6          346,156.2            5.7
Sub-Total                             10,409         39.9          628,148.8           10.3
.........                            ... .....       ....          .........           ....
Graid Total (1+11)                   26,089         100.0        6,100,936.7         100.0
....................                 .....          .............                     .....
.. ...................................................................................................
0
Ph
0



Table 10. COST OF 1401ING A NINERAL CONCESSION FOR EXPLORATION
........                     C1990 U.S. Dollars)
First Year             Second Year              Third Year         3 Year Total for Exploration
Area     Surface        Work     Total        Work       Total         Work        Total    Surface       Work        Total
(Nectares)  Tax I/         Req.     Cost         Req.        Cost         Req.        Cost        Tax        Req.
10         S2         93         145         279        331           559        610           155        931        1086
SO        259         382        641        1238       1496          2522       2780           776       4141        4917
100        517        733        1250        2419       2936          4931       544           1552       8083       9635
200       1034        1422       2457        4757       5791          9763      10798          3103      15942       19046
400       2069        2751       4820        9386      11455         19348      21417          6207      31484       37691
8O0       4138        5213       9451       18549      22687         38424      42562         12414      62287       74700
1600       8276       10411      18687       36784      45059         76397      84673         24828     123592      148.0
3000      15517       la865      34482       68335      83853        142544     158061         46552     229844      276396
6000      31034       36680      67M75      135184     166218        283632     314666         93103     455496      548599
12000      4iZ%9      70620      132689      267793     329862        564482     626551        186207     902895    1089102
.. .........................................................................................................................
1/ Ecpml for all years
1%)
0 



ANIEX 8
Page  13 of 20
- 68 -
Tabte IOA. COST OF HOEDING A MINERAL CONCESSION FOR EXPLOITATION
*---**v--                   (1990 U.S. Dollars)
................................................................................................
4 Year Total for Exploitation
Area           Surface             Work             Surface              Uork         Total
(Nectare")          Tax            Requirement           Tax             RequIrement
1/                 1/
... .....................  .........................  ................ ................................... ......... ............. ...
10              103                419              310                1258           1568
50              517               2254              1552               6763           8315
100             1034               4584             3103               13753          16857
200             2069               9384             6207               28151          34358
400             4138              27586             12414              32757          95171
8oo             8276              72414            24828              217242         242070
1600            16552             220690            4965S              662069         711725
3000            31034             586182            93103             1758546        1851649
5000            51724            1241382             155172           3724146        3679318
I/ Equal for all years.



TABLE 11. SEMIP ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
[3 3T
ENIERGY       l l    I#NES AND BZC      l ]      OFFICE OF THE
zUNDER SECRETARIAST   l l   UNDER JECFAREIAT   l|    SEMIOR OFFICIAL
GENERAL DIREC'e ^ATE   _ GENERAL DIRECTORATE        GENERAL DIRECTORATE    _GENERAL DIRECTORATE
OF E'IERGY PC  Y     _       OF MINES               OF ADMISTRATION           OF LEGAL AFFAIRS
GENERAL DIRECTTE            ORAL                                           _GENERAL DIRECTORATE                    %0
OPERATKM  OPERATKM                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF PLANNING
OFRESEARCH AND          GENERAL DIRECTORATE                                   rUNIT OF SOCIAL
DFssREVELOPMENATND   X  OF BASIC DIDUSTRY                                    COMUJNICATION
NUCLEAR SAETY             ME)aCAN
AND SAFEGDS            PETROCHEFACAL
NTIIONAL COMMISSION       COLtASSION
EKAWS12A
0
E9t1Z ~ ~ ~



-70               ANNEX 8
Page 15 of 20
.j~~~~~I
2       is
iH~~i
aXI 
0
-I~~~~~~~~--



TABLE 12. CFM ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
G tMENERAL DIRECTOROCE |
| OIRECTORATEOF     j    DRECTOPE O                  RET RATE OF              CORPORATE AND             DIRECTORATEIOF
AM                   [ TEC OINAL OPERATIONS  |          CREI                     RECTORATE                 FINANCING
S ECORAATF OF        SUO_RECTORAT/E OF          SUB| IECTORATE           StOECTOTE OF |U9IRECTOATE
1 OIONAIPOMTION              OPEP  ONS                  OF CREOIT            FINANAL EVALUATION              O TM
I                        .UI .,                                              I
SWV5ECTOAIEOF I       S1.111IIRECTORATE 'OF     SUBDIRECTORATE OF        COoRFORATE AND INTER-        SUBDIRECTOI AT
RIESIONL COOROWATON          LABORATOtIES              A INISRATION          SNAILCORAT
TOME! OF 1                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUBI)RECTORATE
-EGRJOF              TECHNM                     LE A                  SUBDEECTORGE
THE SOCIAL SECTOR                                    SUDIRECTCRfE                OF SYSTEMS
OFFl                              l               z
IEVEO BiN                                            OF FINANCE
SWORECTORATE                                      s
OF COLLECTiON
I-
Z'
0
S.,
1%
0



Table 13. CfP  PAtTICIPMTIS IN STATE-OWED ElITERPIISES (AS Of JANU     1991)
.................................................................................................................................................................
Entepris                                                Busine                        Equity         CFN          Status
(Milt. Nax. Pesos)  Shore ()
...................................................................................................................................
.   Majorlity  od
..............
1. Axufreva 1anemeicane  S.A.                                   Sulfur, grinf                       7,200.0        S5.33       will remain a SCE
2. Anufres Uaciumles Mico, S.A.                                  SuSt                                  30.0        66.00       Sold
3. lrren   de Acero y AgMes, S.A.                                Drilts                                 11.8       12.70       Sold
C. eipif      e    a  erde, S.A.                                 Cper  Mineral                         83.0        52.00       Dissolved
5. Ci. de   al del   nt y Paehuc  S.A.                           Gold-Slver Mineral                10,826.3        99.99       Sold
6. Cie. Explord    del latw   S.A.                               Sulfur                               960.0        51.00       WItI remain a SOE
T. Cie. Mine Crta. SA. de C.V.                                   Trading                                3.8        85.00       Dissolved
8. Cia. Minwr Santa  mslie. S.A.                                 Copper Nineral                        175.8       96.32       in dissolution
9. Exportadwr de Sal, S.A. de C.V.                               Industrial Salt                   55,000.0        51.00       Will remin a SOE
10  Exportadoa    - I--ortad-a- de Mnerales, S.A. de C.V.         Nineral Trading                        12.5       99".68      Dissolved
11  fosforita  lexicanos, S.A. de C.V.                           Kaolin Calcination                    15.0        33.33       Dissolved
12. Ipulsowe  inera e Iniatrial de Baja California, S.A.          Services                               2.1        99.80       Transfered to Local Gov.
13. Irembilirlis y Constructora Rio Esandido de Coahulls,         Construction                      29,195.8        61.02       In dissolution
S.A. de C.V.
14. Jalsx, S.A.                                                  Aluinus                              100.0        51.00       DIsolved
Is  Maocoac, S.A.                                                 CaWer Mineral                       1,343.2       99.88       Sold
16. Miner  Cwsbonifera tio Escendido, S.A.                        Coal                             191,923.9        11.54       for sle
17. Navia de Baja Clifornia, S.A.                                 Transportation                         0.5        87.37       Dissolved
18. Refractrios Nidltgo, S.A.                                     Bricks                               377.1       80.11        Sold
19. Roca Fosforica Mexican, S.A. de C.V.                          Ph      feoric Rock               26,528.9        99.97       Will remin a SOE
20. Sade_x, S.A.                                                  Wineral Exploration                    15.0       65.76       Dissolved
21. Sodoim, S.A.                                                  Mineral Exploration                    12.0       65.97       Dissolved
22. T              de Sal, S.A. de C.V.                           Trportation                        12,120.0       50.96       Will remin a SCE 
23. 21nc, S.A.                                                    Refractories                         553.6        99.01       For "ale
I     f. Minority Oad
..............
24. Atiss Atkins S.A. de C.V.                                     Services                              86.4         1.93       Sold
25. Autlan, S.A. di C.V.                                          Acoinistrative Services            4,939.1         8.73       Administered by PAFIN
26. Azufres Nealar, S.A. de C.V.                                  Sulfur                                 10.8       33.00       Dissotved
27. Baja Bulk Carrier, S.A.                                       Transportation                        50.0        50.00       Will r_mlin a SE
28. Cmrcist Cwborw, S.A.                                          Coal Trading                            2.0       20.00       Dissolved
29. Cia. MIne CAdrs, S.A. de C.V.                                 Gold-Silver Nineral                   100.0       15.00       Sold
30. Cia. Ninws Camnfort, S.A.                                     Gold-Sfiver Mineral                    13.0       45.00       Sotd
31. Cia. Mines de Cuwwa   S.A.                                    Cppr                              629,892.0        0.23       Sotd
32. Cia. Navia Miners dei Golfo, S.A. de C.V.                     TrDortatfon                        18,935.5        0.45       For sole
33. ConsorciG Mnerio Bnito  umr-Pen  Colorada, S.A.               Iron Pellets                          768.1        4.76       For sole
34. Exx, S.A. de C.V.                                             Mineral Trading                         7.5       15.00       Disolved
35. ferro Mi11 Nexicum, S.A.                                      Mineral Exploitation                   20.0       25.00       Sold
36. iliultorw  Mine de Anowne, S.A. de C.V.                       Lead-Iron Nineral                       4.5       33.33       Tremfered to Local Gov.
37. Iniastrias Sulfema, S.A. de C.V.                                  a     Sulfate                  3,89.0          2.91       Wtlt ramin a SE
38.  exican d  Cabre, S.A.                                        Coppr  Inel                         6,132.8        6.00       Sold
39. Mine Lezos, S.A. de C.V.                                      Lea-Silver  ineral                     57.6       32.00       Sold
40. Miner Ret  de Aa_les, S.A. di C.V.                            Lead-Silver Mineral                 1,240.0       33.00       Sold
41. 111rsmles &aeraol   Mexican.., s.a.                           Mineral Explwation                      3.6       11.00       In dimclution
42.  ulsica Ftlu, L.A. de C.V.                                    Fluorby*ic-Sultiiuric Acid            m.o         17.00       Sold
43.  ct tws Ninwares Mexicance, S.A. de C.V.                      Scdm  Cynide                       10,000.0        1.04       will r_lin a SCE
4.  efrataie  Mxicas, S.A.                                        R  ractorle                           477.4       33.34       Sold                                 am
0
........................................................................................................................................................
0



TABLE 14. CRM ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
DIRECTORATE OF
ADAUMSTRATION
TECHN0CAL0DEJF                                                 AD^MSTRWTM
AND FNANCE
TECiCAL                       SlEUBRECTOFUTE Of            SUBDIRECTORATE OF               SUBDIECTORAJE
StEIXRECTC*UTE                      EXPLOR.ATON                A0tQSTRATION                     OF FNANCE
DIVSINC        OF        DIVISION OF DIVISION OF           DIVISION O  MINOF         DIVISION OF
TECHNICAL       TECHNICAL        GEOLOGIA        GEOPHYSICAL          HUMAN           MATERIAL
ASSISTANCE       SUPPORT         EXPLORATION      EXPLCORATION     FRESOURCES        RESOURCES         FI3AFi E
SUBDMIV9ON OF
ASSISANCE AND    SUBDIVISION O    SUBDMSION OF    SUBOMSION OF                       SUBDMSION OF    SUB|MSION OF
RECONNASSANCE LAOORATORIES      RtEGIONAL          LAND                           AOAMN             COJTN
VISFTS                ~~~~EXPLORATION   GEOPHYSICS
SUBGMSION OF    SUBDIVISION OF    SUBDMSION OF    SUBDIMSION OF                                       SUBDMSION OF
AND CONREMCTS  _   CHIERYEND        EVALUATION     AIR GEOPHYSICS                                        BUDGETS
SUB0MSION OF               COWUrER                                   SUDMSON
AIR TRANSPORT               CENTER                                  OF TREASURY
IREGIONAL|
SUBO^VSIMN
LDELEGnCNSI
Go OD
0
0



Table 15.    CRN BALANCE SHEET, 1986-1990
*            (Millions of Mexican Pesos)
1986       1987        1988        1989        1990
I.   Assets
1. Cash and Other Liquid Assets                           458.8    2,589.0    5,280.5    6,686.7    9,818.2
2. Accounts Receivable and Other Short Term Assets        653.4    6.236.3   12,059.6   19,889.1   23,125.3
3.  Inventories                                         2,706.1    4,305.8        451.8       412.8       889.3
A. Current Assets (1+2+3)                           3,818.3   13,131.1   17,791.6   26,988.7   33,832.8
4. Long Term Assets                                         8.2       683.5    1,155.5    2.062.7    6,680.0
5. Fixed Assets (ret)                                  25,266.6    8,222.2    4,004.6    6,044.4    9,607.9
6. Deferred Assets                                      5,795.5    5,728.2    6,298.7    4,872.9    5,775.6
B. Total Assets (A+4+5+6)                          34,888.7   27,765.0   29,250.8   39,968.7   55,896.3
II.   Liabilities
C.  Current Liabilities                             1,990.2    2,215.9    4,175.5    4,449.7    5,796.1
7. Other Liabilities                                    3,531.0    3,485.6    7,618.6    8,973.1   13,318.5
0. Total Liabilities (C+7)                          5,521.2    5,701.5   11,794.1   13,422.8   19,114.6
III. Equity
8. Capitat Stock                                          582.6    2,401.2    6,859.9    8,694.6   19,993.4
9. Met Result Current Year                             (2,244.8)    1,723.2    1,987.1    6,181.4   ( 2,243.9)
10. Other                                              31,029.7   17,939.1    8,609.7   11,669.9   19,032.2
E. Totat Equity (8+9+10)                           29,367.5   22,063.5   17,456.7   26,545.9   36,781.7
IV.  Liabilities ptus Equity (11+111)                       34,888.7   27,765.0   29,250.8   39,968.7   55,896.3
~OQ
0
0



Table 16.  CI  ICN>E  STATEET, 1966-1990
------             (Nitions of Nexicn Pesos)
. . ................ . .... .... .. ..... .... ..... ......... .. .......................................
1986           1987            1968            1989            1990
I.      Income
1.  Inrvestmnt                                                           3,877.4         3,433.6         6,395.2         7,612.3       19,400.0
2.  Operations                                                              201.5        3,988.2         7,03t8.6        9,151.6       14,853.2
3.  Other                                                                   493.7           879.7           595.4        1,236.1         1,449.2
A. Sub-Total Fiscal Resources (1+2+3)                               4,572.6         8,301.5        14,029.2       18,000.0        35,702.4
............ ......................                  .         ........         .......        .........  .. .. ...... ...............
4.  Niinerat Sates                                                        2,610.2        5,817.9         1,171.3              0.0             0.0
5.  Royalties                                                               874.8        5,459.7         8,894.3         9,864.5        4,391.0
6.  Contracts                                                                25.5            51.4           231.3        4,526.6         4,510.5
7.  Other                                                                   952.2        1,862.0         7,M.4           4,235.2        3,365.2
B. Sub-Totat Own Resources (4*5+6.7)                                4,462.7        13,191.0        18,069.3       18,626.3        12,266.7                                  1
... ................ ...................             .          .......        ........       ........        ............ ........
C. Total Incme CA.O)                                                9,035.3        21,492.5       32,098.5        36,626.3        47,969.1
. .... .............                                         .......       ............ --------           --------        ............*.*---I
11. Expenses
8.   Investment                                                           3,789.6        4,396.9        11,186.9         9,991.3       18,119.9
9.  Operations                                                            3,719.7        6,924.5        16,383.3        19,755 2         3,762.6
10. Other                                                                3,770.8         8,447.9         2,541.2           698.4         ,,331.4
0. Total Expenses (8+9+10)                                         11,280.1        19,769.3       30,111.4        30,444.9        50,213.0
.......................                                        ............ ........           ............ ........          ........ .... ............
111.  Met Resutt (C-D)                                                          (2,244.8)        1,723.2         1,987.1        6,181.4        (2,243.9)
................                                                        -----            ----            ....... .  ----               .... ....
......................................................................................................................
CDX
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ii



Attachment to Map
- 76 -
mECO
INCIPAL MINING DISTRICTS
Baja Celifornie Sur                                              A4uazaollentcs
1.    El Tigre - Cr                                              41.   Tepez&LA y Aslentos - Au, Cu
2.    San Josd de Castro - Mg
3.    Guerrero Negro - Sal                                 san Luls Potosl
4.    E1 Bolero   Cu
5.    San Marcos   Ca, Yeso                                       42.   Charcas - Pb, Zn, AS (Au, Cu)
6.    S. Hilro - P                                                43.   Santa MarIa do la Paz - Pb, Zn,
7.    San Antonio El Triunfo _ Au, AS                                   AS (Au, Cu)
44.    uedalcazer - Bg (Au, AS)
Tamaulipas
8.    Cenanea - Cu (Mo)
9.    Nacozarl - Cu (Mo)                                          45.   Zona de Llera - Pb, Zn, Ag (Au, Cu)
10.   La Caridad - Cu (Mo)
11.   Lampazos - Ag                                        Guanajuato
12.   Alamos - W
46.   Guanajuato - AL, Au
Cblhuahua
Quer4taro
13.   Casaes Grandes - Hn
14.   Plomosas - Pb, Zn, A8 (U)                                  47.   S. Joaquin - Hg
15.   St&. Eulalia - Pb, Zn, Ag (Sn, U)
16.   Cusihuirischl - Ag, Pb, Zn (Cu)                     BLdalgo
17.   La Reforma - Pb, Zn, Ag (Au, Cu)
18.   Batopilas - Au, Ag                                         48.   Zimapdn - Pb, Zn. Ag
19.   Guadalupe y Calvo - Au, Ag                                 49.   Molango   Mn
20.   S. Francisco del Oro - Pb, Zn, Ag (Au,Cu)                  50.   Pachuca - Real del Monte - E1 Chico -
21.   Hidalgo del Parral - Pb, Zn. Ag (Au, Cu)                          Ag, Pb, Zn
22.   Santa BArbara - Pb, Zn, Ag (Au, Cu)
23.   La Perle - Fe                                        Hichoacdt
Coahuila                                                                51.   Tlalpujahua - Au, Ag
52.   Angangueo - Ag, Pb, Zn
24.   Hercules - Fe                                              53.   Inguaran - Cu
25.   Sierra Mojada - Pb, Cu                                     54.   Bastam - Cu
55.   Las Truchee - Fe
Durango
Jalsco
26.   Santa Maria del Oro - Au, Ag
27.   San Joed del Desierto - Cu (Mo)                            56.   Pihuamo - Fe (Ba)
28.   Otaez - Ag, Pb, Zn (Au, Cu)
29.   La OJuela - Pb, Zn, Ag (Au, Cu)                      Colilma
30    Cuencare, Velardela, Pedricefa - Ag, Pb,
Zn (Au, Cu)                                                57.   Pena Colorada - Fe
31.   S. Dims - Tayoltita - Au, Ag
32.   C. del Mercado - Fe                                  MExlco
Sinalos                                                                 58.   Tenasceltepec - Pb, Zn, Ag (F)
33.   Cosall - Au, Ag                                     GCurrero
Zacatecs                                                                59.   Taxco - Ag, Au, Pb, Zn
60.   Mezeala - Au, Aa
34.   Chalchihuites - Pb, Zn, Ag, Au
35.   Sombrerete - Ag, Pb, Zn (Au, Cu)                     Oaxaca
36.   Fresnillo   Ag, Pb, Zn  (Au, Cu)
37.   Zacatecaes - Ag. Pb, Zn (Au, Cu)                            61.   Netividad - Au, Ag
38.   Roche  Buena - Pb, Zn, Ag (Au, Cu)
39.   Avaloc - Ag, Pb, Zn (Au, Cu)                         Tabasco
40.   Concepciln del Oro - Ag, Pb, Zn (Au, Cu)                    62    N ltlpan y Mntftldn - S
Ch 6apat
63.   Sata Fe - Cu, Au (W)



>                 -   >                                                                  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA                                                                                                        M  E X I C o
_lomde 1).\<-.                                                                                                                                                             MINING SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
PROJECT
.,        \., 10                CO f:                                                                                                           t-
t           eormosillo ~       ~     ~    ~ ~ s    Chhaa 4'  I9    Mines4}                    dA'o
X2~~~~~000                                                       Oa)            t           Yritjs2<'19 6\  tpo .   Ga State capitals ltsanlwooooan distriCt headquarters)
CAJFORIA                                                                                      5                                                                                                                    ..i _  Cie,de d .riohwe -s
5UF  T   v  ROt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ienciow k | 5e1ected memroed:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Seecedirinred
ALOerG  X   1   199  \  2aX  . S <j; Jh Prmtipel oirpores~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4    rinipl arprt
f >S- s 9 7 ~~~~~~~Tarrosn  4                                       +'~                         NeeO                                                                     o ._ . Ieretriaronal boundaries
XFACUaOpn~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Par.                                                                              Pi ivaas  30 <   X
j  ~~~Cnplco (OrAcA I'.  3 '  Mo4at,utrel                                                                                                    0)0
titEltt5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~oenra    'c coe 7GO  10                                          Pu*rotz='2Ot                                             Cd?         GUATEMALA -
4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Tpcu                                                                                  HO\/  N D URASoU
wp>o                                                                                             'r*                               r(t'                                                         0 4R  nt  i
_MA    V5                                                                                                                                   GAE        L t-
39~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oahlHNUA
wrwreanw.owewrwanene~~~~w.w..aww.en.oen~~~~.,'w  Its'                                                              or                                                                                                tO'  *-'s~C



