Report No. 14747-IND
Indonesia
Impact Evaluation Report
Enhancing the Quality of Life in Urban Indonesia:
The Legacy of Kampung Improvement Program
lakarta Urbin Development Project eLoan 1040)
Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1 336)
Third Urban Development Project (Loan 1 65
Fourth Urban Development Project (Loan 1'972t
June 29, 1995
Operations EvalUal(ion Department
Document of the World Bank



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 100 = US$0.45
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB                   Asian Development Bank
AMDAL                  Indonesian Process of EnVironmeintal Impact Assessment
APBD/APBN              Prov incial Budgct
BAPPEDA               Badan Perencana Pcrkembangun Dacrah (proxincial planning agency)
BAPPEM KIP            Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan kIP
BAPPENAS              National Developmcnt Planning Agency
BKPN                  National Housing Policy Board
BOTABEKCI             Cities of BOgor. TAngeranig BEKasi and Clrebon
BTN                   Bank Tabungan Negara
BUDP                  Bandunig Urban Developimcrnt Project
CBD                   Ccntral Business Distnrct
CHW                   Comm11unlit.  Healti Workers
DGHS                  Directorate General of Human Scttlcments (Cipta Karva)
DIP                   Devclopment Budget Allocation
DKI                   Jakarta Metropolitan Governimieint
ERR                   Economic Ratc of Rctuim
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
GOI                   Governimcit of Indoicsia
HSL                   Housing Sector Loan
IBRD                  Intrniational Bank for Rcconistructioni and Development
ID                    Institutionial Developimenit
IER                   Imipact Evaluation Report
IET                   Impact Evaluation Tcamn
IMF                   Intcnationlal Monetarv Fund
INPRES                lnstruksi Prcsidcn (grarit bv Prcsidcntial Instruction)
ITS                   Institutc of Technology of Surabava
IUIDP                 Integrated Urban Infrastructure Investment Program
kelurahan             smallest administrative urban area
KIP                   Kanipunig Improvement Program
LP3ES                 Lciibaga Penelitianl Pcndidikan. Pengembangan Ekonomiii dan Sosial
lurah                 hcad of keluraliani
M&E                    Monitoring and Evaluation
NICK                  public xvashling and toilet facilities
MHA                   Ministrv of Home Affairs
MlIT                   Mohd. Husni Thamrin program (KIP)
MIIP                  Market In-frastructure Improvement Program
MUDP                  Mcdan Urban Development Project
NGOs                   Non-Govemmental Organizations
non-KIP kampunigs     kanipungs that wNcre not includcd for improvements in thc four projects under
cvaluation
O&M                   Operationis and Maintcilanicc



OED                   Operations Evaluation Departnient
PCR                   Project Completion Report
PDAM                  Perusahan Daerah Air Minum (Regional Water Supply Enterprisc)
PERUMNAS              National Urban Development Corporation
PKK                   Official Womcn's Organization
PLN                   National Electnrcity Company
POSYANDU              Pos Pelavanan Terpadu (Mother and Child Care Clinics)
PUSKESMAS             neighborhood health centers
Repelita              Recana Pcmbangunan Lima Tahun (Five Year Development Plains)
RT                    Rukun Tetangga (community organization of 50-100 households)
RW                    Rukun Warga (neighborhood association madc up of several RTs)
SUSENAS               National Social and Economic Survey
UNCHS                 United Nations Commission for Human Settlements
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program
UNEP                  United Nations Environmental Program
UNICEF                United Nations Children's Fund
USAID                 United Statcs Agency for Intcrnational Development
USL                   Urban Sector Loan
YKP                   Yavasan Kas Pcmbangunan (Foundation of Development Financc)






THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General                                                  June 29, 1995
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUT1VE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Impact Evaluation Report on Indonesia: Enhancing the Quality of Life in Urban Indonesia:
The Legacy of Kampung Improvement Programs. Jakarta Urban Development Project
(Loan 1040); Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336); Third Urban Development
Project (Loan 1653) and Fourth Urban Development Project (Loan 1972)
Attached is the Impact Evaluation Report (IER) on the Indonesia Jakarta Urban Development
Project (Loan 1040-IND, approved in FY74); the Second Urban Development Project (Loan 1336-IND,
approved in FY76); the Third Urban Development Project (Loan 1653-IND, approved in FY78); and the
Fourth Urban Development Project (Loan 1972-IND, approved in FY81) prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED). The main objective of the impact evaluation exercise was to understand
the medium- to long-term impacts (5 to 10 years after completion) of eighteen years of Bank lending for
urban development in Indonesia. The study was launched in Indonesia in September 1993. In preparing
the report, OED has concentrated on four main areas of impacts: (i) improvements in the urban
environment; (ii) changes in urban land values and markets; (iii) strengthening of institutions; and (iv)
scope and durability of impacts. Three components of the four urban projects were evaluated: the
Kampung Improvement Program (KIP); the sites and services programn; and a city-wide improvement
program.
The study has drawn one overriding conclusion: under conditions of rapid economic development,
targeted urban-sector improvement programs can have a very positive impact on low-income areas. Those
impacts can be achieved at a low cost of investment that reaps high economic rates of return. The study
found that the most positive impact of KIP was the upgrade in the quality of life of kampung residents
given by improved footpaths, lighting, education and health facilities, living space and reduction of housing
density. In addition, the study found that there is much wider access to clean and safe water, private
toilets/septic tanks and less frequent flooding outside their homes. More than two thirds of the respondents
in project areas attributed the improvements in their kampungs to KIP. The majority of the respondents
also suggested that today's overall environmental conditions in their neighborhood is better than before KIP
was implemented.
Furthermore, KIP did not encourage an influx of higher-income groups into the kampungs, as had
originally been feared. In fact, KIP did not disturb the existing, residential stability of the kampungs.
Residents are, however, now better educated and healthier, household size have declined, more residents are
employed and have greater income, and women have taken more active role in meeting the economic needs
of their families. Improvements in population conditions are not only caused by KIP but also by the
opportunities generated by economic growth.
As part of the IER, a three-day workshop for government officials, municipal authorities,
beneficiary representatives, intemational experts, delegates from other intemational organizations, and
Bank staff was held in Surabaya in November 1994. The workshop served as a forum for reviewing
preliminary findings, identifying gaps in the information collected, gathering additional information from
project participants and reaching consensus on the main findings of the impact evaluation.
Attachment






I
Contents
Preface ..3
Overview ..5
1. Background to Study: The Process of Urban
Development in  Indonesia                            .1............................................................ 1
Introduction .............................................................1   I
Objective  of the  Impact Evaluation .............................................................                                             11
Organization  of the  report .............................................................                                                     12
The Bank's Lending Program for Indonesia
Urban  Projects 1, 11, III and  IV .............................................................                                               12
What are Kampungs and Kampung Improvement Programs? ......................................... 13
The  Macrocconomy  during  Project Implementation ........................................................ 14
Did  the  Urban  Projects Achieve their Physical Targets? ................................................. 18
Policies and  Initiatives that Had  an  Impact on the  Projects ............................................. 18
2. The Legacy of KIP: Accelerating Local Improvements with Little Investment ................. 21
Background  to  Analysis .............................................................                                                         21
Cost of Investments .............................................................                                                              21
Housing  Improvements .............................................................                                                            22
Improvements in Environmental Conditions:
Neighborhood  Facilities Assessed  by  Residents and  Interviewers .................................... 27
Indirect Impacts around  Improved  Areas ............................................................. 31
Conclusions .............................................................                                                                      31
3.  Stalling  Environmental Degradation  in  Urban  Areas ......................................................... 33
The  Problem                           .............................................................. 33
Much Must still Be Fixed: Solid Waste Management,
Drainage  Networks, Flooding  Risk, and  Water Quality .................................................. 33
Emerging  Environmental Issues                                              .............................................................. 39
Conclusions: To  the  Future ............................................................... 42
4. Rapidly Emerging Real Estate Markets: Supplanting Existing Kampungs ...................... 43
Kampungs That Have  Disappeared ..............................................................                                                 43
Emerging  Real Estate  Business ..............................................................                                                 46
Achievements of Intended  Impacts ..............................................................                                               47
Kampungs as Urban  Real Estate ..............................................................                                                 50
Who  Benefits and  what should the  Government Do? ....................................................... 50
This report was prepared by Mrs. Alcira Kreimer (Task Manager) and by Mr. Roy Gilbert, Mr.
Claudio Volonte and Mrs. Gillie Brown (consultants).



2
5. Community Voice in Infrastructure Development, Urban Stability
and Security of Tenure ....................................                        52
Community Participation and Consultation .52
The Consultation and Participation Process .53
Urban Mobility .55
Community Perception of Security of Tenure .58
Changing Profiles in the Kampung .59
Urban Poverty Today                            .61
6. Institutions: What did they Learn and Remember .62
Administrative Organization of Indonesia .62
First Steps: the Creation and Strengthening of Institutional Framework  .63
Groping to Coordinate an Integrated Public Sector Investment Program        64
Experiencing the Limitations of the Centralized Model                       65
Enhancing the Clout of Local and Neighborhood Officials .............................................. 66
Impact of the Projects on Cost Recovery: Sustaining
and Replicating Urban Investments .67
Preserving the Institutional Memory: A Lesson for the Future .68
7. Findings and Recommendations .71
Annexes                                     ...73
A. Methodology of Study .75
B. Completed and Active Projects. Urban Sector: Indonesia .87
C. Indonesia: Urban Sector Strategy .91
D. Changing Profiles in the Kampungs .                                            g96
E. Summary of Secondary Data .102
F. Sunmmary of Primary Data .105
G. Profile of Kampung Surveyed .120
Bibliography .139
Attachment: Comments from Borrowers .143



3
Preface
This is an Impact Evaluation Report (IER) of four Bank-supported urban development
projects in Indonesia: Jakarta Urban Development Project (Ln. 1040); Second Urban Development
Project (Ln. 1336); Third Urban Development Project (Ln. 1653), and Fourth Urban Development
Project (Ln. 1972) . The main objective of the impact evaluation exercise was to understand the
medium and long-term impacts (5 to 10 years after completion) of eighteen years of lending for
urban development.
Basic Loan Data (actual)
Loan Number       Name                         US$ million    Approval        Completion
L_)040            Jakarta Urban Development       24.16          9/74            12/80
1-1336            UJrban Development IJ           48.85          10/76           6/83
1.1653            Urban Development II            51.50          1/79             3/87
L1972             Urban Development IV            42.40          4/81            4/88
The IER was prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). The study was
launched in Indonesia in September 1993. During subsequent missions to the country, the study
team organized materials for the evaluation, selected local consultants and visited project cities. In
conducting the study, the team specifically focused on the beneficiaries' feedback on the projects.
The study discusses briefly the context of urban development in which the four projects were
implemented; their physical, environmental and institutional impacts; the influence of the real estate
market on project sustainability, and community participation.
Three cities were selected for analysis: Jakarta, Surabaya, and Denpasar. The criteria for
selecting the three cities were that they: (i) represent an extensive coverage of the Kampung
Improvement Program (KIP), a main component of the four projects; (ii) include sites and services
programs; (iii) include city-wide improvement efforts; (iv) represent large and medium urban
centers, and (v) in view of limited time and budget, were easy to access to the study team, to
facilitate data gathering. Information was collected through questionnaires administered to
beneficiaries by local interviewers, beneficiary group interviews, case studies, expert observations,
and key informant interviews. Secondary data came from reports and maps provided by national
and provincial sources and from Bank files. The kind cooperation and invaluable assistance of
local beneficiaries/stakeholders, Government officials, state and municipal enterprises and Bank
staff in the East Asia and Pacific Region in the preparation of this report is gratefully
acknowledged.
As part of the impact evaluation, a three-day workshop for government officials, municipal
authorities, beneficiary representatives, international experts, delegates from other international
organizations, and Bank staff (World Bank resident representative in Indonesia, operations division
chief and task managers) was held in Surabaya in November 1994 (summary of the discussions are
available upon request). The meeting served as a forum for reviewing preliminary findings,
identifying gaps in the information collected, gathering additional information from project
participants, and reaching consensus about the main findings of the impact evaluation.
' Henceforth the fourprojects will be referedto as Urban I (Loan 1040), Urban II (Loan 1336), Urban III (Loan 1653) and Urban IV
(Loan 1972).



4
Copies of the draft IER were sent to the relevant Government officials and agencies
concerned for their review and comments. Comnments received from the Borrower have been
attached to the report as an Attachement.



5
Overview
Enhancing the Quality of Life in Urban Indonesia: The Legacy of
Kampung Improvement Programs
The Impact Evaluation: Objectives
1.    Impact evaluations are an important tool for an institution to learn and make adjustments
in its policies and projects and they are a true gauge of project sustainability. Impact evaluations
serve several purposes, they: (i) complete the history of projects by writing the "concluding
chapter"; (ii) assess the efficacy of the Bank and Borrowers by following investments through to
their ultimate goals, and (iii) are a source of lessons needed to improve future development policies
and appraisal methods.
2.     The main objective of the evaluation study in this report was to understand the medium
and long-term impacts (5 to 10 years after completion) of eighteen years of urban lending in
Indonesia. The projects included in the study [Urban I (Ln. 1040), Urban II (Ln. 1336), Urban III
(Ln. 1653), and Urban IV (Ln. 1972)] were selected from the pool of completed Bank projects
which have had sufficient time after the implementation phase, for the outputs, effects and impacts
to become evident.
3.     This report presents the results of the evaluation of three components of the four urban
projects: the Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) component in three major cities (Jakarta,
Surabaya, and Denpasar); the sites and services program (Jakarta and Denpasar); and the city-
wide improvement program (Denpasar). In order to produce timely study results within a
reasonable budget, our research focused upon a few impacts only. We studied four main areas of
impacts: (i) improvements in the urban environment, (ii) changes in urban land values and
markets, (iii) strengthening of institutions, and (iv) scope and durability of impacts
(sustainability).2
Background to the Study (Chapter 1)
4.     Indonesia has long been a recipient of Bank financing for its urban sector. Along with its
growing prosperity, Indonesia's urban areas have also expanded considerably. The process of
rapid urbanization started in the 1960s and early 1970s. The urban population increased from
22.6 million in 1970 to 32.8 million in 1980, to 55.4 million in 1990. Today, Indonesia's total
population is estimated at 175 million persons, 28 percent of whom live in urban areas. With an
annual urban growth rate of 4 percent, the country's urban population will comprise 36 percent of
the entire population of the country by the year 2000.
5.     Through the past three decades, the Bank has closely monitored this rapid urbanization.
The first generation of Bank-financed projects included the four projects analyzed here-Urban I,
11, 111, and IV (Table 1.1). The four projects were audited by the Operations Evaluations
Department (World Bank 1983, 1986a, and 1994e, Box 1.2). The main component of these
projects, and the main focus of our evaluation, was the Kampung Improvement Program.
Kampungs, low-income dense urban areas, have been the target of several Bank-funded urban
2 As KIP is an urban infrastructure program that did not deliver completed shelter units, our study does not cover all aspects of housing in
Indonesia. Important issues, such housing markets and the roles ofthe public and private sectors are discussed in OED's recently
completed audit ofthe Indonesia: Housing Sector Loan (Loan 2725), (World Bank, 1995).



6
development programs (Boxes 1. 1). The KIP component as a share of total lending in the four
projects studied here ranged from 70 percent in Urban I to 32.8 percent in Urban IV. Other
components in the four projects included improvements in solid waste management, drainage,
community health services, land registration, and technical assistance and training. The goal of
KIP was to alleviate poverty bv supporting efforts to improve housing services and basic
infrastructure in low-income areas known as kampungs. Although appraised in 1974 and
subsequent years, that is, over 20 years ago, Urban l-IV addressed two crucial problems that still
affect Indonesia's cities today: inadequate infrastructure coverage anid deteriorating environmental
conditions.
Low Cost Investment: Housing and Environmental Improvements (Chapter 2)
6.     The KIP component of the Urban I-IV projects induced housing and environmental
improvements for low-income urban households in Indonesia at a low cost of investment (ranging
from US$118 per person in Jakarta to US$23 in smaller cities, 1993 US dollars). The study found
that, given the generally favorable macroeconomic environment that prevailed throughout the
project implementation period, and the positive demonstration effect of KIP, improvements in noni-
KIP kampungs have caught up with those in KIP kampungs. There is some evidence that
improvements in non-KIP kainpungs were completed at a slower pace when compared to the rapid
and catalytic effect of KIP on those kampungs where it was implcmented.
7.     The most positive impact of KIP was the upgrade in the quality of life of kampung
residents given by improved footpaths, lighting, education and health facilities, living spacc and
reduction of housing density. In addition, we found that there is much wider access to clcan and
safe water (although a high number of people still use unsafe well water), private toilets/septic
tanks (which were more accepted than the public washing and toilet facilities (MCKs). althouglh
not emptied regularly), and less frequent flooding outside their homes. More than two thirds of the
respondents in project areas attributed the improvements in their kampung to KIP. The majority of
respondents also suggested that today's overall environmental conditions in their neighborhood is
better than before KIP was implemented but another third suggested that thev' were not completed
satisfied. Garbage collection (both frequency and quality), for example. was cited as particular
problem.
Persisting Environmental Degradation in Urban Areas (Chapter 3)
8.    At the citywide level, environmental conditions have deteriorated particularly in areas
where rapid population and economic growth has increased the demand for urban infrastructure
services. Despite the improvements effected by KIP under Urban l-IV. the environment in major
Indonesian cities continues to deteriorate, exacerbated by population growth. The urban
environmental challenge in Indonesia today is far greater than it was when Urban I-IV were
implemented, and much must still be done to head off the collision course between urban growth
and environmental conditions: for example, Denpasar, an area of rapid urban growth, exhibited
very bad solid waste management practices among the study areas. In other cases, drainage was
not integrated with road upgrading causing flooding problems after roads were raised higher than
house floors (Jakarta and Denpasar). In addition, drainage systems were not connected with
broader infrastructure causing backlogs at the entrance of the city wide drainage systems.
increasing flooding and breeding grounds for disease-carrying insects (Surabaya). At both the
kampung and city-wide levels, the projects did not foresee some future environmental problems,
such as increased traffic congestion and air pollution. And although the design standards of KIP,



7
such as the width of footpaths, has helped increase access to fire-fighting units, the use of modem
flanunable building materials and overcrowding have increased the risk of fire.
KIP Impacts and Rapidly Emerging Real Estate Markets (Chapter 4)
9.    Indonesian cities are changing rapidly and some kampungs are potentially valuable urban
real estate, depending on their location within cities. The raising demand for prime land is driving
kampungs into the modem market. The study attempted to address two project-related questions
arising from the rapid transformation of urban areas: (i) are kampung residents benefiting from the
investment? and (ii) does the demolition of improved kampungs signal the failure of the Urban I-IV
projects? The study's findings were that residents did gain some benefits, but would have enjoyed
more if their property rights had been more secure. The study also found that, because such large
benefits flowed from KIP, initial project investments could still enjoy economic rates of return of
12 percent, even over a useful life of only five years. Some of the beneficial impacts of the Urban
l-IV projects have been swept away by the demolition of improved kampungs to make way for
modem urban development in strategic locations in many cities of Indonesia. The rising demand
for urban land in a rapidly growing economy such as Indonesia's is likely to make the
redevelopment of kampung land into commercial and up-market residential real estate increasingly
common.
Community Voice in Structure Development: Urban Stability and Security of Tenure.
(Chapter 5)
10.   The study's analysis of community participation/consultation in the planning and
implementation phases of KIP showed that the involvement of residents varied from one kampung
to another. In some kampungs, residents were consulted about the convenience of the location of
roads and footpaths, and slightly less about the convenience of the location of water standpipes and
sanitary facilities. Consultation in the planning phase of KIP took the form of local meetings in the
local officials offices (kelurahan). Similarly, the degree of participation varied. In some kampungs,
residents worked through local neighborhood associations to help with simple aspects of KIP
implementation, such as the demolition of fences or dwellings. In other kampungs, residents merely
observed construction activities.
11.   KIP did not encourage an influx of higher-income groups (that is, "gentrification") into the
kampungs, as had originally been feared. In fact, KIP did not disturb the existing, residential
stability of the kampungs although the social profile of the kampungs has changed under KIP.
Residents are better educated and healthier; household sizes have declined; more residents are
employed and have greater income; and women have taken a more active role in meeting the
economic needs of their families. Improvements in population conditions are not only caused by
KIP but also by the opportunities generated by economic growth.
12.   Although KIP did not attempt to influence land and housing tenure directly, the expectation
was that it would increase ownership; as community security increased, more people would be
motivated to clarify and improve the status of the land they occupied. The study found that KIP did
in fact increase ownership throughout the improved kampungs or at least greater security of tenure.
In addition, the stronger sense of tenure gave residents an incentive to participate actively in the
operations and maintenance, O&M, of community facilities, although O&M levels vary from place
to place and it is considered one of the weakest points of KIP.



8
Institutions: What Did They Learn and Remember? (Chapter 6)
13.    Despite their focus on physical improvements in the infrastructure and the environment,
Urban I-IV did have some landmark impacts on institutional development in the urban sector of
Indonesia. For example, new agencies were created by the Government of Indonesia to direct
development and investment activities, and the managerial capabilities of existing agencies were
strengthened considerably. In particular, the National Urban Development Corporation
(PERUMNAS) was established as a new government agency for managing low-cost housing
development, and the state savings bank (Bank Tabungan Negara, BTN) was allowed to introduce
mortgage lending operations for the first time in Indonesia. And these impacts have been sustained.
insofar as the agencies remain important players on the urban stage in Indonesia to this day.
14.   Thus, one of the lasting impacts of all four projects was to keep important institutional
development issues-notably cost recovery and decentralization-on the urban sector reform
agenda. On the issue of cost recovery, government agencies have adhered consistently to the
principles of cost recovery embodied in successive urban projects but there are strong underlying
reservations about how and when effective cost recovery should be achieved. Despite the recent
demonstration of the limits reached by a centralized model in meeting urban sector needs, the
government remains the dominant decisionmaker in urban development to this day. Yet difficultics
experienced by both the government and the Bank in supcrvising multi-city projects from Jakarta
hastened efforts to devolve project implementation responsibilities to the local level of
administration.
15.    The study highlighted, however, that the rich learning experience of the urban projects was
neither well-documented nor followed progressively throughout the implementation period.
Although Monitoring and Evaluation, M&E, was emphasized after the first two projects. therc was
a failure to implement the agreed M&E component.
Findings and Recommendations (Chapter 7)
16.   The main finding of this report is that the Kampung Improvement Program improN ed the
quality of life of Indonesian urban areas at a low cost of investment. The projects had immediate
and very positive impacts on the kampungs where the inputs s%ere targeted.
17.    Based on both primary and secondary data, the evaluation yielded the following specific
findings:
•  Improvements in the kampungs prompted residents to invest more in home repairs and in the
operations and maintenance of community infrastructure.
*  The immediate areas surrounding the KIP kampungs and the site and services program areas
benefited from the projects, as the physical and economic impacts of KIP and sites and services
programs rippled to those neighboring communities.
*  On the other hand, at the citywide level, environmental conditions have deteriorated,
particularly in areas where rapid population and economic growth has increased the demand
for urban infrastructure services (housing, water and sanitation, footpaths, roads, solid waste
disposal, and drainage). Thus, KIP kampungs and site and services program areas and their
immediate surroundings are islands of environmental improvements



9
* Community consultation and participation in the early stages of project preparation and design
was important for instilling a sense of project ownership by the community.
* KIP did not encourage urban mobility while creating a greater sense of tenure security towards
house ownership. KIP's rapid and extensive coverage may partially account for the low level
of household tumover or mobility. City residents, observing that KIP was extended to most of
the city, did not feel it necessary to move to take advantage of the program.
* The rising demand for scarce urban land in major Indonesian cities is likely to make the
redevelopment of kampung land into commercial and up-market residential real estate
increasingly common.
* Despite their focus on physical improvements in the infrastructure, Urban l-IV did have some
landmark impacts on institutional development in the urban sector of Indonesia, through the
creation of new agencies and the strengthening of existing institutions at the central level.
18.   According to the previous findings, the following recommendations and lessons can be
proposed:
*  An upgrade program should integrateflood control measures and drainage networks at the
citywide scale. Improved drainage systems helped to reduce flooding. This is a direct positive
impact of KIP investments. However, some complaints were voiced about drainage backlogs at
the entrance to the main city drain and backups when drains are not cleaned regularly.
Improvements in one area should not have a negative impact on residents in neighboring areas.
* Some aspects of the infrastructure and environmental conditions can be controlled and
managed by communities -for example, dwelling conditions, road and footpath maintenance,
solid waste collection from houses, and the upkeep of local drains. Other aspects, such as the
illegal dumping of solid waste, the integration of kampung infrastructure with the city-wide
infrastructure and the effects of pollution, are beyond the control of the communities and need
to be controlled and managed by local governments with assistance by central national
authorities.
*  The design of urban projects in Indonesia should include tn assessment of the dynamics of
the local real estate market. Growing demand for modem real estate development in
Indonesia's cities can thwart low income infrastructure improvements made by projects in
prime locations. Redevelopment of many kampungs may come sooner than later, in which
case, future projects need to address up-front policy issues of compensation for displaced low
income families.
• Future projects should promote working partnerships with community groups and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) as a way to ensure that they are responsive to O&M
requirements in their kampungs. Consultation and participation of communities and NGOs in
the early stages of project preparation and design should be included at the planning stage,
since these aspects are important for instilling a sense of project ownership by the community.
Although the concept of community consultation and participation is now widely accepted, it
still means different things to different people, and many of the local government staff
understand the concept but do not understand how it translates into practice. Therefore,
greater understanding and better guidelines for community members, NGOs and project staff
should be established.



10
It is important that the institutional memory and lesson learning capacity developedfor
urban development projects be maintained so as to provide guidance for future endeavors
and to facilitate the sharing of/knowledge of these endeavors world-wide. Important steps
must be taken to consolidate institutional memory within both the government and the Bank in
future projects. With the support of the Bank, BAPPENAS plans to develop an in-house
evaluation capability in all sectors, including impact evaluations. Particularly important is
ensuring that baseline data and evaluation systems are in place prior to initiation of any
project.



11
1. Background: The Process of Urban Development in Indonesia
Indonesia has long been a recipient of Bank-financed sectoral lending programs. Along with its
growing prosperity, Indonesia's urban areas have also swelled considerably. Today, 28 percent
of Indonesia's total population live in urban areas, and this percentage is projected to grow to
35 percent in the next several years. In turn, rapid urbanization has created income disparities
between higher-income areas that have been settled more recently and lower-income areas.
These income disparities have been exacerbated by disparities in both living and environmental
conditions.
These lower-income areas-known as kampungs-have been the target of several Bank-furnded
urban development programs. The first generation ofprojects were known as Urban I-I-V, their
major component was the Kampung Improvement Program (KIP), an initiative to improve the
physical environment of the kampungs in such areas as housing, footpaths and roads, sanitation,
water supply, drainage, and solid-waste disposal.
Introduction
1.1   Indonesia's rapid urbanization is a phenomenon common to the East Asian region, the most
populated area in the world. The urbanization of Indonesia began in the late 1 960s and early
1970s. Between 1970 and 1980, the urban population grew from 22.6 million to 32.8 million, a 69
percent increase; by 1990, it had grown by another 59 percent, to 55.4 million persons. Today, 28
percent of Indonesia's total population of 175 million persons live in urban areas. With an annual
urban growth rate of 4 percent, the country's urban population will comprise 36 percent of the
entire population by the year 2000.
1.2    But along with the continuous growth in the country's urban areas cane an increased
demand for infrastructural services-housing, water and sanitation, footpaths and roads, and the
like. Urban growth also required an urban development policy that could prioritize investrnent,
pricing, and regulatory decisions to govern how services were delivered, and to redress disparities
between wealthy immigrants and the largely poor urban population. To formulate its urban
development strategy, the government of Indonesia has relied extensively on funding from and the
expertise of the World Bank. The effects of the Bank's significant contribution to urban
development in Indonesia and the urban development strategy of the Indonesian government are the
story of this report.
Objective of the Impact Evaluation
1.3    This impact evaluation analyzes the impacts of four projects in Indonesia: Urban
Development I (Ln. 1040), II (Ln. 1336), III (Ln. 1653), and IV (Ln. 1972). The main objective of
the impact evaluation is to seek a practical and conceptual basis for understanding the medium and
long-term (5 to 10 years after completion) impacts of urban lending in the context of social and
economic development. We believe that such an evaluation is of value because it will (a) increase
our knowledge about the sustainability of urban development, and (b) establish the conditions
under which urban development initiatives meet their goals.
1.4    The projects have had sufficient time after the implementation phase, for the impacts to
become evident. The projects illustrate a case in which the Bank has had a continuous trajectory of



12
financing for urban development. They can be analyzed as a cluster, and are tied to OED audits of
the urban sector in Indonesia. The study is the first OED evaluation of impact in thc urban sector.
1.5    The impact evaluation of the four urban projects in Indonesia is an attempt not only to
complete the history of one of the Bank's most important interventions in the sector, but also to
extract the lessons of what has widely come to be regarded today as an cxample of good practice as
far as urban lending is concerned. (See a brief meihodological discu..s .ion in At1nex A). The
exercise focuses strictly on impact; it looks at results rather than process.
1.6    The main objective of the study was to evaluatc the impact of the clustcr of urbanl projccts
that were implemented over a period of eighteen years. Obviously, such largc scalc operationis can
be expected to have numerous and far reaching impacts. The rcsearch focuscd upoin a linlited
number of impacts only. The main five areas in which we concentrate \%erc: (i) bencficiarics (i c..
socio-economic changes); (ii) physical facilities and urban cnvironmcnit (i.e.. water suppl.
sanitation, traffic, etc.); (iii) real estate market and land/house owncrship: (iv) strcngtlhcnling of
beneficiary institutions; and (v) sustainability (see Table 1. I fior a description).
Organization of This Report
1.7    This report contains seven chapters. The first one discusses the background to tlle stlud
and the process of urban development in Indonesia. Chaptcr Two assesscs howx the KIP
component of the urban projects affected housing and environmncital conditionls in the kampunigs
over time. Chapter Three explores the current environmental conditions of urbani ccntcrs \\hcrc
KIP, sites and services, and city-wide improvements were undertaken. It also addresses othcr
environmental problems that have emerged as the urban development agenda policy has been
undertaken. Chapter Four analyses the impacts of rapidly cmerginlg real estate markets on1
kampungs. The following chapter focuses on communitv participation and consultationi in thc
planning and implementation phases of KIP and discusses variations in the involvcment of
residents in different kampungs. Chapter Six discusses the impact of the four projects on
institutional development in Indonesia's urban sector. Finally. Chapter Seven provides a sulmmiary
of the main conclusions and recommendations.
The Bank's Lending Program for Indonesia: Urban Projects 1, 11, 111, and IV
1.8    The Bank's lending portfolio for Indonesia has been targeted at hclping the government
formulate its urban development program and urban policics overall. The urball dcvelopmncit
program comprised the four Bank-financed projects discusscd in the impact evaluationi study. Their
immediate goal was to support the implementation of the govenrn1nclt's policy to providc much-
needed housing services and basic infrastructure to the many unserned areas in Indoniesiani cities.
The strategy favored the adoption of cost-effective standards of service pro ision, to cnsuLrc their
affordability for low-income groups. Later, the emphasis shifted towards CncoLuraging financial
reforn and institutional development in the urban sector, items on1 the policy agcnda today (Anncx
B discusses the primary objectives, components, and implementation rcsults of thesc and othcr
urban-sector lending activities by the Bank in Indonesia). Bank funds for thesc urban development
projects amounted to US$438.3 million in 1993 dollars; they covered a period from June 1970 (thc
planning of Urban I) to February 1988 (the completion of Urban IV). According to the completion
reports for these four projects, the projects addressed the needs of 4.3 million peoplc and II, 331
hectares in 11 cities (Map 1. 1). Each successive project Nvas targeted at different cities, and
comprised six broad components: Kampung Improvement Programs (KIP). solid-w-aste



13
management, drainage improvement, community health services, land registration, and technical
assistance and training for implementing the projects (Table 1. 2).
Table 1.1: Description of Impact Evaluation Focal Areas
Focal Area                 Issues Covered
Beneficiaries              Changes (if anv) in the socio-economic conditions of the beneficiaries that can be related to
the four urban projects.
Physical facilities and urban   Typically, physical facilities improved in urban projects arc roads, solid \Naste collection.
environrnent               water and waste water, drainage and sewage.
Real estate market and     Impacts on the potential land use changes as well as changes in landlhouses tenure
land/houses ownership
Strengthened of beneficiary    The projects created new inistitutions or provided technical assistance to existinlg ones WVe
institutions               explore it' and how the projects havc changed the way these institutions coIditiuct busineSs a;1 1
result of the projects.
Sustainabilitv             To complete the history of the projects, two underlying issues will he evaltuated the scope
and longevity of the projects. What is the expected life of the ditlerenit kinds of investmiils
made? In other words, how long should the benefits be expected to last '
1.9     Two additional components of the projects also included in this study are the sites and
services program (Jakarta and Denpasar) and the citywide improvement component in Denpasar.
The sites and services program was designed to provide the rapidly expanding urbanized areas of
Jakarta and Denpasar with urban infrastructure. The program consisted of the provision of
subdivided lots (varving in size from 80 to 200 m2), with a minimum-standard corc shclter
(measuring 20 m2) and consisting of a compacted lime and earthen floor. stanchions supporting a
clay-tile roof, bamboo matting walls, and a sanitary core with one septic tank. The Denpasar
citywide improvement concentrated mainly on two services: solid wvaste and water supply.
1.10 As KIP is an urban infrastructure program that did not deliver completed sheltcr units. the
present study findings do not cover all aspects of housing in Indonesia. Important issues, such
housing market and the roles of the public and private sectors are discussed in OED's recently
completed audit of the Indonesia: Housing Sector Loan (Loan 2725), (World Bank, 1995)
What are Kampungs and Kampung Improvement Programs?
1.11    Kampungs are densely populated, primarily low-income neighborhoods (see Box I . I). In
essence, urbanization has taken place around them. They are located in strategic parts of the city.
in the midst of more affluent and expensive neighborhoods, along government centers, and near
shopping areas. In many cases, they are pockets within a larger neighborhood that provides
services. Before KIP were introduced, most kampungs lacked basic urban infrastructure and
services.
1.12  Kampung Improvement Programs have been the primary components of the four urban
projects. They emphasize providing basic "minimum" service standards for maximizing coverage
to even the poorest neighborhood. KIP have included various components throughout the vears, but
they have evolved into a standardized package of eight improvement activities: (1) upgrading and
improving vehicular roads, with associated drains; (2) upgrading and paving footpaths; (3)
rehabilitating and creating kampung-wide drainage; (4) providing garbage bins and collection
vehicles; (5) providing safe drinking water through public taps; (6) constructing public washing
and toilet facilities (MCK) for clusters of kampungs; (7) constructing neighborhood health clinics
(PUSKESMAS); and (8) constructing primary school buildings. The first KIP was initialized in



14
Table 1.2: The Four Urban Development Projects
Project .Namne         (oaolvs0 Ohjectives             Comnponents
Loan No.
C:ost
IBRD loan
('rban centers
IJrban I (1974):      'ro establish a national urban   KrP*: physical infrastructure improveimenits to 1.980) ha. of
Ll1)4()                levelopment program that        kampungs, benetitiiig 890,00()( low-income residents: (ii) sites
US$51 .0 million       would raise the living          and services program*: 13) hia. of new ur-bani lanid w-ith urban
US$25.0t millioin      conditions of the urban poor by   services, subdivided into about 7,93(0 residential lots for sale
Jakarta                improving their access to better   primarily to low-income lIamilies: and (iii) technical
phvsical infrastructure and    assistance: aid for the National I rban Developmenit
hotising.                      Corporation (PERtJMNAS) for managemenlt assistance,
project execution, and preparation.
lJrban U ( 1976):      Io initiate the KWP for         KiP-Jakarta*: physical infrastnicture improvements to 3,(0(0
1 1336                 improving the living conditions   ha. ot kamnpungs, benetitling 1.2 million loW-income
US$104.8 million       of the urban poor outside       residents; (ii) Supratman Prograin-Surabava*: plihsical
US$52.5 million        Jakarta (Surabava).            improvements selected by kamptng residents, who conitribuite
Jakarta and                                            50% of cost. 375 ha. of ktmpting improvemenits, ind (iii)
Surabaya                                              technical assistance to C ipta Karya lor l)roject preparation
iand execution: (i()l property tax improvemenit progiaiu1. imid
teasibility studies Ior urhan projects.
Urban 111 (197X):      To expand the existing KIP in    KIP*: physical improvemenlts to 750) ha., bemmefilitig 2 1,00))
L1653                  Jakarta and Surabava and to     people in Jakarta and 4 secondarv cities: (ii) sohid-N:iste
IJS$96 million         extend it to f-ouir other       management in Jakarta and Surabaya: (iii) drai mnage
US$54 million          secondarv cities and to broaden   improvemeint: (iv) smiall biusinmess development: (v) land
Jakarta, Semarang,     the KIP, including investments   registration assistance:; anEt (vi) techiinical assistance in project
Surabava, Surakarta    for improving general public    planning, desigi., implemenitation, nioniilorinig, aniid
and Ujurng Pandang.    health (e.g., solid-waste       evaluation: and solid-wvaste mianavemient.
managemenit).
UJrban IV (1981):      To implement a nationwide       KIP* physical improvements to I ,()() ha.. benieliting ig0,11()(0
L1972                  KIP; a sites and services       people; (ii) sites and services*: land acquisition anid
US$85.93 million       program; and a strategy for     construction of infrastructure anid houisinig lic0ilitics. (iii)
US$43 million          strengthening the management    Denpasar citv-wide improventemts*: (iv) urbain mnapping
Banjamiarsin,          capabilities ol the Bank        program for about I 0(t large anild mledium-siue citie.S (v)
Denpasar,              Tabungan Negara (BI1N) and      studies and tecliiical assistance (planning aind
Padang,                the National Urban              implementation oftKII': improvement of inunicip. ! ta\
Palenbang,             Development Corporation         collection; training aind the development ol PElRlJMNAS aind
Pontianak and          (PERLFMNAS).                    Bank Tabungan N ega.ra t It IN) fimiictionmng and capabilities)
Sainarinda.
*Components included in this study.
1969 by the government of Indonesia and the city of Jakarta under the first Fivc-Ycar Devclopment
Plan. The first development plan, known as Repelita I, was financed by the govcrnment to upgrade
the infrastructure and services of urban neighborhoods (See Box 1.2). The KIP component as a
share of total lending in the four projects studied here has fallen successivcly--from  70 perccnt in
Urban I to only 32.8 percent in Urban IV. But the Bank has continued its lcnding activities for
Indonesian's urban-sector development in several other projects since Urban 1, as described in
Annex B.
The Macroeconomy During Project Implementation
1. 13 Widespread attention has recently been drawn to the East Asian economic miracle. However,
rapid economic growth is not a new phenomenon in Indonesia. In fact, KIP efforts to redress living
standards in kampungs did not take place in an economic vacuum. Favorable macroeconomic
conditions accompanied the implementation of the four urban projects. as GDP rose and inflation



Map 1.1: Location of urban centers included in the four urban projects under evaluation
IMPACT EVAWAllON STUDY
PIPYINEs                             URMAN DEIOME             PROJECTS
UIs  C^T  W4WDE IN PROJEPVI
i X73                                                         o 1  r,, ,O,
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OT PAh9 OC1F MrR    U,SO 
4 ISL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~P$ank*                   1                 Smnd
I~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      
14 KVAVI~iWWAf
'S KMiAN"70W41J 
46 £MWAN4 *A1M-/ *"%0-
I? 8LiN4)P"V
-W  22                                                                 ___O_      -   23  '           2 
22 IMZIW.GAMaA,
24 MMTw4P4K                #Jo              0OW  OCEAN
#4   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -                                                                                                             C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)-A -LS
~~~ -v                                             ,smor.2.o                      AUSTRALLA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7



16
fell throughout the period (table 1.2). Rising world prices for Indonesian crude oil boosted
confidence in the country's development, attracting external aid to finance large government
investment programs in the infrastructure.
1.14   Indonesia's economic growth is still
strong: GDP per capita stands at more than
twice the level of the 1970s, and inflation is sill
far below it historically highest level. The
country is more prosperous today than it was 
when Urban l-IV were implemented. Poverty
has declined remarkably, affecting only 15
percent of the total population, compared with
more than 50 percent in the 1970s.
1.15   Indonesia's economic transformation has
been particularly dynamic since the 1 970s, when
Urban I-IV projects were prepared and
appraised Oil revenue was largely responsible
for propelling economic growth. In fact, growth   Aerial view of a kanipung in Suabyava.
was so strong that the Bank considered the
government to be the only player in Indonesia's
development during the Urban I-Tv period.           .
Development specialists in the 1 970s did not
identify a major role for the private sector in
Indonesia's economic development program.
1.16   But as international oil prices began to
fall after 1988, the structure of Indonesia's
macro-economy underwent change, affecting the
nature of project financing. Public-sector capital
investment projects, such as those in
infrastructure, had to be rephased in the face of
budget constraints. Public sector investment,
which had been equivalent to 12 percent of GDP
during the 1970s, fell to only 9 percent of GDP.
At the same time, interest rates moved closer to
their market levels, expanding Indonesia's
financial markets and making them more
attractive.                                   Vehicle road inmproved hy KIP in a Surahaya kampung,
featuring a covered drainage system.
1.17   These previous and current macroeconomic conditions have important consequences for
our study. First, any positive impacts of the KIP must be judged against the favorable economic
climate in which they were implemented. On the one hand, positive impacts may have been in part
a function of a sound macroeconomy. On the other, a sound macroeconomy may have led to
improvements in kampungs that were not part of the KIP effort, thus narrowing any impact
differentials between the two. Second, current macroeconomic trends are spurring private-sector
involvement in Indonesia's urban development, thus affecting how externally and publicly funded
projects such as KIP can be pursued in the future.



17
Box 1.1: Kampungs: Classified by Location and Type of Development
By Location
*  Open kampungs: have direct access to principal streets
* Semi-open kampungs: in commercial areas, but "closed" (surrounded) by public buildings
*  Closed kampungs: in inner-city areas, but away from main streets
*  Fringe kampungs: in the periphery of built-up areas; usually with high population growvth
*  "Rural" kampungs: still within the administrative boundaries of cities, bult with a strong rural
atmosphere; easy access to urban facilities
By Type of Development
*  Traditional kampung: mostly old and built by the earliest inhabitants of a citv
*  Built by citY government during colonial period: in strategic locations to provide cheap labor to
wealthy areas
*  Regularized: originally squatters on public land, primarily before the enactment of the basic agrariai
law (land law no. 5/1060) and later "formalized" through the KIP
*  Reclaimed and regularized: very similar to the previous one. but on reclaimed land. primanly coastal
areas, cemeteries, or marshlands.
*  Marginal kampungs: do not conform to land-use plans, and cannot be regularized due to problems of
land rights and/or marginal land, along main storm drains or railroad tracks
Kampung Improvement Programs
The Kampung Improvement Program (KIP) was first introduced during the colonial governiment, when
members of the opposition in the Dutch Parliament demanded more "humane" conditions for local
populations living in urban areas in the colonies. The establishment of municipal governments carly in
the century brought about a renewed interest in the topic of kampung improvement. The first period of
KIP extended 1rom the 1920s to the beginning of World War II. Surabaya and Scmarang started w%ith the
improvement of some kampungs in 1924, an effort initiated by the municipal government.
In the late 1960s, lacking resources for a comprehensive Kampung improvement program, Surab:M% a was
able to offer only limited assistance (concrete slabs and gutters to improve pedestrian ways and local
drainage). Kampung inhabitants had to apply for in-kind assistance and take responsibility for installing
the improvements. This was the beginning of a participatory KIP, known as W.R. Supratmant KIP. The
KIP in Jakarta was supported by Urban Development Project 1. Funding was extended to Surabaya in
Urban II and to other cities in Urban III and IV.
Later Bank-financed projects no longer required communities to raise matching funds, and Bank loans
and contributions from the central government and the Jakarta metropolitan government (DKI) were used
to fund all project components. While DKI continued to manage the projects, the Directorate General of
Human Settlements (Cipta Karya) of the Ministry of Public Works became responsible for providing
technical assistance and monitoring project implementation. While construction standards remained low
to ensure the widest possible geographical coverage, the program developed into a standardized package
of 8 components (listed in the text).



18
Table 1.2: Indonesia: Evolving macroeconomic indicators
Reference        GDP per      .4nnual GDP         Annual         Crude oil     Exchange rate
year           capita        growth (.°)     inflation (%)    price index        (Rp -
(Rp OOs in                                       (1975 -'Sl1.00)
1992 vrices)                                     Rg 100)
1973
(appraisal of         493             11]3            30.9             32              415
Urban I)              +ve             +ve             +ve              +vc            constalnt
1976
(appraisal of         555             6.9             19.8             102             415
Urban ff)             +ve             +ve           constatnt          +v            constant
1978
(appraisal of         616             8.1              1.i             107             6225
Urban lfl)            +ve             +ve             +ve            constant           -vx
1980
(appraisal of         680             9.6             18.5             242             627
Urban IV)             +ve             +ve              -ve             +ve           constillt
1992
1,343           6.3              7.5             154             2,002
+ve             -ve             -ve             -ve              -Vc
Note: +ve/constant/-ve indicates the change in the value of the indicator trom the previous year.
Source: IMF Intemational Finance Statistics.
Did the Urban Projects Achieve Their Physical Targets?
1.18    The four projects were subjected to audits by the Operations Evaluating Departmenlt. The
OED findings indicated that the projects were successful (Box 1.2). In fact. the successive
implementation of the projects reflected the incremental improvements that were made to wvell-tried
solutions that were part of Urban 1.
1.19    But the success of the projects somewhat buries the extensiveness of the problemiis 0.lcing
kampungs at the outset. Although infrastructural and environmental improvements were made.
each successive project continued to confront major physical imn,ediments in the urban sector (as
indicated by the World Bank appraisal reports). The perpetuation of these problems to this day is
also an important topic of discussion in this paper.
Policies and Initiatives That Had an Impact on the Projects
1.20    Current urban development in Indonesia has been the culmination of a long series of
demographic, budgetary, and policy circumstances. Annex C describes the Bank's urban strategy
as agreed during discussions with the GOI. This section discusses still other factors that had an
impact on the results of the study-in particular, initiatives and policies beyond the domain of the
urban projects discussed in the report. They include familv planning, health care and poverty
reduction efforts, industrial and urban growth, and culture and tradition.
1.21    The emphasis placed on reducing population growth rate since the earlv 1970s has had
highly successful and well-published results. It is clear that the 1980-1990 growth rate in
Indonesia has fallen from its 1970-80 level. It is also apparent that population growth in each of
the areas studied has declined. The National Family Planning Coordinating Board has played an
important role in reducing population growxth since its establishment in 1970.



19
Box 1.3 Findings from the OED audits: the success of the incremental approach to urban
development
The OED audits of Urban 1, II, 11, and IV (World Bank 1983, 1986a, and 1994e) found that the projects
surpassed their infrastructural objectives, and that these physical aspects of urban development were more
successful than those reflected by the policy changes introduced in the portfolio later on (Urban Sector
Loan. Loan 2816). The advantage of the "physical approach" in Urban I, 11 III and IV was that both the
Bank and the government knew how to go about doing the job. When replicated in successive operations,
the approach had important benefits.
The audit for Urban I found that the implementation of the KIP component conformed to planning
expectations, and that one of the most important results of the project was the creation of
PERUMNAS-the National Urban Development Corporation. But the more innovative componentis at the
time-such as the establishment of sites and services and the introduction of mortgage financing-wvere
subject to delays. OED's audit of Urban II found that the project successfully continued the already
substantial Jakarta KIP and extended it to Surabaya, the second largest citv in Indonesia. But the audit
expressed concern about the absence of a specific cost-recovery mechanism or meastures to increase local
revenues to ensure that KIP could continue to be financed. Their absence raised doubts about the
sustainability of the component.
The audit of Urban III and IV found that the incremental urban development strategy of successive
projects had a positive impact. The positive impact of KIP investments on the urban poor -was multiplied
as coverage expanded to other project cities. The early projects reflected environmental concerns
implicitly by including infrastructure improvements in water, sanitation, and sewerage. Yet, althotughi KIP
was an "environmentally friendly" investment, it did not guarantee overall improvement in the urban
environment.
1.22   Important developments in health care, poverty reduction, and education have also
emerged in the past 10 to 15 years. Among the more important primary health care improx.rnents
has been the introduction of Mother and Child Health Clinics, POSYANDU. The clinics are run
jointly by the community health centers and the official family velfare organization (PKK). The
clinics are run at the neighborhood level and operate about once or twice monthly. Among other
activities, the clinics monitor the growth of children younger than age 5, identifying those whose
growth rate is below the "red line" and administering supplementary feeding: examine and advise
pregnant women; provide mothers with guidance in family health and nutrition; and operate a
vaccination program. The development of the POSYANDU signaled a major switch in emphasis
from curative to preventive medicine in the early to mid 1980s.
1.23   Since the 1970s, income per capita has increased by 4.5 percent annually. The estimated
60 percent of the population (about 70 million people) who lived in absolute poverty in the 1970s
has declined to about 27 million people, or 15 percent of the population. Infant mortality has fallen
from 225,000 live births in the early 1960s to an estimated 60,000 live births in 1992. Figures for
primary school and secondary school enrollment and for adult illiteracy show equally dramatic
improvements, and life expectancy at birth has increased from 41 to 61, a 50 percent increase.
1.24   Culture and tradition also affect the impacts of the projects. Indonesia has a diversity of
cultures, each with their own traditions, attitudes, and customs. Two of the cities in this study,



20
Jakarta and Surabaya, are located in Java, and the third, Denpasar, is located in Bali. Undoubtedly,
some of the differences between the Javanese cities and Denpasar (such as house sizes) can be
attributed more to culture than to infrastructural improvements. For example, the Javanese,
particularly in East Java, are renown for their community spirit, and mutual cooperation (gotong
royong) is strong; in Bali, the women are known for working in such jobs as laboring and street
cleaning, which women in Java do not do. There is little quantitative evidence for these cultural
differences, but they are noted in the text where applicable.



21
2. Low Cost Investment: Housing and Environmental Improvements
The KIP component of the Urban I-IVprojects induced housing and environmental
improvements for low-income urban households in Indonesia at a low cost of investment
(ranging from US$118 per person in Jakarta to US$23 in smaller cities, 1993 US dollars). The
study found that, given the generally favorable macroeconomic environment that prevailed
throughout the project implementation period, and the positive demonstration effect of KIP,
improvements in non-KIP kampungs have caught up with those in KIP kampungs. There is some
evidence that improvements in non-KlP kampungs were completed at a slower pace when
compared to the rapid and catalytic effect of KIP on those kampungs where it was implemented.
The most positive impact of KIP was the upgrade in the quality of life of kampung residents given
by improved footpaths, lighting, and education and health facilities, living space and reduction
in housing density. In addition, we found that there is much wider access to clean and safe water
(although a high number of people still use unsafe well water), private toilets/septic tanks (which
were more accepted than the public washing and toilet facilities, MCKs, although not emptied
regularly) and less frequentflooding outside their homes. More than two thirds of the
respondents in project areas attributed the improvements in their kampung to KIP. The majority
of respondents also suggested that today's overall environmental conditions in their
neighborhood is better than before KIP was implemented but another third suggested that they
were not completed satisfied Garbage collection (both frequency and quality), for example, was
cited as particular problem.
Background to Analysis
2.1    This chapter assesses how the KIP component of the urban projects affected housing and
environmental conditions in the kampungs over time. The impacts of KIP are measured as the
differential rate of housing and environmental improvements in KIP kampungs and non-KIP
kampungs
2.2   Information for assessing the impacts of KIP comes from a variety of sources (see
methodology in Annex A): (1) survey of residents in seven kampungs in Jakarta, Surabaya,
Denpasar, and two sites and services areas in Jakarta and Denpasar; (2) group interviews with
different sectors of the population; (3) key informant interviews (e.g., national and local
authorities); (4) vworkshop in Surabaya; and (5) expert observations in the field. Point-in-time
comparisons are based on the results of other surveys that were fielded in the various kampungs
throughout the project implementation period.
2.3    Assessing the impacts of KIP is complicated by three factors-the prevailing
macroeconomic conditions during the project implementation period, the nature of the projects
themselves, or the "demonstration environment," and the complexity of the urban context. The
generally favorable economic conditions in Indonesia may have spurred improvements in KIP and
non-KIP kampungs, dampening the effect of the KIP projects themselves. It was also noted in
interviews with community groups and local and national authorities that KIP had "slipover"
effects on non-KIP kampungs, also narrowing impact differentials between the two. As a
consequence, one of the desirable features of KIP was that it served as a model for non-KIP
programs elsewhere in urban areas, broadening infrastructure coverage to other urban areas, and



22
heightening confidence in the private sector overall, creating greater incentives for investment in
urban areas throughout Indonesia.
Cost of Investments
2.4     The KIP component of the four urban projects under study had a low cost of investment,
varying from US$1 18 per person in Jakarta to US$23 in smaller cities (1993 US dollars). There is
a clear direct relationship between investments per capita and per hectare and the population and
area improved.
2.5     When all cities are compared, a direct relationship exists between costs and number of
persons and hectares. That is, with increasing project beneficiaries or area, the project cost
increases. Table 2.1 presents the costs per person and per hectare of improved kampung by project
and by city in 1993 dollars (constant dollars). On average, about US$ 100 were invested per
person, although investments declined from US$I I 8 in Urban I to US$82 in Urban IV over a 14-
year period. Similarly, the average cost per hectare fell from a maximum of US$50,280 in Urban I
to US$20,782 in Urban IV. These reductions can be attributed to experiential effects and the
successively smaller size of the cities in which KIP were implemented.
Table 2.1: Total number of beneficiaries of KIP and hectares improved: cost of KIP per
person and hectare (1993 US. dollars)
Cost       Area      Number of  Cost1person  Cost/hectare         Years of
(US$ 1993  (hectare)      People       ((15$)         (uiSs)    lItmplementation
millions)
U rban 1                                                                                     1974-80
Jakarta                   105       2,080        890,000        118         50,289
Urban !!                                                                                      1976-83
Jakarta                   166       3,435      1,400,000        118         48,243
Surabaya                  15.4       441         236,000         65         34,872
P'roject total          181.4      3,876      1,636,000        111        46,800
Urban III                                                                                    1979-87
Jakarta                  69.2       1,410        504,092        137         49,110
Semarang                 8.48        417         196,658         43         20,331
Surabava                  18.5       908         344,300         54         20,421
Surakarta                3.76        210          51,200         73         17,914
Ujung Pandang             11.0       460         171,000         64         23,902
Project total         110.94       3,405      1,267,250         88        32,581
Llrban IV                                                                                    1981-88
Banjarmasin              6.59        270          86,000         31          9,819
Denpasar                 2.38        430          36,000         23          3,506
Padang                   7.78        310          47,000         99        21,742
Palembang                 10.8       320         157,000         59         24,227
Pontianak                8. 11       430          88,000         63         13,078
Samarinda                5.28        210          85,000         28         54,170
Proiect total          40.94       1,970       499,000          82        20,782
Total all projects       438.3      11,331      4,292,250        102         38,681           1974-88
Sites and services
Jakarta                    41.3                                                               1974-80
Denpasar                  10.58      45.51                                  232,476          1981-88
Source: SARs and PCRs of four projects.
Housing Improvements
2.6     Housing improvements are measured along three dimensions: the quality of wall, flooring,
and roofing materials used in the houses; dimensions of living space, as measured by a number of



23
housing indicators and the type of improvements made by residents in the past four years and those
planned for the fiture.
(juo/il/v ol/Materiols Ilved i17 HIlasing
2.7      Permiancit materials are uscd widelv in both KIP and non-KIP kampungs. In addition.
the qualitN of thc materials used in housing in both KIP and noni-KIP kampungs has improved over
timc to thc point Nhkere housing in both kanipungs is of similar quality  The survcy conducted as
part of the impact evalLiation included three dcgrees of quality of materials used in housing
construction. Higih quality, permanent materials, are defined as brick/ccmcnt or brick walls.
tile/terrazzo floors, and tile or asbestos roofs. Medium-quality, semi-permanent materials, are
cement/Axood Nsalls, ccment floors, and zinc roofs. Low quality. temporary materials, are
bamboo/xNood walls, earthen floors, and wood roofs.
2.8    The ovcrwhelIming majority
--                            ~, of respondents in Jakarta, Surabava.
and Denpasar have brick/cement
-walls, tilc/terrazzo and cement floors.
and tilc and zinc roofs (Table 2.2).
Overall, houscs in KIP and non-KIP
kampungs in these cities are
. *   *  t -1 1 1  *l  ,'    ..    ,i      constructed w\'ith similar materials.
i *   ;- j  But the types of flooring materials
('t,   iiia   _*   : ~used in houses in the KIP and non-
- ,.> . ';           4'          -tKIP kampungs in Jakarta show a
> ,  m    ~yY_ i Y,RP' _  ,      ;   .  _  . ..........     b  differencc. More houses in KIP
x ~                     kampungs use tile/terrazzo. which is a
*;&> ~- *-'                             ihigher-quality material than the type
The roof of a 'high quality' house in a Surabaya kamprung is    of flooring material used in mostly
being improved                                  non-KIP houses-cement. An analysis
of these three components of housing
_                         .<-          -. --quality revealed that the differences
lay not between KIP and non-KIP
_  .  *t  1<    sj w_ t        kampungs in the cities, but between
7EI,i4.                                  the KIP kampungs of the different
cities, which may be due to
v -          t        t           !                  differences in culture.
2.9    A more revealing analysis of
housing-quality differences between
_-       gj. ~4, ,4'                                 KIP and non-KIP kampungs is shown
-   ~ -.   ) .           ,s;              by point-in-time comparisons of wall
r - .   ;       ,,; and flooring material in Jakarta
(Figure 2. 1). We compared the results
of the survey in Jakarta with the
results of two previous surveys, one
Los quality ' housing in a Denpasar kampuJng   conducted in 1976 and another



24
one in 1981 (Taylor, 1983). (Unfortunately, comparable information was not available for
Surabava and Denpasar, nor was information available on roofing materials.)
Table 2.2: Housing materials used in different dwellings (percentage of respondents)
Sile                         No. of                   Type and Quality ofMaterial
Respondents
High Qualitv  AMedium Quality  Low Quality
11 alls                                    Cement/Brick    Cement/Wood  Wood/Bamboo
Jakarta KIP                    50              80              16             4
Jakiirta non-K[P               25               76              16            8
Surabava KU)                   50               88              2             10
Siirahava non-KII'             25               92              4             4
D)enpasar KIP                  25               96              4             0
J-looring                                   Tile tersrazzo   Cement         Earth       Other
.Jakarta KIP                   50               58              38            4           0
Jakarta nion-KIP               25               40             60             0           0
Surabava KIP                   50               46             40             0          14
Surabaya non-Kll'              25               60             16             0          24
Denpasar KIP                   25               72             24             4           0
Roofing                                         Tile            Zinc        Wood       Other'
Jakarta KIP                    50               78             18             0           4
Jakarta non-KIP                25               72             12             0          16
Surabaya KIP                   50               92              6             0           2
Surabava non-KIP               25              100              0             0           0
I)cnpasar KIP                  25               88              4             0           8
vote (a) The other category means asbestos roofing
2.10   The quality and conditions of wall materials have improved in both KIP and non-KIP
kampungs in Jakarta. More houses have permanent walls than either semi-permanent or temporary
walls. Overall, improvements in wall materials in KIP kampungs accelerated more rapidly between
1976 and 1981, right after the project investments, than between 1981 and 1994, and the quality of
walls in KIP and non-KIP kampungs is equal today, 10 years after project completion. In addition
to a sound macroeconomy and the pervasive effect of the KIP on non-KIP kampungs, this
phenomenon could also be explained by the fact that wall improvements are usually less expensive
and make the structure more permanent; thus, more people would be able to afford and prefer
them.
2.11    Conclusions about improvements in flooring material cannot be drawn as easily. KIP
kampungs started with higher-quality floors than did non-KIP kamnpungs and today, the difference
has narrowed down. Improvement in floors was faster in KIP-kampungs during project
investments. By 1981, more than 50 percent of respondents in KIP-kampungs had better quality
floors than those in non-KIP kampungs (about 40 percent). Although many more houses in KIP
kampungs had earthen floors and thus low-quality floors in 1976 than did non-KIP kampungs,
today our survey reported almost none. Reduction in the frequency of flooding in Jakarta due to
KIP-related components could be the primary determinant for improvements in floor quality: less
flooding gives kampung residents an incentive to improve the quality of their flooring.



25
Figure 2.1: Comparison of the Quality of Wall and Flooring Materials in Jakarta
(percentage of respondents with each type of ma erial at each interview  date)
Permanent Walls      |     +       ]                       High Quality Floor         U- 
..k                                                          .  NonKIP
s 1o0.                                                          too
~ 60-                               - -                      60
fio  <                                                       0 8-- ''''t
Z  20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20
a 0                                                          0.  !.
197"       1980        1985       1990        1995           1975       19Y0        1925      1990        1995
Year of SurVy                                               Year oSVy
TemiPermanent Walls    F:                                  MesPoor Quality Floors   I   l KDP
....   . NonKP            |-                                        - NonKCtP
, loot             . . ..                                    too
40l                                                          =f11 401 _r
Z 0                                                            20
L                                           0~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
1970       1980 1985              1990        1995          1975       1980        19-5    1990           1995
Year of Survey                                              Yevr of u-ey
Sonrce lmpaLt Evalua~tcmposrary andaylor                                    Poo1983).Flor
2. 12  Te surve  in thesites  nd servces ares showe  a draatic inrease i the qulity Ko
to                                                        :4   . . .1   0  .    .....    .   ...
40                                                          401
20                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
of cop-te  lieaderhnfor,ca-ieros an  babomtigwal  W rdBn
198715   19Drn0        19t 9 fi   19r90 1t99 y              197 7       19or       19w5        19r9e0     199w 
Year ofSurvy                                                Year ofsvy
2ownpay ent srveside  in the  sitespos a                a reas Qshlityowed             to mase Flomohe qaio
cement and/or brick and their floors to tile or cement since then.
Dimensions of Living Space and Kampung Density
2. 13    A  series of housing indicators were compiled to analyze and compare the present housing
conditions in KIP and non-KIP kaimpungs in Jakarta and Surabaya. Table 2.3 presents average
values per site for a selective number of housing indicators. There is an apparent pattern that
emerges from these figures, KIP kampungs: (I) present larger lots (lot size); (2) are less densely



26
built (houses per hectare and building coefficient (percentage of lot covered by a structure); and
(3) are less densely populated (number of persons living in each dwelling and space per person
(m2) than in non-KIP kampungs for each city. The number of rooms occupied was the only
indicator that did not show a clear difference between KIP and non-KIP in Surabaya. This is not
always a significant indicator because we observed that some people were sub-dividing rooms into
smaller ones without increasing the actual dwelling dimensions. It can be concluded that KIP has
improved the living space and reduced housing density in kampungs where it was implemented.
Table 2.3: Indicators of dimensions of living space and kampung density.
(A1figures shown are averages by type ofsite).
Site         Lot size    lohuses. eh.   Building    Number of    ?n1 per   Number of
(mUl-)               (vCoefficient    persons   person       rooms
(0o)      living in                occupied
d(tvelling
..... .   ..... .                                   .. . ..     .    ..   ..     .  .   . ..  . . . .. . .. ..  ..... .... ....   ,- -- -- --
Jakarta
KIP     140          73           8(          6.6          21           7.6
non-KIP      57         176          93           7.6         7.5          5.7
Surabava
K1}     12()         84           8(          5.8          21           7.5
non-KJI'    9()         111          96          6.4           14          7.7
Physical Improvement in the IPast four Years and/lbr the Future
2.14   An earlier evaluation in Jakarta by Taylor (1983) found that investments in KIP kampungs
were significantly greater, and that houses in KIP kampungs were in better condition than those in
non-KIP kampungs. This survey was completed right after Urban I and 11 were completed (early
1 980s). Differences in home improvement expenditures between KIP and non-KIP kampungs in the
1983 study were statistically significant. For all households, the average difference in investmnent
between the two groups was about US $220. When Taylor examined only homeowners, he found
that the difference was greater-about US$300 (US$550 in KIP kampungs, compared with US$247
in non-KIP kamnpungs). Our study found that this difference no longer exists in Jakarta and
Surabaya. Thus, it is likely that greater investments in kampung housing occurred at the outset,
and that over a period of time, the focus of investments shifted to investments in routine
maintenance and repairs.
2.15   Residents in Jakarta, Surabaya, and Denpasar were asked whether they had made any
house repairs in the past four years and whether they were planning to make any in the near future.
The majority of residents in both KIP and non-KIP kampungs in Surabaya and Denpasar
(approximately 70 percent) did make repairs in the past four years. Conversely, only 40 to 45
percent of respondents in Jakarta did so. Furthermore, more than 75 percent of respondents in
Jakarta and Surabaya are not planning any repairs in the near future. Only about two-thirds of the
respondents in Denpasar are planning future repairs.
2.16   The pattern of actual and planned improvements may be a function of when the respective
urban projects were implemented. The fewer actual and planned improvements in Jakarta may be
due to the fact that it was the initial target city of Urban 1, implemented much more than four years
ago. Surabaya was targeted under Urban 11, but received the bulk of its investment activity as part
of Urban 111, just slightly more than the "four years ago" categorv in the survey. Denpasar, part of



27
Urban IV, received its KIP investment more recently. Thus, the bulk of both actual and planned
physical improvements in Jakarta may have been played out long ago under the KIP investment, in
Surabaya, physical improvements may have reached their peak, and thus little more is planned. In
Denpasar. both actual and planned improvements may now be peaking under the KIP investment.
2.17   It seems apparent that housing improvements, mainly walls and flooring, dimensions in
living space and timing of housing improvements are related to the timing of KIP investments. The
KIP kampungs reccived an influx of beneficiary funds for improvements right after KIP
investments. This was evident in Jakarta, where most people had already made the major housing
improvements at the time of the study and are not planning any more investment, while in
Denpasar. improvements are still going on. Wall, and to a lesser extent, floor improvements, had a
jump in their quality after KIP investments compared to the non-KIP kampungs. The more
spacious living areas in KIP kampungs also confirmed the better living conditions existent in KIP
kampungs. Thercfore. KIP kampungs reached a better living quality faster than non-KIP
kampungs. The duration of the KIP effect is not clear, but in Denpasar, it seems that, today after
six years of project completion, housing improvements and repairs are still going on. This could be
a topic for further investigation.
Improvements in Environmental Conditions: Neighborhood Facilities Assessed by Residents
and Interviewers
Ove rvi c w of As.sessments
2. 18   Residents of kampungs in Jakarta, Surabaya. and Denpasar were asked to assess the
conditions of the following neighborhiood facilities: nearest motor road and footpath, water
facilities, drainage, garbage collection, sanitation, lighting, and education and health facilities.
They were also asked to rate the overall environmental conditions of their kampungs. The majority
of resident respondents perceived that their neighborhood facilities had either improved or had not
deteriorated. But although 66 and 76 percent of the respondents suggested that overall conditions
had improved, more than a third of the respondents who indicated that the overall environmental
conditions were the same might imply a negative attitude towards or dissatisfaction with the
environmental conditions. That is, although KIP has improved the overall environmental conditions
of the kampungs (see below), indications are that residents do not consider the improvements, and
hence the environmental conditions, to be completely satisfactory.
2.19   Each of the interviewers also had to provide observations about the neighborhood facilities
nearest to the interview site, as well as overall environmental conditions. For the most part,
neighborhood facilities were classified as "good" by expert observers, regardless of whether the
facilities were improved under KIP. Residents and expert observers thus concur that facilities and
conditions have improved. Of specific facilities, footpaths, lighting, and education and health
facilities had improved according to respondents (except in the non-KIP kampung in Surabaya).
But almost 90 percent of the residents of the non-KIP kampung in Jakarta were dissatisfied with
sanitation facilities. Garbage collection was cited as a particular problem by many residents. Up to
15 percent of the residents in some kampungs believed that garbage collection facilities were worse
now than they were before the improvement programs were implemented. Perhaps these residents,
whose garbage is collected just once a week, want more frequent service, and this is the source of
their dissatisfaction. But the interviewers also cited the poor quality of garbage collection in all
cities and kampungs-particularly in Denpasar, where almost 50 percent of the observers cited that



28
garbage collection was poor. Overall, cross-check of the responses of residents and the
observations of interviewers showed that their rating of facilities agreed in the majoritv of cases.
2.20    Rcsidents were also asked to identify the public programs that contributed to
improvements in their kampungs-either the KIP or a series of non-KIP programs (Table 2.4) 2
About 68 and 60 percent of the respondents in improved kampungs in Jakarta and Surabava,
respcctively. responded that KIP was the main contributor to the improvements. Conversely, only
28 pcrccnt of the Denpasar KIP kampung residents attributed the improvements to KIP; more than
half (56 percent) did not answer this question. Residents in non-KIP kampungs in Jakarta and
Surabava attributed improvements in their kampungs largely to other community participation
programs (X8 and 70 percent, respectively).
Acc.ss to  )rinking Water
2.21     The majority of residents in KIP kamnpungs have water piped into their homes-an
improvement that can be attributed, in part, to KIP.3 Residents of non-KIP kampungs rely heavily
on street vendors. But many rcsidents in both the KIP and non-KIP kampungs also use
groundwater from  wells-which is polluted in man) cases by the salinity of coastal aquifers. Thus,
universal access to safe water is still a major problem  in Indonesia's urban centers.4 A clean supply
of surface water has major health benefits. It also reduces the cxtraction of groundwater, reducing
the hcalth risk from polluted wells where they are used as the main water supply.5 Thus, in some
kampungs. peoplei may have to be persuaded to start paying for their water supply despite the
availability of a free supply of groundwater.
2.22     The survcy asked residents which of four sources of water (private and shared piped water,
well water, -water from street vendors, and water from their neighbors) they used for two purposes:
drinking/cooking and bathing/washing (table 2.4). Although more than half of the respondents are
supplied with clean water from water companies, many respondents also rely on water from other
sources. For instance, about a third of the non-KIP kampungs rely on street vendors and/or
neighbors, and respondents in all sites (except the non-KIP kampungs in Jakarta) rely heavily on
well water. According to the SAR for Urban I (World Bank, 1974a), in 1976 about 50 percent of
the Jakarta population relied on groundwater and about 40 percent on street vendors for their water
supply. Thus, there has definitely bcen improvement on this account. The fact that none of the
respondents in the non-KIP kampung in Jakarta use well water reflects its poor quality, caused
-. Residents were given four choices of improvement programs: KIP, INPRES grants, DIP, and Swabava Masyarakat (community
participation programs). The latter includes a variety of small-scale programs organized at the local level and emphasizing
community participation and donated kampung labor. They are common on a small-scale throughout the cities of Indonesia. Finances
for materials may come from central or provincial grants to villages ("Bangdesa or INPRES Desa) or may be collected from among
the kampung dwellers.
3 The lirst piped in water was brought in by KIP. Once the main pipeline was in place, it was easy and inexpensive to develop the
system to provide supply to the individual houses. The KIP components ofthe four urban projects under evaluation also provided
public water standpipes as a source of clean water for the kampungs. One ofthe survey households now use standpipes for drinking
or cooking, and only one uses this public supply for washing/bathing.
4 Sate water is delined as treated surface waters available from either standpost or house connecting or untreated but
uncontatminated waters, such as trom protected springs.
A surface water supply also reduces subsiding urban land, damage to urban infrastructure, the incidence ot flooding, and damage
to fisheries when compared to groundwater supply.



29
largely by saltwater intrusioln. Still another interesting finding is that the use of shared water from
water companics scemis to be a Jakarta kampung phenomenon.
Table 2.4: Program responsible for kampung improvements according to respondents
(percentfoge ofr e.s'o 'ntsH).
,A'o. of     KIP       INPRES        DIP      Community    No answer
Xaie o) f.swv et              re.Apondents                                     participation
Jakarit Kll'                5(                  68         18         20             26                2
Jakartat noit-KIll          25                   4          0          8             92                0
Stuahava Kll'               5(                  60          2          6             48               20
SurabaNa non-klu'           25                  16          0          4             60               32
D)cnpasar KuI '             25                  28         12          0             16               56
,vwc I ccau,ic reidcnts .ouild ctipond to more than one option. totals do not sum to 100%
Table 2.5: Source of water for cooking/drinking and washing/bathing
('pcrL'entag,'e of re.'xondenls).
(11 .Ile            Private waler companY    Shared water                    Purchasedfrom
suppMv               company                 street vendor and/or
supplv         Well          neighbor
lanal I tlingt (1KI')                     72                 8           32               12
Manggirai (KlI'i                          24                 4            72               4
'enijrritita (iano-Kll')                  80                 8            0               40
Malak Sari (stes and scivices)            83                 0            50               0
.Nnob t/'(.ll'J
Sawahan (K!')                             56                 0            48              36
(ie:itenig (Kit')                         80                 0            64              16
Jagir Omni-Kl')                          56                 0            60              32
I )enpasart
D)auh Punri (KIP)                         44                 0            76               0
Tcgal Kerti(sites and services)           100                0            0                0
.VoIe Sonme karnpung residents use more than one source of water.
2.23    It is interesting to note that despite the availability of safe piped drinking water from
private companies, manv residents are still relying heavily on well water (as in Manggarai, where
KIP did not provide water connections and during our studies field work, residents frequently
complaincd about the bad qualitv of public water). This may reflect the perception by many of the
interviewcd residents that piped water is of poor quality (taste and smell) and quantity (low levels
of availability). This is a phenomenon occurring in both KIP and non-KIP kampungs and also in
the sites and services areas. However, there is a difference between KIP and non-KIP kampungs
when we consider the number of people still relying on street vendors, usually a more costly option
(Table 2. 6).
Table 2.6: Percentage of households that buy water                 Sanitation
from  street vendors, by KIP and non-KIP                            2.24    The type of toilet and its
Site               Jakarta      Surabava   Denpasar
KIP karnpungs           I o         6              0              ownership differs significantly
Non-KUI'               36          28              0              between the Jakarta KIP and the
kampungs                                                          Jakarta non-KIP kampungs.
Vore No sites and services area residents answered positive to this question. Table    Differences between the Surabaya
2 5 aggregates water puirchased from street Xvendors and neighbors.  KIP and non-KIP kampungs and



30
among the KIP kampungs in the three
cities were not significant. By far the
majority of kampung residents have
privately owned closet toilets with
septic tanks. This is a great
improvement, at least for Jakarta
where, according to the SAR Urban I
(World Bank, 1 974a), most houses
flushed their sanitary wastes into open
ditches along the roadside.
Furthermore, this improvement in
private toilets has been sustained more
effectively during the project period
than have public/community sanitation
facilities (MCKs) as discussed later.
2.25   However, toilets in many
households in Jakarta and Denpasar
still empty directly into canals or rivers.
In the Manggarai KIP kampung in
Jakarta, where a KIP footpath was   Solid and humal  waste dispoval in inner-city waterways is a
constructed in the front of the houses,
the toilets at the back often emptied into
the canal. Additional information from
group interviews showed that manv
septic tanks are rarely emptied,                           Jrv
suggesting that they may be leaking
into and polluting the soil and
groundwater, or overflowing into
drainage ditches, posing serious health    I
hazards, especially during the rainy
season. Similar conclusions were
reached by a recent study on the quality
of the water supply in Surabava
(Collier and Santoso, 1992).
2.26   Urban I and II proposed that    Dailyfloodinig in Petnjaringan, a non-KIP kanmpung.
community sanitation facilities (MCKs)
be built. Only about 25 of the respondents indicated that they use MCKs (13 percent of all
residents). Eleven of them live in the non-KIP kampungs of Jakarta (provided by a private
entrepreneur) and seven in one of the KIP kampungs of Surabaya showing the lack of success of
this component.
Drainage/Flooding
2.27 Improved drainage has helped reduce flooding-a direct impact of KIP investments: 61
percent of the respondents in the KIP kampungs said that they had no flooding in or outside their
homes, compared with 32 percent of respondents in the non-KIP kampungs. Furthermore, 80
percent of the residents in Jakarta non-KIP kampungs said that there they have an open drainage



31
system (or no drainage system at all) near their dwellings, and that they have monthly or yearly
flooding problems. However, conditions in one of Surabaya's kampungs have reportedly
deteriorated, in that drainage levels and backlogs have occurred at the entrance to the main drain
since KIP was implemented.
2.28   The KIP in Denpasar was implemented during a period of rapid development, when much
of the land was being converted from rice fields into housing and commergial areas. The
construction of roads and drains at this time was vital to reducing environmental problems
associated with access and flooding. Other environmental problems have emerged in Indonesian
urban areas where canals and rivers are widely used for the disposal of rubbish and sewage.
During periods of low flow, backups occur because the drains are not cleaned regularly. The
survey in the sites and services areas did not indicate any flooding or drainage problems.
Indirect Impacts Around Improved Areas
2.29   Areas outside the sites and services program areas were visited in both Jakarta and
Denpasar. In both cases, but particularly in Denpasar, the indirect impacts of the project were
clearly visible. In Denpasar, the sites and services area is near the center of town, but on the other
side of the river. There was no bridge before the project, and the jourey to town was quite far
despite its proximity. A bridge was constructed as part of the urban project, and the entire area has
opened up, and hastening the rate of economic development. Not only has the sites and services
program brought in a new population of consumers, it is also close enough to the center to make it
accessible to consumers. Many shops and food stalls have opened up, and several motorbike shops
and workshops have opened up along the road adjacent to the sites and services. The active
construction has attracted many migrant workers, who have since settled on the land around the
project area. Maybe the largest gains were made by one of the original farmers who owned rice
paddies in the middle of the proposed site. He refused to sell his land, and the sites and services
area was built around rice paddies. Ten years later, he divided the land up into plots, on which
some large houses are being built.
2.30   In Jakarta, many original residents still live around the site. They say that they have been
able to benefit from a more active economy and that they now have plenty of work opportunities. If
they want to work outside the area, they now have access to public transport systems. In Surabaya,
KIP did stimulate improvements in individual housing, more than the public housing delivery
program, which is much more expensive. KIP is apparently a housing "delivery" program,
providing high-quality housing at almost no cost to public resources.
Conclusions
2.31 Considering the complexity of urban processes in an eighteen year period, it is difficult to
demonstrate with certainty the magnitude of housing and environmental improvements, at the
kampung level, that were a direct or indirect impact of the KIP, or of other components of the four
urban projects under evaluation. The time that has elapsed since KIP was implemented and the
country's economic growth also help explain why improvements in the dwellings and community
infrastructure of most non-KIP kampungs have caught up to those in KIP kampungs. As was
mentioned in chapter 1, the macroeconomy in Indonesia during the appraisals of Urban I-IV was
buoyant, with a rising GDP per capita and falling inflation. As households have greater income,
they invest more in shelter. As per capita GDP increases, the total value of housing and domestic
assets associated with the median household in the country also increases.



32
2.32   Given improved economic conditions in the country, we can assume that the post
implementation period for the four projects was one in which both KIP and non-KIP kampungs
would have improved as well. However, the time periods in which the KIP and non-KIP karnpungs
achieved their improvements differed. The conditions in KIP kampungs differed widely from those
in non-KIP kamnpungs immediately after the KIP was implemented. Thus, the projects succeeded in
impacting the quality of housing and the environment in the kampungs where they were
implemented. As shown in this chapter, indicators for the improvement are provided by overall
housing quality, living dimensions and amount of residents investments. We found that the level of
improvements and the amount of investments are more significant immediately after project
investments. Subsequently, the improvements and investments level-off and other kampungs, not
under KIP evolve to achieve similar conditions. Our sources emphasized the importance of the
KIP experience as a prototype for investments and improvements in other areas.



33
3. Persisting Environmental Degradation in Urban Areas
At the cit," idet level, environmental conditions have deteriorated particularly in areas where
rapid population and economic growth has increased the demandfor urban infrastructure
services. Des pite the improvements effected by KIP under Urban I-IV the environment in major
Indonesian cities continues to deteriorate, exacerbated by population growth. The urban
environmental challenge in Indonesia today isfar greater than it was when Urban l-IV were
imq)lemented, andl much must still be done to head off the collision course between urban growth
and environmental conditions. for example, Denpasar, an area of rapid urban growth, exhibited
verv bads olid waste management practices. Drainage was not integrated with road upgrading
causing flootling ptroblemzs afier roads were raised higher than house floors (Jakarta and
I )enpasr). In addition, drainage systems were not connected with broader infrastructure
causinig backlogs al thie entrance qf the city wide drainage systems, increasingflooding and
hreeding ground.s fr disease-carrying insects (Surabaya). At both the kampung and citywide
levels, thce pro/ects did not fibresee some future environmental problems, such as increased traffic
congestion and aiir pollution. And althozugh the design standards of KIP, such as the width of
foo)lpaths. has helped increase access to fire-fighting units, the use of modernflammable
hbuildlinig materials ncnd overcrowding have increased the risk offire.
The Problem
3.1    In the past 25 years, Indonesia has achieved remarkable success in such areas as income
levcls, the reduction of poverty, life expectancy at birth, and the coverage of primary education.
But environmental conditions of urban centers have deteriorated sharply in recent years as
portrayed in a recent Bank report: Indonesia. Environment and Development: Challenges for the
hIuture (World Bank, 1 994a). The report suggests actions by the Bank and Indonesia's government
to address the dire problem (box 3.1). This chapter should be a reminder that, although the
goNernment's urban development policy and urban projects I-IV have dramatically improved
conditions in low-income urban areas, much must still be done at both the kampung and citywide
level to address the sensitive balance between complex urban services and a delicate environment.
3.2    The previous chapter analyzed the impacts of the four urban projects at the scale of
kampungs and neighboring areas. Some components of these projects, such as solid-waste
management and drainage and flood control programs, were designed to have an impact at the
citvwvide level. This chapter explores the current environmental conditions of urban centers where
those components were implemented. It also addresses other environmental problems that have
emerged as the urban development agenda policy has been implemented. We will evaluate the
impacts of these projects on the environmental components and present environmental conditions
on the basis of primary and secondary data (maps, reports, and interviews) at the city-wide level.
Much Must Still be Fixed: Solid-Waste Management, Drainage Networks,
Flooding Risk, and Water Quality
3.3    As discussed in chapter 2, physical improvements in such areas as garbage collection,
sewerage, and drainage were crucial components of the urban projects. Although some of these
"facilities" were improved in the kampungs, they fell far short of meeting any standards for
environmental quality.



34
Box 3.1: Environmental Conditions in urban areas
The recent Bank report Indonesia. Environment and Development: Challenge for the Future (World Bank,
1994e) reached three major conclusions:
1. Indonesia's economic growvth will be predicated on its industrial growth,,in turn spurring growth in
urban areas.                                                 i
2. Air and water pollution in urban areas is projected to increase considerably, posing formidable
challenges to controlling emissions. But because most of the pollution in the future will come from
households or industries that do not yet exist, the incidence of environmental hazards can be
controlled and prevented.
3. Natural resources have been an important source for economic development in the past 25 years.
They will become even more important in the next 25 years. Conflicts over the use of land, water,
and
forestry resources will become increasingly fiercer.
Both Indonesia's government and the academic world have increased their recognition and awareness of
these issues in the past 10 years. These issues were not part of the urban agenda at the time the urban
projects were implemented. Looking to the future, the Bank report on the environment and urban
development provides the following recommendations:
*   Future initiatives should build on existing government processes and institutions.
*   The gaps that still exist between Bank and government strategies toward the environment and
decentralization should be narrowed
*   A better understanding of Bank and government rules and regulations should be reached.
*   Government initiatives in community participation should be encouraged further.
*   Local governments will require more resources.
*   Methods for storing institutional memory and baseline data should be developed.
Solid- Waste Management: A Growing Health Hazard
3.4    Context. Solid-waste management-in-site waste collection, transportation, and
disposa-is a critical problem in Indonesian cities. At the local level and in our survey, many
residents complained about the irregularity and poor quality of collection services, which is due in
part to the wide range of collection services found at the community level. In particular, inefficient
fee collection adversely affects service performance. Poor solid-waste management practices create
breeding grounds for disease and groundwater contamination. In waste dumping sites, surface
drainage, leachates, and methane gas and pest generation are uncontrolled and little, if any,
additional mechanical compacting is undertaken. Land suitable for landfill sites is becoming
scarce. But despite the presence of scattered waste and smells from decomposing garbage, the
public continues to dump solid waste in open areas, rivers, and canals.
3.5    According to a recent Bank report (World Bank, 1993), waste generation in Jakarta
increased by 6 percent annually between 1980 and 1990, to an estimated 21,900 m3 daily. In
Surabaya, waste generation is expected to increase at a rate of about 5 percent from 1990 to 2000,
from its current estimate of 5,000 m3 daily. In Jakarta, according to the same report, as many as 26
percent of the households are reportedly dumping their garbage at random; as many as 18 percent
are burning their garbage. Another 15 percent of households are composting and burying their
solid-waste disposal. JICA (1987) estimated that about 40 percent of the waste generated in



35
Jakarta in 1986 ultimately found its way into informal sites, and as much as 30 percent reached
rivers and canals. About 50 percent of the solid-waste in Jakarta is generated by households.
3.6    In Surabaya, the World Bank (1993h)
reports that as much as 15 percent of solid waste
goes uncollected, and an additional 16 percent is   ' - .
collected but disposed of in "unidentified places."               --    ---           ,,      _
But Surabava has achieved some success in cost
recovery for solid-waste services, recovering 30
percent of its allocated solid-waste management        --
budget. About 70 percent of the solid waste is    .  .
gencrated by households.           --
3. 7    Evaluation Results. With its community      =
participation and ownership components, KIP
provided households with incentives for handling   5       .       9                   a      ;
their solid waste, more judiciously, serving as             -          -
model for more efficient collection in wider areas. The waste in this landfill, near Surakarta, Java is
Today. according to our survey, most residents    not mechanicaliv treated or cosnpacted.
use private or shared bins, although many
residents complain about the quality of collection
services.
3.8    The largest visible difference in solid-                     0.    ..
waste management was found not between KIP
and non-KIP kampungs but among the three
cities (table 3. 1). The three kampungs in
Surabava were far cleaner than those in
Jakarta-primarily because a greater percentage
of people in Surabaya use shared bins. In fact,
Surabava has won several national and
international awvards for the cleanliness of its  r4-. -                   ..- 
strects.
3.9    Exacerbating the problem of solid waste
management in kampungs are the high prices     Rubbish is dumped without authorization into the
charged for garbage collection (about Rp       river in Central Denpasar, Bali.
1,300/month (US$0.45) in both KIP and      Table 3.1: Methods of Waste Disposal
non-KIP kampungs). Many people simply      (percentage of respondents)
choose not to pay, especially in the many                  Privat )  hared   Pit  River  Other
sites where garbage disposal is encouraged                   Bin      Bin
by owners in order to build up their land  Jakarta KIP       86       12       2    0        0
(Chapter 5 discusses the free-rider issue in    Jakarta non-KIP    68  32      0    0       0
more depth).
Surabaya KIP    4X)       58       0    (1       2
3.10   Solid waste component in            Surabaya non-KfP  72       24             0       4
Denpasar. A visit was made to the landfill    Denpasar KIP   68       8        4    8        1 2
site outside Denpasar, one of the
components of the citywide improvement      Sites and Services   10() (n       0 n 



36
program.6 Its most striking feature wvas the absence of anv facility for treating or detoxifying the
leachate from it. The black leachate seeps out into drains, where it accumulates until either high
tide takes it out to sea or rainwater washes it there. The section of the coastline where the landfill is
located is situated just around the coast from Sanur beach, a major tourist resort. One of its
greatest negative impacts is on the coral that grows along this part of the coastline; much of it has
already been killed by pollution. The coastline is currcntly being replanted with a specific type of
mangroves, which are more tolerant to the effects of pollution. The impact on the rest of the coastal
ecology is unknown.
3.11    Denpasar exhibited the worst solid-waste management practices, which seemed to be due
to a lack of awareness by the community. In fact, the Denpasar kampung has the fewest number of
residents who use bins, either shared or private. Impeding Denpasar's waste-management process
is the amount of land that is currentIy being converted from rice paddies into other uses. Many
owners are trying to raise the levels of their lots to stop flooding. They thus allow, and even
encourage, their neighbors to dump rubbish there as fill. For instance, in Bali, we asked one long-
time resident why peoplc threw so much of their rubbish in the river. He replied that it no longer
mattered, since the rice paddies downstream had disappeared. His statement was ironic,
considering that the river empties onto Kuta beach, where the current money earners of Bali swim.
But it also reflects public lethargy about solid-waste management.
3.12   Another interesting featurc of the landfill is the recycling system. Hundreds of scavenger
families have moved over from Java and earn income by recycling the solid wvaste disposed here
(see box 3.2). The scavengers have contract agreements with sanitation department truck drivers
for scavenging along specific routes. The most prized routes are those that run past large tourist
hotels. Prime items for collection include plastic film containers and shampoo bottles. In light of
the absence of sanitary landfills, the scavengers are reducing the amount of landfill by recycling
some garbage. However, the authorities are reluctant to acknowledge that they exist. Hence, they
are left outside administrative boundaries and have little or no access to even the most basic
services, such as schools and clean water.
Drainage Systems and Open .Sewers
3.13    Context. Drainage in urban centers creates human- and solid-waste management problems,
because most drainage channels function essentially as open sewers. According to the World Bank
(1993h), four factors are responsible for the dearth of adequate drainage systems: (1) few central
sewage collection systems are available; (2) the on-site sanitation facilities used by urban
households are poorly designed and maintained; (3) residents dispose of "grey matter" (kitchen and
bath waste water) into open drains, and (4) solid-waste disposal is uncontrolled.
3.14   The 1989 National Social and Economic Survey of urban households on "ditch water
conditions" found that nearly 30 percent of households either do not have a drainage ditch or have
a ditch with stagnant or slowly flowing water at their houses. In fact, the survey found that nearly
30 percent of urban households complain of 'stagnant water and garbage odor" in the vicinity of
their residence. Furthermore, a 1992 survey of kampung residents found that one of the main
environrmental problems in kampungs was indeed blocked drains (PT, Intersys Kelola Maju, 1992).
. In addition to the solid-waste management component of the citywide improvement program in Denpasar under Urban IV, the
project included finding for extending the water supply system in Bali. This component was not evaluated.



37
Box 3.2: Environmental Jobs?
Mr. Agus, his wife, and four children arrived from Java three years ago. They live in a temporary house at
the edge of the landfill site. He pays Rp.75,000 each year to rent the Jand from the owner. Land is
becoming expensive with the arrival of so many scavengers; this is the third house he has built, because
high rents forced him out of his two previous houses.
Mr. Agus has a contract with a local chicken farmer, whereby he buys the truckload of feathers that are
brought to the site. He then dries the feathers, repacks them, and resells them to the farmer to be used as
feed. His children also help scavenge for sellable goods on the landfill tip. He says that they can earn more
money on a regular basis here than they could as landless farm laborers in Java. They do not have a
supply of clean water, and must travel a long way by bicycle to fetch it. The drain that is filled with black
leachate at the back of the house is their toilet. Mr. Agus's wife shops in Denpasar and if the children are
ill she takes them to the hospital. Because they do not belong to a village, they cannot join the family
welfare clinics. Last year when the tip was on fire for months at a time, all the children became sick with
chest infections. The children do not go to school. Despite everything, they feel that they are not too badly
off. They can save enough from their scavenging to take the entire family back to Java once a year.
3.15    Evaluation Result.s. After road levels were raised under the KIP in Tanah Tinggi (Jakarta)
and Banjar Busung Yeh Kaning (Denpasar). many kampung residents rcported that the level of
their house was lower than the level of roads; thus, despite the new drains. rainwvatcr drained into
their homes. To overcome this problem, they raised the level of the floor in their houses. They also
encountered additional problems when the flow of canals and rivers, which are widely used for
rubbish and sewerage disposal, was low. Because drains are not clcaned out regularlv. they
frequently become blocked.
Flooding Risk
3.16    Context. Flooding in the mostly low-lying urban centers of Indonesia is another
environmental hazard associated with the drainage problem, primarilv because the drains are not
maintained properly. In addition to the health hazards posed by flooding, as water contaminated by
solid and human waste comes into direct contact with households and creatcs water pools that
breed disease-carrying insects, flooding causes extensive damage to property and leads indirectly to
lost income.'
3.17    Another reason for the high risk of flooding is the topography of many urban areas.
According to a DKI Jakarta study, about half of the city of Jakarta is located in Zones I and 11,
where "urban development should be avoided."' The map at the end of the report presents a
striking view of flooding risk for the city in addition to other physical constraints for development.
3.18    Evaluation results. Reduced flooding has often been cited as one of the major benefits of
KIP. A positive impact however was not achieved in all sites. Residents in one of Surabaya's
kampungs consistently reported that conditions have deteriorated since KIP, because a change in
drain levels creates backlogs at the entrance to the main drain. In two impact evaluations of
7 Flooding cost the city of Jakarta an estimated Rp.47 million in 1988 (JICA., 1991), partly because the drainage network was
reduced to 2 percent ofthe total area, far below the estimated 7 percent that should be reserved as waterbodies given the urban
topography of Jakarta
DKI plans for new guided development areas are not located in this area (DKI, 1991)



38
kampung development, one of the criticisms leveled at KIP was that improvements in one area had
a negative impact on residents in neighboring areas (LP3ES 198 la, 1982g). For instance, in areas
where the drainage infrastructure was improved, its contents emptied into an area that did not yet
have a drainage system. Thus, some of the improved infrastructure was not integrated effectively
with broader infrastructure.
The Quality and Quantity of Water in Urban Centers: Another Sign of Environmental
Deterioration
3.19   Context. One of the major problems with the quality of water in Indonesia is the
concentration of fecal contamination from human waste and toxic metals from industrial sources
that reach the groundwater. In fact, most sources of ground and surface water in Indonesia are not
safe for drinking. A survey of about 30 shallow wells conducted in the dry season of 1989,
primarily in north and central Jakarta, showed that all but two had signs of fecal contamination,
and 73 percent had traces of ammonia (World Bank, 1994b). Tapwater samples taken in Jakarta in
1992 revealed a 73 percent rate of coliform contamination, with a 55 percent rate in drinking water
from wells.
3.20   The quantity of water is also becoming scarce. The heavy reliance on groundwater by
industries and households in large urban areas, particularly in the cities of the north coast of Java,
cannot continue indefinitely (World Bank, 1994b). The current level of groundwater extraction in
Jakarta, for example, is causing saltwater intrusion into aquifers that extend up to 15 km south
from the coast, as well as land subsidence of between 4 to 9 cm annually, endangering the
structural stability of buildings. In addition, the demand for water in Jakarta exceeds the supply of
the city's water authority. A recent law adopted by the DKI Jakarta government to allow the
construction of high-rise buildings of up to 60 stories will present challenges to both structural
engineers and water-resource specialists. Other problems with water supply include increased
flooding and waterlogging, and the aggravation of groundwater pollution from septic tanks and
leaching pits.
3.21   Evaluation result.v. The choice between well water and piped water was discussed in
chapter 2. The conclusion was that KIP was in part responsible for increasing the number of
private houses with piped water. Some communities have no option but to use the piped water
supplyv in those kampungs. the impact of water provided by KIP was significant. However, other
communities have a choice in the form of well water.



39
3.22    According to our survey of karnpung residents, many seemed unconvinced that piped water
is better than well water; recent studies have shown that, indeed, the quality of well water is still
poor (box 3.3). But the smell, taste, and color of piped water is sometimes unpleasant. In addition,
many respondents complained that the pressure was so low that they could get little water during
the day and had to get up at night to fill buckets and containers. According to our survey, about 70
percent of all households believe that the quality of their water is "good." About 40 percent of KIP
kampung residents in Jakarta and Surabaya whose main supply of water comes from water
companies rates the quality of the water as medium or poor.
Box 3.3: Pollution in Urban water supplies
According to a study by JICA, all but two of the 30 shallow wells examined in different parts of Jakarta
during the dry season of 1989, showed signs of fecal contamination, and 73 percent had traces of N-H4.
Thirteen percent of the samples contained traces of mercury. Tapwater sampling in Jakarta in 1992
revealed that 73 percent was contaminate with coliform (Surjadi, 1993). Tapwater sampling in Surabaya
in 1990 showed that 55 percent exceeded the total coliform standard for treated water (Crooks, 1991).
Perception of Water Quality
The women in Kampung Kebun Pisang, Manggarai, told us that they drank well water because they did
not trust the water company: "We cannot see what they put in it - we can smell the carborite, but we don't
know whether it is really safe, or what else they may have put in. Our well water comes from the ground.
It tastes better, and there is no one down there adding things to it."
3.23   The provision of water to inner-city areas is no longer a social issue pertaining to improved
public health; it is also a rapidly increasing environmental issue associated with the impact of
groundwater substraction and saltwater intrusion into the groundwater system in coastal areas.
Until recently, water companies were regarded  Figure 3.1: Estimates of privately owned
primarily as providers of water to those who   motorized vehicles between 1972 and 2005,
needed it. It is becoming increasingly important    DKI Jakarta.
for the companies to sell their services, and to               _ . .               _
persuade customers to choose piped water over
well water. The large percentage of residents who  Z^w.0/
have piped water supply but still use wells as a   L000.000
free alternative for washing and bathing indicates   ./
that a substraction fee should be imposed on well-    MO/x
water use in order to control its supply. Water     '..
companies must consider marketing clean water
by improving service and quality and running           , _       _ _ _ _ _
public-awareness campaigns before the        *'. 1             1      Vol    200a
groundwater supply is depleted.
-4--ob2zooiM. -*-Th,p*..t.ee -X -Ibtdi_e I
Emerging Environmental Issues
3.24   The KIP did not, and certaintly could not factor in, future environmental problems, such as
increased traffic congestion and air pollution, at both the kampung and the citywide level. And
although the design standards of KIP, such as the width of footpaths, has diminished the risk of
fires in some areas, overall, the use of modern flammable building materials and overcrowding has
increased the risk of fires.



40
A Product of Economic Development: Vehicle Ownership on the Increase
Figure 3.2: Mode of Transportation Used by    3.24   Context. As the urban population of
Head of Household to Get to Work                Indonesia has increased, so too has the owNnership
(ercenage of respondents)                       of motorized vehicles in urban Indonesia. In turn,
percentage of respondents)                   traffic congestion has increased, because the road
.o.o  0                ILn , _ network has not been expanded commernsurately.
Increased traffic congestioi is cre~atiiig air
pollution hazards that will increasingly damage
the health conditions of the population and
corrode buildings in urban areas.
3.25   According to estimatesbyvDKI Jakarta  Mkotorbikes andccarsvofeten cause congKe.sio)tononK!!' roads.~
(DKI, 199 1) the mode of travel in, for example,
Jakarta will shift in the next 20 years from 48
percent private anid 52 percent public (1982) to
70 percenit private and 30 percent public,
implying a 255 percent increase in the number
of privately owned vehicles bv the vear 2005.
Figure 3.1 shows the proj ections estimated by
DKI Jakarta. In fact, the percentage of privateI
owned vehicles among the population of Jakarta_
has increased significantly since 1972, and the
projections for the year 2005 are considerable,
particularly for cars (figure 3. 1). Throughout
all urban areas in Indonesia, about 30 percent
of households own a motorized vehicle (either
motorcycle or car), and this percentage is nmuch
greater among "higher" income levels: about 5
percent of the urban households eaning more
than US$3,000 per year ow5n a motorized
vehicle.                                       Overcrowding in kampungs creates a seriousJkire lhazard
3.26   Evaluation results. The mode of transportation used by household heads to get to their
workplace differs significantly between Jakarta and Surabava. Residents in Jakarta rely much more
heavily on public transportation; residents in Surabava and Deypasar rely largely on private
vehicles, now the main form of transporation to the workplace (Figure 3.2).



41
3.27    Motorbikes are the prominent form of privately owned vehicles in all kampungs (Figure
3.3) due primarily to the prevalence of pathways that cannot accommodate cars. But many
residents throughout all kampungs (except Kedung Doro, Surabaya9) do own cars. For instance, 20
percent of the residents in the fringe kampungs whose roadways are wide enough to accommodate
four-wheel vehicles do own cars. Many residents are thankful that the many pathways block access
by cars which they see as dangerous, noisy, and polluting. Only 3 of the 29 car owners in the entire
survey park their cars away from their houses; all others try to park on the narrow roads or
pathways near their houses, compounding congestion. All three lived in non-KIP kampungs.
3.28    Out of the 29 car owners, 18 live in KIP kampungs. Location of their residence is not
related to owning a car. In fact, the same number of residents that said owned a car lived next to
the vehicle roads or to the pathways (table 3.2). Car ownership can be contemplated only by those
in higher income brackets. Based on a suggestion
Figure 3.3: Ownership of motorized vehicles        that higher-income families would be encouraged
(percentage of respondents)                         to settle in the area if roads were constructed, we
cross-checked income with location; and found
that the income profile of residents living by
.t^               *vehicle roads or footpaths are basically the same.
a .>                   0                      .^ Likewise, the number of years in residence and
location did not reveal a significant relationship.
The analysis does not provide evidence to
confirn the hypothesis that roads will attract
higher-income families. The increase in the
ownership of motorized vehicles is related to the
general increase in income of current kampung
residents.
Table 3.2: Profile of residents according to where     Fire Risk Assessment: The Cost of Lives and
they live (KIP kampungs only, all cities               Residential Damage
aggregated) (percentages)
by vehicle  bv         interior    3.29   Fire IS a major concem In
road       pathway                 overcrowded inner-city kampungs. Within the
Car o%Nmers         50%         50%        0%          past three or four years, five large fires have
Income ('000 Rp.)                                       destroyed areas either within or close to the
150-300             19%         18%        20%         areas surveyed. Two of the fires destroyed
300-600             45%         43%        80%         marketplaces (Blauran in Surabaya, and
more than 600       29%         38%        0%
Moved into kamnung                                     Malaka Sari in Klender housing estate in
before KIP          25%         70%        5%          Jakarta). The causes of the fires were often
during KIP          22%         78%        0%          cooking stoves or poor electrical wiring,
after KEP           11%         89%        0%          exacerbated by flammable building materials
and overcrowding. For instance, on July 1 Ith, 1994, the Jakarta Post reported a fire in Kebun
Kacang, Jakarta (a KIP kampung not surveyed): "The fire was started by the explosion of a
kerosene stove at the house of a food vendor." The fire brigade reported that they "had difficulty
extinguishing the fire because the road to the site is very small." Nineteen homes were destroyed.
Residents of this karpung have banned accesa by four-wheel non-emergency vehicles, despite the fact that the roads are wide
enough. The primary reasons are to reduce road maintenance costs, and to preserve a pleasant and safe environment for the majority
of the population. The opinion in the kampung is that a few car owners can have a negative impact on many people, and that the
interest ofthe majority should be considered.



42
3.30   Improved building materials in houses and the construction of kitchens inside homes has
helped reduce fire risks-a direct result of the KIP. However, many issues must still be resolved,
such as overcrowding. But the most important issue is roadway access for fire engines. Kampungs
are already overcrowded and the footpaths are too narrow to make this option possible without
damaging and appropriating property.
Conclusions: To the Future
3.31   The environmental conditions of urban centers in Indonesia are lagging behind the
country's strong economic development. The KIP component has created an island of micro-
environmental improvements, surrounded by deteriorating conditions at the citywide level-
particularly in urban areas whose rapid population and economic growth will increase the demands
for urban resources. The environment and urban growth will reach a collision course if no
measures are taken.
3.32   The worse scenarios of environmental degradation are forecast if a business-as-usual
attitude is taken towards the section of the population that will cause the greatest environmental
damage: future households not yet formed. The incorporation of minimum environmental standards
in all future projects is a must. Newer urban projects must address the growing environmental
crisis head-on by establishing minimum environmental standards-setting targets for reducing
specific water-born pollution in water courses or the emission of air pollutants, for example. An
important opportunity now exists for changing the course of collision between environmental
degradation and urban development.



43
4. Rapidly Emerging Real Estate Markets: Supplanting Existing
Kampungs
The stludy attempted to address two pro/ect-related questions arising from the rapid
transformation of'urban areas:((i) are kampung residents henefiting from the investments.? and
(ii) does the demolition of'improved kampungs signal the failure of'the (Jrhan I-IVprojects? The
studvIs findings were that residents did gain some benefits. but would have enjoyed more if their
property rights had been more secure- The stuidy, also found that, hecause such large benefits
flowed from KIP, initial project investments coulds till en'oy economic rates of'return of 12
percent, even over a usefid life of only five years. Some of the beneficial impacts of the UJrban I-
lV projects have been swept away by the demolition of'improved kampungs to make way for
modern uirban development n nstrategic locations in many cities of Indonesia. 7he rising demand
Jor uirban land in a rapidly growing economy such as lndonesia's is likelv to make the
redevelopment of kampung land into commercial and uop-market residential real estate
increasingly common.
Kampungs that have Disappeared
4.1    A rooftop view from any one of the modem skyscrapers that tower over Jakarta's central
business district - known as the Golden Triangle - instantly reveals that most of the 180 hectares of
kampungs improved under Urban I and Repelita I in the 1 970s no longer exist in the area. In their
place, high-rise commercial buildings and luxury apartment complexes have created a new physical
profile of the heart of the modem megacitv that is now Jakarta. Does this mean the Urban l-IV
project impacts failed'.'
4.2    Indonesia's sustaincd and rapid
economic growkth since the appraisal of Urban
I in 1973, and the consequent growing demand
for serviced land in the country's prosperous
' '  ;f cities, has made urban land in prime locations
___F   ¢         very valuable. According to real estate
developers active in the market, sites within the
;- _   i   .<g^|;   Golden Triangle can change hands for
-.         . - ' -  t -US$1,500 per square meter or more. More
- 1   9  L s    * --    -             than anywhere else, Jakarta's, Golden Triangle
- ~it3  s                           - its transformation and growth - illustrates
-  .   ~.- ~_,->   -how the circumstances of urban Indonesia
today differ considerably from those prevailing
when Urban I was appraised more than 20
In the Golden Tiangle luxurious itigh-rise huildings  years ago (for an example outside Jakarta see
coexisi with surviving A-ampungs.             box 4.1). Cities themselves house fewer poor



44
today. The 1974 working assumption of Urban l's appraisal that Jakarta wvas "one of the largest
and poorest cities in the world" (World Bank. 1974; para. 2.01) is no longer valid for a city where
only 7.8 percent of the population lives below the poverty line (Biro Pusat Statistik. 1991).
Box 4.1: An example of kampung renewal outside Jakarta: The Bumi-Hvatt in SurabaNa
Professor Johan Silas of Surabava University's Institute of Technology has described the dynamics
surrounding the displacement of former kampung dwellers (Silas, 1992). During the hotel consinictioni
boom of the late 1980s in Indonesia, owners of the existing Bumi Hyatt hotel near thc city ccnter wished
to expand it with a 21-story tower block and annex on approximatcly onc hectare of adjacent kamputig
land. The private developer hired by the hotel owners duly gave formal public notice of thcir plans. as
required by law. Before that, however, the developer was actively acquiring kamiptuiig land fromi the
individual owners on a plot-by-plot basis, in order to begin assembling most of the arca requiired f-or thc
hotel expansion. Discretion was key to this phase of acquisitioni. largely unidertaken tlhrougih individual
internediaries. As news of the hotel's plans spread, sellers' asking prices for individual kampiniig lots
rose. Before plans for redevelopment became known, the value of the kampung land was US$77 per
square meter. On learning of the plans, some residents made what some officials considered to be
"exorbitant" claims for compensation - up to four times this amouiiit. Ini the end. miost agreed to sell their
plots for two to three times the original value, in addition to compenisation for the appraised VXalIC of thcir
house.* The developer was more than willing to pav the extra amouint. After all, as an assembled unilt. thc
site was estimated to be worth US$940 per square meter. At issue is hoz% Ihc valuic-added tzains froml this
process are shared among stakeholders - that is. the kampung residenis, private (and publ ic) deCclopers.
and government at all levels.
Professor Silas found that low-income families who receive cash payments as compensaition %xcre no skil-clcd ai tnAi.Irg ilicir nck' IN
acquired fortunes. Many beneticiaries frittered away their settlements. As such. conninunith ed ilts it and sippt ri ar  Ic.irl iiporl1.ti
components of any settlement arrangement in the future.
Land Value and Urban Renewal
4.3     Today, the value that real estate developers appraisc for primc real estate convertcd from
kampungs is thirty times the value of improved kampung land rcportcd in the proJect PCRs
Advertisements in Jakarta's Properti Indonesia magazinc indicate that the priccs for sCcondarv
residential land - defined as land outside but contiguous to the Goldcil Triangle - are approximatcly
US$750 per square meter, still 15 times the price of former kampunlg land. UinforttinatclN. our
study was unable to obtain data about the value of prime land in the 1 970s and I OX(s when Urban
I-IV were being prepared.
4.4     Nevertheless, as part of their project design, Urban l-IV sought to incr-casc land values by
improving the infrastructure of the kampungs to which they u\ere targctcd. According to the project
PCRs, these improvements led at most only to a doubling of land v aluc (details in Table 4. 1).
Large differences between the land value of improved kampungs and the land valuc of primc real
estate offer considerable scope for profitable private investment to transform kampung into modem
serviced land through a process of urban renewal. Such renewal is already underway in man!
Indonesian cities, and is fully endorsed by the local authorities.
4.5     In Jakarta, for instance, local authority development plans call for the large-scalc delivery
of urban land to help meet the demands of a rapidly growing economy. dcspitc the fact that
practically none of the greenfield sites in the central arcas of major citics remains unoccupicd. The
The Golden Triangle covers 1,680 ha. of Jakarta's modem central business district, bound hy the major urban throughwa!s -Jendral
Sudirman, Jendral Gatot Subroto and Rasuna Said. Now the focus of steel and glass skyscrapers of Jakarta's mnodem sky line, the Golden
Triangle had only one high rise office building in 1973 when Urban I was appraised.



45
Jakarta 2005 structure plan estimates that 600 hectares of land will be required each year for
housing development, social facilities, and infrastructure (DKI Jakarta. 1991). Sustained over the
25-year life of Indonesia's second long-term development plan, the forecast would mean that
15,000 hectares of urban land within the city limits would be required for modem urban
development. Since this amount is more than the 14,531 hectares of open space/infrastructure land
currently remaining in the city of Jakarta, much existing built-up land will have to be redeveloped
(DKI Jakarta, 1 984a). Urban kampungs are likely targets for renewal. Weaker land-tenure claims
make it more difficult for kampung residents to resist renewal programs: low-income kampung
areas also do not fit into the modem image of the city being projected by local authorities (Leaf
1991).
How Kampungs are Renewed
4.6    Many private real estate developers already have considerable experience in acquiring
kampung land for modem redevelopment. In selecting arcas, developers applv the following
criteria: (1) strategic location and access to a main road; (2) road frontage for commercial
developments; (3) a developer's capability and ease of land release (funding, labor, and
experience); (4) the potential and marketability of the proposed project; and (5) the level of
compensation to be paid to the original residents. More peripheral kampungs can be affected by
such major projects as shopping malls and high-income apartment complexes that can bc locatcd in
secondary and suburban locations - for example, major highway intersections. The possibility of
eventual redevelopment, even if not realized in the short run, helps bring kampung land into the
overall property market in major Indonesian cities.
4.7    The process of land assembly and development for such projects in Indonesia would bc
familiar to real estate developers in other market economies, and involves the following stcps:
*  Reviewing local-city master plans and zoning ordinances for areas under consideration
(designated commercial or mixed use is desirable)
X Verifying land tenure and identifying existing owners
* Checking government plans for KIP
* Initiating the purchase of land parcels one by one until 50 to 75 percent of the required total is
assembled (to avoid speculation, no public announcement of the proposed project is made
before this share of total land is assembled)
* Acquiring plots of land on the perimeter of a planned area first.
*  Negotiating with remaining land owvners - through the local leader (lurah) in most cases - to
acquire the remaining land
* Finalizing development permits and so forth with local authorities
4.8    We had hoped that our study would shed light on what happened to former kampung
residents after their areas were redeveloped. Preliminary inquiries in the Golden Triangle revealed
how formidable the task would be. Some kampungs were removed more than eight years ago, and
simply no trace of them exists today. Former residents have dispersed. Neither govemment
agencies nor real estate developers keep records of erstwhile residents, nor of the physical
characteristics of the area before redevelopment. Precise information on the number of urban
kampungs that have been renewed to date in Indonesia is unavailable. Local officials of Jakarta
informed participants of the Surabaya Impact Evaluation Workshop that as many as 40 percent of
the city's kampungs have been renewed.



46
4.9     The demolition of kampung through urban renewal evidentl! interrupts the flow of benefits
from kampung improvement, but this does not always mean that the project investment failed to
achieve a satisfactory impact before renewal. At appraisal, Urban l-IV project investments were
expected to generate benefits over a useful life of 15 vears. yielding economic rates of return
(ERR) in the 17-54 percent range (table 4.1). PCR re-estimates indicate ERRs of 26-31 percent.
The associated large benefit flows can mean that a KIP investment under Urban I-IV was still
worthwhilc in spite of renewal taking place before its useful life expired. A simple sensitivity
calculation will show that an investment yielding an ERR of 31 percent over 15 years will still
achieve an ERR of 12 percent over five vears, assuming that initial cost and annual benefits remain
unchanged. This finding does not translate into a recommendation that kampung improvement
should be planned for a shorter time frame, however. It simpIy affirms that, in spite of Indonesia's
dNynamic urban development that phy sicallv eliminated somc Urban l-IV investments, most of thosc
investments wvere worthwhile by virtue of the large benefits they already dclivered prior to
demolition.
4.10    An important caveat, of course, is who benefits from this process, a question to which the
discussion returns at the end of this chapter. Also at issue is the displaccment and process of
rehousing former kampung residents who cannot afford to live in rcplacement projects that catcr to
high-inconme beneficiaries.
Emerging Real Estate Business
4. I1   Private rcal estate devclopers are
important actors in the process of kampung
renewal in Indoncsia's citics. The counitry's real
_     estate sector has becomc an important business.
-     _    ~         ,          ,                 responsible for invcsting US$1.7 billion annuallv
_1t-5                            a - 3 * t -. (Info Paper Indoncsia Property Magazine.
1992). Organized private developers were
,   practicall non-existent in Indonesia in the early
1970s. Urbani I itself was responsible for
creating and cstablishing the country's first
developer -PLRUMNAS- in 1973. but still
firmly within the govcrnment sector. Later that
year, the commercial association, Real Estate
Indonesia, had 33 developcrs as its members.
Todav. membership runs to nearly 1,000 firms.
4.12    In a real estate market situation quite
A viewfrom the roof of thle Hyatt Surabaya.       different from today's, the design of the Urban 1-
IV projects understandably focused upon the
public sector contribution to urban infrastructure development. Today's concerns about managing
infrastructure as a business with public-private partnerships were not high on Indonesia's urban
development agenda in the 1970s."
These issues are a key ibcus of the discussion in the World Development Report 1994 Infrastructure and Development (World Bank,
1 994e). The private sector and real estate market forces nevertheless later came on to the kampung scene as Indonesia's cities prospered
.luring a period oi'sustained economic growth.



47
Achievement of Intended Impacts
4.13    In terms of cost-benefit analysis, project investments in KIP were justified by the resulting
increased land values following the improvements made. PCR observations of higher land values in
improved kampungs than in unimproved ones confirm appraisal expectations.
4.14    Following standard procedures applied to the ex ante evaluation of all urban projects
financed by the Bank, the appraisals of Urban I-IV used increases in post-improvement land value
to measure the likely benefits of the proposed investments. Land values were expected to increase
after infrastructural improvements were made, creating a greater demand (and thus willingness to
pay more) for urban land with infrastructure services compared with urban land without services.
In freely operating land markets with perfect information, the difference in price between the
unimproved and the improved land should reflect the additional value that society at large attaches
to what becomes an asset that yields more services. A basic premise behind this assumption is that
the price of land itself represents the present value of a (perpetual) stream of rental payments that
the land can be expected to command in the future. For this reason, this evaluation method involves
estimating the imputed rent of a land parcel as the income stream over the life of the investment.
The present value of that income steam corresponds to the value of the land."3 Accurate empirical
observations of land value changes are of course essential to achieving reliable project evaluations
with this method.
4.15    Urban I-IV investments were evaluated in this way. Surveys were undertaken to compare
the values of the land parcels to be improved with values of similar parcels - according to location,
land use, topography, and tenure - but which had already been improved. Data on actual urban
land prices, especially for kampungs, were updated from different sources. The Urban I and 11
evaluations were based on 1972 data from the Repelita I KIP program. For Urban 111, a fresh
survey was conducted in Jakarta and Surabaya in 1978. Finally, in 1988, government consultants
collected extensive new data from many cities to provide information for evaluating Urban III at its
completion. Key results are summarized in table 4.1.
4.16    The project data reveal several important facets of kampung improvement as real estate
development operations. With PCR re-estimated ERRs of 26 percent for Urban II and 31 percent
for Urban I and 111, project KIP investments in Jakarta were worthwhile. The PCR re-estimates
were higher than the SAR estimates for Urban I and III, namely 17 percent and 28 percent
respectively. The SAR ERR for Urban 11, at 54 percent, however, was considerably higher.'4 The
observation that land values did indeed increase after infrastructural improvements is consistent
with the findings of other studies of Indonesia. A hedonic index of housing value attributes
constructed by Struyk (1990), for instance, found that the existence of streets, footpaths, and
drainage was a significant attribute of housing values in Jakarta.'5
1 3
. Walters (1983) and Mills (1972, especially chapter 3) provide detailed discussions of urban land theory.
1 The audit of Urban II concluded that the ERR for Urban 11 had been over-estimated at appraisal. (World Bank, 1986; pars. 16)
To construct such a hedonic index, the study built an ordinary least squares multipl regression model to estimate the contribution of a
range of housing attributes -such as those mentioned- to the values of a sample of housing units. Interestingly, the same study did not fund
that the availability of piped water had a statistically significant effect on house prices.



48
4.17      Another important aspect of kampung real estate revealed by the project data is the wide
variance in land values within the kampungs between those located on more desirable plots (along
roads) and those located on more inaccessible plots (inner kampungs). Even after KIP, the value of
improved inner kampung land was much less than unimproved kampung land along roads (details
in Table 4.1). This was true for all three projects and in both Jakarta and Surabaya. Thus, from a
real estate development point of view, the greatest gains were made within kampungs by bringing
road access to erstwhile inner kampungs.'5 This fact explains why residents and community leaders
wanted to introduce as much road access as possible under KIP.
4.18     We found it difficult to update information on land values in the six kampungs we
surveyed in Jakarta and Surabaya. Altogether, 35 percent of our respondents estimated the value of
their houses, but did not know what the land by itself was worth.16 This finding is not surprising,
since open land parcels in densely settled areas of urban kampungs are rarely transacted without an
accompanying house on the land.'7 Using Indonesian real estate developers' rule of thumb of
attributing 20 to 30 percent of real estate asset value to the land, we applied the mid-range of 25
percent to disaggregrate the land element of the total value. Subject to this assumption, our survey
produced estimates of real estate values that were compatible with earlier project data (Table 4.1).
4.19     However, much larger gains accrue from  the annual appreciation of all property prices in
major Indonesian cities in the past several years, until the recent slump. Dowall and Leaf's survey
of land values in Jakarta, for example, found that informal (that is, kampung) land values in
Jakarta grew by 11.8 percent annually in real terms during the 1987-89 period (Dowall, 1991).
Sustained over the implementation period for Urban III (1979-87), this rate would have yielded
land value increases of 144 percent - in other words, up to six times more than the gain from
infrastructural improvement on its own.18 Struyk reported an even faster growth in housing prices
in Jakarta - 16.1 percent in real terms during the 1985-88 period (Struyk, 1990).'9 These studies,
frequent press reports of soaring urban land prices, and conventional wisdom of Indonesia's real
estate developers about the rising cost of land all point to the same conclusion. Broader market
forces in the real estate sector are more important determinants of the land valuc of kanipungs than
are localized infrastructural improvements.
'5
According to the project data, land values of unimproved inner kampung sites would increase by 3 to 7 times if they were improved
and given road access. Although such transformations were common in the KIP prograrm, the project data do not admit this possibility. The
data assume that along road, footpath, and kampungs the status of the plots does not change with KIP.
1 Our own survey identified median property prices reported by respondents (in 1994 rupiahsim2) as follows: Jakarta: Tanah Tinggi
93,000; Mangarrai 92,000; and Penjaringan 123,000; and Surabaya: Sawahan 63,000; Jagir 51,000; and Genteng 115,000. Our study
focused on the median values, since outlying reported values biased mean estimates. Only 10 percent of respondents were able to assess the
proportion of their property value due to the land itself The responses ranged widely, from 10 percent to 90 percent; we decided to
disregard this information, preferring to use Indonesian real estate developers' rule of thumb that for residential areas (including
kampungs) 25 percent of property value is attributed to the land.
.Separating land values from building values is desirable from a theoretical point of view. Urban land as an asset has a unique property
of delivering a flow of services in perpetuity. A building, as with other fixed assets such as a piece of machinery, has only a limited useful
life, implying that its value will depreciate over time as it nears the end of its useful life. Although theoretically desirable, the separation is
empirically possible only with a detailed property appraisal or the use of practical rules of thumb.
The Urban IlI PCR reported 24 percent increases for kampung sites along roads.
.That is, 23.3 percent annual increases in nominal terms during a period in which inflation averaged 7.2 percent snnually. Struyk's
survey included high-income housing whose value may have appreciated more rapidly than that of kampung housing.



49
Table 4.1: Project estimates of Kampung land values                4.20    But in examining the real
(thousands of rupiahs per square meter in 1993 prices)             estate market as a whole in Jakarta and
Along    Along         Inner                Surabaya. one is struck by how low
Roads    Footpaths  Kampungs                kampung land prices still were, when
compared with prices for modem urban
Jakarta                                                            real estate.0 As already mentioned.
SAR estimates                                                      prime land can be worth 30 times more
Urban 1, 1972           227       150         68                   than improved kampung land. For
improve                48.4      28.4        11.3                 residential areas, Dowall and Leaf
increase               113%      90%         67%                  reported significantly lower prices in
Urban U, 1976                                                      their survey of Jakarta in 1989. Thev
unimproved             44.6      30.2        24.2                 found that centrally located residential
improve                65.5      36.0        na                   land, for instance, comrnanded prices
increase               47%       19%         na                   on the order of US$286 pcr square
Urbanm[1, 1978
unimproved             47.3      31.7        22.1                 meter. If these prices increased at a
improved               71.7      54.4        42.0                 modest annual rate of 9.0 percenit
increase               52%       71%         90%                  between the survey and the present.
PCR estimates                                                      thev would currentlv stand at US$44 ]
Urban m, 1988
unimproved             60.9      36.6        12.9                 per square meter. Although much lower
improved               75.8      47.1        20.7                 than commercial land, this pricc is still
increase               24%       29%         61%                  10 times the reported projcct xalies of
Surabaya                                                           improved kampung land. Thesc price
SAR estimates                                                      differentials are exacerbated by the
Urban 11, 1976                                                     limited supply' of serviced urban land in
unimproved             41.6      29.5        20.8                              C S
improved               61.5      36.9        26.2                 Indonesia's cities: Our study did not
increase               48%       25%         26%                  seek precise measures of thc
Urban m, 1978                                                      differences. We wNished mercly to draw
unimproved             61.9      49.2        34.8                 attention to thc enormous gulf that
improved               101.9    66.5         53.2
increase               65%       35%         53%                  separates the prces of kampung land.
on the onc hand, and modcrn serviced
Nole: CurTent prices are converted into 1993 prices based on the CPI reported in IMF
International Financial Stan sotcs,                                land, on the othcr. cvcn xk1wn b,th are
Average exchange rate for 1993: US$1.00 = Rp.2,110                 in similar locationis.
Land values reported here are weighted averages of observations made in various
sectors ofthe cities
Source: Bank and GOI Project SARs and PCRs.                        4.21    Our survey also inquired into
land title of kampung residents. Although 60.7 percent confirmed that they were cither the owners
or legal occupants of the land they settled - implying the possession of Hak Milik of Hak Gloa
Bangunan titles, respectively - many respondents did not fully understand the legal aspects of the
claim they were asserting, or even that a certificate was necessary to prove their right. Cross-
checks found that other respondents did not always give accurate information about their tenure
status. They were perhaps prompted by a desire to convey a secure image of their occupancy to
survey enumerators. We decided not to pursue this line of inquiry, since we felt that the
information we gathered was not sufficiently reliable.
20 Benjamin's study in Bandung confirmed the low value of kampung land in that city. He estimated that sale prices were US$32 6 per
square meter in central locations (Benjamin, 1985).
. The chronic shortage of serviced land already in 1983 was a key premise for Devas's review of altemative methods for financing urban
land development for low-income housing in Jakarta (Devas, 1983).



50
Kampungs as Urban Real Estate
4.22   With the scenario painted in this chapter - strong economic growth, the transformation of
the real estate sector, and the absence of green field sites - can we reasonably look forward to the
redevelopment of most urban kampungs in Indonesia in, say, the next quarter century'? Would this
be a desirable and meaningful target of the government's second long-term development plan'?
What would be the consequences for the existing residents of urban kampungs?
4.23   As they become more knowledgeable about the market, residents will increase their
awareness of the value of their kampung land as potentially valuable urban real estate. Our study
showed that residents of some strategically located kampungs already saw opportunities for
significant capital gains in the event of impending redevelopment.
4.24   When Urban l-IV were prepared, this value-added aspect of kampung real estate could be
overlooked. Kampung land could effectivelN be withdrawn from the modern segment of the real
estate market, simply by designating it for improvement under KIP. Overall demand for urban land
in Indonesia's predominantly poor cities at that time was slack. Today, neither the government nor
the Bank can afford to ignore the market forces at work. The renewal of improved kampungs has
already taken place, and it is likely to become more common as the demand for urban land
increases.
4.25   The government clearly has a role in monitoring this process and in continuing to regulate
the private real estate industry, especially in the business of kampung renewal. Ignoring the
phenomenon will not make it disappear. In the longer term, kampung land transactions are more
likely to take place within the modern segment of the growing real estate markets of Indonesian
cities. Kampung residents will see, and sometimes realize, significant gains from the value added to
their real estate. The market pressure exerted on some kampungs to be redeveloped will be
understood more effectively. Greater knowledge about these market forces can help improve future
plans for KIP by taking into account when and how the inevitable transformation of improved
kampungs into modem real estate is likely to take place.
Who Benefits and What Should the Government do
4.26   Urban l-IV achieved their intended impacts on land values, but these impacts tell only a
small part of the story of kampung improvement and redevelopment. An unanswered question is
who should benefit from the significant value added to former kampung land through
redevelopment. Erstwhile kampung residents, developers and government can all legitimately claim
a share. Market forces determine land price gains, but take a back seat to the bargaining power of
these three stakeholders in determining how the gain is shared. On equity grounds, government
should recognize the legitimate entitlement of former low-income kampung residents to escape
poverty by benefiting from the value added to their land through redevelopment.
4.27   Low-income kampung residents have not always shared in the value added to their land
through redevelopment. Settlements for compensation used to be based upon an estimate of the
amount necessary to provide a displaced household with a similar plot and house, usually in a more
peripheral location. Today, families threatened with eviction are more knowledgeable about the
market and file higher but still modest compensation claims. Whether the claims are reasonable or
unreasonable is difficult to judge according to nornmative assessments. These assessments often



51
incorrectly imply that lower-income families should have a lower entitlement than higher-income
households. The final arbiter of the total land value will be the market, but there are clearly roles
for local community organizations and NGOs. They can help forner kampung residents
appropriate some of the value added in Indonesia's rapidly emerging urban real estate markets
highlighted by our study.



52
5. Community Voice in Infrastructure Development, Urban Stability
and Security of Tenure
The study's analysis of community participation/consultation in the planning and implementation
phases of KIP showed that the involvement of residents variedfrom one kampung to another. In
some kampungs, residents were consulted about the convenience of the location of roads and
footpaths, and slightly less about the convenience of the location of water standpipes and
sanitary facilities. Consultation in the planning phase of KIP took the form of local meetings in
the local officials offices (kelurahan). Similarly, the degree of participation varied. In some
kampungs, residents worked through local neighborhood associations to help with simple
aspects of KIP implementation, such as the demolition offences or dwellings. In other kampungs,
residents merely observed construction activities. Greater understanding and better guidelines
for both community residents and project staff are clearly required
KIP did not encourage an influx of higher-income groups (that is, "gentrification") into the
kampungs, as had originally been feared. In fact, KIP did not disturb the existing residential
stability of kampungs, although the social profile of the kampungs has changed under KIP.
Residents are better educated and healthier; household sizes have declined; more residents are
employed and have greater income; and women have taken a more active role in meeting the
economic needs of their families. Improvements in population conditions are not only caused by
KIP but also by the opportunities generated by economic growth.
Although KIP did not attempt to influence land and housing tenure directly, the expectation was
that it would increase ownership; as community security increased, more people would be
motivated to clarify and improve the status of the land they occupied. The study found that KIP
did in fact increase ownership throuighout the improved kampungs or at least greater security ojf
tenure. In addition, the stronger sense of tenure gave residents an incentive to participate
actively in the operations and maintenance, O&M, of community facilities, although O&M levels
varyfrom place to place and it is considered one of the weakest points of KIP.
Community Participation and Consultation
5.1    Local governments are still struggling to install a basic minimum set of infrastructure
throughout their areas. They need the cooperation of the community in maintaining existing
infrastructure and facilities. But communities must also sense that they are being included in the
process of implementation; their inclusion also affects their attitudes toward the types of
improvements made in their area.
Main Findings
5.2    Consultation and participation in KIP was widespread (table 5.1). Sixty-eight percent of
the respondents in all of the five KIP kampungs stated that they were consulted during the planning
of KIP. Seventy-three percent of the respondents said that they participated in the implementation
of KIP. The form of participation depended on the city: in Jakarta, 50 percent of KIP
implementation participants contributed labor; in Surabaya, 50 percent contributed with money.
Residents in Surabaya kampungs also provided consultation and participated in other programs,
such as swadaya masyarakat. A large number of residents who were consulted also participated:
75 of 85 consulted residents participated in implementation (or 88 percent of those consulted).



53
Table 5.1: Consultation and participation in KIP kampungs (percentage of respondents)
Consultation                  Participation
KIP kampung in      No. of
Resp.         Yes            No              Yes           No
Jakarta              50           66             34              92             8
Surabava             50           72             25              60             18
Denpasar             25           64             16              60             20
Total                125          68             27              73             14
5.3    To assess whether community participation in KIP affected the attitude of residents about
KIP improvements, we analyzed responses to a question about the overall environmental situation
in the kampung among those who were consulted about and participated in KIP. Almost 80 percent
of the residents who had been consulted and participated also said that the overall environmental
conditions of their kampung had improved after KIP. Residents who were not consulted or
participated were not as enthusiastic; about half believed that environmental conditions were better,
but the other half claimed that they were the same. We can conclude that consultation generally
leads to participation, and that participation generally leads to greater satisfaction with KIP
outputs.
5.4    In a 1982 survey of kampung leaders in Jakarta, Taylor (1983) found that the more
residents who were consulted during the planning phase of KIP, the more the number of residents
who improved their dwellings. A cross-tabulation of the extent to which major KIP components
were maintained and whether residents were consulted during planning also showed a similar
association as in our survey.
The Consultation and Participation Process
5.5    The KIP Unit consulted with various residents as it worked its way down the city's
administrative ladder, finally reaching the RW and RT heads.22 But such consultation rarely sought
which kampungs or components should be selected; rather, it was restricted to the practical
elements of construction activity. It typically involved determinations about who would be required
to give up land or buildings to accommodate road widening or rerouting, and about the location of
such facilities as schools or MCKs.
5.6    Community consultation and participation in the early stages of project preparation and
design was important for instilling a sense of ownership. The survey question about community
participation was frequently misunderstood in Jakarta and Denpasar; many respondents said that
they could not remember the process precisely. Many residents in all three cities said that they had
been consulted, but when questioned further they stated that they had not actually been consulted
about the design, but had been called to a meeting by the neighborhood leader and were told about
the project. In Surabaya, residents seemed to have a keen understanding of community
participation, and were much clearer about their involvement in the process of consultation. This
was also the city that showed the highest level of maintenance by the community.
5.7    Project staff admit that community participation was not one of their priorities at the time,
for three main reasons: (1) the absence of funding to pay staff for working in the communities; (2)
the absence of time, given pressures (often from the Bank) to stick to programming and to reduce
the already significant delays in implementation; and (3) a misunderstanding about what
22
. RT is the Rukun Tetangga, a community organization comprising between 50 and 100 households. RW is the Rukun Warga, a
neighborhood association comprising several RTs (Chapter 6 describes these and other local land entities in greater detail).



54
community participation actually meant, as well as the methods for enlisting it and the process of
incorporating it into project implementation. Although the concept of commnunity consultation and
participation is now widely accepted, it still means different things to different people, and many of
the local government staff understand the concept but do not understand how it translates into
practice. Greater understanding and better guidelines for both community residents and project
staff are clearly required.
Changing Criteria for Community Participation: Cohesiveness Among Residents
5.8    Kampung life in Indonesia is often
characterized by mutual cooperation (gotong
royong), decisionmaking by consensus, and other
community-oriented approaches. As incomes and
standards of living increase, community
interactiveness tends to break down. In our
survey, the attitudes of low- and higher-income
residents toward community activities differed.
For example, in one higher-income area we
surveyed, residents told us how the community
*t   _. & ,bj   spirit had broken down over several years to the
point that one rarely meets one's neighbors, and
community activities, such as working together to
clean the drains or repair the roads, are no longer
the rule. This situation was in direct contrast to
the lower-income community on the other side of
the road, where community activities were still an
important part of people's lives. New strategies
toward community organization may be necessary
Co.xtiv repairs were required to support the upper story  if the cohesiveness of communities is to withstand
of this house when the lower walls were demolished to   the steady rise in the socio-economic conditions of
widen the road during KIP. (Box 5.1)        kampung dwellers.
5.9    The organization of the kampung in which RT and RW leaders are elected by the
community and act as community spokesmen is a characteristic of Javanese kampungs in
particular. Other islands have different social organizations that may be stronger or weaker. Often,
the same organization that works in Java is imposed elsewhere less successfully. Some ethnic
groups have a family rather than a community-oriented approach, and maintain their independence
from the community. Each city must be reviewed independently for the most appropriate strategy.
In Jakarta, the community may comprise many ethnic groups, and the influence of the community
leaders may vary from one kampung to the next.



55
Box 5.1: Partial Loss of Land and Building
We met a woman in Kedung Doro who had moved into the kampung in 1962. Her family had bought
some land with a temporary house on it for Rp 600,000. The land had colonial rights and she does not
have a certificate. The family built a permanent two story house on the plot.
Before KIP they were visited by community leaders who told them of the project and that part of their
house would have to be demolished. They were also informed that there would be no compensation. They
asked for help and money for repairs but received no reply. They made the repairs themselves, having lost
a I by 9 meter part of the house, including an outside supporting wall and most of the bathroom.
Repairing the house involved installing steel supporting girders to hold up the second floor. The total cost
incurred was Rp 1.6 million, and their house was considerably narrower as a result. While the woman
understands that the kampung environment is now much improved. she is still not happy that her family
had to bear the cost alone.
5.10   Different facilities are perceived differently by differcnt cultures. Javanese kampung
dwellers use the roads and pathways as meeting placcs and as communal facilities; they attach a
high value to the commnunity. Balinese families live behind wNalls in family compounds; the road is
more of an accessway than a meeting place, and it plays a less significant role in their culture. The
perception of the community towards the asset and the comparative value they attach to it are
determinants of the priorities that communities give to operations and maintenance.
5. 11   The operations and maintenance of public facilities (O&M) was one of the weakest points
of KIP. This recurrent problem was raised in all PCRs and PARs. The common benefits provided
by the government in the formn of sanitary facilities and garbage disposal are "public goods." Those
who do not purchase or pay for anv of the public or collective goods cannot be excluded from
sharing in the consumption of the good. If the members of a large group rationally seek to
maximize their personal welfare, they will not seek to advance their common, or group, objectives,
unless individual members are offered some separate incentive for helping bear the costs or
burdens involved in achieving the group objectives. The lack of O&M reflects an underestimation
of the value of the public good. Everybody would like to use the public good, but no one is willing
to pay for it (operate and maintain it) voluntarily.
Urban Mobility
5.12   Community development was expected to be enhanced by stable kampungs with low
turnover rates. A widely held concern in the past was that better living conditions in improved
kampungs would attract a large migration into the kampung, and that the people moving in would
be from higher socio-economic groups, creating a process of vertical mobility, or "gentrification."
Gentrification would then cause the out-migration of the lower-income groups for whom the project
was intended.
Main Findings
5.13   The survey findings indicate that KIP has not caused an increase in kampung mobility. On
the contrary, there are indications that KIP has contributed to stability in the kampungs. New
arrivals into the kampungs were more likely to be from social groups that were similar to the
existing population. No major population turnover has occurred in the sites and services areas
either, although larger houses change hands more frequently. Population mobility is independent of
KIP, and is related more to the location of the kampung and its stage of development. KIP



56
itself did not cause gentrification ("the immigration of middle-class people into a deteriorating or
recentlv renewed city area", (Merriam-Webster, 1990).
Kampuing Stahilit
5.14   An impressive feature of all the kampungs in the study was their stability over time. The
average length of tenure among kampung respondents was 23.6 years in KIP kampungs and 27.7
in non-KIP kampungs (table 5.2). Twenty percent of respondents in both KIP and non-KIP
kampungs had lived in their homes for more than 40 years. About another 30 percent of the
respondents were younger than 40 years of age, and 25 percent lived in the kampung since birth or
since early childhood. The Jakarta comparison kampung, one of the Surabaya KIP kampungs, and
a Denpasar KIP, all of which are fringe kampungs with relatively recent histories, show less
stability. Even in these kampungs, about half of the respondents had lived there for more than 20
nears (56 percent in Jakarta, 56 percent in Surabaya, and 48 percent in Denpasar). Many of the
second generation has stayed on in the homes of their parents.
5.15   We examined the distribution of years of residence in each of the kampungs, taking into
account the period in which they were improved under the Urban I-IV projects - that is, residents
wvho had moved into the kampung before, during, or after the relevant project in each location was
implemented (table 5.2). In each of the KIP kampungs, more than half of the residents were in the
kampungs before they were improved under one of the four projects and on an average they have
lived there for 30 years. We conclude that KIP did not stimulate inward migration. Furthermore,
population mobility is related more to the location of the kampung (that is, whether it offers
dynamic urban economic activities) and to the age of the kampung than to whether or not the area
had been improved under KIP.
5.16   According to the conclusions of a recent evaluation of KIP kampungs in Surabaya (Silas
1 992b), the total new population entering the KIP kampungs in the past decade (after the
implementation of KIP), ranged from 16 to 27 percent. Comparing these figures for inward
migration with the growth rates of kampungs in Surabaya yielded a population mobility of less
than 2 percent. less than the average for the entire city of Surabaya.
5.17   Residents were also asked how they perceived the issue of turnover, the majority indicated
that turnover rates had remained about the same in recent years. Kampungs in Indonesian cities
accommodate quite intricate and stable communities. Thus, high turnover rates would disrupt
formal community organizations and social relationships, destroying the sense of community. KIP's
rapid and extensive coverage, in terms of area and number of beneficiaries, may partially account
for the low level of household turnover or mobility, at least in Jakarta, where about 70 percent of
the total eligible kampung population benefited directly from KIP within a decade. Thus, city
residents, observing that KIP was extended to most of the city, did not feel it necessary to move to
take advantage of the program. The present experience with KIP suggests that an upgrading
program should attempt to achieve one round of complete coverage as rapidly as possible to
minimize such potentially undesirable impacts as high household turnover.



57
Table 5.2: When did people move into the kampungs and how long have they lived there?
Moved in                                  Average number of yearsfor
(percentage)                              residents who moved in
Site              Pre-       During           Post-    Pre-       During          Post-
project    implementation   project   project   I implementation  project
Jakarta KIP       68          14              18       35         16              6
Jakarta non-KIP   44         40               16       35         16              6
Surabaya KIP      60         20               20       32         14              4
Surabayanon-KIP    72        12               16       42         1 1             4
Denpasar KIP      52         24               24       35         11              4
Notes: "During Implementation" means from project approval to completion.
(*) For the kampungs that did not have a KIP, the time division corresponds to the time when other kampungs in the same city had a KIP.
Characteristics of Newcomers
5.18   The socio-economic status of people in Indonesia has improved since the projects were
implemented. Primary data collected in 1994 indicate that the average incomes of long-term
residents and those new residents do not differ significantly. Thus, we conclude that KIP has not
induced vertical mobility. Our survey indicates that (see table 5.3):
•  Average income distributions in KIP and non-KIP kanpungs are almost identical in Jakarta
and Denpasar. Furthermore, it seems that long-term residents have a slightly higher average
income.
*  In Surabaya, the situation is reversed. The new arrivals to both KIP and non-KIP kampungs
have higher income on average, than do longer-term residents. This difference may be related
to the economic growth of the city and to the fact that the newly arrived residents have better
jobs, particularly those moving into the fringe kampung areas (one of the sites in our survey).
* The longer-term residents in the sites and services areas earn more on average than do the
newly arrived. Average income in Jakarta's sites and services project is higher than in the
Denpasar site. Overall, as the economy of the community has developed, many of the original
plots were settled by young families working in government jobs. Over the past ten years, their
income has increased as their careers progressed. They are now more prosperous than before,
and they have more household assets: many own cars or motorbikes, and most have a
television. It is important to note however, that these are the same people who moved in
originally without a great deal of household assets.
Who is Leaving?
5.19   Although we did not meet people who had moved out of the kampungs, information we
gathered in interviews indicated that most houses are sold only when the owner dies. Other people
who moved out of the kampung are those who had rented houses for a year or two and had moved
on, or else were children of residents who had set up homes elsewhere. We were also told that old
people sometimes moved out either to live with children or to return to their villages in the country,
because the cost of living was too high for them in their retirement.



58
Table 5.3: Average monthly income by when residents moved in a kampung ('000 Rp.)
~~~~~.   . . ..... ... .   ,..... .   . . .. .....- -.....   .... ...-   . . . ..... ..  . ...   .   ..... ........ ........... .   .......   ....I... . .........   ....  -  -... -  ----- ---- ----- ---     -
Pre-Project              During           Post-Project      Overall
lIpplementation                       Average.....
..........................................  ................................................................................ ...................   .................................................................  .................. - .........................
Jakarta KIP                   610                     570               470              580
Jakarta non-KIP               600                     560               500              570
Surabava KIP                  450                     510               580              500
Surabava non-KIP              670                    450                725             660
Denpasar KIP                  630                     530               410              560
Jakarta ss                    NA                      790               650              750
Denpasar SS                   NA                      700               570              660
Notes
SS: sites and ser ices areas
NA: not applicable
5.20    Taylor's 1982 survey on the short-term impacts of KIP also indicated that rental prices
increased sharply after KIP, and that many low-income renters were forced to double up. Our
interviews in the Jakarta non-KIP kampung indicated that rents there are very high and that renters
are doubling up so that they can afford accommodations. Today's cities have a shortage of low-
income rcntal accommodations, which has not necessarily been exacerbated by KIP, although more
research is clearly required before this conclusion can be considered definitive.
5.21    One of the fears in the early days of KIP was that low-income groups would be squeezed
out of the kampungs. Anecdotal evidence shows that the elderly have often left for reasons related
to the cost of living in the city; that low-income renters find it difficult to find accommodations
regardless of KIP; and that young people either move to another area or stay on with their parents
because there is no more space in the kampungs to build new homes. The growing need for low-
cost housing in the inner city areas is another of the challenges of urban development, but not one
that is attributable to KIP.
Community Perception of Security of Tenure
5.22    Land rights is a major issue in urban development projects in Indonesia. Land rights have
four official classifications: HakMilik (right of ownership); hak guna bangunan (right to build);
hak sewa (tenant rights); and hak pakai (right of use). In addition, there are traditional land rights
that may be recognized by the community but not by law, as well as colonial land rights that have
remained since the land was handed back. Given this complex framework, it is not surprising that
the people themselves are often confused, and that projects such as KIP sometimes avoid entering
areas in which the land-rights issues have not been settled.
5.23    Many kampungs were originally squatter settlements on waste ground. Many of these
settlements emerged during World War 11. The turmoil at the time meant that there was little
control over the settlements. By the time of Independence, as the country began to confront some of
the challenges facing it, the settlements were already established and accepted. Forty or fifty years
later, the houses became permanent. A third generation of the same family is now growing up in
the house, and yet many still have no rights to the land and are technically still squatters.
Unfortunately, many people are unaware of their legal rights over the land and its potential
implications.
5.24    We rechecked several surveys and found that people who said that they owned the land
often lacked a certificate of ownership. In some cases, these residents were genuinely ignorant
about their legal status, but some may also have been wary about admitting their lack of ownership
to the survey team, as compensation for land and housing, differ enormously according to the legal
tenure of the land.



59
5.25   Concerning land ow-nership rights, box 5.2 gives actual cases from two KIP kampungs -
one in Jakarta and one in Surabaya. While neither of these cases links the granting of land
certificates directly to the urban development projects, the improvements made by KIP. along with
the introduction of electricity and the development of the water supply system, were crucial to
establishing the permanence of the kampungs as residential areas. Although the Surabaya kampung
does not yet have full ow%nership rights, the process has been started, and the need for the rights has
been established.
Box 5.2: Land Certification Process in Managgarai
Kampung Kehun Pisang, A-langgarai
In the 1 950s. migrants from Central and East Java found a place to build homes in Jakarta on some newly
filled-in swampland near Manggarai station and next to the complex built for railway workers. They grew
banana trees and vegetables and had tenmporary homes on the land. More people came - many of them
friends and relatives fronm their honie villages - and settled on the land. The banana trees and vegetables
disappeared, and by 1970) the area was filled with ramshackle houses. There wvere no paved roads, and the
area was often flooded.
In 1974 a committee of residents was formed to look into their land rights. They first went to the railway
company, thinking that the company owned the land. The railway company sent them to the Department
of Public Works, which had been responsible for filling in the land. The Department of Public Works sent
them to the National Land Agency. At around this time, the kampung was proposed for KIP, and the
project came in and built roads and drains. The people were delighted, since it gave them hopes toward a
secure future, and greatly improving their quality of life.
In 1976. shortly after the project was finished, the National Land Agency granted the residents Rights to
Use the land. Each resident paid Rp 7.500 for a certificate that gave them the right to build permanent
homes on the land. It is not possible to either link or separate the two events with any certainty, but the
timing would seem to indicate that each one influenced the other.
5.26   Additional security in the sites and services areas is considered by residents to be a major
advantage. Women, in particular, have benefited from the increased stability of owning the houses;
most had lived previously in rental accommodations, where it was not feasible to invest in
structural changes to house a small business. According to our group interviews with women of the
sites and services areas, the main reason that so many had built shops, food stalls (warungs),
hairdressing salons, or had otherwise started micro-enterprises in their homes, was the additional
stability in the kampung.
Changing Profiles in the Kampung
5.27   When the early urban development projects were designed, the inner-city kampungs were
often referred to as slums, and kampung was synonymous with poverty. Today, a series of
successful development initiatives, combined with economic growth in Indonesia, have helped
improve the socioeconomic status and living conditions of the kampung dwellers. The families
living in the kampungs today are healthier, better educated, and more prosperous than they were 20
years ago. The needs and aspirations of the people have also progressed. Annex D reviews the
extent of some of these changes and the reasons for them.



60
Role of Women
5.28   Female respondents had varying perceptions about whether KIP had an impact on
changing women's role.23 The comments of women showed clearly that women had not been
consulted in the planning phase of the projects as a group. When asked about participation, many
women did not know. others thought that their husbands had gone to a meeting.
5.29   Family planning has altered women's lives quite dramatically. Smaller family sizes gives
womcn more timc for other activities. Again, the impact of POSYANDU has been very significant
(Annex D). Women now receive guidance in family health care and nutrition, and the mother's role
in community health and in improved meals cannot be underestimated, although it cannot also be
relatcd only to KIP. Many more women now work than ever before; one reason may be the time
that is now frced up, but another is the changing attitudes towards working women. Although
familics arc smaller, the extended family system still operates on the principle that older children
will carc for younger children. The number of women running warungs (small food stalls) has
mushroomed in recent Ncars, to the extent that some wvho have run warungs for a long time,
complain of dcclining profits.
5.30   The community managcmcnt role of women is plainly visible in the POSYANDU; the
women who voluntcer for training are usually mothers of young children themselves. They are
trained in specific subjects, and can provide informal advice in addition to participating in the
regular clinics. The PKK (official women's group) was active in most of the areas, and in some
areas the PKK was organizing nursery schools with mothers' help. In Surabaya, KIP included in
its design of access roads and accessible pathways narrow beds for planting trees and plants. The
PKKs have actively encouraged women to use these beds to grow both medicinal and
environmentally beneficial plants, in addition to ornamentals.
Micro-enterprises
5.31   There is little evidence to tie the growing number of micro-enterpreneurs and small scale
traders to KIP; the non-KIP kampungs have either the same number of small industries and traders,
(as in Jakarta) or twice as man' (as in Surabaya); many of these enterprises are operated from the
dwelling.
5.32   Nevertheless, many of the traders and micro-entrepreneurs living and working in the
kampungs felt that KIP improvements had enhanced their business opportunities and improved
their working environment. There is no quantitative evidence to substantiate their perceptions,
mainly because the survey did not differentiate between small industries and enterpnrses inside and
outside the kampung. Location plays an important role: traders need customers. Thus, a kampung
located near the periphery of the city from which many commute daily will not contain the same
number of traders as would a central kampung or one located in an industrial area to which people
commute daily. A kampung located near a large market will be the home of many of the traders
from the market, and many small businesses manufacturing goods for sale in the markets will be
located there. These facts exist regardless of whether the kampung has been improved or not.
2Most of the analysis of this section is based on case studies and group interviews.



61
5.33   Food stalls and small shops
-                  4     <' ' .             had proliferated in each of the cities,
primarily because the role of women
_-- _ _ ~~~~~~~~~. ~has changed due to family planning
_         _U          _                     and the fact that their contribution to
-,_- fl a family's monetary economy has
. --:  s   <     become more accepted. The rise in the
disposable income of kampung
_R                        (                         ys tdwellers has also had a major impact
on the traders and foodsellers. KIP
has provided these stall owners with a
cleaner and more pleasant
/       r      /i-l;                          environment, thus keeping kampung
,{J- h .£VV^_ &dwellers in the kampung during their
'1'h.% sow/I .pdu.~in' olh'rs t'mplwn e it .4 . p     ou  produngleisure hours and attracting customers
/JI/,.%mull/ mehiu%Irv offirs emlplovnienlt to kanmpunlg youtll Producing 
SMI(Ckv  t.t-1 ) f / t dw.v trcet                      i  n from the outside.
n-i a-Urban Poverty Today
5.34   Per capita income in 1967
vwas US$50, making Indonesia one of
the poorest countries in the world,
F \ ^'*  t .  =      ,1             ~           a    poorer than Bangladesh, India, or
v                         -                          -t g >, , ' et-- s Nigeria. Since the 1970s, income per
\~ '   ' i: I  _    ;     _        q             *    capita has grown by 4.5 percent
annually. An estimated 60 percent of
the population (about 70 million
people) lived in absolute poverty then;
today, about 27 million people, or 15
percent of the population, live in
-!_                                    absolute poverty. Infant mortality has
This Am nitig rc'suid,n is o/T{ ring \intendo games to childrenfor a   fallen from 225 per 1,000 live births
_________________________________________________  in the early 1960s to an estimated 60
pcr I .00() live births in 1992 Figures for primary school and secondary school enrollment and for
adult illiteracy show equally dramatic improvements. Life expectancy at birth has increased from
agc 4 1 to age 6 1. a 50 percent increase.
5 35   Based on our own observations and the results of the survey, we conclude that the
kampung dwellers of today are not the low-income poverty groups that they were when the projects
wcre designied. This does not mean that there is no longer poverty in urban areas. If poverty has
been reduced in traditional urban kampungs, and low income groups have not been squeezed out,
then the qucstion must be raised: Who are today's urban poor? And where do they live? Poverty
groups can be found in slums, on state land, by the sides of railways or rivers, or in illegal areas,
living in poor housing conditions in areas with severe environmental problems.
5.36   The poverty line in urban areas is currently Rp 27,900 per capita (Sarjogyo, 1977). The
percelntagc of the urban population that is poor is now higher than the percentage of poor in rural
areas. Despite this, our survey encountered only 6 of 199 households whose income was below the
poverty linc. Thcse werc primarily elderly respondents living alone.



62
6. Institutions: What Did They Learn and Remember?
Despite their focus on physical improvements in the infrastructure, Urban l-lVdid have some
landmark impacts on institutional development (ID) in the urban sector of Indonesia. For
example, new agencies were created to direct development and investment activities, and the
managerial capabilities of existing agencies were strengthened considerably. This impact has
been sustained insofar as these agencies remain important players on the urban stage of
Indonesia to this day.
But the enormous scale and unitary nature of Indonesia's public sector administration reduces
the ID impacts of individual urban projects. Despite the recent demonstration of the limits
reached by a centralized model in meeting urban sector needs, the government remains the
dominant decisionmaker in urban development to this day. Yet difficulties experienced by both
the government and the Bank in supervising multi-city projects from Jakarta hastened efforts to
devolve project implementation responsibilities to the local level of administration. Project
experience showed that urban development needed to be incorporatedfirmly within the
decentralization agenda adopted by the government in the mid-1980s.
One of the lasting impacts of allfour projects was to keep important ID issues - notably cost
recovery and decentralization - on the urban sector reform agenda. Our study highlighted,
however, that the rich learning experience of the urban projects was neither well-documented
norfollowed progressively throughout the implementation period Thus, important steps must be
taken to consolidate institutional memory within both the government and the Bank inflture
projects.
Administrative Organization of Indonesia
6.1   Indonesia is a large unitary state on what would be a continental scale in some other
regions of the world. Remarkably, for one of the world's populous nations that encompasses the
largest archipelago on the globe24, Indonesia has a clearly structured hierarchy of public
administration that brings the authority of the central government to practically all street corners of
every city in the country. The hierarchy consists of the following seven levels: (1) central
government ministries in Jakarta; (2) provincial governments in 27 provincial capitals (level I):
propinsi; (3) municipalities (level II): kabupaten or kotamadya; (4) wards: kecematen; (5)
districts/villages: desa/kelurahan; (6) neighborhoods: rukun warga, or RW; and (7) community or
family groups: rukun tetangga, or RT. Nearly all levels are closely involved in urban development.
Central government ministries not only set policy, but also administer many aspects of urban
management directly. For instance, the Urban I-IV projects operated mostly through agencies at the
national level.
6.2    Local administration at the city level throughout Indonesia consists of 54 kotamadya and
247 kabupaten (sometimes known in English as regencies). Kotamadya are generally in charge of
larger cities; kabupaten take care of smaller cities and towns, with some exceptions. Broadly
. Indonesia had an estimated 191 million inhabitants in 1992; the country includes some 14,000 islands, ranging 4,900 km east/west
and 2,100 km north/south.



63
speaking, this level of administration corresponds to municipal government in many other
countries. It was within agencies at this level, that the Urban TI-TV projects established KIP Units.
6.3    The impacts of the Urban 1-IV projects were targeted at physical improvements in housing
and infrastructure facilities in low-income areas of Indonesian cities. But from the beginning, all
four projects included components that sought to stimulate institutional development (ID) within
Indonesia's urban sector. Although some project components sought specifically to provide
technical assistance for strengthening managerial capacity in a particular agency, the ID effort
conceived by the Urban I-IV project designers was much broader. It encompassed today's concept
of ID - one that goes beyond merely strengthening a particular organization, by including project
efforts that foster sectoral policy and clarify the "rules of the game" in urban development, as well
as describe the rights and obligations of stakeholders.
6.4   In tackling ID as a broad concept, one must note that some important caveats apply to the
Urban I-IV projects. No single project - within this series or afterwards - could by itself steer a
process of sectoral reform that was as massive as that required by the vast and complex system of
urban development in Indonesia. At best, individual projects may awaken latent interests or
accelerate actions already underway. Urban I-IV did serve such a catalytic role on several
important occasions, enabling changes to be introduced, for which the government felt a strong
sense of ownership and commitment.
First Steps: The Creation and Strengthening of Institutional Framework
6.5    The most notable measures to stimulate ID in the urban sector of Indonesia were
introduced in Urban I with the creation of a completely new government urban development
agency, PERUMNAS, and the introduction of mortgage lending to Indonesia for the first time
through the state savings bank, Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN). The first project also established
basic rules, procedures, and guidelines for developing and financing low-cost housing. Clearly,
these ID impacts were sustained. Despite changes in direction, both agencies now celebrate two
decades of active intervention in the public-sector management of Indonesia's urban development.
Both benefited from technical assistance by later urban projects financed by the Bank, notably
Urban IV and the Indonesia Housing Sector Loan (Loan 2725).
6.6    The ID impacts of Urban II-IV were less dramatic. But these projects did help lay the
institutional groundwork for pursuing issues later in the government's continuing policy dialogue.
Under Urban 11, ID emphasis shifted to improving project planning and implementation capabilities
within the government entity responsible for implementing the projects - Cipta Karya (the
Directorate General for Human Settlements of the Ministry of Public Works). In the sense that it
was targeted at supporting the implementation of Urban II itself, this ID measure was limited in
scope.
6.7    Because the purpose of Urban III was to extend the KIP initiative to Indonesian cities other
than Jakarta and Surabaya, the project's ID effort still had to concentrate on laying the institutional
groundwork for implementing the project itself. Much technical assistance in project
implementation was targeted at Cipta Karya. Under the direction of Cipta Karya, the project
established KIP Units within local government entities in the new project cities of Ujung Panang,
Semarang, and Surakarta. When the KIP Units were disbanded after project implementation was
completed, the ID impacts were seemingly short-lived. But former KIP Unit staff were redeployed



64
within the respective local administrations, ensuring that professional skills enhanced by the project
were put to good use elsewhere.
6.8    Confidently approaching the expansion of the KIP program to another six cities-all
outside Java-Urban IV took bolder and broader initiatives on the ID front. Less technical
assistance was necessary for implementing the project itself, since much experience had already
been gained at the central level, especially under the previous projects. The bulk of Urban IV
project resources went to a large-scale mapping program for the entire country. Although
thoroughly prepared and extensively supervised by the Bank, the impact of this component on ID
was undermined when the maps were not disseminated.
6.9    The impact of the specific Urban l-IV measures on ID is tangible, but not far-reaching.
Studies sponsored by these projects, such as a planning study for the metropolitan region of
Jakarta (Jabotabek), did provide a forum for sectoral debate, although the government did not
always act on conclusions of the debate. Many officials regarded early studies, such as this one,
special "Bank" projects that were not part of the normal business of government. Based on
experience of the projects, it was clear that these measures could help advance the program of
reform within the urban sector. But the scale and scope of reform required in a country as large
and complex as Indonesia dwarf the role of individual projects in bringing sectoral reform to
fruition.
6.10   The ID impacts of Urban I-IV on the centralized administration urban development in
Indonesia were strengthened with the creation of new agencies and financial products and the
improvement of the managerial capability of existing institutions. Since the completion of the four
projects, other central government agencies have taken a more active role in overseeing urban
development issues. In 1985, the central government's National Development Planning Board
(BAPPENAS) assumed a more prominent role in planning the government's urban sector strategy
as lead agency for the newly created TKPP (Tim Koordinasi), the Inter-ministerial Coordinating
Committee for Urban Development. BAPPENAS is responsible for preparing and supervising the
Repelita (five-year development plans). At the same time, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) also
became increasingly involved in urban affairs, given its responsibility for urban taxation and
intergovernmental fiscal relations. For instance, MOF established the parameters of the new
property tax supported by the USL (Pajak Bumi dan Bangunan), which local administrations
collect on its behalf. It also assumed responsibility for enacting reforms in local financing-for
examnple, introducing credit mechanisms.
Groping to Coordinate an Integrated Public Sector Investment Program
6.11   The Urban I-IV projects revealed institutional horizontal complexity. As in nearly all
countries, urban management involves many sectors and is an interdisciplinary activity. An
important consequence of the Urban I-IV projects for ID was that they started a process in which
administrative arrangements were sought for coordinating among different sectoral interests
involved in urban development. The early urban projects by themselves did not set up these
arrangements on a sound footing. They nevertheless set in motion an ongoing search for adequate
cross-sectoral arrangements for urban administration.
6.12   An important landmnark in this search, which can be traced back to the early efforts of the
Urban I-IV projects, was the launching of the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development



65
Program (IUIDP). By coordinating six sectors that were intimately involved in urban development,
IUIDP was able, in particular, to integrate project lending efforts by external donors. Later
projects, beginning with the East Java/Bali Urban Development Project (Loan 3304), tried to
incorporate this approach in their operational framework.
6.13   The experience of the Urban I-IV projects indicated clearly that an IUIDP or similar
concept was necessary. Especially replicating such operations, the multi-year commitment of urban
development programs and the commitment of local funding for infrastructure development were
necessary. The Urban l-IV experience also highlighted the need for interagency coordination. For
instance, water connections might be laid into a kampung without adequate consultation by the
local water authority, as such, standpipes would sometimes be left dry for much of the day.
Informal relationships among sectoral agencies emerged under Urban I and 11 to address such
issues. These relationships were formalized under Urban III-IV through the IUIDP, although the
precise obligations and responsibilities of each party were not always understood fully. Efforts to
develop greater coordination persist, at three levels - the urban policy coordinating committee of
the National Planning Board (BAPPENAS) at the national level, local planning boards, and
BAPPEDA at the city level.
Experiencing the Limitations of the Centralized Model
6.14   The Urban l-IV projects were directed by the central government in Jakarta as the primary
agent responsible for overseeing urban development. For Urban I and to a lesser extent Urban 11,
concentrating in the city of Jakarta operational components of the projects was an entry point for
the dialogue between Bank missions and the central government. Their contact was essentially
informal, made on an "as needed" basis. The urban development management still involves several
sectoral ministries. Primary responsibility for and control over urban infrastructure investment in
Indonesia have traditionally been in the hands of the central government in Jakarta-Cipta Karya,
the government agency responsible for preparing and implementing Urban [-IV.
6.15   To implement the Urban l-IV projects, the government found key players at both ends of
the hierarchy, although the process was driven from the top. Overall responsibility was in the
hands of Cipta Karya in Jakarta. At the bottom, officials at the kelurahan level played a major role
in selecting parts of kamnpungs for improvements, while officials of the RWs and RTs helped
mobilize community participation. In other words, the government was involved in all phases.
Given that this arrangement was the normal way of conducting government business in Indonesia,
project implementation effected little change. But when Urban III and IV took urban project
investments to many cities throughout the country, the project experience did reveal the limitations
of centrally managed implementation from Jakarta.
6.16   The basic project approach, driven from the center, was to establish a special KIP Unit
within the local administration in each project city. Although these KIP Units functioned
successfully in most cities, earlier evaluations have shown that they were not integrated fully into
the local administration. The role of the KIP Units also terminated when project implementation
was completed. Although many of the special units were disbanded, however, most of their staff
were redeployed to other tasks within the local administrations. Some of the procedures adopted
purposefully by the KIP Units for project implementation-particularly cost accounting and
auditing-were adopted by other departments in the more dynamic local administrations.



66
6.17   Project experience showed the limitations of the top-down ID strategy that depended on
specific improvements in specific areas of the central government. In spite of their efforts to
strengthen local capabilities for managing the delivery of urban infrastructure, none of the Urban 1-
IV projects openly advocated decentralization as such. By showing how far such actions could go
when driven from the center, these projects involuntarily helped place decentralization on
Indonesia's urban development agenda, supporting the policy adopted by the government itself.
They also established a new direction for the Bank's urban lending in Indonesia from the 1 980s
onwards, which featured the devolution of project implementation responsibilities to local levels of
government.
6.18   The government's decentralization program proceeded within the parameters of a unitary
structure of public administration (Indonesia is not a federal state). Within this system,
decentralization became a process of transferring powers and responsibilities to the lower tiers of
central government ministries and agencies. Since the Urban I-IV projects highlighted several
critical tasks necessary for managing urban infrastructure and housing effectively, they focused
attention on specific functions - such as project implementation - that had to be devolved to local
authorities to ensure coverage countrywide. In this way, subsequent urban projects supported by
the Bank became important instruments for implementing the government's decentralization
agenda.
6.19   Policy statements by the Minister of Public Works at the Surabaya Impact Evaluation
Workshop in October 1994 confirm that decentralization remains a national objective for
Indonesia. Given complex institutional environment for decentralization, steps taken by the urban
sector in this direction can proceed only at the pace of an emerging national consensus. A single
urban project could not be expected to achieve decentralization goals by itself. The valuable ID
efforts of the Urban I-IV projects to place decentralization on the agenda remain, even if achieving
the agenda's goals themselves is still some way off. In the view of the government, the weak
administrative capacity of local governments is a major constraint on accelerating
decentralization in Indonesia. In the meantime, central government agencies, such as Cipta
Karya itself, have been organized along regional rather than sectoral lines, in order to make them
more responsive to local interests.
Enhancing the Clout of Local and Neighborhood Officials
6.20   Elections held in 1983 enhanced the interest of local governments in the projects, as
satisfactory project performnance allowed local leaders to reap electoral dividends. But the Urban 1-
IV projects had greater impacts at the neighborhood and community levels within each of the
kampungs slated for improvement. In Indonesia, a extensive web of district and city-block
jurisdictions brings government right down to the neighborhood and family group level, especially
on the island of Java. In city kampungs, the kelurahan, or city district, is the most important
jurisdiction, administered by a lurah, who is appointed by the city mayor.
6.21   Lurahs played a key role in deciding which parts of their areas would be improved under
the Urban I-IV projects. Insofar as residents cede responsibility to lurahs for choosing their area
for improvement, the investments made by the projects in those areas enhanced the authority of the
lurahs. For example, the explicit consent of the local lurah was essential for collecting data for our
impact study in those areas. Lurahs are explicitly assigned a major role in the Tri Bina (physical
environment/human resources/business development) approach to KIP that is currently being
pursued by the Third Jabotabek Urban Development Project (Loan 3246). The arrangement



67
establishes for 3- to 5-year agreements between kelurahan and the respective mayor's office about
the infrastructural improvements to made in kampungs over that period.
6.22   Administratively subordinated to the lurahs are the Rukun Warga (RW), or neighborhood
jurisdictions. Each RW is divided into some 3 to 12 Rukun Tetangga (RT). Rukun Tefanggas are
community or family group jurisdictions that generally include 50 to 150 households. Unlike the
lurahs, RW and RT leaders are elected by the community and normally live in the areas of their
jurisdiction. Because they are unpaid and are lower-income, often retired persons, RW and RT
leaders in kampungs have to eke out a living from the various charges that they can levy on
communities.
6.23   These local leaders use community meetings (rembug RW and rembug RT) to announce
KIP and other government plans-to the affected residents. These meetings are also a forum for
mobilizing community action to support the famous Javan concept of community self-help, or
golong royong,25 which was used successfully to implement the projects, but less so to maintaining
the facilities provided (see Chapter 5). The community meeting represents the interface of
officialdom and community grass roots interests. The extent to which RW and RT leaders
represent one or the other varies among kampungs. The benefit of the Urban I-IV project
investments at this level was to confer a semi-official status upon the local leaders who had
brokered the improvements on behalf of their communities. The experience of these projects, which
is confirmed by surveys of the low-income neighborhoods improved under them, is that the
existence of these formal mechanisms of contact with the community was a necessary condition
for the success of the KIP.
Impact of the Projects on Cost Recovery: Sustaining and Replicating Urban Investments
6.24   Although prepared more than 20 years ago, the design of the early urban projects was
noteworthy for addressing an important issue still debated on the urban sector policy agenda today
in Indonesia - cost recovery. The basic idea behind each project since Urban I was that costs for
upgrading low-income areas should be recovered indirectly from citywide property taxes, and that
the costs of the sites and services schemes should be recovered directly from the purchasers of the
plots. To recover costs indirectly, all urban projects proposed strengthening what was then
Indonesia's property tax, IPEDA.
6.25   The actual results were disappointing; the projects had only a limited impact in this area.
Despite the fact that the mobilization of local resources was a priority item on the urban sector
agenda for more than two decades, Indonesia still relies little on local taxes to generate revenue for
financing the urban infrastructure. At the time Urban I was implemented, city authorities in Jakarta
had little incentive to introduce such a complex taxation instrument as the IPEDA when greater
revenue could be generated more easily though vehicle licensing. And, under the Urban III-IV
projects, the rapid increases in IPEDA receipts that supplemented the initial revenue base in other
cities still did not provide local administrations with an adequate source of funds for financing
much needed urban infrastructure.
6.26   In 1986, the government abolished the IPEDA tax. It was replaced with a new National
Land and Building Tax (PBB). Subsequent Bank-financed urban operations, such as the Indonesia:
. Gotong royong means "sharing a burden" or "carrying a load collectively."



68
Urban Sector Loan (Loan 1816), supported the effective implementation of this tax. But results on
the ground continue to be disappointing. Most PBB revenue growth has come from the taxation of
mining operations through out the country. The share of total PBB revenue from urban property
has declined steadily. Today, PBB accounts only for 2 percent of local government revenue in
Indonesia. Most local revenue continues to come from central government transfers.
6.27   Important lessons are to be learned from the limited ID impact of the Urban I-IV projects
(and subsequent Bank-financed urban operations) on cost recovery. While government agencies
have adhered consistently to the principles of cost recovery embodied in successive urban projects,
strong underlying reservations have been expressed about how and when effective cost recovery
should be achieved. In the words of the Minister of Public Works in addressing the Surabaya
Impact Evaluation Workshop in October 1994:
We all agree that the Urban I-IV programs achieved their physical objectives and
that they were instrumental in later development of IUIDP. However, the Bank has
been too rigid, in our view, in applying formulae for cost recovery and institutional
arrangements from the simple Urban I-IV projects to the complex IUIDP
programs. Cost recovery principles should be objectives that guide the project
design but should not be allowed to dictate that barriers be placed in the way of
economic progress or where basic human needs and poverty alleviation are
concerned.
Preserving the Institutional Memory: A Lesson for the Future
6.28   Project PCRs and PARs are important for assessing the performance of individual
projects, including Urban I-IV. But more must be done to capture the context of the moments lived
by the projects, as well as the spirit in which they were conceived and implemented. The Indonesian
urban development program has been one of the richest sectoral experiences in the world. But,
conducting this impact evaluation study, we found that the institutional memory of events that
occurred long ago is weak. Hard-pressed, central government and local administrations are not
keen to stockpile information on operations completed in the past.
6.29   In this context, government efforts to establish a project evaluation unit within
BAPPENAS, the state planning board should be encouraged. With the support of an IDF grant,
BAPPENAS plans to develop an in-house evaluation capability for assessing project performance
in all sectors, as well as to undertake impact evaluation studies periodically. Although much must
still be done to make the unit effective, this government initiative will highlight the importance of
preserving the institutional memory of learning experiences, and not just in the urban sector.
Particularly important is ensuring that baseline data and evaluation systems are in place prior to
the initiation of any project.
6.30   A strong sense of ownership of previous and current Bank-financed urban development
operations in Indonesia bodes well for preserving the sector's institutional memory. Even before the
Bank came on the scene, the government was already committed to an extensive kampung
improvement program. More important, the Urban I-IV projects were prepared at the government's
initiative. Senior policymakers and key officials were intellectually convinced by project concepts,
which, in many cases, they crafted. Moreover, an active policy dialogue was maintained, which
helped develop consensus among all parties about the direction of urban projects. Consensus
forming is more difficult today with a much wider array of opportunities open to governments and



69
the Bank. For this reason, it is more important than ever to promote opportunities for dialogue; an
illustrative example is the Impact Evaluation Workshop held in Surabaya in October-November
1994.
6.31   A major achievement of the Urban III-IV projects was to put KIP programs squarely on
the urban development agenda of the central government and the local administrations throughout
Indonesia. Despite the large-scale interventions in Jakarta and Surabaya under Urban I and II and
Repelita I, many still regarded KIP as an emergency program, one that would be superseded when
"normal" urban growth got underway. The fact that KIP programs are still being implemented as
this report is being prepared reflects the lasting influence of this series of urban projects.






71
7. Findings and Recommendations
7.1   Impact evaluations are an important tool for an institution to learn and make adjustments
m its policies and projects and they are true gauge of project sustainability. Impact evaluations
serve several purposes, they: (i) complete the history of projects by writing the "concluding
chapter"; (ii) assess the efficacy of the Bank and Borrowers by following investments through to
their ultimate goals, and (iii) are a source of lessons needed to improve future development policies
and appraisal methods.
7.2    The main finding of this report is that the Kampung Improvement Program improved the
quality of life of Indonesian urban areas at a low cost of investment. The projects had immediate
and very positive impacts on the kampungs where the inputs were targeted.
7.3    Based on both primary and secondary data, the evaluation yielded the following specific
findings:
*  Improvements in the kampungs prompted residents to invest more in home repairs and in the
operations and maintenance of community infrastructure.
•  The immediate areas surrounding the KIP kampungs and the site and services program areas
benefited from the projects, as the physical and economic impacts of KIP and sites and services
programs rippled to those neighboring communities.
-  On the other hand, at the citywide level, environmental conditions have deteriorated,
particularly in areas where rapid population and economic growth has increased the demand
for urban infrastructure services (housing, water and sanitation, footpaths, roads, solid waste
disposal, and drainage). Thus, KIP kampungs and site and services program areas and their
immediate surroundings are islands of environmental improvements
*  Community consultation and participation in the early stages of project preparation and design
was important for instilling a sense of project ownership by the commnunity.
*  KIP did not encourage urban mobility while creating a greater sense of tenure security towards
house ownership. KIP's rapid and extensive coverage may partially account for the low level
of household tumover or mobility. City residents, observing that KIP was extended to most of
the city, did not feel it necessary to move to take advantage of the program.
*  The rising demand for scarce urban land in major Indonesian cities is likely to make the
redevelopment of kampung land into commercial and up-market residential real estate
increasingly common.
*  Despite their focus on physical improvements in the infrastructure, Urban I-IV did have some
landmark impacts on institutional development in the urban sector of Indonesia, through the
creation of new agencies and the strengthening of existing institutions at the central level.
7.4    According to the previous findings, the following recommendations and lessons are
proposed:
An upgrade program should integrate flood control measures and drainage networks at the
citywide scale. Improved drainage systems helped to reduce flooding. This is a direct positive
impact of KIP investments. However, some complaints were voiced about drainage backlogs at



72
the entrance to the main city drain and backups when drains are not cleaned regularly.
Improvements in one area should not have a negative impact on residents in neighboring areas.
*  Some aspects of the infrastructure and environmental conditions can be controlled and
managed by communities -for example, dwelling conditions, road and footpath maintenance,
solid waste collection from houses, and the upkeep of local drains. Other aspects, such as the
illegal dumping of solid waste, the integration of kampung infrastructure with the city-wide
infrastructure and the effects of pollution, are beyond the control of the communities and need
to be controlled and managed by local governments with assistance by central national
authorities.
*  The design of urban projects in Indonesia should include an assessment of the dynamics of
the local real estate market. Growing demand for modem real estate development in
Indonesia's cities can thwart low income infrastructure improvements made by projects in
prime locations. Redevelopment of many kampungs may come sooner than later, in which
case, future projects need to address up front policy issues of compensation for displaced low
income families.
*  Future projects should promote working partnerships with community groups and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) as a way to ensure that they are responsive to 0 & M
requirements in their kampungs. Consultation and participation of communities and NGOs in
the early stages of project preparation and design should be included at the planning stage.
since these aspects are important for instilling a sense of project ownership by the community.
Although the concept of community consultation and participation is now widely accepted, it
still means different things to different people, and many of the local government staff
understand the concept but do not understand how it translates into practice. Therejore,
greater understanding and better guidelines for community members, NGOs and project staff
should be established
- It is important that the institutional memory and lesson learning capacity developed for
urban development projects be maintained so as to provide guidance for future endeavors
and to facilitate the sharing of knowledge of these endeavors world-wide. Important steps
must be taken to consolidate institutional memory within both the government and the Bank in
future projects. With the support of the Bank, BAPPENAS plans to develop an in-house
evaluation capability in all sectors, including impact evaluations. Particularly important is
ensuring that baseline data and evaluation systems are in place prior to initiation of any
project.



73
ANNEXES
Annex A       Methodology of Study
Annex B       Completed and Active Projects. Urban Sector: Indonesia
Annex C       Urban Development Policies in Indonesia
Annex D       Changing Profiles in the Kamnpungs
Annex E       Summary of Secondary Data
Annex F       Summary of Primary Data
Annex G       Profile of Kampung Surveyed



I



75
ANNEX A
Methodology of Study
1. The impact evaluation concentrates on three components of the four urban projects: the kampung
improvement program (KIP); the development of sites and services program areas and citywide
improvements. Given its importance to Indonesia's urban development, KIP was the primary target of our
study. Three cities were selected for the impact evaluation: Jakarta, Surabaya, and Denpasar, the first two
located in the island of Java and the third one in the island of Bali.' The KIP program was evaluated in
the three cities, while the site and service area component was evaluated only in Jakarta and Denpasar.
Household information collected in the site and service areas was also used as comparison information,
given that the socio-economic status of these areas was more favorable than in the kampungs. The third
component, citywide improvements, was an innovation in Urban III and subsequently in Urban IV. This
component was evaluated in Denpasar. The impact evaluation commenced in September 1993 with the
first mission, and continued into April 1993 with the second mission. Field work was conducted until the
third week of May. Data entry and correction was completed in the last week of July. Analysis was an
ongoing process until the end of the project.2
2. To round up the study, the impact evaluation team (IET) held a workshop in Surabaya from October
31 to November 3, 1994. About 30 high-level officials participated in the workshop many of whom had
been active in the design and implementation phases of the four projects. During the workshop,
preliminary findings were discussed and refined, and major gaps in information were covered.
Data Collection, Sampling, and Analytical Methodology
Primary Data
3. Questionnaires completed by local interviewers. Two questionnaires were designed, one focusing on
KIP and the other on site and service. The questionnaires were tested and defined during the mission in
April 1990. The interviews took about one hour. Consistency checks and return visits to interviewees
yielded high-quality data.
4. Group interviews. Extensive group interviews were conducted with different sectors of the population,
yielding many of the findings in this study. This form of "rapid urban appraisal" identified issues and
important points, and its quantitative primary data confirmed and substantiated the findings. In many
cases, groups interviews with local officials were the first approach to the selected site. Discussion were
flexible and open, although lists of topics for each target group had been prepared in advance as a broad
guideline. Group interviews were organized either by community leaders or by members of the
community. When work hours or other reasons made group administration problematic, interviewers
called on a specific interest group separately at their home or their work place. Interviews were held from
l Additional, secondary cities were also visited during the impact evaluation mnissions. The other project cities visited included
Surakarta, Semnarang, Ujung Pandang. Banjamarsin, and Padang.
2 Tne qualitative field research in each location was undertaken by a British development consultant, Gillie Brown, and an
Indonesian socioeconomist, Dr. Djoko Basuki. Background information on the Jakarta KIP program was provided by Dr. John
Taylor, who also played a major role in designing the questionnaire for primary data collection and in selecting kampungs for the
study,. Primary data collection was carried out in Jakarta by the Center for Architecture and Urban Studies (CAUS), supervised by
Ir. Harry Miarsosno. In Surabaya, background work and site selection was conducted by Dr. Johan Silas. Students from the Faculty
of Architecture at the Surabaya Institute of Technology carried out the primary data surveys, Two of the enumerators who had
helped with the Surabaya survey also undertook the surveys in Denpasar. Data analysis was undertaken in Jakarta by Gillie Brown,
assisted by Ir. Sui Danin.



76
early morning to late at night, to ensure coverage of all different social groups. some of whom were absent
for part of the day. The interviews were kept as informal as possible.
5. Walking through the kampung and talking informally with residents allowed the interviewers to
question many more respondents than are represented by the actual number used in the data. Respondents
in group interviews included long-time residents, staff of the kelurahan office, women of the PKK. women
who lived and worked in the kampung, staff and members of the Kooperasi It 'anita (Women's
Cooperative), local traders, and so forth. In Bali, Javanese migrants were included as a group, as were the
original Balinese residents. Groups around the site and service areas included early settlers, new arrivals.
original inhabitants living outside the area, and settlers who had recentlv moved into surrounlding areas.
As part of the impact study of citywide improvements in Denpasar, interviewers held discussions with the
then project directors of the different components, and with some of those affected, including scavengers
on the solid-waste disposal site, the staff and local inhabitants of the Nusa Dua and Kuta resort areas, and
Javanese migrants.
6.  Case studies. Throughout the group interviews and "walking tours," interviewers selected
representative households or individuals for in-depth analyses of their lives. Follow -up intcrviews were
conducted at a later date. For example, a family that suffered serious damage from the widening of a
footpath and a family of scavengers living in a landfill were selected for follow-up.
7.  Expert observations. The last page of each questionnaire contains a series of questions to be
completed by the interviewer, providing his or her personal view of the kampung or site and serv ice area.
8. Key informant interviews. We interviewed experts who could provide salient perspectives about the
projects. They included staff in the different agencies involved in project designi and implementation
(Cipta Karya, PERUINAS, BAPPENAS, and local governmenits), officials in other international or
bilateral agencies (USAID and ADB), academics, and communuity leaders. The mlost useful interviews for
enhancing the team's understanding of the important issues during project implementationi %crc those
with staff who were responsible for components of the projects during implementation. All staff had
moved on to different positions, but the effort of tracking them down in their new positions or in their
retirement was always worthwhile.
Secondary Data
9.  Secondary data came from reports and maps provided by the following sourccs: the departments of
public works at the national and provincial levels; BAPPEDA Tk II in the sttudy locatioins; district hcalth
offices; World Bank Headquarters in Washington and the Jakarta Resident Mission. Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs); consultants and individuals; and the Kelurahan offices of the sitcs selected for
primary data collection. (Annex E summarizes some of the secondary data collccted.)
10. Much of the secondary data provided useful background informiiationi for preparing this report.
However, one limitation with some of the information we found in existing reports was that it was
collected for purposes that differed from those of our impact evaluation, and was not always in the form in
which we needed it. Other data also proved to be of limited use: for examlple, information from the
kelurahan offices was not helpful because the kelurahan boundaries did not conform with the boundaries
of the kampungs used in the study, and the type of data varied from one kelurahan to the next. Although
kelurahan is the smallest aggregation of official data, one kelurahan usually has a wide range of
socioeconomic groups, and the data thus do not necessarily reflect the situationi in the kamnpuig. But we
were able to use other information extensively to illustrate changes ovcr timc, such as the baseline study of
Surabaya kampungs carried out by LP3ES, and the 1982 PhD thesis by Dr. John Taylor.



77
The Workshop
11. One of the most valuable features of the methodology was the workshop held in Surabaya. Thirty
high-level experts, government officials, and Bank staff attended the three-day workshop. The Secretary
General from the Ministry of Public Works read the keynote speech from the Minister of Public Works.
The contributions and comments of the participants during the workshop have suggested formulating the
conclusions contained in this report.
Site and Household Selection
12. During the April-May 1994 mission, the IET selected the sites for the study. During that period, the
researchers made a field reconnaissance of potential research areas. Nine areas were selected for primary
data collection surveys - seven for the KIP component, and two for the site and service area component.
Sites could be selected if (1) they contained areas improved through KIP under one of the urban projects;
(2) they contained central and more peripheral locations, (3) they contained improved kampungs and
unimproved kampungs, or (4) for Jakarta, they were included in an earlier research project. Some basic
information about the areas selected is shown in table l; more detailed information is provided in Annex
G. Maps of the three cities showing the locations of the survey areas are shown as Maps 1, 2, and 3.
Table 1: Descriptions of the survey sites
City           Kampung name         Survey code     Reason for selection         N'umber of
respondents
Jakarta        Kel. Tanah Tinggi         JI        Imer-citv kampung                 25
improved by K1P
Kebun Pisang and          J2       Inner-city kampung                25
Kebun Sayur,                       improved by KIP
Kel. Manggarai
Muara Barn               J3        Comparison kampung not             25
Kel. Penjaringan                   included in KIP
Kel. Malaka Sari          J8       Site and service housing           12
area
Surabaya       Kampung Kedung            S4       Inner-city kamnpung                25
Doro                               improved by KIP
Kel. Sawahan
Jagir Sidomukti           S5       Fringe kampung improved            25
Kel. Jagir                         by KIP
Blauran                   S6       Comparisoni kampung not            25
Kel. Genteng                       included in KIP
Denpasar       Pekamnbingan              B7       Inner-city kLmpung                 25
Kel. Dauh Puri                     improved by KLP
Kel. Tegal Kartha        B9        Site and service housing           12
area
13. After the sites were chosen, our field survey teams contacted local authorities to engender their full
support for our survey. Our experience was that formal authorization by local ward leaders (lurahs) was
necessary for proceeding with the survey work.
Comments about survey locations.
14. We selected Jakarta kampungs because they had been part of an earlier research project undertaken by
Dr. John Taylor in 1982 and 1993. In Manggarai, the original kelurahan had been divided into two, the
boundary of which passes through the survey location. Thus, secondary data collected is not comparable
with secondary data from records after the mid-1980s.



78
15. We selected Penjaringan as the comparison area, since it is one of the few areas left in Jakarta in
which a large enough area of non-KIP kampung could be found for fielding our survey. Penjaringan is a
fringe kampung where development has been heavy in the past 20 years. It also has some fairly extreme
environmental problems - a rugged coast, proximity to the site where rubbish is cleared from the drains
that run through Jakarta before the water reaches the sea. Yet it provided useful information on a
community whose socioeconomic, organizational, and physical development were comparable.
16. The Tanah Tinggi primary data survey was the first to be carried out. Our intention had been to use
the center of the kelurahan as the basis for selecting respondents, and we indeed used this method to
locate the Tanah Tinggi survey area. After reviewing the kelurahans in other locations, we decided to use
the center of the kampungs as the basis for selecting respondents. Because the distance between the center
of the kelurahan and the center of the kampung in Tanah Tinggi was short, we did not repeat the survey.
We should note, however, that a higher percentage of low-income, densely populated houses would have
been included had the survey been moved.
17. Genteng was a non-KIP inner-city kampung, and in this respect it differed from the Jakarta non-KIP
kampung. The results from both of these kampungs provide a useful range of comparisons and conditions.
We selected Pekambingan as an inner-city KIP kampung, but, given rapid development in Denpasar
recently, it actually exhibited many of the trends of the fringe kampungs elsewhere.
18. We selected 25 households at random in each of the seven kampungs. We used a geographic method
of random selection, with grids overlaid onto maps of the selected survey locations (figure 1). The grids
were drawn to the scale of available maps, so that the actual survey area would be 300m x 300m. The X
axis of the grid was then lined up parallel to the direction of the primary access route within the kampung.
The center of the grid was located at the center of the kampung, or identified survey area. At the
beginning of the field research period, 25 squares on the grid had been selected randomly. The same
squares were used in each survey site. The house nearest to the center of the selected square was visited. If
no suitable respondent was found, the interviewer moved one house to the left. If no suitable respondent
was found after three houses the interviewer returned to the house at a different time.
19. In some instances, the selected square did not contain a house-for instance, if the square was located
on a sport field, school, or marketplace. In this case, the interviewer located a new respondent by moving
three squares along the X or Y axis, depending on the position of the square to be relocated.
20. In each of the two site and service areas, 12 residents were interviewed. These households were
selected in a manner similar to the one used to select kampung households. Both structured interviews and
group surveys were fielded.
Analysis
21. To analyze the data, we opted for a methodology that combined rigorous quantitative analysis with
qualitative information obtained from secondary data, group interviews, or case studies. The process of
quantitative data analysis is shown in figure 2.
22. We used a microcomputer spreadsheet to convert the primary data from the surveys directly into
tables. After extensive checks against the original questionnaires and cross-tabulation checks, we
produced summary tables (some of which are presented in Annexes E and F). It was apparent early on that
some statistical differences existed between KIP and non-KIP sites, and some existed between the cities.



79
Figure 1: Geographic random selection of households
300m
Axis 2
1    2    3    4    5    6   -:7    8    9    10  11   12   13   14   15
16   17   18   19' 20   2 1 2 22 3  24 251 2                76 28   2 9   3 0
31   32   33   34   35   36   37   38  39   40 41 .42:.  43:4    43
..  ,,,..... ..  . .
46   47   48   49          51   52   53  54  5556   57   58   59   60
6)   62   63   64   65   66   67   68   69   70   71   72   73   74   75
76   77   78   79  -80-  81   82   83  84   85  -86. 87   88   89   90
91   92   93   94  95    6   97   98   99  100  101  102 .-   104  105
-  -            -    -          -    -                    ..... ~~~~~~~~300 m
106  107  108  109  110  111  112  113  114  115  116  117  118  119  120
…………………………Axi I
121  122  123  124 I'25  126  127  128 129  130  131  132  133  134  135
136  137  138  139  140  141  142  143 144  145  146  147  148  149  150
51  152  153 '154  155  156  157  158   19160              62  163 164  165
166  167  168  169  170  171  172  173  174  175  176  177  178  179  180
181  182  183  184  185  186  187  188  189  190  191  192 -9. 194  195
196  197  198  199 200  201  202  203 204 205. 206  207 208  209 210
211 212 213  214  215  2W   217  21$ 219 220 221 222  223  224 225
Note: The grid is a 300m by 300m, with 20m by 20m cells.
Instructions
Step 1: Draw a map of the kelurahan where the selected kampung is located on a scale of 1:2000.
Step 2: Define the main vehicle street of the kalurahan (two-way traffic with sidewalks). This will be the direction of Axis I.
Step 3: Define the geometric center of the kalurahan.
Step 4: Place the attached grid in the following way:
(i) Axis I in the direction of the main street identified in step 2
(ii) Locate the intersection of axis I and 2 to coincide with the geometric center defined in step 3.
Step 5: Interviews will be conducted within the cells marked on the attached grid.
Step 6: Should a marked cell be located outside the kampung boundaries or within an area of open space or not the kampung, count five
cells in the direction of axis I or 2 towards the center of the gird, along the rows or columns.
Step 7:  If necessary count successively one cell more towards the center, until the cell selected is inside the kamnpung.
23. We used the SAS statistical analysis package to analyze the data. We tried several probability tests
and different methods for grouping the sample into sets. Based on our initial tests we decided to aggregate
the data into six sets, and to divide the data into three categories.
24. Mean values, maximums, and minimums were calculated from the empirical (category 1) data. Using
SAS, we also grouped category I data into ranges and used analysis of variance procedures to apply them
to data in the second and third categories. We used T-tests to assess significant differences between the
aggregated sets of empirical data and ranges. The T-tests were particularly useful for showing differences
between the aggregated sets in the following in: family size, number of persons in the dwelling, lot size,
income and expenditures, and educational levels.



80
Map 1: Map of Jakarta and selected kampungs and sites and services
IBRD 26714
\                      Icc~~~ @uMPACT EYV ION SrDY
\    ~~LURN DEELCA  PRQJEaS
<            ~~SUMtE LtOCA"  IN AK]A
(D TCft 7\ 
K.hmu Mi9 and Kibun Say wI
Kul. &biWm
KI.M@ISI.SOA                                                I 
Kai. J.uwi.Scsm6gf
Kel. PA 1,1- - Scoi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D4JI 19
- M *R        I   :    \    ~~~~DEPOK                                        /n. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANM 1995 



INDONE$A
IMPACT EVALUA0.tON STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROWJCS
SURVEY LOCATIONS INRRAAYA
JAVA  SEA                                                                  aw:)  fp                :)
___LOCAIION01SURVW
KABUPATEN                      2.5
(ny ju- n ont, leg1
<_---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 -w   i       I , 
T h   W o rl d   b a n ic P % r o ° u p  ' '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  \  ,  \~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~V  
s tatus of ony territory, //  
cor any endorsement  
iior accptance of such                              To Surokrorto        'o Molon
_ boundaries.,,r                                                                         oo otr
uTO                                                                                                                                                                       r,



82
Map 3. Map of Denpasar and selected kampungs and sites and services             BRD 26715
INDONESIA
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
SURVEY LOCATIONS IN DENPASAR
M
Dd Simd S
T. Tb-.    F
1SteE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                         r. 1_G._-''' 
*1 ~ ~     ~    ~       f  w
F- K-w-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IF4A~19



83
Figure 2: Analysis of quantitative data
|Primay data input
Check data;    l
|b    eiJ     cross-tabulate
|Summary Tables 
Decide on sets for
I_____________________________  _ >    aggregation
T-test analysis of                    Chi Square analysis
empirical data                        of non-empirical
data
Statistical
differences   l
_I                                 Control Variables
Causal relationships
25. We used Chi square tests of statistical independence to analyze multiple-choice answers, particularly
for assessing differences between the following aggregated sets: dwelling conditions, water supply and
sanitation, consultation and participation, means of transport, vehicle ownership, and location.
26. Depending on the initial results of the analysis, we conducted additional tests to control for specific
variables. Some of the variables used most often were lot size, income, number of years in residence, and
housing tenure status. While useful results were gained from Chi square tests, the results in many cases
were not conclusive due to the small number of counts in each subset. Analysis of more than two variables
was often not possible for this reason, and causal relationships were difficult to establish with an) degree
of confidence. The experience helped highlight the conflicting interests that must be considered in survey
questionnaire design: on the one hand, the number of choices given in a multiple-choice question should
be sufficient to provide a clear picture of the situation; on the other, they should be kept small enough to
be able to establish a causal relationship confidently during analysis.
27. Preliminary investigations in project files in Washington, DC, and Jakarta revealed the absence of
systematically collected baseline data on the kampungs improved under the four urban projects. Clear
records were unavailable on which kampungs had been included in each project, and on what facilities
each kampung had been provided with. Information was unavailable on the conditions of the kampungs
before they were improved. Thus, we were forced to rely on the memories of a few individuals for our site
selection and initial investigations. In addition, we could not simply compare the situation of the KIP
kampungs today with the pre-project situation in order to assess impacts. We had to try other methods for
a comparative assessment of KIP and non-KIP kampungs, referring to more general baseline data
available from previous studies. KIP is dispersed so widely throughout Indonesian cities that very few
non-KIP kampungs remain to serve as control areas. In addition, other programs similar to KIP have been
implemented, complicating the situation.



84
What went right? What went wrong?
28. The Indonesia urban IER was a major undertaking, yielding many lessons for similar endeavors in
the future. For this reason, we provide a brief summary of the main issues we faced in executing the study,
independently of questions about the objectives of the research itself. For future studies, it is worth
highlighting here what went well and what went poorly during the exercise, including issues associated
with institutional memory, the claritv of impacts, the quality of surveys/maps, the complexity of
interviewing survey respondents and of arranging group interviews, the desirability of using local leaders
as sources of information, the justification for using non-kampungs as control areas, and the problems
associated with the questionnaires used in the survey.
29. A limited institutional mnemory posed a problem. From our limited knowledge of exactly where the
KEP was implemented and the absence of records on where funds from each project were allocated (mainly
in Jakarta), we had some problems in selecting the kampungs corresponding to the four projects under
evaluation. In addition, because many kampungs have been upgraded by other programs, both public and
private, the task of identifying what was the result of Bank-financing was even harder. The absence of
institutional memory also posed a major challenge as we evaluated the citywide improvement component
in Denpasar. Although we had a list of staff involved in the projects, most of them had moved away.
Reports and maps were not easily available. It was difficult to determine exactly what had been included
under this component. We eventually tracked down two staff members who had been part of the project.
The information they provided was extremely useful, but did not compensate fully for the absence of
written information.
30. Gathering health information was difficult. We intended originally to use secondarv data to illustrate
health improvements; because data were aggregated up to kecamatan (sub district) level, we could not do
so. Although annual reports give a comprehensive analysis of health statistics at the citywide level, they
bear little relevance to the situation in the individual kampungs in which the survey was located. The
collection of data on illnesses is vulnerable to the perceptions of individuals. Researchers have noted that
the incidence of recorded illness tends to rise with socioeconomic status (the most relevant results are
those of the LP3ES survey in 1982). Low-income families often ignore all but the most serious illnesses,
since they cannot afford the consultation and treatment fees.
31. The quality ofprimary data was good. We found no major problems during the survey. Experienced
researchers double-checked information to confirm the initial findings. Interviewers reported that the
questionnaire was relatively clear, and households were able to answer most questions. Two survey groups
worked simultaneously in Surabaya and Jakarta. Differences in the perceptions of the two groups and their
understanding of the purpose of the questions were unavoidable. Most of these differences have been
identified and notes have been added to the tables where necessary. Additional information in the
questionnaires helped concentrate the answers from the two areas. The team that conducted the surveys in
Surabaya also conducted them in Denpasar, and then analyzed the data after both surveys were completed.
32. Respondent selection in the kampungs posed a difficult choice. But the method of selection provided
a reasonable system of sampling respondents at random; many other methods were considered, but the
grid overlay was chosen because it created the fewest external influences on respondent selection. We
acknowledge that this method also has its drawbacks, particularly when selected houses fell into
commercial or other nonresidential areas, thus had to be changed. Usually, several selected locations had
to be moved, creating a high density of selection within a neighboring area; when the neighboring area
was particularly lower income (Genteng) or higher income (Tanah Tinggi), the results appear to have
been influenced by this move.
33. The quality of maps varied for the three cities. The Surabaya kelurahan offices provided high-quality
maps. The maps were on a scale of 1:1000 and showed all houses. The grid overlay method worked



85
extremely well and interviewers were allocated houses in advance. In Jakarta and Denpasar, the maps
were drawn to a much smaller scale, and the scale varied among kelurahans. None of the maps showed
houses. The interviewers were given a spot on the maps corresponding to the center of the selected cell.
and were then responsible for selecting the house themselves.
34. Respondent selection in the sites and services areas posed difficulties. While the grid overlay method
was considered the best option for the kampungs, it may have been better to use a different method for
selecting the site and service areas. In these areas, the size of house lots and the percentages of different-
size lots were fixed at the design stage. The results could have reflected this factor more effectively if
respondents had been selected according to the proportions of different types of houses. We also
acknowledge that the surveys samples were very small in the sites and services areas. But we have two
justifications for including these surveys area:
*  The study in these areas was originally intended to be based on qualitative data. Case studies and
group interviews were conducted to this end. The surveys were included to substantiate the qualitative
findings with quantitative information.
*  The population is much more homogeneous in the site and service areas than in the kanipungs.
Certain features are predictable-such as the large number of civil servants. Thus, we felt that even the
limited data that could be collected would be sufficiently valuable to justify including the results.
35. Group interviews provided a reasonable flexibility. It was often neither possible nor desirable to
arrange a formal gathering of members of the target group. By maintaining a flexible approach, we could
adapt the concept but gather the same quantity and quality of information. Interviews with operators of
small-scale industries was not possible without disturbing their work , thus necessitating that we visit
several respondents separately in their workplace. If formal interviews could not be avoided. we used them
to lead into more informal discussions. Organizing group interviews was harder in Denpasar, and group
interviews sometimes became case studies if the specific group contained an insufficient number of
members.
36. Different community organizations and culture. The banjars in Bali do not necessarilv include all the
people within a geographic boundary. The banjar is more than just an administrative subdivision.
Members of the hanjar form a knit group to celebrate, grieve, or pray together. The rough hanjar
boundarv may contain a couple of RTs including Javanese who have their own leaders and do not consider
themselves as belonging to the hanjar. In addition, local residents who move out of the banjar because
they have inherited property or are renting a house in a different banjar will retain their links completely
with their original banjar, and are not expected to become part of the new one. This leads to segmented
communities. Local leaders could arrange group interviews only with people within their hanjar.
sometimes excluding certain cases of interest to us. More was achieved by talking separately and
informally to persons who fell into the target groups (small enterprise owners, women, long time
residents, and so forth).
37. Local leaders were an important source of information. They local leaders, who had usually lived in
their areas since childhood and were able to describe the changes which had taken place in their areas
helped us considerably. Many had been key players or decisionmakers in the KIP or swadava masvarakat
projects that had taken place in their communities.
38. In our research, we selected control or comparison kampungs that is, compared kampungs that were
not part of the KIP with others that were. It has been argued that this comparison is invalid, because the
kampungs that were not chosen for the program either were in a better and more favorable condition than
KIP kampungs or were not in compliance with the future land-use plans for the cities. The comparison
kampungs we chose had not been included under KIP because they were not in areas allocated as



86
residential areas in the city masterplans. However, the nature of the kampungs and their communities
were indeed similar to the KIP kampungs. Each of the nine survey areas had its own character and
identity, and we considered these features in drawing conclusions from the results.
39. We encountered six specific problems with the items included in the questionnaire:
*  The low-income population in our study did not always have similar perceptions of the technical
definitions of illness included in the questionnaire.
*  Households had problems with answering questions about the income of other household members.
*  Information on loans was difficult to obtain.
*  Respondents were not knowledgeable about housing or land prices, even when they were owners.
*  Many respondents could not remember the IBRD projects, or the sources of funds for facility
improvements. The exceptions, were projects that contained "people participation" components
(swadaya masyarakat) in which residents themselves had actually made a contribution.
*  Some respondents were reluctant to provide answers, which can be attributed to Indonesian culture
about giving negative responses, thus, questions that required critical evaluation are probably more
favorable on average than they should be.
40. In brief, the impact evaluation plotted a simple linear path through a complex myriad of topics and
data. Exploratory studies helped establish the methodologies that were adopted. Key issues relevant to
today's urban lending program and policy dialogue were chosen. Around these issues, we designed
modules, around which primary and secondary data were collected. We tested selected hypotheses, and we
discussed the results of our work with local and international experts at a workshop held in Indonesia.



87
ANNEX B
Completed and Active Projects
Urban Sector: Indonesia
bm,sst No.
};.trRD  l.c  ttsn
URBAN 1(1974)                 To establish a national wban development program to raise the living     ( ) KIP: physical infrastructure improvenenus to 1980 ha. of kampungs       The implemnenttion of the KIP component went smsoothly as planned, but
L1040                         oanditions of the urban poor by iniproving their access to better physical  benefitting 890.000 low-income residents; (ii) Sites and Services Program: 130  delays and difficulties were experienced viLh the projecOs sites and
US$51.0 million               inrastructure and housing.                                               ha. of new urban land with urban services, subdivided into about 7,930      so-vices cobnponent not only because of lack of experience by both the
US$25.0 million                                                                                        residential lots fot sale prisnrily to low-incomse families: and (ii) Technical  Bank and the GOI, but also because of policy differencers between the tIV.
lakarta                                                                                                Assistance: aid the National Urban Devetopntent Corporation (PERUMNAS)      The stow pace in resolving this conflict contributed to significant delays in
for inenaent ussistance, project execution ad preparation.                  irnpleLting the site and services comrponess. The issues of cost
recovery and sustainability were not addressed properly.
URBAN 11 (1 976)              To initiate the IaP aimed at improviag the living conditions of the uba  (i) KIP-Jakarta: physical infrastructwe improvenents to 3000 ha. of karpungs,    The project successfully continued the already suhstanial Jakaur KIP. and
L1 336                        poor outside Jakarta (Surabaya).                                         benefiting 1.2 million low-incomne residents; (ii) Sapmwsas Program-        extended it to Srabaya. The project developed directly from the Urban I
US$104.t milliom                                                                                       Suabaya: physical improveaents selected by kLapungs residents vwhom         and s such benefited significantly from being a follow-on. The technical
US$52.5 miUion                                                                                         contribute 505 of cost; 375 ha. of kapungs improvenaents; and (iii) Technicat    assistance component ws extended well beyond its origina scope,  d
Jakrtu and                                                                                             Assistne to Cipu Karya for project preparation and execution; GOI property  ws, therefore, completed with significant delays. The issue of cost
Surbays.                                                                                               Ux improvenment program; and feasiblity studies for wban projects.          recovery and susuainabdity still persists.
URBAN H (°978)                To expand the existing KIP in Jakarta and Surabaya and to extend it to four    (i) KIP: physical inproveaents to 750 ha.. benefiting 210,000 people in  KIP execution was a straightforward business for both the Bank and the
L1653                         other secondary cities and to broaden the KIP including investments to   Jakarta and 4 secondary cities; (i) Solid Waste Mangement in Jakarta and   (GOL Problems with O&M in the project. Technical assistance efforts to
US$96 million                improve general public health (e.g. solid waste mangenaent).              Surabaya; (iii) Drainage improvenment; (iv) SDAll Business Developmenlt (v)  Suwabaya were successft. The issue of cost recovery and sustainablity
US$54 million                                                                                          Land Regintration asistance; and (vi) Technical assistance in project planming,    still persists.
Jakarta.  srabaya                                                                                      design, mnplnenutation. monitoring nd evaluation; solid wate managemenl.
Ujtmg Pandang,
Semarang ad
Surakarta.
URBAN IV (1981)               To implemenita nationwide KIP; a sites and services program; and         (i) KIP: physical improvanetsto 1O1.900 ha benefilting 500.000 people; (i)  This project was one of the must intemsivly supervised uba projecU
L1972                        strengthening of the mahageani capabilities of the Bank Tabungas Negara  Sites and Services: land acquisition and construction of infrastructwe and  world-wiide aong those completed so far (213 sfwk). The isue of cost
USS85.93 million             (BTN) and the PERUMNAS.                                                   housing facilities; (ii) Denpasar City-wide improveenats; (iv) Urban mapping  recovery and sustainabiity still persists.
USS43 million                                                                                          program for about 100 large snd mediumr-size cities; (v) Sudies and technical
Palenbang.                                                                                             assistance (planning and implemsentation of rIP; improve municipal lax
Padang,                                                                                                collection traning; and developing PERUMN AS and BTN functioning And
Banjamarsin                                                                                            capabilities).
Saarinda,
Pontianak and
Denpasar.
URBAN V (1984)               To improve basic urban servic  and strengthen uaniipal administration in    (i) KrIP: basic infrastructure for improvement of2,430 he.; ()i Solid Waste  Despite making a formal commiamiento resource mobilizaion. Urban V
L2408                        the project cities and aug-Iet the rapacity for local resouee mDbilization.  Improvement Program to benefit 1. 1 million people; (iii) Drainage       still retained much of rthe physical focus upon urban development of its
US$64.4 milion                                                                                         Improvement Progranc rehabIitation of prminary. secondary and tertiary      predecsors.
US$39.25 miUion                                                                                        drainage network; (iv) Municipal Mangemnmt hmprovement Prograns
Srabays, Searang,                                                                                     (development and implementation of programa and training in each of the
Suarkarta. ad Ujung                                                                                    cities; and (v) Technical asistance for project implenmenlation units at the city
Pandang                                                                                                ad provincial levl and to Cipta Karya.



88
Housing Sector (1986)         To expand access to housing fnance for low and middle income                (i) Credit line to BTN to finance a shire of totl nmortgage lending commitmectts    The key benefits of LWe proje  include (a, Whe cxpnded role of private
L2725                          households; to reduce overall subsidies and waget tWe remaining subsidies  durirg Whe lIst uree years of Repelia IV; nd  ii) Technical assistance anud   dn elopers in Whe supply of housing, and dimrnishing role of Lhe
USS1298.7 million              to the lowst income groups; to reduce re rdiance ofe housing finance       conputer and other equipmcentfor BTN and PERUMNAS to stregLen Lbeir           goerument in Lhe producion of housing; (b) improvernent in Whe
USS270 miDlion                 systern on goverrmnt funds nd introduce new mstrustnenu for resource       operatiota performance and managenent.                                        management of Whe BTN, and automation for Lhe Minisuy to better
mobilization; to stimulate the producion of mnre low-cost homing by both                                                                                 respond to Whe supply constraints nd deoand patterns of Whe housing
public and private developers; to generale enployment al low foreign                                                                                     sector. Private developers involvement in Lhe production of low-cost
exchAnge costs; nd to streaglesi BTN and PERUMNAS.                                                                                                       housing (lagely motivated by he availability of subsidized mortgage
loansI may not be sustainable without conlinued availability of sore forn
of subsidies. AlWhough Whe project achieved most of its objectives. the
large problem of supply of offordable housing to Whe urban low-income
households mwt stil lo be addressed. (Based 0o PCR. Januaty 14, l 994.c
Urban Sector ( 987            To carry out GOI's FY7/88 and FY88/89 urban infrastructure expenditure      fi Two-year tone slice of GOI's urban infrastructure expenditure progrm for   On every front, he aclivities proposed by We USL aimed at shaking up
L2816                         prograns; to strengthen sector institutions and procedures; to inprove local    FY87'88 and FYS8'89, composed of bigh priority expenditures including     Lraditional methods of doing urban business in Indonesia. but because of
USS1005 milion               resource mobiization; nd to inrease the responsibilities of local           investment nd rehabditation as well as O&M expendilures; (ii hnplemnentation    ihs luge agenda 24 items technicaa ssistance) ius results were shor of
US$270 miDion                 gov%trnems for urban infrastructure plaming. fiancing and                   of GOl's Action Plan for sector policy and instiutional reform aimed at laying  wbat was expected. There vas a shift with tWis project away from Lhe
itplaemnetaion.                                                            Lhe foundations for a substantial shift in responsibility from Cetral         physical developmertt concerns of earlie projects to a fimance policy
Government to local governments for planning, implementing, O&M and          agenda at a moment of foscal crisis. The result of tWe USL also
fnancing urban services; and (iii) Technical assistance for property tax     demonstraed tWat actual itprovements in resource mobiizAlion tWrougb
improvemeni program; and for tramiing in sector financing reforsn,           the implementation of new laxes take tine to materialize.
irprovernit of planning and programmrting. strengtWening of waler supply
subsectof mauageamnt and developsnet of urban institutions And manpower.
Regional Cities Urban         To inptnmeut a program for rdieving traffic congestion and promote          (i) Road construction: new 4 km beteen Bandung and Seanarng and widening      Active
Transport (I 987)              transport efficiency; to strengthen city government cabilities in tWe      existing ones i a four cities; (il) Corridor inproveenta of roads linking all
L2817                         plannig. implementatioa. nd maintenance of traffic nd transport facilities  project cities (selective repaving, drainage and traffic-engineering mesasures);
USS88.I milion                and services; and to establish a process of coordinating Whe invesment      (uii Traffic engineering prograam  for traffsc congestions interections, sil
US1.0 milion                  activities or central, provincial and city govenment agencies in urban      equipment and city street signing; (iv) Road reabilitation and maintenance
Bandug, Meedan                tranport programs.                                                          equipment and funds; (v) Trainig for staff development in transportation
Sesarang, and Surabaya                                                                                    planning, traffic engineering , road mrainteance, nd cotruction
mnagemmnt and (vi) Technical assiuance (Bina Maria) for project
manageant. construction suparvision nd preparation fur ttae projects.
Jabotabek Urban               To provide technical assistance for institutional development and training in    (i) Physical component: major upgrading of about 90 km of primary and    Active
Development (1988)            urban trasport And urban maugeament and include physical works (mnaily      secondary arterial roads, four major flyover road safety masures, a four year
L2932                         civil works and some equipmeit) for n extensive progrm  of road             program of traffic management and maintenance, and about 35 km of
US$223.9 million              improvemneti and construction.                                              development roads on the city's eastern and western fringes and tWe former
US$150.0 million                                                                                          Knayoran Airport site; (ii) Institutional and policy developmentt development
of a five-year integrated infrastructure investUent program (fUIDP).
strengthening of national urban tranport policy institutions; (iii) Technical
assistance for project implementation, advisory services. fIane expenditure
program preparation and traiing in trafic engineering.
Second JaboLabek Urban         To develop and inpleIsent a coordinated program of physical investments,   (ii PDAM Jaya Water Syslean Iaproveaents; (ii) Pejotpongan Raw Watr           Active
Development (1990)            technical assiistance ad policies of urban water supply, waste water        Pipeline; (iii) Cisadane Treated Water Transmission Main; (iv) Jakarta
L3219                         disposal, drainage and wter resource/quality mnagement.                     Sewerage nd Sanitation Project Extension; (v) Priority Drainage and Flood
USS348.6 million                                                                                          Control: canal dredging and upgrading; nd (vi) Water Resource Managernent
US$ 190 million                                                                                           study and support for isproved institutional arrangemnnts for the region.



89
Tbird Jabotabak Urban       To introduce a sore effective and sista'ble approach to provision of  (i) KIP to provide basic infrasuucture and conmnotity services in loincome  Active
Developmeunt (19I1)         bak cswvic  in Jabotahet through extnive comunty participation ot    [kupungs (Jkarta); (ii) Solid wate nanagent: secondary collection,
L3246                       recognied low-income urban cowasiaitie; to strengthen environtmntal   cleaning up and dosing dunmp sites, and tecinkal astistaice to inmprove
US$97 million               protectin and pollutieon control in the Jakat region, nd to suprove   resouree recovery; (iii) Environmosntl protection and pollution control:
US$61 milain                mainteance of existing infastructure netwrks, and provide a irmer basis    institutional stregthein  and training in msonitoring and enforcaent.
for pliumin  fure devdopomwt priorities,                             monitoring equpment, natural resource inventory, pollution reduction
strategies, feuibility sudies in industrial joint wate treatment (iv) Technial
assistance to update the planninLg fbtmerk for devdopraUt in the Jakarta
region; ad (v) taqilermtaltion of iprfoved infrastructure operation ad
maintenne.
East Jva - ali Urban        To imrove the quality of urbas infrastructure inves;toi and swvie     (i) hifrastructure devdoprset, rdabilitation and O&NM (five-year urban   Active
Devdopsnt (1991)            ddivery in East lava and Bali (45 participating local governments)    infrastructure expenditure peogran civil wrks and equipent for water
L3304                                                                                             supply, urban roads, kamptg improvenmest, morket infrsuncture
USS360.5 Million                                                                                  irprovement, solid waste managueent, draiage and sanitation); (ii) Program
USS103 oillis.                                                                                   managenrnt physical inr1en;tion of the project, frrtber program and
subprogram preparatio, and ranrgt of program inplemnslation; (iii)
Insitutional DevefopoM (asicipal nainaga  inuproveroent: revenue
adkoinistration reform, local govornom finl accounting and rrmage
and reform, enviroamsl Luenant (ADMAL) institutional deerlopsrml and
IUIDP training; a  redor devdopnent: co-financing of the UNDP/UNCHS-
executed IUIDP h3uplasslslion support projed and preparation of flture
projects).
Sublasi - kin Jays Urbon   To provide uba   stfructure I sectd eities Mi  ehis on                (i) Infrastructure devdopment, rduailitabn and O&M oi Sulawei cvil woerks    Active
Devalopsak ( { 9t)          inaened        of hosdeholds to wawtrspply ad saitalle services; to   and equipme  for wate supply, urban roads, kanpung inrovenn, mrkd
L3340                       support inroved ifrtucture programmg   d finail planin in             in frtustruce inyrovet, solid wute Management, drainge      sanitio;
US$163.9 million            these cii, speally to suport the devaopmnt of loal govermm             (ii) Wal supy system rduailitation and devdtoproent in kian Jays: eivil
USS  IOOmi lios             capacity to prap drexde weatema O&M progrs; and to eaourge             works an equimnt for Ihe rdtabilitati and expaion of eihtpipd p wtr
Nine cie  in Salawesi and   loel govea  sm  enterprie revenue gesration id inprove fiancial      spply system; nd (iii) Tedarag  iuance in projet implenntation
Kabupsien capial c     in      sg      .                                                          suppot, instituion capacity bulding, ad projec preparation
kiin Jaya
Sxabaya Urban               To woprve urbs  wnv levdas a  affordability, pulicuarty for the poor;    (i) Urba Transport and Tnic Managemont wit priority for public tIrport;    Active
Developmant (1994)          prodacaiviy and te effectivenes of kiveansa dough bele                (ui) W     ler dibun  systm isprove-s an  xp o lo ircsesa
L3726                       i         re plui4kg ad magemet, revenue oasabiliktise, projed         coverage ft the wernt 65% to 90%; (iii) Sm dainage to reduce local
USS617.6 milUo              iWamlmilati  sd OK xM  mvirommal quality by sng local                 flooding ad rdalled emi and socel lose and expand the affordble
US$  6 million              govaumnt rapacity to pla,  n      t and opeak in    iten an           spply of srviced lad; (iv) Hus wate collertim and disposal; (v) Solid
Surabaya                    eivirosataly sod bio and also by sh-amin  cmasnity                     wate collection sd lanil disposal; (vi) KIP- basic sdesant facilities and
patiipao                                                              livi  conditions for 500,000 penk san (vii) lnstituln  devdoprat end
a-y-lding ppon.
Serarang-Sirakarta Urban    To irprove dte provision of urban efastucure swvim  and tbe efficiency    (i) Urban roads; (ii) ater supply; (iii) draIngeg (iv) sanitation and serage;  Active
Developrnen (1994)          of urba inves-ts: to prsi    stronger, monre autonoms, and            (v) slid wate; (vi) lP and MOP; (vii) basic horsing rdaabilation program for
U2749                        mnrilly more indepert msicipal govemmls; ad to contribute            low iwt ommen ils iin one pilot ar esin e   city; (viii) cnervuio  of
US$299.0                    towads poverty allevation, minly hwough beller   a   to essenaLl      hitorseal districts and buildings; (ix) tednical asistance for implenmlation
US$174.0                    sevics and an improved urban environment. (Part of [UIMP ramework)    suppor and capity buildng.
Semarang and
Surakar's
Kailmantan Urban                                                                                                                                                           In procm  to be appraid
Developrnrl (I 995)



90
Dali Urba  Envirgi                                                                                                                                                          Not ye appraised
(1997)
USS150.0
USS150
Jabo(abk IV (I 99h)                                                                                                                                                         Not yet ppraised
Housig (1998)                                                                                                                                                               Not yet appraised
Jabo4abk Urban Mass                                                                                                                                                         Not yet appraised
Tranaport (1998)
USS200
USS150
Water and Sanitation Sedor                                                                                                                                                  Not yet appraised
(1997)
USS200
USSI150
SaIa.i n (1996)                                                                                                                                                             Not yet appraised
US$140
US$I00
Rural InfrasEnueture ( 1995)                                                                                                                                                Not yet appraised
US$150
US$ 00
Second East Java UDP                                                                                                                                                        Not ye( appraised
(1996)
US$225
USS225



91
ANNEX C
INDONESIA: URBAN SECTOR STRATEGY3
Sector Context
I .    The dimensions of the urban challenge facing Indonesia are well known. Although, like most
other Asian countries, the share of urban population (i.e. level of urbanization) is still not as high as in
other parts of the world (e.g. South America), the pace of urban growth is very rapid. At almost 6 percent
p.a., it is among the highest in Asia; the 1990 census reported 55 million people living and working in
urban areas and this figure is likely to reach 90 million by the end of the decade only five years hence.
Population and settlements around major cities, in particular, are growing at explosive double-digit rates.
Rural-urban migration is only part of the story as in-situ urbanization of previouslv rural areas is equally
significant, at least in Java.
2.     Such rapid pace of urbanization is not only inevitable but also intimately related to the high rates
of economic growth and diversification in Indonesia. There is still considerable scope for urban
development to support, indeed promote, productivity enhancing economic activities and to improve the
people's quality of life. However, this hitherto positive linkage between urbanization and improvements in
productivitv and wvelfare is also fraying under pressure now in several parts of the country which poses
serious threats to the healtlh and livelihood of the populace, to social stability and to the sustenance of high
economic growth rates.
3.     The Government has invested significant amounts in urban infrastructure during the last decade
but could not keep pace as cities and towns absorbed some 70percent of the total population growth during
the 1980's. As a result and compounded by inadequate maintenance, service levels could not improve
much. Presently, only about 20 percent of urban households have piped water connections; public
sewerage coverage is negligible; solid waste management, drainage and flood control are scant; and
transport facilities inadequate.
Objectives
4.     The Bank's assistance to Indonesia in the urban sector aims to help the Government enable
Indonesia's cities and towns to manage the consequences of growth within and around them in a manner
consistent with a fast changing national economy and society. The GBHN Guidelines stress the
importance of clean water supply, environmental sanitation, and poverty alleviation. The Second long-
term (25 year) Development Plan and Repelita VI (1994-98) also emphasize sustainable urban
development through improvement in the quality of the living environment, support for economic growth,
reduction in regional imbalances and poverty alleviation.
5.     More specifically, there are five interrelated objectives of the World Bank's activities in support
of urban development in Indonesia. The first three relate to final outcomes while the latter two are
instrumental objectives aiming to ensure the sustainability of the interventions. They may be summarized
as follows:
* Poverty alleviation through reduction in the large backlog in the provision of urban infrastructure
services, both by expanding access and capacity as well as by improving the efficiency of
3Discussion with GOI Delegation (February 3, 1995).



92
utilization of existing assets through better management. improved maintenance. correction of
imbalances, and waste reduction (e.g. unaccounted-for-water).
*   Improved Urban Environment which is deteriorating at a quickening pace particularly in larger
urban centers, much of it related to water, sanitation and waste disposal. Air pollution is also
increasingly serious particularly due to rapidly rising levels of motorization and road congestion.
*   Enhanced Urban Productivit, especially aspects related to agglomeration economies which are
threatened both by traffic congestioni and identification of living areas, requires better integration
of economic and social functions of cities in their spatial organization and transport networks
witlhin and around them.
*   Substantial and Sustained Increase in Financial Resources is necessary both for investment as
well as maintenance. Notwithstanding possible increases in central government funding, more
efficient spending, and the scope for greater private sector participation, this requires more
effective municipal finance policies and mechanisms to mobilize resources and recover costs
effectively and equitably.
*   Institutional Development particularly at sub-national levels, which is perhaps the biggest
challenge because the scale and complexity of the urban effort is so vast that the central
governmienit can do little more than set policies and maintain a broad oversight role. More
effective decentralizationi requires further articulation of policies, clearer definition of functional
responsibilities and relations between different agencies and tiers of government, greater balance
between resources and responsibilities, adequate management systems and procedures, as well as
accumulationi of requisite skills throuigh training and experience.
Policv Issues
6.      While there is a broad congruence of views between the Government of Indonesia and the Bank
on urban policies, the experience gained from our association (through lending operations, analytical
studies, technical assistance activities and operational dialogue) suggests five policy areas which are
critical for efficiently addressing the challenges of urban development in Indoliesia. Indeed. GOI has put
forward initiatives in each of these areas, most recently in the context of updating and confirming the
Urban Policy Statement for Repelita VI. However, further w ork remains to be done in terms of both
elaboration and implementation. The critical areas are as follows:
*   Institutional Development and Program Structure for urban expenditure programming which
should differentiate between large metropolitan areas, cities and smaller towns and recognize
more explicitly the regional context as well as economic functions of the urban areas.
e Central-Local Financial Relationships need greater rationalization, predictability and
transparency. Clear guidance for local governments to determine the size and funding (including
grants. loans and own funds) of their expenditure programs requires articulation of sectoral
policies, programs and criteria based on sound economic and technical principles.
* Improved Procedures for Budgeting capital, maintenance and other recurrent expenditures are
needed as the present fragmentation in the system leads to poor choices, costly delays and
excessive overheads. These coupled with greater efforts on cost recovery through efficient
pricing and revcnue mobilization (e.g. property taxes) are critical to economic sustainability.
* The Policy Framework and Guidelines for Private Sector Participation in the provision of various
urban services needs further elaboration in order to reduce costly delays due to seemingly endless
negotiations and more importantly to avoid questionable deals contrary to the interest of the
public at large. Given the magnitude of the investment needs and the obvious limitations on
public resources (both financial and managerial), creating opportunities for private provision
should be much less problematic than experienced to date.
* Land Management and Spatial Planning considerations need considerably greater emphasis in
urban development programs as they have a critical bearing not only for economically efficient



93
spatial organization of urban areas but also their environmental management and the impact on
the livelihood (work places) and living areas of citizens. A key priority for the Govemment is to
build on recent initiatives (e.g. 1992 Spatial Management Law) to provide practical guidance to
provincial and local governments.
Bank Portfolio and Implementation Experience
7.     The Bank has financed twenty urban and/or water supply projects in Indonesia since 1974 with
an aggregate loan amount of USS1915 million affecting more than sixty local governments. Urban
lending operations in Indonesia have progressed from demonstration projects in Jakarta through more
programmatic investments in selected other large cities, to sector lending within an agreed policy and
institutional framework. Water supply projects also initially covered one or a few cities, but later assisted
a large number of urban settlements under a single operation.
8.     The seven projects presently under implementation fall into two categories. The first comprises a
series of three sectoral development projects for Jabotabek (JUDP1-3) focusing on urban transport, water
supply and sanitation, and kampung improvement respectively. The second group seeks to assist in
operationalizing the Integrated Urban Infrastructure Development Program (IUIDP) approach, a
cornerstone of the Government's urban policy enunciated first in 1987 and updated recently. The first two
operations were programmatic multi-sector operations covering almost 60 local governments in East Java,
Bali. Sulawesi (four provinces) and Irian Jaya (only water supply). The following two projects addressed
the needs in a large city (Surabaya) and two medium-sized cities (Semarang and Surakarta) on Java. A
fifth operation in Kalimantan covering five cities in four provinces has just been negotiated.
9.     Consistent with experience Bank-wide and the inherent nature of urban interventions, the
implementation of the portfolio has not been easy and has required deployment of considerable Bank staff
and consultant resources especially in the early startup phases of most projects. Nevertheless, the
development impact is considered substantial and implementation progress has improved in recent years.
In particular, local government performance has been better than many expected.
10.    Several reviews of portfolio performance conducted jointly by the Bank and GOI over the last two
vears have elicited considerable agreement on the critical issues affecting implementation. These include:
*  Slow start up and pace of implementation.
*  Uneven construction quality of works and facilities built.
*  Ineffectiveness, long duration and substantial cost of some technical assistance.
*  Unclear legal and regulatory framework for urban management.
*  Institutional weaknesses in several local administrations.
11.    The more recent and proposed lending operations seek to address these issues up-front through
suitable (but definitelv not excessive nor clearly bureaucratic) project management arrangements and
streamlined procedures in order to ensure adequate quality at entry. Both during preparation and
implementation greater emphasis is being placed on improving construction quality, rigorous scrutiny of
technical assistance and strengthening the ability of the respective organizational units to effectively carry
out their routine operations. Other lessons learned from past experience that are proposed to be
incorporated in future operations include the following: more explicit, and easily understood,
specifications on performance criteria, construction and operations/maintenance standards, as well as
clear and timely articulation of environmental and social aspects which are inherently salient in physical
infrastructure projects.



94
Assistance Strategy
12.    The policy agenda above is evolutionary in nature and oriented towards implementation with
close linkage to institutional and systemic reform. These features coupled with the public investment
needs and the economic, environmental and social significance of the objectives argue for investment
lending as the instrument of choice for the Bank's assistance strategy. Depending upon the technical
complexity and scale of individual components on the one hand and the number of participating
towns/cities, geographic or organizational dispersal and time phasing of investments on the other, a
suitable mix of specific investment projects and more programmatic or sectoral operations is envisaged.
The past experience with the Urban Sector Loan and the series of IUIDP and Jabotabek projects would
support this approach subject to the stipulation that all lending operations are simple in design and more
focused in their objectives.
13.    A comprehensive lending program is proposed over the next five years combining the Jarkarta
focus of the late 1 980s with the decentralized (lUIDP) approach of the early 1 990s. As alluded to above,
the designs of individual lending operations should be differentiated explicitly on the basis of the urban
hierarchy, i.e. the suitable approaches will be different for the Jakarta metropolitan region, larger cities
and smaller towns respectively. While the risks of the Jabotabek program are considerably high and the
Bank must necessarily be a marginal player in financial terms, the potential development impact and
leverage possibilities of Bank support are much greater. Hence a lending presence is warranted in
addition to policy advice in which the core agencies (BAPPENAS, MOF, EKUIN) are particularly
interested.
14.    The economic rationale for a greater effort in urban development outside Jakarta, and indeed
outside Java, is fairly self-evident not only from the point of view of interregional equity but also to
enhance the productivity and competitiveness of Indonesia's economy as well as preserve its natural and
cultural environment. The proposed program included areas judged to be of highest priority and will
accord greater emphasis than hitherto on the specific regional context (geography and economics in
particular) of each operation e.g. rapid industrial development in East Java, tourism and environmental
risks in Bali, market towns in Sulawesi, low-lying cities and high degree of primacy in the settlement
hierarchy in Kalimantan.
15.    In terms of sectoral structure, the Bank's urban portfolio and future operations have been
organized into three clusters, namely:
*  Decentralized Urban/Municipal Development;
*  Water and Sanitation and
*  Urban Transport
In the first category, integrated multi-sector operations of manageable size and complexity are envisaged
in several provinces (e.g. East Java, Bali) or islands (e.g. Sulawesi, Kalimantan) especially for smaller
municipalities to prepare and implement local medium-term development programs based on an improved
IUIDP (P3KT) process. A similar approach could in principle be followed for individual medium-sized
cities. The other two series of projects would be more sectoral in nature focusing upon
reform/restructuring of sectoral policies at the national level, program structures, delivery systems, sector
management and expenditure criteria in the water & sanitation and urban transport sectors respectively.
Depending on technical and institutional complexity, financial requirements and relevance of the policy
agenda, individual projects in each series would cover single urban areas (e.g. Jabotabek) or groups of
cities or towns needing similar interventions. A critical determinant of success for such a pragmatic
"mix- and - match" approach would be ensuring mutual consistency between the different clusters; thus
the institutional mechanisms of the sectoral operation would be consistent with the municipal projects



95
while the individual sectoral components of the latter would be subject to the policies and selection criteria
supported by the urban transport and water and sanitation projects.
16.    In view of the institutional weaknesses and thinness of the human resources especially at sub-
national levels, Technical Assistance (TA) will remain important in the urban sector. However, consistent
with the expressed wishes of the core Government agencies (Ministry of Finance in particular) as well as
to enhance greater ownership and to avoid crowding out local initiative, the aggregate volume of TA
financed by the Bank will be reduced and several recent innovations made standard operating procedure.
TA components of investment loans will focus mainly on implementation supervision, institutional
development and technical work directly associated with the immediate project. Increasingly such TA
will be lodged in provincial or local governments; in cases of components managed by national
government agencies, the standard disbursement share for the Bank will be 80 percent instead of the usual
100 percent. In order to instill greater discipline in prioritizing and managing it, TA financing for
strategy studies, policy frameworks and major new project preparation will be channeled through the
special purpose TA loans (TAP41) or funded through the Japanese PHRD or the bank's own IDF grants.
17.    A relatively modest amount of Economic and Sector Work (ESW) is planned in the near term for
the urban sector and an increasing share of it will be "informal". All ESW activities envisaged are
intimately and directly linked to the lending program, or with TA activities. Their objective would be to
provide the analytical base of the strategic context for the lending and TA program or to address systemic
problems including those encountered in implementation. Only the formal task, Jabotabek Vision is
programmed over the next three years. The formal ESW is addressed primarily at senior-most levels of
government and will follow a "client-first" approach both in objective-setting and execution, e.g. through
workshops in Indonesia building further upon the innovative participatory process used recently for the
Pacific Islands study.
18.    Specific topics envisaged for informal ESW include private provision of public services (e.g.
solid waste management, water supply), local govermnent finances update, urban resettlement, and
possibly urban sanitation and sewerage. The objectives of such informal ESW is to provide a vehicle for
consensus building, documenting Bank analytical work, exposing it to rigorous scrutiny, and most
importantly, for operational dialogue not only with central government but also the decentralized client
base.



96
ANNEX D
Changing Profiles in the Kampung
Income and Employment
1. Indonesia's economic growth is still high today, and inflation has fallen below historic levels (see
chapter 1). The country as a whole is more prosperous today than it was when Urban l-IV were being
prepared. Current GDP per capita stands at more than twice the level of the 1970s. Poverty has declined
remarkably, affecting only 15 percent of the total population in 1991, in contrast to more than 50 percent
in the 1970s.
2. Although KIP was not meant to increase the average income of households directly, the govermnent
and Bank believed that improvements in kampungs would have this effect. We found that average income
is independent of KIP, although more residents of KIP kampungs feel that they are better off financially
(36 percent) or the same financially (44 percent) than they were four years ago, when compared with those
in non-KIP kampungs (40 percent the same, and 36 percent worse off). We also confirmed that household
incomes differ considerably within kampungs - again, independently of KIP. Furthermore, independent of
KIP, the sources of income are basically the same in all kampungs, and depend on the location of the
kampung (see the next section).
3. A summary of the average monthly incomes of the survey respondents is provided in table 1. One
interesting feature is the similarity of the incomes contributed by the heads of household in each of the
kampungs; another is the greater amount of income contributed by the head of household in the site and
service areas. The incomes contributed by the wives in the kampungs differ significantly; it is the lowest
in the Jakarta KIP kampungs.
4. Sources of income vary widely, and are influenced by the location of the kampung; for example, a
large percentage of the people living in the non-KIP kampung in the center of Surabaya's commercial area
are traders, shop owners, or shop assistants, while a large percentage of people living in the non-KIP
kampung in the industrial area of Jakarta are factory workers. In the Denpasar KIP and the Surabaya non-
KI'P kampungs, the percentage of residents who are micro-entrepreneurs and traders is twice that in other
kampungs. The Surabaya fringe kampung has a diverse range of occupations (although the majority are
employed in private companies), and the largest number of pensioners. Kampung inhabitants work
primarily in the private sector or are self-employed (table 2); the only place where public-sector workers
are in the majority is in the Jakarta site and service area.
5. Findings from both the earlier surveys by Taylor (1983) and this study suggest that changes in
kampung employment opportunities and local economies are due to exogenous factors that are largely
independent of KIP. Although KIP implementation clearly stimulated the development of small
contractors and businesses, evidence that the program led directly to job creation or economic
development in improved kampungs or elsewhere in the city is insufficient. Other factors, such as the
proximity of specific kampungs to major employment and business concentrations, the overall expansion
of Jakarta's economy within the past few years, the degree of social cohesion, and the quality of
informallformal leadership, appear to account for any changes in broader economic opportunities. For
example, in response to a question about whether KIP had increased employment opportunities, 52
percent of respondents in improved kampungs stated that opportunities had remained the same. On the
other hand, KIP did provide a more favorable environment for small industries, particularly by easing
access to houses so that raw materials could be brought in and finished goods taken out more easily by
becak or motorbike.



97
Changes in Family and Household Size
6. The emphasis on reducing population growth since the early 1970s has had highly successful and
well-published results, such as in the Biro Pusat Statistics (published annually) and the Bank's
Environment and Development report. The growth rate in Indonesia fell to 1.98 during the 1980-90
decade, compared with 2.32 in 1970-80. The National Family Planning Coordinating Board had an
important role in reducing population growth since its establishment in 1970. As a result of the program,
a high percentage of families are now planned families. The social and economic changes effected by this
policy are substantial and far reaching. For example, the reduction in the number of children means that
mothers have more time for activities other than child rearing, and are thus able to contribute to the
family's economy. Fewer children also implies that children will have greater access to education and
health care. As incomes rise in real terms, competition for available food is less fierce, thus potentially
improving nutritional status. The prosperity of the population should increase as this generation of
children from smaller families grows up healthier, better educated, and better fed.
Table 1: Average monthly income
Site              Total average         Income contributed       Income contributed
household income      by head of household          by Spouse
Jakarta KIP                 585,584                 378,813                   35,646
Jakarta non-KU'             552,000                 320,000                   98,000
Surabaya KIP                497,625                 308,063                   86,042
Surabaya non-KIP            713,000                 337,000                   119,000
Denpasar KTP                579,000                 339,000                  106,000
Jakarta site and            727,083                 520,833                   37,500
service area
Denpasar site and           787,500                 602,083                  102,083
service area
Table 2: Job distribution (public and private sectors)
(percentage of respondents)
Site             Public       Private      Other         No. of
respondents
Jakarta KIP                 12           62          26           50
Jakarta non-KIP             16           80          4           25
Surabaya KIP                28           43          29          47
Surabaya non-KIP            4            83          13          23
Denpasar KIP                24           72          4           25
Jakarta site and service    67           8           25           12
Denpasar site and service   0            83          17           12
ares
7. The average number of family members in the kampungs surveyed varied from between 4.5 in the
Denpasar site and service area to 5.95 in the Surabaya KEP kampung. Overall, the average family size was
5.4 persons which coincides with the national average (WDR, 1994i).
8. Due to the extended family system, the number of people living in a household is greater than the
number in the family. The average number of people in the dwelling varied widely - from 5.2 in the
Denpasar site and service area, to 7.6 in the Jakarta non-KIP kampung. Overall, an average of 6.3 persons
lived in the dwelling. Many of the additional people were relatives who had come from the rural areas to
find work or to further their education.



98
9. Income disparities between the genders also exist. The incomes of the spouses in Jakarta (an average
of Rp 51,700 monthly) were lower than in either Surabaya (average Rp 97,000 monthly) and Denpasar
(Rp 104,000 monthly). Equal opportunities in education and in the contributions of women to the family
economy are greater in cities outside Jakarta. The average monthly income of women is still far below that
of men in all survey areas combined (Rp 78,440, compared with Rp 356,074). Gender discrepancies also
exist in the wages paid for similar jobs in factories: Rp 2,500 daily minimum wage among women,
compared with Rp 3,000 among men.
Education
10. Indonesia has had a policy of universal access to basic education for many years, but a growing
percentage of children are receiving education at higher levels now. An analysis of the educational levels
of fathers, mothers, and older children shows that the average father is better educated than the average
mother, and that the average older child is better educated than either parent. This is just a extrapolation
of the conditions of 30 to 40 years ago, when most of these people were school age (see table 3).
Table 3: Family Members with senior Secondary Education or Greater
(percentage of respondents)
Older Children
Site                     Father    Mother       Boys      Girls      All
Jakarta KP                  49        23         71        61         65
Surabaya KIP                57        29         92         89       91
JakartaNon-KIP              16         8         38        30         33
Surabaya Non-KIP            50        26         88        100        93
Denpasar KIP                52        45         100       100       100
Sites and services          76        30         100       89         95
11. The following other trends were found:
*  Secondary education among fathers, mothers, and older children in KIP kampungs in Jakarta was
more prevalent than in the non-KIP kampungs.
*  Secondary education levels among all three groups differ more between Surabaya and Jakarta that
they do between KIP and non-KIP kampungs.
*  Secondary education among boys and girls does not differ much; the difference between genders is
less significant among the younger generation than among their parents' generation.
*  All older boys and girls in the Denpasar survey had received secondary education or higher.
12. Our study showed clearly that educational attaiunent among residents of the unimproved kampung in
Jakarta was much lower than those who lived in improved kampungs. The level of education among
household heads in the two types of kampungs differed significantly at the 0.05 percent level. This is
consistent with the opinion expressed by the Head of the Housing Department of the Jakarta City
Authority (a comment made during the Surabaya Workshop) that a large number of uneducated, unskilled
people are being attracted into the city by the employment opportunities available in the expanding
industrial sector.



99
13. The percentage of kampung girls who receive secondary education in Jakarta (52 percent) is much
lower than in Surabaya (91 percent), and Denpasar (100 percent). From all of the areas we surveyed, 87
percent of 19- to 26-year-old boys had received secondary education, compared with 80 percent of the
girls in the same age range.
Health Care
14. Important developments in health care have taken place in the past 10 to 15 years. Among the more
important primary health care improvements has been the introduction of Mother and Child Health
Clinics, POSYANDU. The Mother and Child Clinics are run jointly by the community health centers and
the official family welfare organization, the PKK. The clinics are run at the neighborhood level and
operate about once or twice a month. Among other things, the clinics monitor the growth of children
younger than age 5, identifying those whose growth rate is outside the normal range and administering
supplementary feeding; they also examine and advise pregnant women, provide guidance to mothers in
family health and nutrition; and run a vaccination program. The development of the POSYANDU
signaled a major switch in emphasis from curative to preventative medicine in the early to mid-1980s.
Community health centers were officially required in each neighborhood towards the end of the 1960s; in
practice, few existed until much later. The educational approach to medicine did not really start until the
mid-I 970s, and it was another ten years before the training of community members in primary health care
became institutionalized.
15. The increased number of community health centers and the introduction of POSYANDU came
shortly after the CHW component of the urban development projects. The community health centers
trained members of the community in such basic health care as family planning, nutrition, vaccinations,
and monitoring. The training under the urban development projects was more detailed and focused on
fewer people. When the new community health organizations were developed under a set of standardized
models, these better trained CHWs had no place in the organizational structure. A few became the cadres
for the health centers, and helped in the POSYANDU.
16. Under Bank-funded urban programs, the CHWs were paid for the first two years; thereafter, the
community was expected to take over the payments to them. However, at the same time, the health
department was fostering the idea of voluntary health workers from within the communities on a much
wider scale. The idea of training more people for shorter periods was intended to educate a wider number
in basic health principles. Not only did the paid CHWs provide a disincentive to these voluntary workers,
but the existence of the voluntary workers also meant that plans for the continued payment of these
workers was no longer feasible. At the time when they were trained and were operating, they filled a large
gap in health services for lower-income communities; however, subsequent developments in the health
department filled the gap adequately. The CHW component was not a forerunner of the POSYANDU,
although it may have helped strengthen confidence in the community health worker approach.
17. Beyond the impact of the community health workers, improvements in the infrastructure, particularly
the provision of water supply, better drainage, and healthier sanitation facilities, were expected to improve
the health status of kampung dwellers. Findings from this evaluation showed that health has improved
considerably, but that only a part of this can be attributed only to KIP improvements. The absence of
systematically collected baseline data means that the analysis of the impacts of the K1P project on health
has been based on qualitative information given by mothers, women's organizations, and health workers.
In response to our survey, 62 percent of respondents in the KIP kampungs stated that their children were
healthier after KIP.
18. All respondents agreed the health of children, babies, and pregnant women has improved
considerably in the past 10 to 15 years (box 1). The main reasons are the increase in mothers' awareness
of family health and nutrition, and the introduction of the POSYANDU. Physical improvements, such as



100
piped water and sanitation, were not seen as direct contributors, although most agreed that KIP had
contributed indirectly to the improvements.
19. Records of children who require supplemental feeding are not kept, but it is clear that the number of
these children had declined. None of the respondents was aware of any cases in the neighborhood, and
often the last case remembered was a year or more ago. Residents who had lived in the kampung since the
clinics started remembered that there were always several children who required supplemental feeding in
those days. This in itself is a clear indication that child nutrition has improved dramatically. Smaller
family size, increased income, and better knowledge of nutrition all contribute to this improvement. Of
these, only the increased income could be linked indirectly to KIP, except in areas where community
health workers were trained under Urban 11 and Ill. None of the study locations had been areas where
CHWs had been placed.
20. The results of the survey show consistently that most families in all of the kampungs suffered from flu
and coughs last year. The next most frequently reported illness was fever; the third, reported by very few,
was diarrhea or skin complaints. Surabaya reported more cases of diarrhea than did Jakarta. Most
surprisingly, the kampung with the fewest reported cases of diarrhea was the Jakarta non-KIP kampung
which has quite severe environmental problems and is in an area identified as high risk by WHO, which is
offering free treatment for diarrhea sufferers in the area. The respondents may have been reluctant to
report cases of diarrhea in this kampung, where intestinal infections are monitored closely. In all Jakarta
and Surabaya surveys, only one family had reported dysentery, while 4 of the 37 households in the
Denpasar surveys had suffered from dysentery. A total of 10 cases of typhus were reported, 6 of these in
two kampungs in Surabaya; all of the dengue fever cases, except one in Denpasar, were reported in
Jakarta. TBC was also recorded primarily in Jakarta, with one case in Denpasar (table 4).
Table 4: Illnesses reported in the past year
(Percentage of respondentfamilies suffering illnesses last year)
Diarrhea        Dysentery    Typhus    Dengue Fever    TBC
JakartaKIP                     16               0           2            10          4
Jakarta non-KIP                4                0           4            4           12
Surabaya KIP                   32               2           4            0           0
Surabaya non-KIP              28                0          16            0           0
Denpasar KP                    8                12         1 2           4           0
Site and service areas        21                8           8            4           4
Box 1: Improvements in Child Health
Group interviews with women were held in each kampung. Each group interview contained at
least one woman who had lost a child. One woman in Penjaringan told of watching her 18-
month-old daughter die from diarrhea. "It was so quick," she said, "it only took two days."
Another woman in Tanah Tinggi told us how she had lost two of her children in one week from
dengue fever. Also in Tanah Tinggi we heard how an epidemic of measles had killed some of the
neighborhood children in the 1960s. More than a couple had lost prematurely born babies or had
had still-born babies.
Thankfully, the stories are all in the past: only one woman we met had lost a child in the past ten
years. Her 12-year-old son had died the previous month from a long-term muscle wasting
disease.



101
21. One reason for the apparently limited impact of improvement programs on health levels is the narrow
scope and relatively low standard of the inputs. As with economic outcomes, a program that provides only
a modest level of physical infrastructure upgrading may not yield dramatic health improvements.
Achieving these improvements probably requires a combination of higher-standard water and sanitation
inputs and direct health inputs, such as health clinic modemization, the training of community health
cadres, and the development of nutrition programs. Thus, one policy implication is that the improvement
of programs should also include social aspects that meet health and related needs directly.



102
ANNEX E
Summary of Secondary Data
Table :i opulation density and mobility
C ode  K elurahall          D ensU:g> ................ .....   . . .9.... VO:........... A ....... >.. O:.:.:.W.......... >. .. M ob lA~  .:OO:.>.>:.........._ ............... ...  . . ..
Code      Kelurahan             ,Deni,                                  Mblt
................................................................... ................................   ......................
City           perfamily    per hectare    Married   Births  Deaths    Arrivals   Departures
Jakarta
J-1     TanahTinggi           467         581.17        589     568       239        278          330
J-2     Manggarai             5 50        427.44        554     604        197       746          759
J-3     Penjaringan           4.49        160.57       1297     800       227       1535          762
J-8     Malaka Sari           5.93        253.45        464     492        130      1452          955
Surabaya
S4      Sawahan               5.01        263.21                402       262        412          628
S-5     Genteng               4.35        151.75        161     144        54        103          340
S-6     Jagir                 4.42        201.09        385     327        74        415          572
Ball
B-7     Dauh Puri             5.42        177.55                100        25        385          505
B-9     Tegal kerta           5.15        303.91                 27         12       185          254
Source: Kelurahan Monography, 1993
Table 2: Population (by sex and religion)
Code      Kelurahan                   NumberofPeople                                    Reli
City           Families    M          F           Total       Moslem      Christian   Hindu      Buddhist
Jakarta
J-1     Tanah Tinggi        7750       19258       16943      36201
J-2     Manggarai           7400       21227       19478      40705       37386        2526        419         374
J-3     Penjaringan        14131       33203       30293      63496       45717        7620        1270       8889
J-8     MalakaSari          5906       18109       16926      35035       31882        2102        701         350
Surabaya
S-4     Sawahan             4726       11732       11947      23689       15925        6732         38         994
S-5     Genteng             1850        3299        4744       8043        5191        2421         28         403
S-6     Jagir               4608       10257       10123      20380       16320        3230         38         691
Bali
B-7     Dauh Puri           1964        5528        5125      10653        4929        1430       4060         234
B-9     Tegal kerta         1356        3643        3347       6990        2922         678       3340          50
Source: Kelurahan Monography, 1993
Table 3: PopuIation.(b education levels)
Code      Kelurahan       None        Primary        Junior        Senior         Higher
School      Secondary      Secondary      Educaion
City
Jakarta
J-1     Tanah Tinggi
J-2     Manggarai
J-3     Penjaringan                       33309          14473          2520              147
J-S     Malaka Sari           550           8300          6438          7920            4700
Surabaya
S-4     Sawahan                             5586          5866          6987             1863
S-5     Genteng                            2411           1504           925              197
S-6     Jagir                              3801            908          5371             1707
Bali
B-7     Dauh Puri                          4028           1699          1674             533
B-9     Tegalkerta                          1567          1886          2515             359
Source Kelurahan Monography, 1993



103
Table 4: Population (_ income sources)
Code      Kelurahan       Civil       Private     Crafsmen    Trader    Laborers    Pension       Other
Servant    Company
.. .Emplo ce.
City
Jakarta
J-I      Tanah Tinggi
J-2      Manggarai            1322           794          60        371          315        809          61
J-3      Penjaringan           581                       281       1196         6681        106       1696
J-8      Malaka Sari          6050          3457         350        864          340       1210       5001
Surabaya
S4       Sawahan                            5208        1282       2720                    1011        164
S-5      Genteng                            1831                   1790         2366                    93
S-6      Jagir                1762         2245          523       2549                   1461        3583
Bail
B-7      DauhPuri              290           186          24        300          158       287        1170
B-9      Tegal kerta           712           210           5         60           33        110        216
Source. Kelurahan Monography, 1993
Table 5: Kampung economy
C-7ode      Kelurahan                                     Facilities
Super   Market   Shops    Stalls   Restaurant    Bank         Other Banks
Market                                    s         Credit
City
Jakarta
1-1    Tanah Tinggi                     1        44       60                                       1
1-2    Manggarai                                 10       63            2
1-3    Penjaringan            I         1      275       350                      2               5
I-8    Malaka Sari                      1       26        20            1         4               2
Surabaya
S4    Sawahan                 1         3     >100      >100          25          7                1
S-5   GOteng                  1         2    >100       >100           15        17
S-6    Jagir                  1         2    >100       >100                      1
Ball
B-7    Dauh Puri              2         1    >100        133            9         6               2
B-9    Tegal kefa             1                   7       40                      4
Source: Kelurahan Monography, 1993
Table 6: Kampung econom           p
Code      Kelurahan                                     Pnces of 9 basic items
Rice   Sugar    Salt   Cooking   Fuel Oil   Soap       Flour      Dfled       Bank
Oil                                     Fish
City
Jakarta
1-1    TanahTinggi       250      1250     400      1500        400     1200      850        7500           800
1-2    Manggarai
J-3    Penjaringan       650      1600     400      1250        400     1250     1000        7000          7500
1-8    Malaka Sari        750     1250     400      1400        400     1200      800        7000          9000
Surabaya
S4    Sawahan            750      1300     400      1250        350     1600     1000        4000          7500
S-5    Genteng           900      1250     350      1250        350     1500      850        2500          9000
S-6    Jagir             700      1250     350      1750        350     1500     1000        3750          5000
Source: Kelurahan Monography, 1993



104
Code       Kelurahan                      Statui                                   Land Use
State    Private    Right    Other    House    Industry         Public      Other
owned     owned    to use           __jarden                   Facilities
Jaarta
J-l    TanahTinggi           28.20      24.09                          52.29                 7.50        2.50
J-2     Manggarai            80.95               14.28                61.90                 33.33
J-3    Penjaingan          375.66       19.77                        284.43         102      9.00
J-8    MalakaSaui           131.32       2.77                4.38    111.00                  8.30       18.93
Surabaya
S-4    Sawahan
S-5    Genteng
S-6    Jagir                 80.94        1.01              19.22     45.53                35.41       20.24
Ball
B-7    Dauh Puri             16.50      42.91                0.59     43.00                 15.45        1.55
B-9    Tegalkerta            21.43                           1.57     21.43                  1.57
Source: Kelurahan Monography, 1993
Table 8: Sports and entertainment                              _ ___
Code      Kelurahan         Playingfields.          Clubsi        Playgrounds   Cinema, billiards         Traditional
courts, etc.       Organization                      room, karooke         Entertainment
Cibty
Jakarta
J-1      Tanah Tinggi           Badmnigton I       Badmington 1              2                                       1 niok
Table tennis 10
J-2      Manggarai            Football pitch I        Football I
J-3      Penjaringan          Football pitch I      Marshall arts                        Cinema I                 Ketoprak
Volleyball 2                                                     Riok
Table tennis 2
Badrnington 2
Basketball 2
L-8      Malaka Sari          Football pitch I         Tennis I                          Cinema I              Keroncong 9
Basketball pitch 3      Basketball I                                                Ketoprak I
Badmington 4       Badrmington I                                                  Ludruk I
Tennis pitch I     Table tennis I                                                Jaipong I
Surabaya
S4       Sawahan                                    Volleyball 1             3           Cinema I                 Ludnuk I
Karate I                         Billiard 3                 Riok I
Karaoke 4            Keroncong I
S-5      Genteng                                                                         Billiard 2
Karaoke 8
Culture Hall I
S-6      Jagir                   Volleyball I       Volleyball 3                         Billards I            Karawitan I
Tennis pitch I
Table tennis 4
Marshall arts I
Bali
B-7      Dauh Puri            Football pitch I        Football I                         Karaoke I             Kekawain I
Volleyball I
Tennis I
Karate I
B-9      Tegal kerta          Football pitch I      Volleyball I                                        Balinese Dancong I
Karate 2                                            Gong Gepyar I
M                                                       A__   AW A%W W   W A.A ALW WAS   AW ALW     AAAMAWAN  ..................................................................AMAWANAVAA .................. >.MA ..  S.S.......  .V...



105
ANNEX F
Summary of Primary Data
Table 1. Profile of interviewed households
Average No. of
Persons   No. Heads of   No. of        No. of    Average No.
Kampung       Famiy    Living in the  Household    Spouses       Others    of Years in
Code      Members    Dweling   interviewed  Interviewed  Interviewed    Dweling
Ji          5.3         7.0           18           5            1          30.2
J2          5.6         6.1           10           13           2          27.7
J3          5.9          7.6          6            18           1          23.0
S4          6.0          5.6          12           12           1          25.0
S5          5.9          5.9          11           14           0          19.4
S6          5.5          6.4          12           13           0          32.4
B7          5.2          6.7          14           11           0          21.6
J8          5.5          5.3           4           8            0          14.7
B9          4.5          5.2          9            3            0           8.7
Table 2. Number of households claiming house ownership vs. length of residence
Kampung         N        0-9 years   10-19 years  20-29 years  30-3 years   >40 years
Code
Ji          18           3            0            3            6            6
J2          23           5            3            2            5            8
J3          22           2            6            8            4            2
S4          17           3            2            4            5            3
S5          21           3            4            12           2            0
S6          20           3            2            3            6            6
87          20           6            2            7            0            5
J8          12           1            11           0            0            0
89          12           5            7            0            0            0



106
Table 3. Number of years at present dwelling and previous place of residence.
0-9 years in Residence                10- 19 years in Residence            20-29 years in Residence
Kampung Code    Total N      N          Previous Place of Res.       N         Previous Place of Res.     N         Previous Place of Res.
1      2       3       4               1      2       3      4              1      2       3      4
JA           24        5       5                               0                                    3       3
J2           25        7       5       2                       3       1      1              1      2       2
J3           25        5       2       1      1        1       6       5      1                     a       5      1       2
S4           24        7       5       2                       2       1      1                      4      1      2       1
S5           25        4       3       1                       7       5      2                     1 2     9      2       1
S6           25        4       2       1               1       3       2      1                      3      2              1
B7           25        8       5                      3        5       4                     1       7      6              1
J8           12        1       1                               11     11                            0
B9           12        5       4                       1       7       6              1             0
(Table 3 continued)
30-39 years in Residence               >40 years in Residence
Kampung Code    Total N      N          Previous Place of Res.       N         Previous Place of Res.
1      2       3       4               1      2       3      4
JA           24        8       6       1              1        8       5      1      2
J2           25        5       4               1               8       6      1      1
J3           25        4       3               1               2       1              1
S4           24        6       5               1               5       3      1              1
S5           25        2       2
S6           25        7       4       2               1       8       6      1       1
B7           25        0                                       5       4              1
J8           12        0
B9           12        0
Notes:
Previous Place of Residence:
1. Within Jakarta, Surabaya, Derpasar.
2. Within West Java, Eat Java, or Kabpaten Bandun&
3. Within Java or Bali.
4. Outside Java or Bali.



107
Table 4. Physical characteristics of dwelling.
Dwelling Conditions
Kampung    N         High        Mid-    LwQa
Code              Quality     Quality
JA       24        16          5           3
J2       25        15          7           3
J3       25        16          7           2
S4       25        19          1           5
S5       25        25
S6       25        24                      1
B7       25        22          2          1
J8       12        12
B9         12          12
Noter:
High Quality = Brick/cement walls, tile or asbestors roof, tile or concrete floor.
Mid-Quality = Zinc roof or, Brick and wood walls.
Low-Quality = Earth floor or wood walls.
Table 5. Walls, floors and roofs conditions
Walls                                     Floor                            Roof
Kampung    N         Brickl    wood and     wood      bamboo    tiles!    cement    earth    other   tile   wood  asbestos
Code              cement    cement                            terrazo
Ji         24        83%         17%          0%        0%       63%         38%       4%       0%    75%    21%          8%
J2         25        76%         16%          4%        4%       56%         40%       4%       0%    84%    16%          0%
J3         25        76%         16%          8%        0%       40%         60%       0%       0%    72%    12%         16%
S4          25       80%          0%         20%        0%       32%         52%       0%      16%    84%    12%          4%
S5          25       96%          4%          0%        0%       60%         28%       0%      12%   100%      0%         0%
SS          25       92%          4%          0%        4%       60%         16%       0%      24%   100%      0%         0%
B7          25       96%          4%          0%        0%       72%         24%       4%       0%    88%      4%         8%
J8         12       100%          0%          0%        0%       83%         17%       0%       0%     0%      0%      100%
B9          12      100%          0%          0%        0%       75%         25%       0%       0%    25%      0%        75%
Table 6. Other dwelling characteristics.
Age of Dwelling             No House with    Average
Kampung    N    less than 5 6-10years  more than    Toilet   Kitchen  No. Rooms
Code               years                 10 years                        Occupied
Ji1      24        0%             4%        100%     24        24         8.2
J2       25        0%            16%        84%      23        25         6.9
J3       25        0%            12%        88%      20        21         5.7
S4       25        0%            16%         84%     22         21        6.4
S5       25        4%             4%         92%      25        25        8.5
S6       25        0%             4%         96%      24        22        7.7
B7       25        4%            20%         76%     23         22        7.8
J8       12       0%              8%        92%      12         12        6.1
B9       12        0%            33%         67%      12        12        7.4



108
Table 7: Use, type and location of dwellin& Average lot size.
U.e of Dwetling               Type of Dwelling                                              Locatcbn
Kempung      NO. Of               Residence/               Shared with  Shared by  Average Lot   Average                 by a     sr trm
Code       Reap.                 worki place   Sepwat    notherf mily    many        S,ze       Building   by the road     h road 
Residence              a            ~~~~~people                coef                footpat   footpath
J1         24          1 5         9           1 8          7           0          149.9       80 8       37 5%      58.3%     4 2%
J2         25          14          11          18           7           0          125.5       79.7       320%       68.0%      0 0%
J3          25         17          8           18           8            1          589         925        360%      640%       00%
S4          25         19          a           19           6            0         1112         74.2       80%       800%      120%
S5          25         20          5           19           5            1         127 1        85 6       16.0%     84 0%      0 0%
So          25         13          12          17           8            0          899         954        80%       84.0%      8.0%
B7          25         13          12          19           6            0         235.6        821        28 0%     68 0%      4 0%
J8          12         12          0           12           0           0          1012        813         00%       1000%      00%
B9          12         11           1          11           1            0         1402         875        500%      500%       00%
Table 8: Physlcal constraints of surrounding areas.
Flooding                                        Drainage
Kampung      weekly     monthly      yearly      never      no drain      open       cement        earth
Code                                                                   channel     channel      channel
Ji1       20.8%       8.3%       25.0%       45.8%         4.2%        50.0%       45 6%        0 0%
J2        0.0%        0.0%        8.0%       92.0%         8 0%        36 0%       56 0%       0 0%
J3        0.0%       18.0%       88.0%       16 0%        28 0%        52 0%       20 0%        0 0%
S4        18.0%       16.0%       52 0%       16 0%        8.0%        28.0%       64.0%        0 0%
S5         4.0%       0.0%       20.0%       78.0%         0 0%        32.0%       68 0%        0 0%
so         4.0%       8.0%       40.0%       48 0%         0.0%        32 0%       68 0%        0.0%
B7         8 0%       8.0%        8.0%       76.0%         8 0%        0 0%        76 0%       12 0%
J8        00%         0.0%        00%        100.0%       00%          50.0%       50.0%       00%
B9         8.3%       0.0%        8.3%       83.3%         0.0%        0.0%       100 0%        0.0%
Table 9: Improvements to DweRling: Type, Cost and Responsibility of Improvements, and Type of Planned Improvements
Total Cost of                         Who was Responsible
Kempung        N      mateal and                            Cra tman    Craftman   Community
Coempn       N       labor (Rp.   Resident    Owner    employed by employed by   mutual         O/her
Cod.                                                      re0)  nesident  owner    coop ertion
J-1         13          2,037      3           10
J-2         9           2.338       7           7                        1
J-3         19          4,044       7          5
S-4         21            558       8           7            5           3           1
5-5         17           1,818      5           3            8           2                       1
S-4         18          2.873       8           3            9           3
.-7         18           4,255                  2           5            11          1           1
J-8         7            1,043     3           4
B-9         10          5,356                   1                        9
(Table 9 continues)
Type improvements in last 4 years                                Fiure ptanned improvements
Kampung        N         rool        wat         tbor       external    Structural                           upgrade   improve  improve  NPlan te
code  N  roof  walls      flochr   improvement    form   ~ other          enlarge    materials   utilities   appear.  impouveth
J-1              13         7            1          1            4            3           2           0          4          2         5          5
J-2              9          8           3           2            3            3           1           4          6          4         6          2
J-3             19          6           4           3            3            5           2           4          5          4         5          4
S-4             21          7           9           4           1 6           3           3           8          5          4         4          9
S-5              17          a          2           3           13            7           3           2          4          2         7          6
S-6              18         15          9           6           16            6           1                      1          3         5
B-7             16          10          7           7           14            6           3           3          3          2         9         16
J-8              7          5           3           5            4            4           2           1                     2         1          2
R-9             10          9           8           8            8           8            0           2          4          1         5          2



109
Table 10. Water sources and supply, cost and qality
KConpung            Soure d Watr hr rnki ngCooking                                 Souor  of Wutar for BathingnWashing
Private Sb    w       Bought                       Pnrve b    Shared clean Clean Watep    Boght
clean water clen wta        t     Well  Othr 0   clean water    t 3          bumpublic    water        Wen        Other
supply      supply                                 supply                   sndwptpe
J1          18           2         3        4        0         16            1            0           1          8           0
J2          6            1         1       18        0          6            1            1           0         17           1
J3          20           1         8        0        0         20            2            0           3          1           0
S4          13           1         9        1        1         12            0            0           4          12          0
S5          20           0         0        6        1         14            2            0           0          14          0
S6          13           0         8        3        1         10            0            0           0         15           0
B7          10           0         0        15       1          8            0            0           0         17           1
J8          10          0          0        5        0          9            0            0           0          6           0
B9          12           0         0        0        0         12            0            0           0          0           0
(Table 10 continued)
Ka-pung      F d         Dnnking/Aveage Cost per Month (Rp 000)                                       TlAvg                Water Quality
seviwoes Ar   coang           PAM               Vetors                   Otf W              Cost
water(hrs)  water (May)    N      Cost      N         Cot           N           Cost    (Rp 000)    Good    Reasonable    Poor
J1         19.1         45         19      18.7      5         119                                   166         14          10          1
J2         22.9         39 8       7       15.7      0                       1            5          4 6         24          1           0
J3         15.2         31.3       20      15.4      9         117           1            5          16 7        23          2           0
S4         17.3          54        13      12.6      3         2 3           7           4 4         81          15          9           1
S5         22.8        125.8       21      116       0                       4           1 3         99          15          3           7
58          17.9        25.5       17       82       7         10.1          4           148         10.7        15          5           4
B7          24          27.1       11      14 5                                                      6.3         16          7           0
J8         228          30         11      176       0                       0                       16.2        9           3           0
B9          24          21.7       12       13                                                        13         9           3           0
Note
(O) Other= Rver, stream, given by neighbours supply at no cost
Table 11: Sanitation
Kampung         N                     Toret Type                          Toilet Ownership            Average Distance (m)    GAvg                      wbage Facilities
code                                                                                               T~~~~~ivr~Serdwt  oie o Toltt    ostletp0/    ivt
WC.        Pit   Rrv  or  Other       Private    Shared wd      h Public   TSiket tD To  bti toaf fRpn   Hole   Bwnt  Otmwm
Canal                        ott,. families               Well      H-ouse      month)       bin
Ji          24          25         0        0        0         24            1            0                                 2 5        92%         4%        4%      0%      0%
J2          25          25         0        0        0         22            3            0         17 1        25 6        9.8        80%         20%       0%      0%      0%
J3          25          20         3        0        1         1 4          1 1           0          3 0        28 8       18.1        68%         32%       0%      0%      0%
S4          25          24         0        1        0         1 6           7            1          10 8       13 9        5 2         36%        64%       0%      0%      0%
55          25          25         0        0        0         25            0            0          7 1        3 7         1 2         44%        52%       0%      0%      4%
se          25          23         1        0        1         23            1            0          5.6        11 5        18          72%        24%       0%      0%      4%
B7          25          25         0        0        0         23            2            0          8 5        9 3         4 4         68%        8%        4%      8%      12%
J8          12          12         0        0        0         12            0            0          10 3                              100%        0%        0%      0%      0%
B9          12          12         0        0        0          12           0            0                                 22 0       100%        0%        0%      0%      0%



110
Table 12. Family Transportation: Mode of Transport, Vehicle Ownership
Type of vehicles owned
Primary mode of transport by household head to work         by household       Distance
private    public                                                      car Is
Kampung           piae..bicyci                                                   motor
Kampung   bus   pnvate    motor     motor   train  bajaj         other  car   m        bicycle   parked
Code              car     cycle   cycle/oiek                e                  cycle             from
J-1      10       7        3          1              2            1     6       6        7        0
J-2      14       3        6         2        1             3     4      1      8       6         0
J-3      1 5      2        6         3               1      2     5     2       6       6       25.5
S-4      4                 11                               2     5            17        8        0
S-5      3        2        13                              2      4     5      17        7        0
S-6      2        2        12                        1      2     6     2      18        5       200
B-7               2        12                              2      9     5      19       14        0
J-8      10       1        1                                             1      2        7        0
B-9               5        4                         2            2     6      11        9        0



111
Table 13. House and Land Tenure Status
Land Tenure status                                 House Tenure Status
Pight of Mght to   ight toNo                                             Free of
Kampung Code      N    Ownership   b9ud        use    Rented   Ofter   Rghts   Owned  Rented  Contracted   rent   Other
J-1         24        12         6                  4                 2       18       5          1
J-2         25        11         4         7        2                 1       18       2                             5
J-3         25        8          7         7        3                         22       1          2
S-4         25        16         2         1        1        5                15       5          1                  4
S-5          25                  5         4        16                        19                  4                  1
S-6          25       17         6                           2                19       2          3                  1
B-7         25        8          1                  5        9        2       18       2          3                  2
J-8          12       6          6                                            12
B-9          12                  12                                           12
(Table 13 continued)
own land and rent land use land no rights
Kampung Code      N      house    and own    own        own
house    house    house
J-1         24        12         1         6        -
J-2         25        11                  11        -
J-3          25       8                   14
S-4          25       13                   3        -
S-5          25                  12        9        -
S-6          25       15                   6        -
B-7          25       8          3         1        -
J-8          12       6                    6        -
B-9          12                           12        -
Note:
The figures given for number owning land are known to be overestimated. Many people are
unaware of their status regarding land and said they owned t though admitted they had no land
certificate or document to prove it.



112
Table 14. Number of household consulted durlng the plannin  of the irnprovement proam
Connatbn dwing planning
Kampung      for KIP      rbr ot         Roadrs aw               lw, c       CIs       era        oth 
CodenP- M KIs                          Rndpipe                                        bin fdcif
S-1         20             5            2          4           1           1         4          2
S-2         13            14            3          6           0           0         0          2
S-3          1            12            1          9           1           1         2          3
S-4         21             0            2          4           0           0         4           3
S-5          10            2            6          6            1          1         8           3
S-6          0            10            5           5           4          4          7          7
0-7         15             5            0           4           0          0         4           1
Table 15: Type of consultation
Consultation Pr,ca
By      By      ~~~Attonded a
Kampung   govs nmnwt  noVgortood         /C/        ol-
Code       official a*    asaccation
11am.         head
S-1          2             5            2          6
S-2          0             5            2          a
J-3          2             12           1          3
S-4          0             2            a           0
S-5          0             1            11          3
S-I          1             2            4           1
B-7          1             1            2           5
Table 16: Respondents Partidpation In, and Contributions to KIP or other Programn
Numbof d rspondents paftlpating                                         Type d Contibuos mndo by Rea,onts
.ampung         /n KIP or ott  pu ilwMs                          KIP                                OTHER                               KJFVTHER
Code
KIP         OTHER      KIP/07HE    Lao          Building    Mney    Laor         BuiAdYng         y                            Ble INg         v
R                   metrals I.                       malaria,ewbt                                                      
S11 19                        4             1          6                      3          1          1              3                                         I
S1-2             10            10           2          5                                  4                         1               1
J-3               1            17            1                                           16          9             13                1             1          1
S-4              24             1            0          9           1          12         1                         1
S-5               8            7             1          1                      3          2                         6                                         I
S-I               0            11            0                                            6          2              9
F-7              15             5            0          2                                 4          2              2
Table 17: Respondents Opinions on Drawbacks of KIP or other Prograns
AWBArCKS  Xrv juPRtOA   i"mbr ofre4qdna)                   DA4WA4CL  7VOTH rPUBLIC PAOOA4Aa0 (1u        ,  af,epu.su
Kaeow1   p-riailouof  parlIallouof    ookof          owr        l-ok f p partialou        on   lArk of
Code         bnDS       nnrwc6oe      coona    crowdin       icrriry     of           o       coam
i-1          7            o             1          5           1           0         0          0              0               0
3-2          6             1            1          1           0           2         0           1             2                1
3-1          0            0             0          0           0           3         0           1             1                0
3-4          8             1            2          10          2
S-5          5             0            0          4           2           1         0           0             1                0
S-4                                                                        2         1          0              4                1
FS7          2             1            2          11          4           1         1           1             4                2



i m
0   e.<^=--      -     jjlr
n~~~                                               I  _    j   -lo_
i~~~~~~~ -- -- O__>i -- ]t t
Sff oo   eMtb  s=> 
No I] oo2X-,                                                                                      0 tW  j
e ] 2 z n n n n z n " X ~i i_w=-____^^^._"             
0   ] ,>,_                            , "t   _a.fi_|0r0O
A0             ;a"^4e.2->nnn^n-^                       f              
I 4    ; :=                f ii                     i.i                        II >             0h



114
Table 19: Changes in households as perceived by residents
Karnpung                            health of primary        healh swv,cus                  elementwy school
Code         children's health    income ea rner
Better  Some  Worse  Better  Same   Better  Same  Worse   donI  Belter  Same  Worse   don?
know                            know
J-1          18       4              18        5      20       3       1              21        1
J-2          13      10              10       12      17       6                       18       5
J-3          20       4              18        7      18       8                       16       7
S-4          11       9               7       13      11       8               2       11       8
S-5          15      10               13      11       9      15       1               11      11
S-6           9      12       1        8      14      13       9                        7       9       2        t
B-7          14       7               13       9      14       2                        6       8
J-8          12                       2       10      12                               11       1
Kmpung         employment opportunities       security in kampung              condditons
Code                                                                 conditionsdon
Better  Same  Worse   donI   Befter  Same  Worse  Better  Same  Worse   dont
know                                                     know
J-1          12       7       1              20        2       1      17       2        1
J-2           9      11       1               13       9       1      15       9        1
J-3           8      18                      20        4              17       8
S-4           6      14                        9      12       1       9      13
S-5           7      12               5       12      13              12      13
S-a           4      14       1       2        8      13       1       9      12                1
B-7          12       8       1                5      14       4       8      15
J-8           2      10                      12                       10       2
Table 20: Changes In kampung's environment as perceived by residents
Kampung            footpath                  water                  drainage                 garbage                     anitation                    lighting
Code
Better  Same  Worse  Beter  Same  Worse  Better  Same  Worse  Better  Same  Worse  Bettr  Same  Worse    o                         Befter  Same  Worse
know
J-1         20        2       2      20       2        2      10       5       9      17       6        1      12       4       1               24
J-2          20       4       1      15      10               16       8       1       8       15       2       3      14       1               19       8
J-3         23        2              17       3        5       8      14       3      15       7        3       2      22       1               15       7       3
S-4          18       5               7       11       5      11      11       1       12       7       4      13       5       4        1      11      10       2
S-5          20       5              10       11       4      1S      10               18       6       3      16       7                       15       9
S-6           8      13               5       15       4       7      13       4      10       12       2       8      12       2               13      10
B-7          13       7       4      10        9       1      11       9       5      13        9       3      1S       7       2                9      1S 5
J-8           6       5               8       3                8       5               5        5       1       3       7                       11
Kampung           education focilities               heal1h facilities           overall situation
Code
Belter  Some  Worse             Better  Same  Worse              Bat er  Same  Worse
know                            know
J-1              20       3                       22       2                       18       3       2
J-2              18       7                       17       8       1               14      10
J-3              16       7                       20       5                       17       8
S-4              10      12                       15       7                1      18       4
S-5              15      10                       18       8       1               20       5
S-8               9      12        1       1      11      10               2       16       8       2
B-7              11       6                       16       1       1               17       6       2
J-8              10       1                       11                                8       3



115
Table 21: Condtions of communhy facilities as perceived by "expert observation"
K mpung                         sop4m                                          rm)onorbks rod                                     bcal dfainage                                       gsrbage
code
BeOer       Same         Worse     donl know      BekLIf       Same        Worse     donl know      Beftf        Same        Worse      donlknow      Bete         Same        Wone       dont know
J-1              17            1           3                       22            2                                     5           5           14                       13           8            2
J-2              17            7                                   16            9                                    12           8            5                       14           7            3
J-3              10           10           5                       15            9           1                         5           5           15                       10          10            5
S-4              11           12            1           1          20            5                                     5          15            4                        6           13           6
S-S              24            1                                   21                         4                       21           4                                    19           6
S-6              14            6           4            1          21            1            3                        6          11            8                       10          11            3
9-7               6            9           8                       19            3           3                         6           7           12                        5           8           12
J-8               6            5           1                       11                         1                        7           5                                     5           7
B-9               6            6                                   12                                                  5           7                                     7           5
Kampung                  communal tbWsVting                                  eemenbtry schood                                     h8m, cinkc
Code      _    _        _        _        _        _        _         _        _        _        _        _        _        _         _        __
Btelw       Same          ve       don7kbcw       BOOK         Sanm       liSbse    donlknow        Be~          Saene       Vwe        don7know
J-1               9            7           2                       18            3           2                        14           7            2
J-2               8           12                                   21            4                                    16           7            1
S-3              12           11           2                       15            9                                    17           8
S-4               9            6                        3          Is            8            1           1           15           8            1            1
S-S              12                                     8          12                                                 14          11
S-6               9            4            1           4           12           3            5           3            9           8            5            1
B-7               1            2           2                         1           2                                    15           5            2
J-8               5            6           1                       11                        1                        11                        1
B-9               1                                                 12                                                 5           4            1
Table 22: Condition  of bhom /yaa  mad accessbility    peceived by "expert obwrvaton"
KanC nd                        dhouse                                            aftouse                                         cond yard
Code      _         _        _         _        _        _         _        _         _        _        _         _        _         ___
Bes,t       Same          brse     dontAnow       Befor       Same         Made    dontlknow        BeOd         Same        Mrse       donlknow
.1               16            6           2                       15            7           2                         6          10            8
J-2              12           10           3                       10           13           2                        S           13            7
J-3              10           14           1                        9           13           3                         1          12           12
S-4               9            8           8                        7           12           6                         5          10            9
S-S              13           11            1                      11           11           3                         8          11            6
S-6              10           10           S                       11            7           7                         3           6           14
6-7              16            7           1                       15            9            1                        3          12            5
J-8               8            3           1                        9            2           1                         7           4            1
B-9              10            1                                   I I           I                                     5           4
Kampund         ext oconso on  ds and                h          dogee lo whih parkig contu         to congesbon    Average w    roads of o     nng
Code                                                                                                                         house
Beite       Same         Wre       dont know      Betier      Same         Worse     donl now
J-1               8           10           6                        5           10           8                                   36
J-2              10           11           4                        8           14           3                                   43
J-3               3          21            1                        4           21                                                 4
S-4               6            7           9                        3           11           6            1                       23
S-S              11            3           11                      12            2           7            4                       38
S-6               9            4           9                        9            4           7            2                       29
B-7                            6           19                                    5           18                                   28
J-8              10            I                                   10            1                                               22
9-9               4            1           7                         1           3           8                                    32



116
Table 23: Illnesses suffered in last year
Kampung                                      No of Cases of lNness Reportedin the Last Year
Code        Fever   Sbin cdsorder  Flucough    Darohea    Dysentry       TypUs       DFeengure     TBC       (specrfy)
J-1              11           1          16            5           0            0           4           1           0
J-2              17           2          21            3           0            1           1           1           2
J-3              17           3          22            1           0            1           1           3           3
S-4             16            5          22           10            1           0           0           0            0
S-5              10           6           23           6           0            2           0           0            0
S-6              14           3           20           7           0            4           0           0            0
B-7             15            3          21            2           3            0           1           0            0
J-8               3           1           8            2           1            0           1           0           2
B-9               5           3           9            3           1            2           0           1            1



117
Table 24: Monthly household expenditures (Rp. '000 per month)
Kampung   Food and   House rent    Home                                                                            Scunty
Kampung    Reatod    or regular   repairs/   Water    Electricity  Coohng fuel  Sanitaton  Health Care  Educaton    Chare   Gabag fee
Essontfals  payments   rnprov.
J-1          231.3       36.8         3.2       17.8       31.4        14.8        1.3        10.6       29.1         1.2        1.6
J-2          156.4       15.4        13.2        4.6       23.0        23.2        1.5         9.8       24.7         1.0        1.8
J-3          228.8        3.5        38.0       15.9       15.6        24.2        8.6         5.3       46.8         0.8        1.1
S-4          164.9        5.0        66.4        7.9       12.0        19.6        0.0        38.7       48.7         0.4        1.1
S-5          146.7        5.0       135.5       10.3       11.5        17.0        0.9        23.7       45.6         1.9        0.5
S-6          217.4        5.7        56.1        8.6       23.7        19.8        0.5        15.0       38.1         1.4        1.5
B-7          199.2       14.8       161.6        6.0        19.5       21.6       15.4        18.7       46.8         0.2        1.5
J-8          190.0        5.0        0.0        16.2       16.6        20.8        0.0         5.8      157.9         1.3        1.4
B-9          202.9        0.0       187.5       12.9       27.8        13.8       17.3        11.3       61.6         0.0        1.7
Kampung               Supr oCrecit                                              ODher                   TOTA
Code     Pf88 hx    other far    Trmnspolt  payments   SaWngs       Ajisan'     goods      Other      TOTAL
mem.
J-1            2.9        5.2       43.3         0.0        7.9         7.5        0.0         5.0      450.8
J-2            2.7        3.4       25.6         0.0        2.8         4.2        2.0         4.1      319.4
J-3            2.2        1.6        25.2        3.2       17.8        12.0        4.0         1.3      455.8
S-4            2.4       15.8        43.8       27.5        11.7       21.4        0.2         5.0      492.4
S-5            3.0       51.3        42.5       41.8       52.9        27.1       18.1         8.7      588.6
S-6            1.8       18.0        58.4       44.8       48.4         6.8       14.8        12.0      542.2
B-7            2.4       12.4        73.8       63.1       31.0        11.6       94.4         6.4      800.5
J-8            2.5        0.0        65.8        0.0        0.0        11.6        0.0         7.9      502.8
6-9            1.6       16.3        46.2      186.0       47.9        14.0       39.6        87.8      976.2
Note:
Ar: commni baud a a          X         gr
Two furtli cabegoee  Parties and Co*bions" and -CoJng have been excluded due to a hack of uniformity In the Incluion
of the qmnae at the end of the fasting month a few befdore the survey took place.



118
Table 25: Sources of household incomes
Total tources of income from all members of the houschold
Kimpunr,t   No d    Income                                             Private company                            Cmtsmen servrce       Labouner hot                                  Other (house rome rent
CKam Fu mity   Sousne   N Male  N Female            Cvdi Servant         employee       Traders entrepeneurs   C     senervce         Labourer actor              Pension            assistance ftom imaty
M        F         U         F         M           F         M           F         M          F            br           F           P             F
1-i           24        44       28         16         4        0         8         4          9          4          5           1         1         0             1           3            0            4
J-2           25        56       35         21        10        0         3          1         7          6          7           7         2         2             5           2            1            3
J-3           25        53       34         19         9        3         3         2          9          9          3           3         6         2            0            0            4            0
S-4           24        58       33         25         6        3         6         6          7          6          7           5         2          2            3            1           2            2
S-5           25        64       39         25         8        4        10         6          5          8          4           3         0          3            8            1           4            0
5-6           25        60       38         22         2        0        10         6         14          12         7           1         0         0             2           0            3            3
0-7           25        54       35         19         6        3         9         3         14         12          3           1         0         0            0            0            3            0
J-8           12        22       18          4         9        0         2         1          1          0          3           1         0          1           2            1            1            0
B-9           12        24       17          7         4        1         5         3          3          2          3           1         0         0             1           0            1            0
Sources of income from the head of household
Kampunig    No or  income                                              Prnvate comparv                            Craftsmen. service    Labourer, hsctory                             Oaw (house mom mnt
Code      Family  Sources  N Male  N Femsk          Cnvil Servant       employee        Tiaders entrepreneurs       ndustnes               worker                 Pension            assince hom JmW,
6        F         M         F         M           F          PA         F         M          F            u            F           U             F
J-1           24        26       19          7         3                  3                    7          2          4                     1                       1           2            0            3
J-2           25        26      23           3         5                  2                    5                     6           1                                4            1            1            1
J-3           25        27      27           0         5                  2                    0                     3                     5                      0                         4
S-4           24        22       20          2         5                   1                   5           1         4                                             3            1           2
S-5           25        36       33          3         7                  7                    4          2          3                                             8            1           4
S-6           25        28      26           2         1                  4                   1 2          1         4                                             2                        3            1
B-7           25        26       26          0         6                  4                   1 1                    2                                             0                        3
J-8           12        14       13          1         9                  0                    0                     1                                             2            1           1
8-9           12        16       15          1         4                  3          1         3                     3                                             1                        1
Sources of income from spouses
Kampung    No d    bncome  N Male  N Fe e             Ciil Servnt       Private company   Trar  entpeneurs   Craftmen service           Labourer, tactoly                              asOrnw ( hous  himi r,
Cod       Fami!y   Sources  NMlNFeae                CvlSrnt              employee       Trdr.eUrnus                 industries             workier                Pninasseefmfmy
6        F         M         F         M           F          M          F         M          F            M            F            ec           F
J-1           24         4        0          4                                       1                    2                                                                     1
J-2           25         6        0          6                                                            4                                                                     1                        1
J-3           25        13        0         13                  2                   2                     6                     3
S-4           24         9        0          9                  2                    1                    3                      2                                                                       1
S-5           25        13        0         13                  3                    2                     6                     2
S-6           25        12        0         12                                       1                     9                                                                                             2
8-7           25        15        0         15                  3                                         12
J8-           12         2        0          2                                                                                   1                    1
8-9           12         4        0          4                  1                                          2                     1
Sources of income from children
Kampung    No d    Income  NM               F  I      CiServanl         Private company   Traders entrepreneurs   Crftsmen, service     Labourer, factory                             Ow (hhouse/ lmm 't
Code      Family  Sources                                                employee                                   mndust,ses             worker                 Pninassac  t    aiy
M        F         M         F          M          F          M          F         M          F            bf           F           M             F
S-1           24        14        9          5          1                 5          3         2                     1           1                                                                       1
J-2           25        23       11         12         5                   t         1         2           2          1          6         2          2                                                  1
J-3           25        12        6          6         4         1         1                    1          3                                          2
&-4           24        25       1 1         14                  1         5         5         2           2          2          3         2          2                                                   1
S-S           25         14       6          8          1        1         3         3          1                     1          1                    3
S-6           25         19      1 1         8          1                  5         5          2          2          3          1
8-7           25          7       6           1                            4         1         2
S-8           12         6        5           1                            2         1          1                    2
8-9           12         2        1           1                            1         1



119
Table 26: Average Monthly Incomes
No. of family member with monthly inoomes in each range
KMpung      F      mPy  Income     NMN le    N Femal   25,000b100,000  100,000bc225,000 225,000bo450,000 450.000 o850,000 morethsn 50000 TOTAL (Rp)   h  JIr
Code       Fsmk,,     So we..                          __  _  _  _  __   _  _  _  _m__       _  __  _  _  _   __  _  _  _  __   _  _  _
UA      F       M        F        M       F        M       F        M       F
S-1             24         44          28          16       0        1       2        3      12        9       8        2       6        1  15.700000     654.167
J-2             25         56          35          21       3        4      10        a      12        8       8        3       2        0  12.925 000     517 000
J-3             25         53          34          19       1        1       7        6      17        9       6        3       3        0  13,800.000    552 000
S-4             24         59          34          25       6        3       7       13      16        7       4        2        1       0  10.950.000     456.250
S-5             25         64          39          25       2        3      12       15      18        4       4        3       3        0  13475,000      539.000
t-6             25         64          40          24       2        2       9        7      18        9       7        4       4        2  17.825 000     713.000
8-7             25         59          39          20       5        1      12        9       7        8       12       2       3        0  14.475 000     579,000
S-8             12         22          18           4       0        0       1        0       5        4       9        0       3        0   8.725.000     727.083
8-9             12         24          17           7       1        0       2        3       5        2       3        2       6        0   9,450.000     787,500
No. of heads of houwehol with monthly incomes in each range
Kmpung    FNmtty    SIun            N Male    NFeml   2$00b 100,000 100,000bD225,000 225,000 b 450,000 45,0b850.000 morethan850000 TOTAL(Rp) Iamesp
U       F        PA      F        M       F        M       F        P       F
S-1             24         26          19           7       0        1       1        1       5        3       7        2       6           11,175.000     465.625
J-2             25         27          23           4       1        2       7        1       7                6        1       2            7.300,000     292,000
S-3             25         27          27           0       1                7               1 1               5                3            8 000000      320 000
S-4             24          25         23           2       6                2                11       2       3                 1           5.475000      228.125
S-5             25          37         34           3       2                7        1       18       2       4                 3            9.700.000    388.000
S-6             25         31          28           3       2                5        1      13        2       6                 2           8.425000      337.000
M-7             25          26         26           0       5                4                4                10                3           8.475.000     339 000
J-8             12         14          13           1       0                1                3        1       6                3            6 250.000     520.833
8-9             12          16         15           1       1                2        1       4                2                6            7.225.000     602.083
No.of spouses with monthly incomes in each of the ranges
Kmpung      Fa m        ncom        N Male    N Femal   25000 b 100.000 100,000 b 225,000 2253000 b 450,000 450.000 t 850,000 more than 850000 TO TAL (Rp)       P
Code       F mky      Sourtw4                                      '       '                                                                                mily
M       F       P        F        P       F        M       F        M       F
S-i                 24           4          4           0                         1               3                                                775.000      32.292
J-2                 25           6          6           0                        3                3                                                975,000      39.000
J-3                 25          13         13           0       1                4                7                 1                            2 450.000      98.000
S-4                 24          9           9           0                        5                2                2                              1,850 000     77.083
S-5                 25          13         13           0       3                5                2                3                             2.375 000      95.000
S-6                 25          13         13           0       2                5                3                2                 1           2,975,000     119,000
B-7                 25          15         15           0       1                6                7                 1                            2,650.000     106,000
J-8                 12          2           2           0                                         2                                                450.000      37.500
8-9                 12          4           4           0                        1                1                2                              1,225.000    102.083
No. of children with monthly incomes in each of the range
Kanwvng  No of                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Incomes per
Kampung      No d                   N Ma1a b  N Femal  25,000 b 100,000 100,000 bD 22,000 225,000 b 450,000 450,000 b 850,O00  mom, than 850000 TOTAL (Rp)   bam  P
Code       Fsmty      Souren.                          _m_Iy
M       F        M       F        M4      F        M       F        M       F
S-1                 24          14          9           5                        1        1       7        3        1                        1   3.750.000     156.250
J-2                 25          23         11          12       2        2       2        3       5        5       2        2                    4,650.000     186,000
J-3                 25          12          a           6                                 2       5        2        1       2                    3.125,000     125.000
S-4                 24         24          10          14       2        3       3        a       4        3        1                            3.250.000     135,417
8-5                 25           9          1           8        1                        a                                                        825.000      33000
8-6                 25          15          7           a                                 1       4        4        1       2        2       1   5.800.000     232,000 k
F-7                 V;          10          8           2                        5        2       2                 1                             1,600.000     64,000
S-8                 12          6           5           1                                         2        1       3                             2.025,000     168,750
B-9                 12          2           1           t                                                  1        1                              675 000      56.250



120
ANNEX G
Profiles of Kampungs Surveyed
JAKARTA                                 Description of Kelurahan:
Kampung Name                            Inner-city kampung in the center of Jakarta. Close to big market area of Pasar Senen.
Kamipung Name:                        Some areas have larger houses with garages. The kelurahan was linked with colonial times
Tanah Tinggi                            as many Dutch people had their homes here. Some parts are nicely laid out with children's
RW  No.: RW  XI                         play areas. Other parts are crowded and dirty. Tanah Tinggi has a number of social
problems, such as drugs, drinking, and inter-school fights.
Kelurahan Name:                         Description of kanipung:
Tanah Tinggi                            There are two distinct areas: the lower-income and the higher-income areas. In the lower-
No. of Rws: 13                          income areas, overcrowding is a problem. Recent fires in the adjoining RW have made the
community wary. They are aware that fire engines would not have access to the interior.
Community spirit is reasonable and maintenance is reasonable, although drains were dirty
Details of Selected RW:                 and smelly. The nearby RW is better off: houses are larger, roads are good and well laid
Area: 3 ha. (4.8%)                      out, and most residents have their own transportation. Community spirit is not good,
however. There is no gotong royong, and most residents do not know who their neighbor
Population: 3.472 (5.5%)                is. There has been a high turnover of houses in the last ten years or so. Houses were
originally built for the Dutch army, and the land still has the old colonial status, Egendom
Verponding. After independence many ABRI took over the houses.
KIP Details:
KIP in 1974 built Iootpaths and drains. Many suffered partial loss of their land or houses.
with no compensation. Conunuity leaders organized gotong royong to help those less able
to repair the damage. In the overcrowded area there are no roads entering. Roads with
drains were put in the better areas nearby. There appears to have been a number of projects
in Tanah Tinggi, and it is difficult to get reliable information on what improvements were
carried out under which project.
Environment:
The level of the roads was raised with KIP. As a consequence, some houses suffered minor
tlooding until the residents raised the level of their houses. Rubbish collection is good and
sanitation seems reasonable. Most houses have had their own taps since 1989. The water
supply from PAM is not good, especially in the middle of the day. The area is notorious for
social problems, including drugs, drinking, fighting. theft, and even murder. Some say this
has been a tactor in keeping housing/land prices below other areas.
Land and House Values:
A leased house in RW Xl: Rp 600,000/year (4x8m).
In 1978, 30 m2 bought for: Rp 600,000 and 18 m2 for: Rp 100,000.
Rp I 80,000/m2 is being paid as compensation for the land on which the flats are being
built. However. the money is being retained as a down payment on one of the flats. Rp
300,000 to Rp 400,000 is being paid per tamily to rent accommodation until the flats are
ready.
Stidy Nlethodology:
The Lurah was visited to collect secondary data. The leader of the RW Xl was also visited.
Interviews were held with him, small traders, women, and newly arrived families. In
addition, the leader of the more wealthy area was visited, as were traders.
Key Findiugs:
* Despite its reputation, there is a close community spirit in the lower-income housing in
Tanah Tinggi. It seems that the trouble spots are along the main roads just outside the
kampung. The community in these areas is very stable, although there are a lot of
migrant workers lodging in the homes of others on a monthly basis.
* Maintenance was not well done, and there was not much done along the tbotpaths to
improve the overall appearance of the kampung (as in Surabaya).
* The better area was reasonably well maintained, but there was little community spirit.
Community leaders were difficult to get in touch with, and there was a high tumover of
people.



121
JAKARTA                                Desciption of Keluahan:
Mangpgrai was once cosmidered a fringe kampung, although it is an inner-city now. The
KamDunli Nam.                           lurge sation and workshops for the railway company are in kelurahan and provide
Kebun Pisang, Kebun Sayur              employment for many residents. There e housng complexes for railway emnployees in the
RW  No.: II                            kelurahan. The area used to be a swamp and was settled by squatters after it had been
filled.
Kelurahan Name:                        Description of Kmnpuig:
Manggarai                              Sometime before the war this swampy was filled in, and the railway workers housing
No. of Rws: 12                         complex was built After the war people from central and East Java began to migrate into
the area and built temporary squatter homes. There was plenty of apace to grow vegetables
and bananas, giving the kampung its name. As the original settlers found work, their
Details of Selected RW:                families and friends from their home villages came to join them, giving rise to community
Area: 6.5 ha. (7%/)                    groups from specific areas. The groups from Cirebon, Purworejo, and other areas are still
there and linked to certain roads or paths in the kampung. From 1960 people began to
Population: 4,028 (9.9%)               make semi-permanerd homer, although the status of the land was unclear. By 1971, when
the Jakara authorities resicted the flow of miagnts into the city, the area was fuill. In
1974 the conmmunity formed a board to look into the status of the land. The board went first
to the Railway company that they thought owned the land. The Railway company sent
them the Department of Public Works, which had filled the land, and the this department
sent them to the Agraria Department, which dealt with land rights issues. In 1976 the
residents were granted the status of Right to Use the land and paid Rp 7,500 for this right.
Before the tenure rights were ganted, the kampung was improved by KIP. Some houses
and fences were moved, but most did not object as it was obviously going to improve the
area. Some flexibility was given in the design in order to avoid serious damage to property.
There is no evidence that XIP was linked to the granting of land rights or vice versa.
However, the timing of the events suggests that they might have been. Electricity wu put
in 1977, and water supply in 1990.
KIP Details:
Footpaths, roads, and drains were provided under KIP in 1975. There were public toilets in
the kunpung, provided by the government in 1990 and built with community funds in
1994.
Environmnent:
There used to be floods from an old drainage chanmel. The main channels were improved
and expanded so that the branch at the back of the kuapung is bypassed except in extreme
circumstances. However, there is now no flushing of human and solid wate, which leads
to an unpleatst environmern in the proximity. Digging up roads and paths to provide the
additional services has sometime damaged KIP infrastructure.
Laknd and House Values:
House bought in 1993 (12x5 m2) for: Rp 7,500,000.
House bought in 1994 with Hak Ciarapan (7.5x3 m2) for: Rp 5,500,000.
Study Methodology:
The Lurah wu visited and seoondary data was collected. The head of RW II was also
visited. He introduced us to other community leaders. Discussions were held with women's
groups, traders, wad newly anived fumilies. Surveys were carried out in this and
neighboring Rws, including some that are now in neighboring kelurahan. Spot checks of
the sureys were carried out and visits made informally to neighboring areas.
Key Fndngp:
* KIP may have been linked to the secring of land tenure rights by the residents.
* Enviromnt problems were caused by the disposal of solid and human waste into an
unwe drainage canal.
* Mainteanc of KIP inffasdcture wu being carried out by Swadaya masyarakat, but
damage has been caused by subsequent intallation of other facilities.
* Complainmt wore frequently heard reprding the quality of PAM water supply.



IBRD 26705
The boundaries, colorsn                                            I N D O  N E S I A
onthrnnoationshnowny                                    IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
impl,on th, mopa o'o nURBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
The World bank Grow,                                      LOCATION OF SURVEYED AREA:
stauiu oanyorior                                            TANAH TINGGI, (KIP) JAKARTA
or any endorsement 
or acceptnce a1 such                                             "      AREA OF SURVEY
boundaries.                                                             WITHIN THE KAMPUNG
*      HOUSEHOLDS INTERVIEWED
-   FLOW OF RIVER
----- RAILROADS
0                  1o0                  200 METERS
.9KEL.                               e                                    I    1lK11
, TANAH TINGGI                         3                           l                          U     1995
FEBRUARY I1995



IBRD 26706
Mong9agoroi                            I N D O  N E S I A
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
LOCATION OF SURVEYED AREA:
/ /   \\XX                      MANGGARAI, (KIP) JAKARTA
I3J I\  - AREA OF SURVEY
WITHIN THE KAMPUNG
||\*  HOUSEHOLDS INTERVIEWED
|\        FLOW OF RIVER
-|/-    RAILROADS
0          50        1t0          150 METERS
and ony daher information shoin aon
this map do not imply, on the part of
The World Bank Group, any judgment
on the legal status of any territory, or
ony endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries.
FEBRUARY 1995



124
JAKARTA                                    Description of Kelsirahan:
KamVung Name:                              Recently developed industrial area near the port. Factories and light industries have
developed in the kelurahan. Some real estate and high-income housing has been developed.
Muara Bant                                 hut pockets of'slums remain between the 'actories High daily migation into the tactory
RW  No.: XVII                              areas has caused a number of'social problems.
Description of Kamppung:
Kclurahan Namile:                          UIsed to he a coastal swamp area near the port. Material trom the excavation ot'the
Pciaringan                                 resertvoir was dumped there, tilling in the swamp. Squatters started to moved in the 1950s
through the 1 970s. Many ot the early squatters were Bugis and Makassar from Sulawasi
because ol the proximity of'the Sunda Kelapa harhor. where the Buginese hoats docked.
Details of Sciected RW                     /Ml the houses were non-permanent. House transaLtions were made, but not in w'Titing.
Area: No iniformiiationi                   Certiticates were not exchanged. Since 1975 people have begun building permanent
Population: 14.00(0(22. 1 I,)              houses and housing transactions have been wrinen down and reported to the Lurah. Most
residents are otlicially still squatters and have no rights to the land. Electricity came in the
1970sm water supply in i 989!90. and telephones in 1993.
A large tire irn 1993 humt down hundreds ol'houscs. The houses were rebuilt I nm furtler
back so that a road wide enough tor a tire engine could enter the kampung.
A second tire last vear destroyed 450 home. T'he tire started in a Iactorv and the tfactory
was paying compensation oflRp 12 millioni total. The victims have refused this amount and
will not let the f:actory rebuild until their compensation has been raised. About 600o ot'the
residents are tactorv workers. I10° nierchants. and 10% tishermen.
KIP Delails:
No MII' pro ject in the selected RW, although neighboring Rws have been part ol'a KIP
project because it is an area designed tbr commercial developnient.
Eiviriiiiiiiient:
'T'he kampung is next to the reservoir controlling the entry otfthe drain water into the sea.
As the drains empty into the reservoir, the' bring with them all the rubbish thrown into
them on their passage through Jakara. T'he ruhbish is removed from the drain at this point,
making a dump on the other side ot'a narrow channel trom the kampung. Apart trom the
severe environmental impact this has in terms of'odor and health hazards. there are newly
arrived squatters building homes on top of this dump. This settlement is within the
kelurahan, but the kelurahan will not take responsibility for it. The survey team was told
that the kelurahan otlicials could not he responsible tor their salety if they crossed into this
settlement. Their advice was heeded. T'he rubbish itself gives otl'a toul odor, often
accompanied with thick smoke as it is otten buming. Clouds ot'tiles settle everywhere,
posing a severe health threat. 'he incidence of diarrhea is higher along this northem coast
than anywhere else in Jakarta. As a result the WHO is running a three-year project which
supplies free rehydration solution and treatment tor diarrhea. Despite this, only one t'amily
in the primary data survey reported having diarrhea last year. This could be due to a
reluctance to report it for tear of follow up from the Health Department. It could also be
that diarrhea is so common that it is not considered an illness unless it is very severe. There
are few privately owned toilets in the area. Until a few years ago people still used the sea or
drains as toilets. Now there is at least one privately owned public toilet which has opened
in the last year or so. The drains are filthy and are rarely cleaned out. There is no
groundwater in the area, it is all saline now. Water vendors were in abundance, but there is
now a clean water supply in the area. People still sell water in the kampung.
Land and Houte Prices:
4x I 0 m house bought for: Rp 13 million last year.
5x8 m non-permanent house recently sold fbr: Rp 8.5 million.
6x 10 m empty land bought in 1980 tor: Rp 300,000, now worth about Rp 20 million with
permanent house.
Sttudy Methodology:
Visited kelurahan office, collected maps and secondary data, and held discussions with the
Lterah. Visited the head of the RW and toured the kampung with him. Primary data
surveys conducted. Visits were made to long-time residents and a sombal-making industry.
A visit was made to one ot'the POSYANDU volunteers and to tamily who have recently
moved in.



125
Key Findings:
* Community put in roads after first fire.
* Many children do not go to school, and the POSYANDU is not as active here as in other
areas. It has only been running for 5-8 years.
*  Water vendors buy water for Rp 25 per pikul and sell it for Rp 100.
* Many social problems in the area, including drinking, gambling, thefl, prostitution. were
reduced temporarily by the Clean-up Operations now being implemented by Jakarta
police.
* Despite its problems, there is no unemployment in the area, and there is a huge potential
for supplementing incomes by selling food to the huge local work population which
travels in each day. Because of the work opportunities, the price of land and rental rates
are relatively high.
SURABAYA
Kamvunft Name:                          Description of Keluirahan:
Inner-city area, mostly residential with commercial areas along the main roads. Some large
Kedung Doro                             houses, high-income area on the west.
RW No.: Xl, XI!
Description of Kanipung:
Since the 1 930s, gang 1-5 was surrounded by sawah legal and swamp. Most of
Kelurahan Name:                         newcomers came from a kampung nearby when they were evicted by the Dutch for
Sawahan                                 developing a commercial area. Most are private company employees. Also, a large number
No. Rws: 13                             have small industries. Gang 1-5 land status is still from colonial times (Eigendom
Pervonding). Gang 6-12 have certificates. About 80% of the population originate trom
another kampung. Most of the latest arrivals were evicted in 1989 from an area nearhy
Details of Selected RW                  where there is now a department store.
Area: 6 ha. (6.67%)
Population: 4,600 (19.4%)               KIP program in 1982 included roads, footpaths, drains, MCK and health extension.
Rubbish disposal is done by the city.
Environmient:
Floods before KIP, but were quickly dispersed. Now they have been made worse because
the level of the river has risen and levels of nearby areas have also risen. The government
has proposed that a flood bund be built along the drain bank. Many houses below the level
of the new road are more prone to flooding. Before KIP, it was a high fire risk area because
fire engines could not get in. Now they can. A clean area with lots of trees and plants was
planted at the sides of the roads by the women to stop pollution from entering the houses.
Rubbish is collected daily and taken to collection point nearby. However, during the long
Muslim holiday, when the garbage collectors are on holiday. the rubbish sinells after a few
days
Land and Houise Prices:
In 1992, 3.5x20m of land with permanent house was sold for Rp 10,000,000. After buying,
the new occupant raised the floor level and put in ceramic tiles for Rp 2,500,000.
Study Methodology:
Meeting with Lurah and collecting maps and secondary data. Primary data survey centered
on kampung Kendung Doro, in RW Xl and XII. Discussions with a group of long-term
residents, including community leaders; discussion with group of six women, including
PlK officials; nine small industries visited separately; walk through RW XII and a visit
women's cooperative offices; discussion with two residents who had lost part of their
houses during KIP; visits to two families who had recently moved into the kampung.
Key Findings:
* Most long-term residents own houses passed down though families, land values are high
so there is little tear of eviction.
*  G otong royong and community spirit is high, good conditions.
* KIP improvements are still good and do not requirc any improvements yet. The
improvements are well looked after, with restrictions on cars entering. Also regular
maintenance and cleaning done by gotong royong onice a fortnight. Emergency vehicles
only are allowed in.



IBRD 26707I
INDONESIA
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS                                              HOUSES/
LOCATION OF SURVEYED AREA:                                         SLUM
PENJARINGAM  (nonKIP), JAKARTA                                                               INDUSTRIAL
AREA
¶ *, -; RAREA OF SURVEY
WITHIN THE KAMPUNG
*     HOUSEHOLDS INTERVIEWED
-   FLOW OF RIVER
0                   100                  200 METERS
WADUK PLUIT
PLUIT SWAMP
'4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KL
& ;:  - ^.t serk :: N         %LL  
PENJARINGAN
The boundaries, colors,
denominations and any
other information shown
on this map do not
imply, on the par of
The World Bank Group.
any judgment an the ego'
Jl PIuit Selaan Raya                                               |status of any territory,
or 'my endorsement
or acceptance of such
boundaries.
FEBRUARY 1995



IBRD 26709
1 N D 0 N E     oSK I            DoA  "
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS,                                             
LOCATION OF SURVEYED AREA:                                 11
IWITHIN THE KAMPUNG
o      10,0     200     39 METERS                                               |
\    \                l    lj . GreIeI -
J~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~
Ked. DorO ~ ~ ~   ~     KEURHA
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I W==     r p.< 
othr  info rmotion o  sXho
yme.gemS onCc the
any ~ ~ t rrit\r\                                         \
boundjories jo pet= on  =r
FEBRUARY 19-95



128
* Kampung is now well organized, although some had to loose land and houses in the KIP
program. Now health is much better.
* Consultation and coordination through kelurahan and RW and public participation is
encouraged.
* Many small traders and enterprises started, some of which can be linked directly or
indirectly with the KIP program. Economy ofthe whole area has been raised as a result.
* Reasons given by new residents for moving into the area were: good school facilities
nearby; close to markets, public transportation, and workplaces; the environment was
very clean and pleasant.
* RT 1-5 were asked to move by Pemda but they asked for Rp I million/im, even though
they are not certified.
* Favorable impressions of the environment and community spirit were gained during the
fieldwork. It was among the most pleasant kampungs to work in of those included in the
study. However, this clean and friendly environment is not reflected in the primary data
survey which puts Kedung Doro as one of the lowest economically, and in many other
subjects, such as dwelling conditions.
* came as a surprise and yet there is no obvious reason why this should be. The nimber of
small industries is also not reflected in the quantitative data.
SURABAYA
Kampung Name:                          Descriptton of Kelurnhan:
Periphery ofthe city, but now within built-up area. It became a separate kelurahan in
Jagir Sidomukti                        1975, although the kampungs were already there. It used to be in kelurahan Wonokromo,
RW  No . RW  1II                       where there is a large market. There are a number of squatter settlements along the railway
lines. Jagir is now a pleasant residential area.
Kelurahan Name:                        DescYipUon of Kainpung:
Jagir                                  1960-65  There was a dairy farm in the location. Some ofthe employees had houses
No. of RW: 13                               there, and there were some temporary houses, particularly around the Pertamina
factory. When the dairy went bankrupt, many employees stayed on the land and grew
palawja crops to sell at Wonokromo market. Land status was Right of use for
Details of Selected RW                      building (HGB).
Area: 9 ha. (8.9%9/0)                  1956-67  Migrants beganto come intothe area and wartedto pay compensationtothe
Population: 4,819 (23.9%)                  cultivators so that they could build dwellings on the land. No written agreements
POpUlation: 4,819 (23,9o)                 were made but the cultivators divided the land into plots for use by newcomers who
wanted to settle.
1967-68  More people moved in from outside Surabaya and kampung Sidomukti was
formed. The houses were all temporary.
1970-77 Most of the people came and there were many unofficial land and house
transactions.
1978 The city of Surabaya authorities changed the status of the land from HOB in the
name ofthe dairy to Right to rent (HS) to the residents. The area was given the status
of residential on the city master plan. Despite this, many do not have the "green
letters" as tenants, and many are reluctant to arrange it.
1978-80  The land had started to fill up, although the gardens of the houses were still
quite large. Some ofthose who had been issued with the land tenancy green letters
started to build permanent houses. The roads were still unsurfaced, and muddy when
it rained.
1982 The KIP project began in August.
Alter 1982,        Most ofthe houses replaced with permanent ones. Many planted
plants and trees to guard against pollution. More people got permission to build
houses and to rent the land from the city.
KIP Details:
KIP in 1982 under Urban III:
- 80% Tarmac roads, 4 m wide or more, suitable for four wheel vehicles, with drains
either side;
- 20% concrete paved footpaths less than 4 m with drains either side;
- clean water supply
Many lost fences or some of their gardens (about 20% of 1,000 houses) but the importance
of the improvements and the impact they would have on the kampung were well understood
so that no one complained. The residents along one alley refused to be part of the program,
but after they saw the impact that the improvements had and requested the improvements.
In 1991 a second project to upgrade another road was instigated. This project was under
the WR Suprobnan program, where 60% was paid by the govemment and the rest by the
community. A committee was formed of members ofthe community who were responsible
for participating in the design and also for collecting the community contribution. The
contribution was Rp 500



129
per m2 and an additional Rp 1,000 for each motorbike or Rp 2,500 per car. The total
project cost was Rp 39 million.
Envirosunent:
Very clean, rubbish fees are Rp 1,000 per month. It is collected every day and taken to a
collection point about I km from the kampung. More cars are coming into the area but not
yet at the level to cause a serious pollution or congestion. Fire risk is low because of good
building materials, and no serious overcrowding exists. Drainage is good. Drains are
cleaned out by gotong royong (community mutual cooperation) each week. Good water
supply now goes to most houses since the pipe was replaced with a larger diameter pipe in
1993.
Land and House Prices:
Last year one resident bought 5x20m plot for Rp. 15 million with a basic house and Hak
Sewa status from the city. He built a new house on the land for Rp. 13 million.
1Ox2Om with house worth approx. Rp. 40-50 million
In 1985 one house of I 50m bought for Rp. 7,000,000
Study Methodology:
Introduction to the Lurah, collection of maps, and secondary data. The tearn met with the
head of RW III and his assistant who have both lived in the area for 30 years. Group
discussion with him, his wife and friends who had lived there for many years. Primary data
survey undertaken. Meeting with six ladies including officials from the PKK. Discussions
with newly arrived family and traders.
Key Flndings:
* The impact of the KIP project at a time when the kampung was still in the early stages of
development and there were few permanent homes was a crucial factor in the
development of what is now a clean, organized and pleasant residential area.
* Community participation was an important part ofthe KIP project and subsequent
maintenance has been good.
* As the area has developed so have the opportunities for traders, dressmakers, salons, etc.
* Residents feel that although they only have Hak Sewa, they are secure and there is little
chance of eviction. They feel there is a good chance that they will be able to get Hak
SURABAYA                                  Milik eventually. KIP was one ofthe factors in building up the environment to give this
Kaxnvun~~~~~ Name: ~~~security.
KamvunEI Name:                             MThe kampung has now become an attractive place for people to live, the pleasant
Blauran Kidul                              environment, paved roads, and land status have put it in demand. People are moving in
RW  No.: II and I                          from other areas because it is better there.
Description of Kelurahan:
Kelurahan Name:                         Inner city kampung within Surabaya's golden triangle, lots of office development nearby in
Genltenig                               recent years. Many shops and markets surround the kampungs, and the health and school
facilities in the kelurahan are good. The kampungs are densely populated.
Details of Selected RW                  Description of Kanspung:
Area: 4 ha. (7.5%) Population:          The two Rws were covered in the study. RW I has existed since the 1930s, the houses are
820 (10.2%)                             small but mostly permanent. Many have Right to Ownership and most have PDAM water
820 (10.2%)                        supply and toilets in their homes. RW 11 is densely populated, the houses are very small and
the gangs are very narrow. Many people do their cooking and washing up in the gangs, and
20 famnilies still get water from a public tap. Water supply came in 1975, drains were built
by Swadaya masyarakat in 1975.
KIP Details:
The community leaders asked twice to be included in KIP and they never received an
explanation as to why they were not included. In 1985, one road was built into the
kampung under the WR Supratman program where the community paid 40% of the cost.
This road was surfaced in 1992 by the community (swadaya masyaradat).
Environnment:
The environment in RW I compares with a KIP kampung. some had planted trees and
plants, and most had their own water supply and toilets. There were public toilets and
water supply in RW II, the drains were not cleaned and the fire risk was very high.
Rubbish (wet and dry) is collected regularly.



IBRD 26711
LI                                      I N D 0 INDONESIA
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
N L                        °l 1 11',URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
loLlUl I                         LOCATION OF SURVEYED AREA:
JAGIR DIOMUKTI (nonKIP), SURABAYA
/k1                               E J 1l 1  \   }   ~  | AREA OF SURVEY
WITHIN THE KAMPUNG
I                        -*;  \  n   FLOW OF RIVER
a  I-~ L]UI               IRAILROADS
_ ~  JJ   I 2 C :0                    100      200       300      400      500 METERS
t~    '~  I                                I                           I
PERTAMINA          /#1    
Jl. Ryay Wonoktromo
The boundawries, colors, d'enominations ano' any othr information
shown on this mop do not imply, on th* part of The World Bonks Group,
ony judgsment on tho ldol stotus of any territory, or any endSorsoment
or acceptance of such bond'ries.
FEBRUARY 4995



IBRD 26710
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
sho.n on this map do not imply, on the port of The World Sank Group,
any judgment On the legal status of cny territory, or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries.
..  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                           D I   NI  I      A
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
LOCATION OF SURVEYED AREA:
BLAURAN (KIP), SURABAYA
'k                                     ~~~~~~~~AREA OF SURVEY
EJ1WITHIN THE KAMPUNG
*       HOUSEHOLDS INTERVIEWED
0           10~~I 0            200 METERS
FEBRUARY 1995



132
Land and House Prices:
4x12m bought in 1989 for Rp. 9,000,000 with hak milik, rented out for Rp. 750,000 per
veau until family that owned it moved in 1993.
4x6m house contracted for Rp. 1,000,000 per year
Study Methodology:
Discussions were held with current community leaders, and also past leaders. A group
interview were held with women and POSYANDU helpers. Individuals with people
running small industries and new families
Key Findings:
There was a feeling of insecurity through threat of eviction. Membem of the conmmunity
were reluctant to talk to us unless through the RW. Many think it is only a matter of
time until a developer comes in and they have to move.
* There is a high rate of employment as most work in the nearby shops and markets.
* The community works together to maintain facilities, clean the drains, etc.
* There are a mixture of land tenure rights, many in RW 11 would say they own the land
but do not.
* Most women are working.
* Hak Sewa from city authorities is for example Rp. 36,600 for 120.5m2.
* Theoretically Hak Milik may be requested after 20 years but no one has yet tried this.
* Many houses have been passed down for a number of generations.
* 11 out of 50 houses in gang 4 are contract.
DENPASAR
Kampinn Name:                           Description of Kelurahan:
Old desa split into 5, Dauh Puri was the original one and became official in 1980, the other
Banjar Catur Panca and                  four were made official in 1982. At present, Dauh Puri is near the center of Denpasar and
Banjar Pekambingan                      would appear to represent an inner city kampung, however, the development of Denpasar
has been so rapid in the last 20 years that even this kelurahan was partly agricultural in the
Kelurahan Name:                         1970s. On the east are higher income settlement areas, the center is mainly commercial
and shopping areas. The study took place in the western edge of the kelurahan, an area of
Dauh Pun                                lower income housing with large market areas along the main road. 1970-74 was the time
No. of Rws: 2 banjar                    of most in migration.
Description of Kampung:
Deta _ls of Selected RW                 1965 people came in and bought the last of the sawah land already divided up into lots.
Area: 13 ha. (4.7%)                     About 90% is inherited land. 10% state owned, mostly in the business and shopping areas.
Population: 625 (5.87%)                 HlGB for 10 years at a time.
KIP Details:
The study are was improved under KIP in 1982-83. No maintenance or further upgrading
since KIP. In need of some maintenance now.
Environment:
Lots of rubbish in the river, drains not well maintained, generally dirty, rubbish thrown on
empty ground.
Land and House Prices:
No information
Study Methodology:
The Lurah was visited and he introduced us to the leader of the RW. Group discussions
were difficult to organize so interviews were held
on a more ad hoc basis with women, traders and a newly arrived family.
Key Findings:
* Land bought straight with HakMilizk, most Balinese families have inheritance rights in
the family name.
* The KIP program occurred during a time of rapid development when much of the land
was being convened from rice fields into housing and commercial areas. The provision
of roads and drains at this time was vital to ensure that environmental problems linked to
access and flooding were reduced. All roads were earth before KIP. Some of the
footpaths had been made before but were replaced. Banjar halls are made with Swadaya
masyarakat, outside Denpasar a lot of improvements are done with this program. Most
people had no clear recollection of the project, just that the government came and made
the road.



133
* O&M of the improvements is poor; it seems that the coordination preparation or
consultation before the project has lead to a situation where the roads, paths and drains
are seen as government property, to be maintained by the government.
* Despite the continued development since the time of the project, the facilities are still
reasonable adequate.
* There were few negative impacts from the KIP program, the population density was less
than in Java and people owned larger plots of land. We heard no reports of people who
had lost land or buildings for the project. In addition, many new plots of land were
being sold off at that time and had been subdivided allowing for roads and paths.
* Denpasar has recently become a city (koramadya), the lines of coordination and
communication between government departments and the community are only roughly
in place, a great deal of adjustment is needed as part of the process of changing from a
small provincial town surrounded by agricultural land and rural village to a modem
urbanized city. New administration boundaries are being drawn up continuously, but it
will inevitable take time to make the adjustments needed.
* Used to be much flooding and still is although many projects have been put into relieve
the situation.
* Temporary residents from Java and Lombok cause problems in the area, about 1 00
people have little respect for the areas cleanliness.
Standards used in Denpasar seem to have been different: no inclusion of planted areas, less
standardization.
Description of kelurahan:
JAKARTA                                 Sites and services developed from a rural area on the outskirts of Jakarta. Main roads and
Kampung Name:                           public transport into the city. Mixed housing types with the majority aimed at low inconie
Malaka Sari                             groups. Separate kelurahan formed after the area was developed.
RW No.: IV
Description of Kampung:
Used to be in West Java province, agricultural area growing fruit trees, coffee and rubber.
Kelurahan Name:                         Scattered houses, residents all Betawi. After the development most moved to outside but
Malaka Sari                             some stayed inside. Initially there were strict controls on the type of improvements which
No. of Rws: 10                          could be made to the houses. After three years started paying off the mortgage and given
Right to Build on the land. Good school and health
facilities. Most would take children to doctor not health center if required. Since moving in
Details of Selected RW                  the transportation, markets, etc, have improved.
Area: no information
Population: 748 (11.6%)                 Clean and pleasant, good rubbish collection.
Land and House Prices:
No information.
Study Methodology:
Visited the Lurah and then focused on one of the RW. Visited the leader and met with
other community leaders. Some spot checks of the survey were done giving an opportunity
for more in depth discussions with kampung residents. Talked to residents living outside
the sites and services area about the indirect impacts of the project.
Key Findings:
* Some impact on surrounding areas but not as great as in Denpasar sites and services.
Many tradesmen moved in to work on the home improvements taking place. Now, these
people work in the developments due to expansion of the city of Jakarta.
* Less women working in this area than in any of the other study areas. There is less
available local work and possibilities for small enterprises are limited.
* Most of the original occupants still live in the houses. The houses which have changed
hands tend to have been the older houses.
* There has been an increase in the local economy seen in the types of improvements made
to the houses.



134
Description of Kelurahan:
DENPASAR                                  Used to be in Pemecutan until 1989. Pemecutan divided into three areas, two in the sites
Kampung Name:                and services area. It was mostly sawah with one
Kampungl ame:                            or two houses, before 1980. The development of the sites and services area had a big
Tegal Warta (dusun)                      influence and rapid development occurred on the fringe following the building of a bridge.
Dusun No.: I
Description of Kampung:
The sites and services are is well laid out with different sizes of houses. The larger houses
Kelurahan Name:                           are along the roadsides and have garages. Alleys leading off the main roads are wide
Tegal Kerta                               enough for access by car although they were not specifically designed for this. The houses
No. of dusuns: 8                          off the alleys are smaller. Currently, many of the house owners along the alleys own
vehicles. Social organizations along the lines of those in Java are strong. Manv small
businesses have started up. Schools in the area are good though unevenly distributed.
Details of Selected RW                    Religious and sports facilities were provided as part of the project.
Area: 2172 ha. (9.44%)
Population: 720(10.3%)Development Details:
Population: 72() ( 10. 3%)               Bridge guilt to connect sites and services area with the center of Denpasar across the river.
Roads, water and electricity provided. Basic houses were built, families had to live in these
houses for a period of time to pay off the deposit, before being allowed to improve them.
Repayments handed over to BTN.
Environment:
Clean, well kept, main problems are noise on the main roads caused by increasing traflic
and the congestion caused by the large number of parked cars as vehicle ownership has
increased. Rubbish is collected every day and the collection point is a covered building
without doors.
Key Findings:
* Most of the residents are the original purchasers.
* Those houses that have sold tend to be the larger ones, which were originally bought tbr
their investment value;
* Many civil servants live in the area, their careers and incomes have progressed in the last
then years, therefore increasing the economy of the whole area.
* Many women work from home, the security of home ownership has encouraged many to
structural changes to accommodate their micro enterprises (shops, salons, etc)
* Many complained of having been forced to live in the houses without being allowed to
make improvements until the deposit was paid off. if they did not live in the houses they
risked having the key taken away; it they tried to improve the houses also risk having
the keys taken away. Some had to move out of decent rented homes, and live in poor
conditions for a considerable time.
* The indirect impacts of the project have been great with rapid development in
surrounding areas.
Land and House Prices:
Only larger houses have changed hands and the prices were not available. (one tpe 25
house sold for Rp. 78.000,000



IBRD 26708
INDONESIA
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS                                                        WARTHINTHE KAMpUNG
LOCATION OF SURVEYED AREA:                                                    HOUSEHOLDS INTERVIEWED
TEGAL KARTA, (SITE AND SERVICE AREA), JAKARTA                                          HUEOD  NEVEE
0             50             100           150 METERS
TO Denpasar
Cit  Center
411
<; ;X X t }, i 1 1   ,   I                                                                    - 
The boundaries, colors denominations and any other informaotion
shoum on this mop do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group.
any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
or occeptance of such boundaries.
FEBRUARY 1995



IBRD 26713
The boundaries. colors,
denominations and aony
other information sho-n
on this map do no,
imply, on the part of
The World Bonk Group.
any judgment on the legal
status of ony territory,
or ony endorsement                        J
or occeptance of such
boundaries                    b 
0~~~~~~~~~
INDONESIA                                       _        
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
LOCATION OF SURVEYED AREA:                                                                                      J Yos
PEKAMBINGAN  (KIP), DENPASAR, BALI                                                                                  JI. Yos Sudorio
AREA OF SURVEY
I,  J  WITHIN THE KAMPUNG
*      HOUSEHOLDS INTERVIEWED
0           50           100          150 METERS
FEBRUARY 1995



IBRD 26712
INDONESIA
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
LOCATION OF SURVEYED AREA:
MALAKA SARI (SITE AND SERVICE AREA), DENPASAR, BALI
11111]  Hf7F]                          E J   ~~~~~~AREA OF SURVEY
WITHIN THE KAMPUNG
F   i F_    l           0 F     _   _          0              100             200 METERS
The boundaries, colors,                                a\ a /
denominations and any
other information sho.n
on this map do not
imply, on the part of                             - - - - - - _  -
The World Bank Group.
ony judgment on the legal                             _ _-         _                                               -
status of any territory,                    -      -     _                               -   -    - - _    _
or any andorsoment                                                                         - 
or acceptance of such
boundories.                 _     - - -      - - -                                _ -  - -
FEBRUARY 1995



I



139
Bibliography
Benjamin, S. and M.A. Arifin, 1985. The housing costs of low-income kampung dwellers in Habitat
International, Vol. 9, No. 1, pp 91-110.
Biro Pusat Statistik, 1991. Statistik Wilayah DKI Jakarta. (Kantor Statistik, Propinsi DKI Jakarta:
Jakarta, Indonesia).
Cipta Karya, 1981. Evaluation of KIP. Monography of kampungs for KIP-Urban in Surabaya. (Jakarta:
Indonesia).
Cipta Karya, 1982a. Community impact analysis of KIP in Jakarta. (Jakarta, Indonesia).
Cipta Karya, 1982b. Main report seminar on kampung improvement. Part A and B.
Cipta Karya, 1985. National KIP Evaluation and monitoring program. (Jakarta, Indonesia).
Cipta Karya, 1988. Urban III and Urban IV Development Projects: Projects Completion Report. (Jakarta,
Indonesia: Ministry of Public Works, Directorate General of Human Settlements, Directorate of
Program Developments). September 1988.
Collier, W.L and Kabul Santoso, 1992. Surabaya Water Environment Study. An Application of Rapid
Urban Appraisal Techniques. (Jakarta, Indonesia: P.T. Intersys Kelola Maju). September 1992.
Crooks, R., 1991. "Kali Surabaya Pollution Control: Review of Water Quality Trends, Institutional
Arrangements and Recommended Further Action," IUlDP Surabaya, Montgomery Engineers,
Sinclair Knight and Partners, PT Astron Polaris.
Devas, N., 1983. Financing urban land development for low income housing in Third World Planning
Review, Vol. 5, No. 3, August, 1983.
DKI Jakarta 1991 Jakarta 2005: Pemerintah Daerah Khusus Ibukota Jakarta Second Edition. (Jakarta:
Indonesia).
DKI Jakarta, 1984, A Thousand Faces of Jakarta.
DKI Jakarta, 1986. Survei Sosial Ekonomi Nasional 1986 di DKI Jakarta (SUSENA). (DKI Jakarta:
Jakarta, Indonesia).
Dowall, D.E. and M. Leaf, 1991. The price of land and housing in Jakarta in Urban Studies, Vol.28. No.5.
IMF International Finance Statistics
Info PAPAN, Indonesian Property Magazine, 1992
JICA, 1991. The Study on Urban Drainage and Wastewater Disposal Project in the City of Jakarta,
Indonesia. Final Report.
LP3ES, 1982a. Community Impact Analysis of KIP in Jakarta. Technical Report No. 3. Monitoring and
Evaluation Study of KIP. Department of Public Works, Directorate General Cipta Karya in



140
cooperation with the Institute for Social and Economic Research, Education and Information
(LP3ES), Jakarta, November, 1982.
LP3ES, 1982b. Report on the results of a longitudinal analysis study of KlP-Urban in Surabaya (Technical
Report No. 2). (Jakarta, Indonesia).
LP3ES, 1981. Results and Analysis of a Longitudinal Study of Jakarta. Technical Report No. 1.
Monitoring and Evaluation Study of KIP. Department of Public Works, Directorate General
Cipta Karya in cooperation with the Institute for Social and Economic Research, Education and
Information (LP3ES), Jakarta, November, 1981.
Mills, E., 1972. Urban Economics, Scott, Foresman and Company, Glenview.
Nuch, M. 1993. Annual Review KIP JUDP III-Botabek, Bandung, 15-17 November, 1993.
PT Bumi Prasidi in association with Banes Betts Associates, 1988. Project Completion Report, Urban III
and Urban IV Development Projects. Ministry of Public Works, Jakarta, Indonesia. September,
1988.
PT Intersys Kelola Maju, 1992. Urban Kampungs and the Environment.
Pusat Data Business Indonesia, 1991. Property Indonesia, First Edition. (Jakarta, Indonesia).
Sajogyo, 1977. Garis Kemiskinan dan Kebutuhan Minimumn Pangan. (Laporan Seminar nasional HIPIIS
periode 1975-1977: Menado, Indonesia).
Silas, J., 1992a. Dynamics of urban Land value and its policy implication: a case study of Surabaya,
Indonesia.
Silas, J., 1992b. Government-community partnership in Kampung Improvement Programe in Surabaya in
Environment and Urbanization, Vol. 4, No. 2., October, 1992, London.
Stnryk, R. M. Hoffman, and H.M. Katsura, 1990. The Market for Shelter in Indonesian Cities. (Hasfarm
Dian Konsultan (Jakarta, Indonesia) and The Urban Institute (Washington, DC, USA).
Sujadi, C., 1993. Environmental Problems at Household level, A Case Study of Jakarta. Report prepared
by The Urban Health Study Group, Atma Jaya Catholic University (Jakarta) for Stockholm
Environmnent Institute, preliminary draft.
Taylor, J., 1983. An evaluation of selected impacts of Jakarta's Kampung Improvement Program. (Ph.D.
dissertation at University of California, Los Angeles).
Walters, A.A., 1983. The value of land in Dunkerely, H.B., 1983. Urban Land Policy: issues and
opportunities. Oxford University Press for the World Bank, Washington, DC.
World Bank, 1974. Appraisal of the Jakarta Urban Development Project in Indonesia (LnlO40-[ND).
Report No. 475a-IND. (Transportation and Urban Projects Department, World Bank:
Washington, DC). August 30, 1974.
World Bank, 1976. Indonesia: Appraisal of the Second Urban Development Project (Ln 1336-IND).
Report No. 1184a-IND. (Urban Projects Department, World Bank: Washington, DC). September
24, 1976.



141
World Bank, 1978. Indonesia. Third Urban Development Project. Staff Appraisal Report (Ln 1653-IND).
Report No. 221 la-IND. (Urban Projects Department, World Bank: Washington, DC). December
12, 1978.
World Bank, 1981. Indonesia. Staff Appraisal Report: Fourth Urban Development Project (Ln 1972-IND).
Report No. 3132a-[ND. (Projects Department, East Asia and Pacific kegional Office, World
Bank: Washington, DC). March 16, 1981.
World Bank, 1983. Project Performance Audit Report. Indonesia. Jakarta Urban Development Project (Ln
1040-IND). Report No. 4620. (OED: Washington, DC). June 30, 1983.
World Bank, 1986. Project Performance Audit Report. Indonesia. Second Urban Development Project (Ln
1336-IND). Report No. 6329. Washington, DC: June 27, 1986.
World Bank, 1990. Project Completion Report. Indonesia. Combined Report for Third Urban
Development Project (Ln 1653) and Fourth Urban Development Project (Ln 1972). Report No.
8583. Washington, DC: April 27, 1990.
World Bank, 1992. Indonesia: a Strategy for Infrastructure Development. Report No. 9672. (World Bank,
Washington, D.C). June 22, 1992.
World Bank, 1993. Indonesia: Urban Public Infrastructure Services East Asia and Pacific Region (draft
report). (Country Department III, Infrastructure Division, World Bank: Washington, DC). June
30, 1993.
World Bank, 1994a. Indonesia. Environment and Development: Challenges for the Future. Report No.
12083. (Environment Unit, Country Department III, East Asia and Pacific Region, World Bank:
Washington, DC). March 21, 1994.
World Bank, 1994b. Performance Audit Report. Indonesia. Third Urban Development Project (Ln 1652-
IND), Fourth Urban Development Project (Ln 1972-IND), Fifth Urban Development Project (Ln
2408-IND); and Urban Sector Loan (2816-IND). Report No. 13234. Washington, DC: June 28,
1994.
World Bank, 1994c. World Development Report: Infrastructure for Development. (Oxford University
Press: New York).
World Bank, 1995. Performance Audit Report. Indonesia: Housing Sector Loan (Loan 2725-IND). (OED,
World Bank: Washington, DC).
Background Papers for the study
Barclay G. Jones, Consultant with the assistance of Katherine 0. Baer and Soloman Kone. Development
of a methodology for impact evaluation of urban and infrastructure projects financed by the
World Bank with particular reference to three urban projects in Indonesia. 1993.
Brown, G.M. and Djoko Basuki, 1994. Field research and survey for the Impact Evaluation Study of four
urban development projects.
Guarnizo, C.C., 1993. Review of methodology for impact evaluations: applications to urban sector
projects.



142
Gunawan, J., 1994. Real Estate Development in Indonesia.
Kabul Santoso, 1994. Urban Poverty in Indonesia.
Silas, J., 1994. Impact assessment on KIP Urban III with emphasis to the implementation in Surabaya.
Taylor, J., 1994. Background paper on the evaluation of impacts of Indonesia's Kampung Improvement
Program.



.4 l |     143                ATTACHMENT
COLMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
DE P A R T E M E N   P E K E R J A A N  U M U M
SF F3ERLIIVi F'eR LJ IV1INAS
I    *     PERUSARAAN UMUM PEMBANGUNAN PERUMAHAN NASIONAL
Jetan  0.   Punjaltan   Kav.  11   Jakarta   13340   Kotak  Pat 137/KBY
I  I  I I   TII   TelD. 8194807    5 mlurn ),Telex   48432 RUM4NAS IA  FaX. 8193825
l  il                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAKARTA, TUNE 12,1995
i YVES ALBOUY
INFRA STRUCTURE AND ENERGY DVSION
4 OPERATION EVALUATION DEPARTEMINT
WORLD BANK HEAD OFFICE
WASI}GTON D.C.20433
U.SIA
i REE I  :DRAFT REPORT OF A-N L1PACT EVALUATION STUDY,
ESPECIALLY LOA"N NO.1972 INDl (URBA.N rV PROJECT)
AND 2725 LN7D (HOUSNG SECTOR LOAN), 040 .
REFERRING TO YOUR LETTER DATED MLAY 9,1995 CONCERNLNG ABOVE
I NFNTIONED SUBJECT, WE WISH TO UhFORIM YOU THAT WE HAVE NO
fl OBJECTION TO DRAFT REPORT OF AN IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY WI-CH
RELATED WITH PERUM PERUX4AS.
THANK YOU' FOR YOUR KLJD ATTEI-ON AIND COOPE3TION.
D        O.F.PLANING AND CONSTRUCTION
l  .   '            ,     t     I~~~~~~~Lr PERLTNNASi
IWORLD BA.NK RESIDENT MISSION
E DrONEsIA.






145
TIM KOORDINASI PFMS.AXNGUNAtN PERFTh 3
[COORDINATION TEAM FtOR URBAN DEVELopMENT]
Keputusan Menteri He_gara  Peroncanan  Pembangunan  Nas ional/Ketua
Badan Perencanaan Pertangunan -Nasional No-Kep.OO5/Ket//z5995
Sekretariat: Kodel Hcuse Lt.7 J1. R.Rasun.a Said ka-i.B-4
Jakar+ta 12920, Telp.(021)  522-1511,1aX.(021) 522-1512
June 14, 1995
Mfr. Yves Albouy
Chief, Infrastuctuie and Energy DivisionL
Opera.ions Evaluatic Deparmcat
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.
Wasbingrton, DC 20433                             .  J 
USA
Dear ,Mr. AIbouy,
Mvy apologies for the Long delay in sending you my corn-er-ts on the drf report of te Impact
Evaiuatiof Study of Indoresia's UrbanLacn I, II, Ifl and IV.
First of aJI, I would like some clarification regarding the report of the imn.pact evalu&a±io study in
Which I think thtre are some inc>nsiste~ci-s betwcen the focus of the st,dy ad the Abject of te
stuady: Trhe titlc of the report "Ezhanclz3 the Quality of Life in UTrban Tndonesia: the Legacy of
K.arnpuzg Impro.Vernent Program" seems to indicate that the evaluation will focus more on the Xb
Progcm within the loan Yet the mai objective of the study was' to understand te emedium and loZS
term Lnipacts (5 to 10 years after completion) of eiahteea years of lcnding for urban development"
TIndeed the KY? componrent had a large share of the total lcnding for tde four urb= sector loan
ra.ning bet%vcen '70% to 32.S% in Urban TV. But it is not the only cumponcut. There are other
coraponents such as solid waste management, dra:ulage, cormzunity licaith services, ard land
registratioi. I am sure you are aware of the large url-an development loans fbr %IDP, in wbich KIP
is only a S,nall compcnent. Therefure, is it aupropriate to tvaluate the inipacts of urban development
lendin5. based orIy on evaluation o KIP Program? There are many isnes that w;il not come to the
surface if we limit the study on J  Progaiu alone.
Secoad, in para 4 of tne overriew, itwtis sta-ted that the rnpcr-. preseiis tL-e results of uhe evaluation
of tbrcc compcne=ts "a the four urban prcjects: the Kampung T..prov:neut ?rograxn, the sites and
services program ar.d the citywide impro-v: -nt progrnirn. Hcweviix tht report ornv focascd or is
hbfaviy focused on KI 3nd no aiciition cr not cr:c&gh discus.sions abrout the other two pro&rams.
I also think that more attentioQ shuuld be given on tha irnstituticnal ad finan:ing aspects and the
CeM.ri. ty particips.tion related to the su.stalnabiiity of the progmarn.



146
7lurdL there art some detalled - but inrv my cpinion baasic. coinnzrits - nirzely:
paee 7, pQU2t 9
The: statesment: "despite the Lmz os vement&t e e  b)y KI under IUri-an I-I-, t.'- ean-ronmect
i- rrajor L:dor.esian cities continues to deteriovate, e\accrbated by puran   populatioa
rC'?.ta%, is tco strong, becaulse it nny viQw, the I-n.d^nesia kirban pnpulatioa g7 wth is not
,iesraznicd The Government has bee- quite success5A in its bir,hi cor   fczal mros:  both in
thoe ou5l and urt<m areas. That u zan  opuation is 5t,!; growiug Wa a a 7Lc;rate, i3 not because
c. "^w3t-raired populatiou gowth" but m.cre because of ea ticrni7 developmeat Ia the urban
a-erz. uFxtheznore the deteriorating conditionv of the urban enaviroame t: is not rnly because
of e populatiah gowth, but also because of  rowh of urban economc activity, iasufficient
t atructure, lack of proper boustQlWsheeter and inadequate indus:rialYhousexc1d pollution
ccTntzl or managetment. I thin-k it is xoportant to be more speciflc about tLis poiat.
pa t 3, point 12
Tt 'was stated that "KIP did nct zracourage an influx of Eighe;-incoiae Frcu:s (that is,
vget"-ifcation") into the kampunigs, as had omigin?lIy been feLret". Later in the paragrapb,
it was stated that "Residents are be,ttr educated and healthier; hicuscokid sizcs ha've declined;,
Cmore residents are emplcyed and haVe gre ater incotue; aund women have tak-e  a =ore active
fole in meetin., the econaosc nee-s of their faunilics"` Thc ro  paragra-4-s clearly are
;5cotksent, because the last parasaph is not rev:ssarIly cause; cC;i'J L-:; ht K2 prugram.
It could not be concluded, that the improved poeulation condit:on is qireci1y related to or
causEd by K2.rs the im.lproved conz.ition that of the original residents of KZI, or incomin3
.ew residents? This ne,ds to be ciarified.
ca  9, point 16
ha zeneral, ue a3ree with te recor--crtdations. However, you azzd to be: ca:ef about the
svaie of the fi.ture projects. It shuivd b4c within a ciCotltde  conten not orly related to KIP.
Rig&t now we ari already mowaig :.to rgion--wide conte-t fcr infras:nicture dovelopment,
e g. the Bali nviro=entai In-rastcture Deveiopr.eat VrOS-arn.
A-gain, may apoLogies for the delay and thak you for your atte-httc,
.dinjcercl- your s,
Cha:ii1>}scn .fK?:



MAP SECTION



I



INDONESIA                                                      106130'                   Java              Sea                        '07
IMPACT EVALUATION STUDY
URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
NATURAL FEATURES AND  PHYSICAL                                                                                                                          _
CONSTRAINTS
JABOTABEK
NATURAL FEATURES.
FISH PONDS                                                                                                                                     Tiu
FLOOD-PRONE AREAS                                                                                                                               Jy
IRRIGATED RICE FIELDS
UPLAND CONSERVATION ZONES                                                                                                 %
OTHER AGRICULTURE
PHYSICAL ZONES.
LOW LYING COASTAL FLOODING, SALINE                                                                                                                                         Aoi
GROUNDWATER, UNSUITABLE FOR
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
LOW LYING PLANS FLOODING. MARGINAL
URBAN DFVFLOPMENT
HIGHLANDS GOOD DRAINAGE, SUITABLE                                                                                                        /
FOR URBAN DEVELOPMENT
STEEP SLOPING
MOUNTAINS                                                                                                                                               Is
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
SERIOUSLY POLLUTED                                                                                                                                           so
RIVERS AND CANALS
DRAINAGE OUTFALLS
HIGHLY POLLUTED WATER
o     SELECTED TOWNS AND                       6  D.
BUILT-UP AREAS
*    KABUPATEN (REGENCYI
HEADQUARTERS
inm     D K I JAKARTA BOUNDARY
JABOTABEK BOUNDARY
o 5   10    15    20    25
L     I      I     I      I  
KILOMETERS
T                             -| -y - _b.   "sanR  |\I F 'hi
>           G           r           ds an 7d ># rb. WoS1 B-n4 i_O
-<     -.o.,     A-,  lb.~ ~Iegl ,of, oF oy W~y o' ony
-    ~ ~ ~ ~~~- b-l.nd,,,                                              RoTIT                                                  ILl0









...2.._...-   a.   .A..f  :- r-=--=
ANt'4i  LJt'i' r                -N    4     -3 -- VeI
.  1 i&s V NAI



