Report No. 475a-IND
Appraisal of the Jakarta Urban
Development Project
in Indonesia
August 30, 1974
Transportation and Urban Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                 =  Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100               = US$0.241
Rp 1 million         = US$2,410
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter                   (m)        =  39.37 inches                 (in)
1 kilometer               (km)           0.62 miles                  (mi)
1 square meter            (m2)       =  10.8 square feet            (sq ft)
1 centimeter              (cm)       =    .39 inches                 (in)
1 square centimeter       (cm2)      =    .155 square inches        (sq in)
1 hectare                 (ha)       =  10,000 square meters or
2.47 acres                 (ac)
1 square kilometer        (kin2)     = 0.386 square miles           (sq mi)
1 liter                   (l)            1,057 quarts liquid or
0.26 US gallons or         (gal)
0.908 quarts dry
1 liter per capita        (l/cd)    =   0.26 US gallons             (gcd)
per day                                   per capita
1 cubic meter             (m3)       =  35.3 cubic feet              (cu ft)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS             =   National Planning Agency
Cipta Karya          =   Directorate General of Housing, Building,
Planning, and Urban Development in the
Ministry of Public Works and Electric Power
DKI                  =   Special Provincial Government  of Jakarta
GOI                  2   Government of Indonesia
IGGI                 =   Inter-Governmental Group for Indonesia
INPRES               =  National Program for Local Civil Works
IREDA                    National Urban Property Tax
KIP                      Kampung Improvement Program
NMB                  =  National Mortgage Bank
NUDC                     National Urban Development Corporation
PCD                  =   Planned Community Development, Ltd.
(Consultants responsible for project
feasibility stud 
PTB                      Perusahan lana  dan  angunan
(Jakarta Real Estate Development Agency}
Repelita I            "  First Five-Year Development Plan (1969-74)
Repelita II           =  Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974-79)
The Indonesian Fiscal Year runs from April 1 to March 31



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF THE JAJARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . .......................... . .... .  i-iv
I.  INTRODUCTION .. . .......                          .        1
II.   BACKGROUND .......1...... ..1
A.  Historical P-srpective ...................... .        1
B. Population and Grout..   ..                             2
C.  The Present Situation .         .                      3
D.   Urban Growth:  Indicative Economic and
Physical Planning ................ ........
E.   Property Tax Revenue Potential.                      6
F.   Institutional Develonment .     .      . ......       7
G.  The Urban Stratg-C7 3
ILL    .    ... _....e......
A.   Kampung Improvement Progra: ..................       10
B.   Site and Service Program. ...                        10
C.  Technical Assistance .. .* ..... . .............      13
IV.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND EXECUTION ............        13
A.  Cost Estimates ..............................         13
B.  Financing .....  .............                        15
C.  Execution ...........                 ......          18
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...................           21
A.   Project Organization.........................        21
B.  Administration of the Site and Service
Program .................                       22
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  ...........................         24
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS ...................   * ..... ..           26
This report was prepared by Ms. N. Farmer, Sir Kenelm Guinness and Mr. P. Ljung
(Transportation and Urban Projects). It is based on the work of an appraisal
mission in July 1973 with subsequent up-dating missions in November 1973 and
February 1974. The July mission included, in addition to the above, Messrs.
H. Deibel, P. Nichols and K. Rahman and Professor W. Gates (Consultants).



-2-
Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1.  Urban Background
2.  Indicative 20-year Improvement Program for Jakarta
3.  Jakarta Real Estate Tax (IREDA)
4.  Design Standards and Cost Estimates
5. Technical Assistance
6.  Financial Arrangements
7.  Disbursement Schedule
8.  Organization and Management
9.  Economic Justification
CHARTS
`BRD 8363 -    ila=renrtation Schedule
IBRD 8083 -    Organization Chart
MAPS
IBRD 10709R1   -    Jakarta Land Use
IBRD 10743     -    Metropolitan Jakarta Distribution of
Population Density
IBRD 10728R1   -    Kampung Improvement Program
IBRD 11152     -    Klender Site and Service Area



INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises the first urban development project in
Indonesia, a project designed to help the Government establish a national
urban development program to raise the living conditions of the urban
poor by improving their access to better physical infrastructure and
housing. During a three-year implementation period, the project would
support a newly established National Urban Development Corporation that
would begin acquiring and developing urban sites throughout the country.
The initial undertaking of this Corporation, with financial assistance
from the proposed Loan, would be to implement two programs in Jakarta,
the nation's capital and largest city: (a) to upgrade the infrastructure
in about 1,980 ha of densely populated, low-income neighborhoods (kampungs)
and (b) to develop about 130 ha of underutilized land w4th minimum-standard
infrastructure and core housing.
ii.       Indonesia, with 128 million people, is the fifth mosr ponulous
country in the world, and it continues to graw by more than 2% a yea.
Some 18% of the population resides in urban areas. On the island of Java
where pressures on rural land are particularly acute, thousands of peasants
are migrating into urban centers seeking jobs and cultural opportunity, but
none of the cities is prepared to cope with the influx. The new migrants
need both employment and shelter, and both must be provided out of scarce
Government resources. In the past, Indonesian cities have relied on finan-
cial transfers from the Central Government to execute their development pro-
grams. However, such transfers have not been, nor can they ever be, suffi-
cient to underwrite the costs of development programs that would keep pace
with urban population growth. But cities do have a potential revenue base
in the real property tax and the Central Government would like to see this
mechanism more fully developed so that a larger portion of scarce Central
Government resources could be allocated to rural areas. In Jakarta, as
elsewhere, this implies a consistent improvement of the present property
tax (IREDA) assessment and collection system to generate increasing reve-
nues to finance physical infrastructure investments. During negotiations
the Government expressed its commitment to improving the present IREDA
mechanism.
iii.      The urban section of the Second Five-Year Development Plan (1974-
79) focuses on formation of two institutions: the National Urban Develop-
ment Corporation (NUDC) which would develop urban land for residential, in-
dustrial or commercial uses; and the National Mortgage Bank (NMB) which
would, for the first time in Indonesia, make long-term financing available
for housing. The project proposed for Bank Group assistance would be the
initial activity for both institutions and, it is anticipated, a prototype
for later operations.



- ii -
iv.       Jakarta was selected as the site of Indonesia's first urban proj-
ect primarily because of its acute poverty, its intense migration, its severe
housing shortage and its lack of urban services. The city population doubled
in the last decade to S million in Jakarta proper and -7-million in the
metropolitan area, which is projected to grow to about 12 million by 1985.
Although the average per capita GDP is higher in Jakarta (US$160) than in
rural areas (tUS$80) subsistence costs are also higher thus perpetuating the
poverty cycle. Nevertheless the prospect of urban opportunities has stimu-
lated migration so that Jakarta is growing at a rate of about 4.6% annually.
Since the city has a housing stock of less than 500,000 units, new migrants
are crowding into existing kampungs with relatives or squatting near employ-
ment areas. Few houses have electricity, sanitary facilities or piped water
supply. During the First Five-Year Development Plan (1969-74) the Provincial
Government of Jakarta (DKI) inaugurated a prog-:z to imp-rove the physical
inirastructure in the worst kampungs of the city, particularly by paving mud
foot'paths and roads, adding drainage channels, and increasing water supply
and communal sanitary facilities. This program has been both a social and
technical success. With the level of financial resources proposed in this
project, the program could be executed throughout the worst areas of the
city 4in five years rather than ten years if the city were to finance it alone.
v.        The proposed project has been tailorad to fit within the finan-
cial ca-aclties cf the cit-r7,            a       c-e a)--l4tes of lOw-income
re2sien s to aurchase  7rO-t      ` Y  th a modest le-el o^ urban amenities, but
it also has the potential for self-improvement as family incomes rise.  An
indicative 20-year development perspective Lor Jakarta (Annex 2) indicates
that with a balanced program of kampung improvement and new planned com-
munity expansion, it should be possible to make necessary major infrastruc-
ture investments and simultaneously finance a minimum acceptable level of
services to low-, as well as high- income residents. The full-scale dev-
elopment of such a program for Jakarta would be the responsibility of the
Greater Jakarta Planning Board. The program would embrace a short-term
plan for major sector investments and longer term plans for comprehensive
development of urban facilities.
vi.       The project would be implemented by the NUDC, which would oversee
and coordinate the work of various participating Government departments and
agencies. Civil works construction for the Kampung Improvement Program would
be executed by DKI; site and service construction would be executed by NUDC.
All contracts would be subject to Bank competitive bidding procedures, though
most contracts are expected to be too small to attract foreign bidders.
vii.      That portion of the DKI's ongoing Kampung Improvement Program (KIP)
included in the proposed project, covers a two-year budget commitment period
(FY74-FY76). However, full execution could extend into the following year.
Since kampungs are identified for improvement on an annual basis, only the
first phase improvement of 955 ha has been reviewed. Cost estimates for
this portion were used co estimate the costs for the 1,025 ha to be improved
the second year. In the past five years of the program, DKI improved 2,400
ha as part of a loosely coordinated effort of the city Public Works Department.



- iii -
However, in seeking Bank Group assistance for the program, DKI formalized its
operations, establishing a permanent office for KIP and staffing it with some
40 persons who had previously been involved with various phases of the plan-
ning, designing, and contracting work. DKI has also doubled its own finan-
cial contribution to the program as evidence of the priority it assigns to
increasing development investments that benefit the lowest income groups. The
proposed project assistance would make it possible to expand the past kampung
program from primarily a road and footpath program to comprehensive community
development, including sanitary facilities, refuse collection equipment,
schools, health centers and improved water supply. Such improvements would
encourage residents to invest both savings and labor to upgrade their own
dwellings. Gradually, over a period of years, the standards of kampung im-
provement would be raised until residents have general access to electricity,
water and sanitary facilit4 es.
viii.     The Site and Service program embodies a higher level of urban
amenities than does the KIP because most of the development costs are to
be recovered from purchasers of the prepared lots. The proposed develop-
ment site is ideally situated in the expanding industrial zone east of the
city at Klender about 2 km from the Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate currently
being develoned with IDA assistance.  About 7,930 residential lots would be
developed, each with frontage on a paves road or footpath with an indivi>dual
connection to the munlcinal water svstam and a septic tank.  About 70% of
the lots would be 80 m2 in size, 24% would measure 140 m2 and 6% would be
200 m2.  The smaller lots would each have a core shelter of 20 m2 consisting
of a tile roof with supporting stanchions, a sanitary unit, compacted lime and
earthen floor, and bamboo matting walls. A family training program would be
offered to demonstrate simple construction techniques for completing houses.
Lot purchasers would be charged about 84% of the development costs; the
remainder would be financed as part of normal Government infrastructure
investments. The lot development costs charged to the purchasers, including
land, infrastructure, and community facilities are estimated at US$8.60/m2.
The 140 m2 lots, including a core shelter, would be sold at cost (about
US$1,708) and the 200 m2 lots at market value with the differential profit
applied to reduce the price charged for 80 m2 lots. The NMB would issue
mortgages for the smaller lots with a minimum 10% down payment and the
remainder at 12% for 15 years. Lot purchasers would receive a 25-year
leasehold title with a renewal option. Although the household income data-
base in Jakarta is inadequate and somewhat unreliable, it appears that the
80 m2 lots should be within the purchasing range of families above the 20th
percentile. This assumes a willingness to devote 20% of household income to
acquiring a lot. The 140 m2 lots should be available to families near the
50th percentile. Families with incomes below these levels would benefit from
KIP and those above this range could compete for available housing.
ix.       Technical assistance under the-project would be provided to the
NUDC for three purposes: (a) to develop a five-year investment program
and establish appropriate operating procedures; (b) to execute the proj-
ect; and (c) to prepare feasibility studies for similar projects in up to
eight other cities. Technical assistance would also be provided for the



- iv -
Directorate-General of Housing, Building, Planning, and Urban Development
(Cipta Karya) in the Ministry of Public Works and Power in its role as the
technical arm of the Greater Jakarta Planning Board to undertake an immediate
review of proposed sector investments for the metropolitan region and to
develop a metropolitan economic and physical growth strategy.
x.        The total project would cost an estimated US$51.0 million.  The
foreign exchange component would be about US$11.5 million. The project would
directly benefit about 20Z of Jakarta's population. An economic analysis
indicates the project has a 17% rate of return.
xi.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million equiv-
alent.



INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      At the request of the Government of Indonesia (GOI) a Bank Group
mission visited Jakarta in 1971 to identify potential urban projects. Sub-
sequently, in 1972, the Government retained consultants (Planned Community
Development, Ltd.) with funds from the IDA Technical Assistance Credit to
perform a project feasibility study. A mission in July 1973 appraised the
project prepared by the consultants.
1.02      The proposed project would initiate a national urban development
program by assisting in the formation of a National Mortgage Bank (OWB) and
a National Urban Development Corporation ( UDC) to develop urban land for
purposes that would benefit primarily low-income residents. The proposed
project investments in Jakarta would be the first undertakings of both new
institutions.
II.  BACKGROJUND
A. Historical Pscz,va
2.01      Situated on somewhat marshy land along the northwestern coast
of Java, Jakarta functions as the commercial and administrative hub of the
Indonesian archipelago, its role since settlement by the Dutch East India
Company in 1619. With a present population of give million and annual aver-
age per capita income of about US$160, the city is one of the largest and
poorest in the world. Physically the city spreads over 560 km2. Since 1964
when the city was designated as the national capital it has been administered
as a special district or province.  This status gives it an advantage over
other municipalities in its taxing powers and in greater accessibility to
financial and technical resources of the Central Government.
2.02      Jakarta's recent history is dominated by Government decisions in
the 1950s aimed at giving the city a veneer of modern prosperity. A high-
income suburb, Kebayoran Baru, was developed south of Jakarta and a limited
access ring-road was constructed around the city, including a bypass road
linking the port of Tanjung Priok in the northeast to the road leading south
toward Bogor (Map No. 10709). Though these highways were constructed through
paddy fields beyond the fringes of what was then urbanized Jakarta, they have
proven the single most important force in directing later physical and eco-
nomic development. During the 1960s, major construction activities, includ-
ing a sports complex for the Asian Games, several monolithic monuments, and
Government office buildings and hotels, created thousands of jobs for un-
skilled laborers, thereby stimulating migration into Jakarta. Thousands of



-2-
rural families moved into crowded quarters with friends or relatives; thou-
sands more hastily erected temporary shelters on land they did not own. This
population influx increased densities and added to the number of existing
kampungs or low-income neighborhoods which had been settled, in a haphazard
manner throughout the city for more than a hundred years. The provincial
government now recognizes these kampungs as permanent settlements even though
few residents hold legal title to the land or houses they occupy. Kampungs
now encompass more than 65% of the city's urbanized area and contain 80% of
the population. The remaining portion of the urbanized area consists largely
of industrial development east of the city and high-income residential and
industrial development to the south (Annex 1).
B. Population and Growth
2.03      Indonesia ranks as the fifth most populous country in the world
with a population of 128 million. About 18% of the people reside in urban
areas and Jakarta itself accaunts for some 22% of the total urban population
(Annex 1). Sixty-nine percent of Indonesia's population is concentrated on
the island of Java which is only 7% of the total land area. The average
r.ural density of 663 persons/km2 is nearly as high as in many urban areas
4in the industrialized nations. It has created intense pressures on avail-
able agricultural land and consequently pushed thousands of unskilled, un-
educated farmers into urban centers faster than the latter have been capable
of absorbing them and providing a minimum level of urban services or shelter.
The rate of natural population increase in Java nas been 2.1% a year in the
last decade: but in addition to this, Jakarta has experienced a rate of in-
migration of 2.5% a year over the same period. Most cities with populations
of more than 200,000 experienced similar or higher in-migration rates during
this period. Both Jakarta and Surabaya, Indonesia's second largest city
(2 million) situated in eastern Java, nearly doubled in size. The current
average density in Jakarta is about 8,000 persons/km2, but central city
densities reach above 21,500 persons/km2. Since most people live in single-
story dwellings and not apartment buildings, density is a particularly
accurate indicator of crowded living conditions.
2.04      The economic attractiveness of migrating to Jakarta in search of
employment is evident from the disparity between the average per capita GDP
in the capital city and other provinces: in 1971, it was double that at re-
gional levels, or US$160 compared to US$80. Employment opportunities, whether
real or perceived, coupled with rural population pressures, seem likely to
perpetuate the migration trend toward urban centers. Neither acceleration
of the much needed rural development program nor the transmigration program
for resettling the rural poor in sparsely populated outer islands holds much
promise for alleviating the problems of urban poverty and growth which al-
ready plague Jakarta.
2.05      Over the last two decades, Jakarta has been sprawling over an in-
creasingly wider area (Map No. 10743); the central, densely urbanized core



-3-
2
lying within a 6 km radius of Merdeka Square now comprises some 180 km . More
than two-thirds of the present population resides in this core area, roughly
one-third of the total city area. If present population and urbanization
trends continue, the metropolitan region of Jakarta (which is ten times as
large as the city) would grow from a present population of 7 million to 12
million by 1985 and 18 million at the end of the century; at the same time,
the densely urbanized area could also be expected to nearly triple in size,
and contain over 60% of the total metropolitan population. This would imply
that present inner-city densities would spread a further 10 km outwards. It
is this inexorable population growth and unplanned urban development, repeated
on a smaller scale in other cities in Java, and the potential claim on limited
resources they entail, that is the fundamental urbanization problem in Indo-
nesia.  This provides the background for this first Bank Group project in
Jakarta. A two-pronged strategy is indicated: first, a greater emphasis on
a low-cost, minimum-standard approach to better planned urban communities;
second, mobilization of financial resources from within the urban area to
promote such development.
C. The Present Situat-on
Infras tructure
2.06      The continued  growth of Jakarta means a steady increase in the
demand for urban services already in short supply. Policy decisions to
change the allocation of scarce revenues and the pattern of development
are long overdue. Up to now, infrastructure investment has mainly bene-
fited the upper-income groups.  Moreover, the existing infrastructure is
grossly inadequate, and a massive urban planning and development effort is
needed not only to meet immediate requirements but also for the large popu-
lation growth expected in the next two decades. Several sectors require
immediate attention. The water distribution system has deteriorated to the
extent that officials contend an increase in pressure would increase leakage
rather than supply. Some excess capacity is available at the pumping sta-
tions but distribution lines need to be replaced and new lines constructed.
More than 50% of the population relies on groundwater wells, which are often
contaminated by sewage seepage and increasing salinity due to depletion of
the fresh water aquifer. Approximately 40% of the households in Jakarta
depend solely on water vendors for their supply at prices five times greater
than the charges for piped water. Jakarta has no water-borne sewer system.
Even houses having piped water flush sanitary wastes into septic tanks or
more frequently into open ditches along the roadside. Much of the popula-
tion, however, has no alternative other than to use the drainage canals for
bathing, laundering and defecation. Most of the city's uncollected garbage
(estimated in a World Health Organization Study as 30% of the daily load)
ends uw in canals and rivers and along the roadside where it clogs drainage
channeLs and causes extensive flooding during the rainy season. Flood waters
then sweep the raw sewage and garbage out of the ditches and canals back into



-4-
the kampungs. In the dry season when there is insufficient flow to drain off
wastes they decay in exposed areas and pose a serious health hazard for the
community.
Kampung Improvement
2.07      During the Government's First Five-Year Development Plan (1969-74)
the Jakarta Provincial Government (DKI) began a program of upgrading the
physical infrastructure in kampungs. This Kampung Improvement Program (KIP)
evolved from the Central Government (INPRES) program that supported both
rural and urban works by distributing funds on a per capita basis to local
government districts for infrastructure improvements. From 19069-74, DKI up-
graded about 2,400 ha or about 10% of its urbanized area at a cost of about
US$6,500 per hectare. The program directly benefited about 1.2 million res-
idents or 25%C of the population at a per caDita cost of about US$13, or US$28
at estimated June 1974 price levels. The increased standards and scope of
the kampung program proposed for assistance under this project covering
1,980 ha and benefiting 890,000 people would involve an estimated per capita
cost of about US$40.
Housing
2.03      UCst houses irn Jakarta were erected irnitall-  on Za5elf         5as±3
n-_he o__e.- -" th ta=orary materials and gradually mL-roved over a -e-
riod of years zo permanent dwellings with stucco-covered brick walls, ti'e
floors and tile roofs. This process of scattered economic improvement with-
in kampungs has led to the socioeconomic mix which is today an accepted pat-
tern of community life. Community stability can be attributed both to the
extreme scarcity of housing and the high cost of urban land. With virtually
no real estate market, and no mortgage system, low- and middle-income fami-
lies have few opportunities to shift residential locations. Property trans-
fers are also complicated because after the period of Dutch occupation land
claims were difficult to verify and little of the urban area was officially
registered. To rectify this matter, DKI is currently mounting a drive to
register property titles throughout the city as a prerequisite for imposing
a sound property tax system. A 1969 survey of Jakarta housing conditions
showed more than 900,000 families (average size of five persons) living in
486,000 dwellings. In addition to housing needed to relieve these overcrowded
conditions, it is estimated that by 1983, a further 500,000 families would
need to be housed in Jakarta. The survey also demonstrated the poor quality
of Jakarta's housing: 68% had no private toilet facilities, 80% had no elec-
tricity, and 60% had no access to piped water. Permanent houses with solid
walls, cement floors, and tile roofs constituted 24% of the total housing
stock; temporary houses of bamboo matting walls, earthen floors, and thatch
roofs comprised 44%; and semi-permanent structures having some combination of
temporary and permanent materials accounted for the balance (Annex 1).
Metropolitan Planning
2.09      A physical development Master Plan adopted in 1967 continues to be
the basis for city-wide zoning. The plan was based on inadequate analysis



-5-
of the relationship of the city and its surrounding region, and overlooked
the potential for alternative land use patterns, including development of
satellite towns, that could relieve inner-city congestion. A major defi-
ciency of the Plan is that it prescribes new industrial and commercial zones
to the east and residential zones to the west of the city with little regard
to their transport implications. This has led to low-income kampungs outside
the residential zones and close to major job centers. Further, as the City
Government has not developed sufficient low-lying land to the east and west
in order to implement the zoning plan, Jakarta has continued to sprawl south-
ward. This tendency has been reinforced by high-income developments for the
car-owning population on higher land in the south. Moreover, the responsibilit'-
for planning the city and its metropolitan region has been divided between two
local governments, DKI and West Java, with little coordination in exercisirng
their planning functions. Thus the present land use bears little resemblance
to the 1967 Plan.
D. Urban Growth: Indicative Economic and Physical Planning
2.10      Problems of unplanned population growth and urban sprawl discussed
above point to basic issues needing ana;ysis in the detae= ination of invest-
ment priorities in view of the numerous competing deman&7s -for Jakara7S lim-
lted resources.  An actemn, -o -rc-vide Mocern municic.±l in;ras--- :     2 e
trar<;port, watar supplv, sewaerage, electricit7, eta. and to concstratze cn
the e.pansion of modern sector jobs on the pattern o. cities in more developed
countries would involve extremely high capital and operating costs which are
at present beyond the financial capacity of DKI. T erefore, a moderate cost
physical infrastructure program needs to be prepared for the city - one which
will address the dual goals of improving the quality of life and of signifi-
cantly increasing employment opportunities for all residents, not primarily
upper-income groups. The proposed project was designed to serve these ob-
jectives. To demonstrate that within the limits of Jakarta's resource con-
straints the proposed approach to urban development would be viable over the
long term, the appraisal team outlined a 20-year indicative development pro-
gram for Jakarta which is described in Annex 2. This indicative plan illus-
trates how an investment program might be balanced and phased to achieve
economic, social and physical infrastructure improvements. It was assumed
that public sector emphasis would be placed on job creation in traditional
urban sectors where capital costs per worker would be less than in the modern
sectors; that major urban sector investments would be implemented on a prior-
ity basis and that housing, along with neighborhood ,nfrastructure investments
would be directed toward, though by no means limited to, lower-income groups.
Because developing wholly new communities such as site and service areas re-
quires substantial initial capital investments, the perspective plan focuses
on the incremen-al improvemenz of existing kampungs. On this basis, the 20-
year program indicates that by restraining major modern sector investments
and at the same time increasing municipal/nrovincial revenues, it should be
possible to provide the entire metropolitan urbanized area with a level of
infrastructure at least eccivalent to that proposed for the site and services



-6-
project area. Actual development costs would depend of course on the adoption
of appropriate policies for directing the physical expansion of the metro-
politan community.
2.11      In an effort to exert control over land use in the city, DKI has
started buying land for future development purposes, but in the face of
accelerating urban sprawl this tentative initiative needs to be vigorously
pursued in conjunction with an economic and physical growth strategy for
the greater Jakarta metropolitan area - including the development now
spilling over the Jakarta borders into the surrounding province of West
Java. To undertake the coordination, implementation and evaluation of such
a strategy, the Central Government is establishing a Greater Jakarta Plan-
ning Board that will include representatives of GOI ministries and the pro-
vincial governments of Jakarta and West Java. Detailed planning preparation
will be the responsibility of the Board's technical arm, an expaided metro-
politan planning group already functioning within the Directorate-General of
housing, Building, Planning and Urban Development (Cipta Karya). Technical
assisZance to support this planning activity is incorporated in the proposed
project (para 3.11).
E. ProDerty Tax Revenue Potential
2.12     :he Second Five-Year Develo3men_ Plan (Repelita II) 1974-79,
actaches more importance to urban development than did the First Plan. It
calls for the establishment of rnational institutions to promote the financing
and execution of low-cost housing projects for low-income families, and aims
to direct Central Government revenues toward investment projects in regions
other than Jakarta. While in the short-term the Central Government has
sufficient resources from its oil revenues to increase in absolute amounts
the funds alloted to DKI and investments in the capital city, over the longer
term the proportion of GOI funds flowing into the city could be expected to
diminish. Jakarta currently relies heavily on financial transfers from the
Central Government (23% of city revenues in 1972/73).  From 1968-71, the
city absorbed about 18% of all Central Government infrastructure investment
projects; 32% of all domestic investment projects and 75% of all private
foreign investment projects other than oil, mining and forestry. Most of
this investment has been infrastructure for industrial and commercial growth,
rather than in facilities to improve living conditions for the urban poor.
Under Repelita II, the gradual shift away from concentrating GOI resources
in Jakarta raises basic questions regarding alternatives available to DKI
in financing its needed investments. The substantial resource requirements
are illustrated in Annex 2. Major sectoral studies now underway or recently
completed call for large-scale infrastructure programs costing millions of
dollars. While the city may not in fact undertake all proposed programs,
even a minimum-standard approach calls for new resources to be found both
to replace reduced national resource transfers and to sustain new investments.



-7-
2.13      The feasibility of substantially raising DKI revenues is indicated
in a study of the land use tax (IREDA) levied in Jakarta (summarized in
Annex 3) which was carried out by consultants financed by the IDA Technical
Assistance Credit to Indonesia. IREDA now provides only 4% of city revenues
(US$0.25 per capita). This is conspicuously low in terms of the real land
value base in Jakarta and in comparison with the portion of revenue (25%-50%)
that major cities in other countries obtain from land property taxation.
During negotiations, consultant recommendations on measures to substantially
increase IREDA revenues were reviewed and discussed and the Government
indicated its commitment to continue improving the present IREDA tax mechanism
by periodic review and modifications of both assessment and collection pro-
cedures. Progress reports will be submitted to the Bank annually.
F. Insti-z-ip-eal Development
The National Urban Development Corporation
2.14      The major uan jnitiatlve of thia Second Five-Year Development
Plan (1974-79) 4.s -`=tn of   Nati a   onal Urban Development Cororat.on
( , C) w1hich iill b-y7 urlbr lan'4 thrcughut tne  otuntr7 to isvalop and
L        2-se Clt-                      -. ^ses.-J
vay thae o-3,7cafmant hr1.  s   L O aIiO             the course o_F -DnhJsca
expansion wita the strategic location ana nature of its projects.  Zatab-
lishing a government corporation to undertake such projects offers the
advantage of combining government seed capital and authorization to borrow
from both public and private sources to develop facilities neglected by the
private construction sector. The scarcity of developed urban land in Indo-
nesian cities has led to extensive speculative investment surrounding those
limited areas where public funds have been expended for infrastructure and
service improvements. It is anticipated that the Corporation through its
projects would recapture a portion of the benefits from public infrastruc-
ture investments now accruing to private land speculators. Initially, the
GOI will capitalize NUDC with about US$2.5 million. This amount would be
augmented annually according to requirements of the work program to be
prepared in consultation with technical advisers to be provided under the
proposed project. It is expected that most of the Government funds allo-
cated for housing development during Repelita II (about US$60 million) would
be channeled through NUDC. The Government is patterning the NUDC along the
lines of urban development authorities in the neighboring nations of
Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines which have experience in executing
both residential and commercial projects. In preparing the preliminary
framework for the NUDC, Indonesian officials visited the housing and
development authorities in Kuala Lumpur, Singapore and Manila, and consulted
experts familiar with the operations of the New York State Development
Corporation. Appointment of the NUDC Managing Director and the Project
Manager is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan.



-8-
The National Mortgage Bank
2.15      As part of the Repelita II effort to stimulate urban development
a National Mortgage Bank (NMB) has been established by restructuring the
existing Bank Tabungan Negara as a mortgage institution. Since Indonesia
has no mortgage system at present and no long-term loans are available for
housing development, the housing construction industry has lacked the financial
resources necessary for growth. Consequently, inauguration of a mortgage fi-
nance mechanism is expected to vitalize the residential construction sector
throughout the country. NMB's first experience with long-term mortgage pay-
ments will be the lots sold as part of the site and service program. Tech-
nical assistance for developing operating policies and procedures is being
requested from bilateral donors. The GOI will initially commit about US$7.5
million as equity capital for the NMB, but it is anticipated that private
and public foreign institutions will make available significant additional
funds.
G. The Urban Strategy
2.16      In the light of the above, the proposed project concentrates on
the folJowing main elemnts of an urban development strategy for Jakarta:
(a) Support for new national institutions for developing
urban land and financing housing mortgages;
(b)  Improvement of the IREDA property tax in Jakarta
so as to mobilize resources required for continuing
urban development;
(c) Execution of an investment program to demonstrate
the potential of a low-cost, minimum-standard approach
to both kampung improvement and new community develop-
ment; and
(d) Creation of a Greater Jakarta Planning Board responsible
for the preparation of a metropolitan growth strategy
and priority infrastructure investment decisions to im-
plement that strategy.



-9-
III. THE PROJECT
3.01      The project would be the first undertaking of the National Urbaa
Development Corporation (NUDC) established as part of Repelita II (the
Second Five-Year Development Plan, 1974-79) for the purpose of buying and
developing urban land as residential, commercial, and industrial sites with
particular focus on low-income housing. In the course of the 3-year project
implementation period, the NUJDC would gain experience necessary for preparing
and developing similar projects in other Indonesian cities.  The National
Mortgage Bank established as part of Repelita II would also gain experience
from this project.  7-a  =roaect nvuives financial and technical support
for two programs in Jakarta zo ,enefit low-income residents:  The Kampung
Improvement Program (KIP) is an ongoing activity of the Jakarta Government
(DKI) for upgrading the infrastructure in crowded kam.pungs and the Site
and Service Program is a first effort at developing residential sites with
urban services primarily for low-income families.  Tecnnical assis :acea
provided under the project would support project execution; developmeanZ
the institutional camabilities o f NUDC; preparar-ion of Feasibility scudiEs
.ar similar projects in as many as eight add tional cities; and planning
ac_iviCies of a Greater Ja;,-.2 tar .r.lnn   3car<.
3.02      Project investments will include:
(a)  Kampung Improvement Program
Physical infrastructure improvements will be made in
1,980 ha of densely settled neighborhoods to benefit
directly about 890,000 low-income residents.
(b)  Site and Service Program
About 130 ha of rural land east of Jakarta's rapidly
expanding urbanized area will be developed with urban
services and subdivided into about 7,930 residential
lots for sale primarily to low-income families.
(c)  Technical Assistance
Assistance will be provided for the NUDC for purposes
of management assistance, project execution, and
preparation of additional projects in as many as eight
other cities. Assistance will be provided to Cipta
Karya aas the technical arm of the Greater Jakarta
Planning Board for a review of current sector studies
in the Jakarta region and development of a metropolitan
growth strategy.



- 10 -
A. Kampung Inprovement Program
3.03      To support Jakarta's program for upgrading impoverished kampungs,
basic amenities will be provided under this project in an area of about
1,980 ha over a two-year period. Improvements to be made on 955 ha in the
first year have been identified and some of the civil works contracts awarded
(Map No. 10728). Improvements required on a further 1,025 ha for the second
year will be identified in the normal course of annual program execution.
The average population-density in kampungs identified for the first year is
450 per hectare. The KIP for 1974-76 would improve about 18% of the urban-
ized area of Jakarta and benefit about 20% of the population. The items to
be financed by proceeds of the Loan include footpaths, secondary roads, sur-
face drainage ditches, and public water taps as well as schools, health cen-
ters, communal sanitary facilities, and garbage collection facilities and
trucks. Residents of each kampung participate in the planning process through
local representative committees and help to determine priority improvements
to be made within a framework of established design standards. The following
planning standards (Annex 4) were used to derive the cost estimates and with
assurances obtained from the Government during negotiations, would apply for
the program:
(a)  About 130 m of fooctaths per hectare;
(b)  About 75 m per hectare of vehicular roads;
(c) Public water taps to supply about 30 1 of water/day/
person located about one per four hectares;
(d) Communal sanitary units (MCKs); with a 12-person
capacity, each to serve about a 12-hectare area;
(e) Concrete garbage bins, hand carts and trucks to
collect and dispose of solid wastes;
(f) Schools to provide spaces on a double-session basis
for 40% of the children eligible to attend (grades
1-6); and
(g) Health clinics in project kampungs not presently
served by a district clinic.
B. Site and Service Program
3.04      A site of 130 ha of lightly populated and partially cultivated
paddy land in Jakarta will be developed under the project with urban infra-
structure and subdivided into about 7,930 lots, most with core houses (Map
No. 11152). About 45 possible sites were first identified from an examination



- 11 -
of aerial photographs as suitable for more intensive use. From an evaluation
of these sites according to their locational relationships to major employ-
ment opportunities, existing roads, existing municipal water distribution
lines, directions of desired urban growth and ultimately the cost of acquir-
ing the land, a site was selected east of Jakarta at Klender (Map No. 10709)
located 5 km east of the Central City, 3 km southeast of the IDA-financed,
Pulo Gadung Estate (Credit No. 428-IND) and 1 km from the main railway line
eastward from Jakarta. Development costs at Klender would be moderate and
job opportunities plentiful in the eastern commercial-industrial part of the
city.
Land Use
3.05      The site, designed for a population density of about 300 people per
hectare, has been apportioned on the following basis: 562% for developing
about 7,930 lots, of which 70% (5,590) would measure 80 m2; 24% (1,900) would
be 140 m2; and 6% (440) would be 200 m2.  Each would directly border a road
or a paved footpath. About 18% of the site area would be used for roads and
footpaths, 17% for community facilities and 3% for commercial development
(Table 3, Annex 4).
Core Shelter
3.06      A minimum-standard core shelter would be provided on 94% of the
residential lots, those measuring 80 and 140 m , in order to regularize
site development and facilitate rapid occupancy of the developed lots. Foa-
ilies would then undertake improvEients gradually as their individual incomes
permit. A program would be conducted during the implementation period to
teach residents self-help construction techniques and appropriate ways to
expand their core units. Each core unit would measure 20 m; and consist of
a compacted lime and earthen floor; stanchions supporting a clay-tile roof,
bamboo matting walls, and a sanitary core with one septic tank common to four
units. Although this bamboo construction which predominates in existing kam-
pungs needs to be replaced about every three years, during that time a family
could gradually begin building with more durable materials as their savings
permit. The Government is considering making available through NMB loans for
the purchase of building materials, but settlers would not be obligated to
take such loans. The government plans to limit such loans to no more
than 30% of the lot purchase price.
Target Population
3.07      The population groups that would benefit from the site and service
program were identified by examining available data which indicates a will-
ingness of low-income households to allocate as much as 20% of income for
housing. Table 4, Annex 1, presents the distribution of household income in
Jakarta updated to estimated 1976 levels when site occupancy would commence.
On the basis of a 25% downpayment, a 15-year mortgage at 12% annual interest,
it appears that the 80 m2 lots would be available to families at the 20th
percentile and the large 140 m2 lots could be financed by families at the



- 12 -
50th percentile. Lot prices are summarized in para 4.05. Some variations
in downpayments and mortgage terms as outlined in Table 3, Annex, 6 could
make the lots available to an even larger segment of the population. De-
termination of the eligible income group took into account the household
budget burden of monthly payments (about Rp 400) for water supply and re-
fuse collection. It is assumed that families below the 20th percentile
would benefit from kampung improvement and those above the 60th percentile
would be served by the private housing market.
Infrastructure
3.08      The site and service infrastructure standards are somewhat higher
than those in the KIP due to the fact that the investment costs would be
recovered through lot sales and it is less expensive in a new area to con-
struct roads and water systems than in existing neighborhoods. However,
the DKI expects to gradually raise KIP standards and continue its program
until the entire city attains an adequate service level, equivalent to the
site and service standard. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that all the facilities and services, i.e., the infrastructure external to
the site, would be executed promptly.
3.09      Basic project investments will include the following (see Annex 4):
(a)  Roads.  All roads, main (2.8 km) and secondary (13.9 km)
will be constructed with drainage ditches to minimum
appropriate standards. Vehicular roads in the project
area will amount to about 123 m/ha.
(b) Footpaths. About 40 km of concrete footpaths will be
constructed with drainage ditches, 300 m/ha.
(c) Water. Individual lots will receive about 300 litres
daily through private connections to the city system.
(d)  Community Facilitias.  Schools, health clinics, police
and fire station, post offices, recreation areas and
mosques. Schools will be constructed and equipped to
serve 60% of the eligible population (grades 1-8);
(e) Sanitation. Individual lots will be served by septic
tanks. Garbage bins will be constructed at regular
intervals; and
(f) Vehicles. Garbage collection trucks, vacuum trucks,
and a fire engine will be provided.



- 13 -
C. Technical Assistance
3.10      Consultants will be retained to assist the National Urban Devel-
opment Corporation in the following:
(a)  To assist the Managing Director to develop staff
capabilities and the policies and procedures for
planning and executing projects in the urban sector
including preparation of a 5-year work program.
(b)  To assist the Project Manager in general project
execution, supervision and training, including
engineering, accounting and management services
to the Project Unit. A firm has been selected
and contract negotiations started.
(c)  To assist in the preparation of feasibility studies
for urban development projects in as many as eight
other cities.
3.11      Consultants will also be retained to assist the Greater Jakarta
Planning Board by providing advisory services to Cipta Karya which is
responsible for coordinating the technical work of the Board. Advisers will
work with the Director-General of Cipta Karya in developing an economic
and physical growth strategy for the area, determining the priorities of
proposed sector investments within a five-year investment program, and
formulating terms of reference for further studies in the metropolitan re-
gion.
3.12      During negotiations assurances were obtained that the consultants
would be acceptable to the Bank and would be retained on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to it.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND EXECUTION
A. Cost Estimates
4.01      The project is estimated to cost Rp 21,173.1 million (US$51.0 mil-
lion equivalent), with a total foreign exchange component of Rp 4,797.5 mil-
lion (US$11.57 million equivalent). Cost estimates are detailed in Annex 4
and summarized below:



-11-
Rp Million                       US$ Million               F.E.
Local   Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign   Total        Component
A. KAMPUNG IHPROVENIET PPOGRAM                                                                                         %
1. Land Survey                                  54.2       -          54.2        0.13        -      0.13
2. Civil Works:
(a) Roads and Bridges                   4,753.1    1,188.4   5,941.8         11.45      2.86   14.31
(b) Footpaths and Bridges               2,281.7       570.1   2,852.1         5.50      1.37    6.87
(c)  Drainage Canals                    1,609.4        -      1,609.4         3.8'8      -      3.88
(d)  Water Supply                         565.6       242.4     808.0         1.37      o.58    1.95
(e)  Sew.age and Garbage                  458.0       114.5     572.5         1.10      0.28    1.38
(f) Schools and Health Clinics          2,275.1       758.4   3,033.5         5.48      1.83    7.31
Sub-total                          11,943.2    2,874.1  14,817.3        28.78      S.92   35.70          20
3. Vehicles:
Garbage and Vacuum Trucks              -         114.3      114.3         -        0.28    0.28         100
Total KIP                               11,997.4    2,988.4  14,985.8        28.91      7.20   36.11          20
3. SITES AND SERVICES
1.  land                                     1,235.0       -       1,235.0        2.98        -      2.98          -
2.  Civil Works:
(a)  Site Preparation                       35.8       _          35.8        0.09       -      0.09
(b) Internal Infrastructure                622.9      155.7      778.6        1.50      0.38    1 .80
(c)  Coxnunity Facilities                  261.6       65.1      327.0        C.63      c.>S    0.79
(d)  External Infrastructure               235.7       58.9      294.6        G.57      0.13    0.71
(e)  Core Houses                          793.0       198.3      991.3        1.9,       ;      2 3
Sub-total                          3,184.0       178.3    3,662.3        7.68       I      8.84          20
3. Ve-icles:
Garbage and Vacuum Trucks              -          21.3        21.3        -        0.05    0.05         100
4. Administration, Engineering and
Supervision               167.5        -         167.5        0.40       -      0.40
Total Sites and Services                 3,351.5      499.6    3,851.1        8.08       7.21    9.29         13
C. TZC01RUCAL ASSISTA2NCE
1. iiational Urban Dcvclopmcnt Corporation:
(a) Project Exccution                       62.3      186.3      249.0        0.15      c.15    C.60
(b) Management Assistance                  30;1       269.8      298.8        0.07      o.65    0.72
(o) Feasibility Study                       33.1      166.0      199.2        0.08      0.40    0.48
2. Cipta Karya:
Jakarta Metropolitan Planning           8.2      232.4       240.7       0.20      0.56    0.58
Total Technical Assistance                 132.7      854.0       987.7       0.32      2.06    2.38          87
D. CONTINGENCIES
1. Physical                                    270.4      145.4       415.8       0.65       0.35    1.0C         35
2. Price Escalation                            622.6      310.1       932.7       1.50       0.75    2.25         33
Total Contingencies                        893.0      455.5    1,348.5        2.15      1.10    3.25          34
GRAND TOTAL                             16,375.6    4,797.5   21,173.1       39.46     11.57   51.03          23



- 15 -
4.02      Cost estimates for the Kampung Improvement Program and the Site
and Service Program (Annex 4) are based on preliminary engineering designs
at June 1974 price levels. Price escalation assumed for KIP and site and
service in the second half of calendar year 1974 is 7.5% for civil works
and administration, and 5% for vehicles and technical assistance. For sub-
sequent years of project execution, price escalation is estimated at 15% per
year for civil works and 10% per year for vehicles and technical assistance.
For the site and service component, physical contingency allowances are 15%
for infrastructure and 10% for other civil works, equipment, administration
and technical assistance. Any cost overruns for KIP would be compensated
by reducing, not the standard of improvements but the number of hectares
improved. Cost estimates for KIP shown in the table in para 4.01 include
contingencies.
B. Financing
4.03      Of total estimated project costs about 49% would be financed with
proceeds from the proposed IBRD Loan (US$25.0 million) including the foreign
exchange component of US$11.57 million and some 37% of the local currency
component excluding land acquisition. Th,e Government share of project costs
would be financed on the basis of approximately 14% from 001 and 37% from
DKI. The DKI contribution would flow from normal budgetary channels; t.he
GOI contribution would flow from budgetary sources for infrastructura ex-
ternal to the site and service area and from two national institutions, the
NUDC for site and service construction and the NMB for mortgage financing of
the site and service lots.  The financing plan is summarized in the table
below and detailed in Annex 6.



- 16 -
.(US$ million)
Estimated                      Source of Funds
Project Component            Cost      DKI    %       GOI    2      IBRD   Z
Kampung Improvement         35.8      17.9   50        -     -       17.9  50
Site and Services
Land                    3.0      -       -      3.0   100
Site preparation
Civil works,
engineering,
housing, and
community                                        /1
facilities            8.8        .8    9      3.9    44    4 4.1  47
Vehicles                      .3        -     -        -     -         .3 100
Technical Assistance         3.1        -     -        .4    13      2.7  87
Total             51.0     18.7   37       7.3    14      25.0  49
/1   Of this amount 1.2 million will be provided from budgetary sources
for secondary schools and external infrastructure; the remainder
will be provided as follows:  US$1.7 million a  -auity to NUDC and
US$1 million as a portion of a subsidiary loan together with the
proceeds of the IBRD Loan.
4.04      Ihe Borrower, GOI, will pass nearly all the proceeds of the proposed
Loan through subsidiary loan arrangements to DKI and NUDC for purposes of
project execution. The completion of such agreements satisfactory to the
Bank is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan. The financial
arrangements will be as follows:
(a)  DKI.  Of the proposed IBRD Loan for US$25.0 million
equivalent about US$18.2 million will be relent to
DKI to finance about 50% of the civil works construction
in its two-year Kampung Improvement Program and to
finance 100% of the foreign costs of procuring refuse
collection vehicles. This subsidiary loan will bear
an interest rate of 8-1/2% per annum, repayable over
20 years, including a five-year grace period during
which interest would be waived. The balance of the
funds required for the KIP (US$17.9 million) will be
provided from DKI's budgetary resources.
(b)  NUDC. For the site and service program, estimated to
cost a total of US$8.8 million, excluding land, a
subsidiary loan from the Borrower to NUDC would cover



- 17 -
75% of the civil works required for site development.
This subsidiary loan, estimated to be at least US$5.1
million, would include about US$4.1 million of the proceeds
of the IBRD Loan and US$1 million from GOI's own resources.
The remainder of the site and service costs (US$3.35 million)
would be financed as follows: US$1.2 million for secondary
schools and external infrastructure from GOI budgetary sources
US$.8 million for community facilities and services from
DKI budgetary sources and US$1.7 million from NUDC equity.
The subsidiary loan bearing an interest rate of 12% per
annum would be repayable upon receipt of the proceeds of
the lot sales.
(c)  Technical Assistance.  For technical assistance, the proposed
Loan would provide abour US$2.7 million of total US$3.1
million requirement. The IBRD portion utilized by NUDC
would be treated as equity and that portion expended by
Cipta Karya as a budgetary transfer.
Mortgage Arrangements and Lot Prices
4.05      The National Mortgage Bank would extend mortgage loans to eligible
purchasers of the 80 m2 and the 140 m2 lots for uP to 90%C of the nurchase
price on terms or 12% in:erest per anmn Zor a perio' of 3 S years.  I3-
finance these mortgage loans partially from equity caDital (USS7.5 milU;on
equivalent from GOI during Repelita II) and partiAally from. a Central Govern-
ment loan bearing an interest rate of 8-9% per annum, repayable in accordance
with the aggregate of mortgage loans. Prices charged for individual lots
(including core houses) in the site and service area are based on recovering
the relevant administration costs of NUDC, interest during construction, and
the full site development cost, exclusive of municipal services which are the
responsibility of government agencies, i.e., schools, refuse collection, etc.
The 140 m2 lots would be pri2ed at full development cost or about Rp 708,622
(US$1,708). The large 200 m lots and the commercial property would be sold
on a cash basis ai market value with the differential profit being applied to
reducing the 80 m lot charge to less than development cost. Based on the
prevailing real estate market in Jakarta, market value has been estimated as
100% above cost. Calculated in this way the estiTated price of a 200 m lot
would be about Rp 1,436,000 (US$3,460). The 80 m lots should be available
at a price of about Rp 411,722 (US$992) or even less if the profit margin
from market value sales is larger than estimated.
ImPact on Government and its Agencies
4.06      The financial burden on DKI of repaying to GOI over a 15-year
period an amount equivalent to the on-lent proceeds of the proposed IBRD
Loan would be substantial because the KIP program generates no direct cash
return. The GOI has considered the possibility of imposing a betterment
tax on residents of the improved kampungs, however, since no such tax is
currently levied in higher income neighborhoods where urban services are



- 18 -
provided routinely, it was decided that to institute a special tax on KIP
beneficiaries would be inequitable. Past experience shows that improve-
ments to community infrastructure encourage families to invest in upgrading
their own houses. This process is expected to continue, thus increasing the
value of property which would ultimately be reflected in higher property tax
(IREDA) revenues, provided property is assessed on a sound basis. In these
circumstances the answer to the question of how to generate revenues for
repayment appears to be general property tax improvements. According to
the assessment of property tax potential outlined in Annex 3, returns could
be increased four-fold above Jakarta IREDA revenues in 1971/72. Continued
improvement could generate as much as Rp 6 billion (US$15 million) annually
by raising an effective tax rate from 0.4 to 1.0%. Thus, Jakarta appears
to have the capacity for increasing revenues to repay its portion of the
proposed Loan. The site and service program would impinge on the DKI budget
only in requiring services from established budgets for administration,
infrastructure maintenance, sanitation, education and health. The NUDC
would recover its investment in the site and service scheme at the time of
lot sales. For NMB the spread of 3 to 4% on at least half the cost of
the mortgages which it finances, would cover its administration costs and
adequately provide for the high risks involved in mortgage lending.
C. Execution
Construction
4.07      Separate agencies would be responsible for project construction:
the KIP Unit in DKI would prepare and let all civil works contracts for the
kampung program based on engineering done by the DKI Public Works Department,
exclusive of health center and school construction; on behalf and under
control of NUDC, the DKI real estate development agency, PTB, would let
all construction contracts for the site and service program based on detailed
engineering, site design and contract documents prepared by a local con-
sultant firm. The project implementation schedule is set out in Chart No.
8863. About two-thirds of the KIP contracts for the first year's work have
been awarded with the balance due by September 1974. The site and service
contracts are scheduled to be awarded late in the first quarter of 1975.
About 130 ha at the Klender site has been purchased by DKI and will be
transferred free from encumbrances to NUDC. Evidence of ownership will be
required from the Director-General of Agraria as a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed Loan.
Procurement
4.08      All prospective bidders for civil works contracts in Jakarta must
be registered with DKI and classified according to their experience, finan-
cial standing and performance on similar works. The nature and size of the
work determines which classification of contractors may bid on a particular



- 19 -
contract. This form of prequalification is well established in Indonesia
and is satisfactory. Procurement for civil works and vehicles will be done
on the following basis:
(a) For KIP the civil works contracts will be awarded
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Pro-
curement except that advertisements for invitations
to bid will be limited to local newspapers and will
not be transmitted to local representatives of the
Bank's member countries and Switzerland. Foreign
contractors are not likely to be interested in
bidding on KIP civil works because of the diffi-
culty of working in densely inhabited kampungs, the
need for close relationships with the residents and
local officials, the labor intensive nature of the
works and the great number, small size, and short
duration of the contracts.
(b) For the Site and Service Program civil works contracts
will be awarded after international competitive bidding
in accordance with the Guidelines.  In evaluating bids
local civil works contractors will be allowed a 7.5%
preference over bids receivec trom sFra_in contractors.
(c)  For the purchase of community service vehicles, inter-
national competitive bidding procedures will be followed
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The total estimated
value is US$340,000.
Disbursement
4.09      The Accounts Office of the NUDC Project IUnit would prepare monthly
statements of work completed on the KIP and site .and service components based
on spot supervision checks in the field.
4.10      Disbursement of IBRD funds would be made against the following
lines:
(a) 50% of civil works expenditures for KIP against
certificates of expenditures certified by NUDC.
The detailed documentation would not be submitted
for review but would be available for inspection
by supervision missions;
(b) 50% of civil works expenditures for the site and
service component of the project against contractor's
statement of work performed certified by the super-
vising consultants;



- 20 -
(c) 100. of foreign expenditures and 75% of local ex-,
penditures for consultant services; and
(d) 100% of c.i.f. costs of imported vehicles.
4.11      The estimated simmary schedule of IBRD disbursements is shown in
Annex 7 based on a three-year construction period. The closing date is
December 31, 1977. Since the first year of the KIP started with the open-
ing of the fiscal year, April 1, expenditures have been incurred from that
date. In order to facilitate an early start on the project, retroactive
financing to April 1, 1974 would be permitted for payments made on reimburs-
able items for,KIP in an amount not to exceed US$3.5 million equivalent.
Accounts and Auditing
4.12      Separate project accounts would be established in DKI, NUDC, and
NMB. In the past, DKI has handled its KIP expenditures by charging them
against the accounts of various participating departments, such as DKI
Public Works, Education, etc. However, now that a separate administrative
unit has been established for KIP, it will be necessary to form a KIP account
to be processed through the DKI Department of Finance. In addition, the
KIP Unit should maintain an independent accounting record of project ex-
penditures because the overlapping nature of program execution from one fiscal
year to the next would make it otherwise difficult to isolate project expe!nses.
Each project account would be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. During project execution experienced accountants will
be working with each project unit to assist in the establishment of accepta-
ble accounting procedures. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the Government that the annually audited records of project accounts
in DKI, NMB, and NUDC would be available to the Bank no later than four
months following the close of the fiscal year.
Operations and Maintenance
4.13      Maintenance of project infrastructure and vehicles would be DKI's
responsibility.  Community residents organized by local leaders (RWs) would
maintain the cleanliness of communal kampung sanitary facilities.  It would
be the responsibility of the Lurah (sub-district chief) to see that garbage
is deposited in neighborhood collection bins for removal by the Sanitation
Department. During negotiations assurances were obtained from GOI that the
facilities and vehicles provided as part of the project would be properly
maintained and operated regularly to serve the urban areas covered by the
Project.



- 21 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization
5.01      Responsibility for project implementation, coordination, and admin-
istration will rest with the National Urban Development Corporation (NUDC),
an institution established under the supervision of the Ministry of Public
Works to buy and develop urban land. For the purposes of this project,
NUDC would supervise the KIP program and execute the site and service
program. The KIP will be planned and executed by a Unit in the DIKI adminis-
tration. Execution of the site and service program in its construction as-
pects will be delegated by NUDC to a DKI-owned real estate development cor-
poration, Perusahaan Tanah dan Bangunan (PTB). (Details of project organi-
zation are presented in Annex 8 and the relationship of project agencies is
illustrated in Chart No. 8683.)
5.02      Although the physical components of the project would be executed
within the jurisdictional boundaries of Jakarta, the NUDC would exercise
primary responsibility for implementation since a major purpose of this
first urban project is to develop a national model which the NTUDC can trans-
fer with appropriate variations to other cities. As the project organiza-
tion chart indicates the NUDC -would opera-a2 uncer authority of the '.nist-l
for Pubic Works which is rs-ponsi-Ie _a  c.-lnting  poi    estD lished
by the interministerial Yational Housing .uthority.  As Chn-i  E:.ecutive of
NUDC, the Managing Director would report to a Board of Supervisors for ap-
proval of budgets and development plans. With technical assistance to be
provided under the proposed project the Managing Director would develop the
planning, financial, and engineering capacities of the NUDC and prepare a
five-year work program. Appointments to the positions of Managing Director
and Project Manager following consultation with the Bank and the full-time
assumption of the duties of these posts is a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed Loan. The Project Unit within Cipta Karya, in the Ministry of
Public Works, which prepared the project, will be transferred to NUDC.  With
technical assistance as provided in the proposed Loan the Unit will be capa-
ble of implementing it. The Manager of the Project Unit in NUDC, who reports
to the Managing Director, will be responsible for the coordination and su-
pervision of work carried out by executing agencies.
5.03      The KIP is being executed by DKI under the general supervision
of NUDC. Prior to April 1974, KIP was executed by several different depart-
ments and only loosely coordinated by the Director of Coordination for all
DKI programs. However, to aczomplish the more ambitious program envisaged
for Repelita II, the Governor has established a separate Unit for KIP with
a staff of about 40 professionals who have worked on various portions of the
past program. This Unit prepared the two-year program included in the project
and is responsible for selecting kampungs to be improved, determining appro-
priate improvements in accordance with established standards, awarding civil
works contracts, supervising the work of contractors, and coordinating the
inputs from various DKI Departments, such as Education, Health and Sanitation.



- 22 -
5.04      The site and service component of the project will be executed
by NUDC. It is the Government's intention to establish provincial develop-
ment corporations as affiliates of NUDC, but in the interim period NUDC
plans to utilize the existing DKI development agency, PTB, for work in
Jakarta. Since 1969 PTB has been executing both public and private sector
projects. Although the Manager of PTB is responsible directly to the Gov-
ernor of Jakarta, for the purposes of this project he would liaise with the
DKI Director of Coordination under the general supervision of the Deputy-
Governor for Development. A suitably qualified Project Manager has been
appointed within PTB to direct a Site and Service Unit. This Unit prepared
the preliminary project site plans, engineering and cost estimates. A local
engineering consulting firm is being retained to prepare detailed engineer-
ing. On behalf of and under NUDC's supervision, PTB would contract with
private construction companies for the execution of civil works.
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.05      A team within the NUDC Project Unit would be established to sys-
tematically monitor the social response and physical aspects of both the
KIP and Site and Service Programs. The firm of consultants retained by
the NUDC Project Unit would provide an urban sociologist to help plan and
organize an evaluation program. For the KIP, intensive monitoring would
be done in selected kampungs throughout the planning and execution phases
to learn what impact community desires have on determining infrastructure
investments, how many people are dislocated and where they ra'locate, what
self-help improvements are initiated by residents, what property transfers
or rentals occur as a result of improvements, etc. Evaluation results
would be used to modify the ongoing KIP and to aid the design of a national
kampung program. Monitoring of the site and service experience should also
result in the preparation of a general model for Jakarta and a national pro-
gram. The review process would include, inter alia, an assessment of the
success of the application process in correctly identifying creditworthy
residents satisfying the desired eligibility criteria, the progress in
expanding the core houses, community response to new neighborhood responsi-
bilities, the mortgage system, and the compliance with property transfer
regulations.
B. Administration of the Site and Service Program
Site and Service Occupant Selection Procedure
5.06      The availability of residential lots for low-income residents
would be announced through local Indonesian language newspapers and community
officials (lurahs). Each of the 227 kelurahan offices in the city would have
pamphlets describing the project with pictures, drawings, and application
forms. Applicants would be required to provide relevant information veri-
fied either by the community leader and/or employer. Completed applications



- 23 -
would be forwarded to NUDC along with evidence that an amount sufficient to
cover the downpayment was on deposit with the National Mortgage Bank. These
applications would be reviewed by a selection committee according to estab-
lished criteria agreed with IBRD as detailed in Annex 8.
Self-Help Construction Training
5.07      NUDC would supervise an on-site training program in construction
techniques provided by DKI in order to teach new residents how to complete
and eventually expand the core units. In the course of the training program
about 10 units would be constructed, approximately one each month during the
occupancy period. These units would be sold individually at market value and
the profit used to offset the costs of the training program. The Project Unit
in NUDC would provide an expert in low-cost housing construction familiar
with local materials and construction techniques who would prepare a training
program with assistance from the Building Materials Research Institute in
Bandung (a division of Clpta Karya). It is anticipated that construction
techniques learned during the training program and practiced in the erection
of individual houses would prepare some new residents with skills needed
for permanent employment in the Jakarta construction industry.
Land T4tie and Occuoancy ReCuiraments
5.08      Occuoants will receive a 25-yea  ie.s7d ti:ie to t4eir  ots
with opticns co e.new by ^aving a fee of- n7o more than 1% of the current
appraised land value to the DeDart.ment of Agraria.  This long-term leasehold
arrangement is the mosr prevalent form. of land tenure in Indonesia and one
which the GOI is committed to perpetuating because it facilitates metropolitan
planning for long-range changes in land use patterns. Building regulations
would be prepared by the consultants doing the detailed design and engineering
of the project.
Mortgage Payments and Defaults
5.09      All monthly mortgage payments would be collected through a site
office of NMB. A list of families who have been delinquent in their payments
for more than three consecutive months would be prepared by the Bank and
submitted to local DKI administrative officials who would determine the reasons
for delinquency and necessary procedures for collection. After a six-month
grace period, the bank would nave authority to foreclose the mortgage. An
evicted family would be reimbursed its equity share in the property with an
appropriate amount deducted as a rental fee for the period of occupancy when
no payments were made.
Terms of Resale
5.10      Families desiring to sell their lots within five years of the purchase
date would be required to resell the property to NMB which would reimburse
the full payments plus the appraised value of any additions made to the core
shelter plus a portion of the estimated increased value of the land. The



- 24 -
property would then be resold at purchase cost to a family on the waiting
list meeting the original criteria for a project lot.
Community Development
5.11      Throughout Indonesia, but especially in Java, society is highly
structured and communities tightly organized. Though urban life has
uprooted families from their traditional cultures many customs persist
and would be cultivated as much as possible in developing a new community
at Klender. For example, the practice of gotong-royong, or helping your
neighbor would be stressed as a part of the self-help completion of the core
houses. Acting as agent for this community mobilization a civil servant
appointed by the DKI Department of Interior would serve as "Lurah" or
neighborhood administrative head. The Lurah appointed to administer Klender
would participate in the selection of site occupants. From amongst selected
families the lurah and the selection committee would appoint individuals
to serve as "RWs" or heads of about 150 families and "RTs" to represent
smaller units of about 30 families. This community apparatus would then
be responsible to helping families settle, organizing cooperative housing
construction, collecting money for local garbage collection services and
mi.nic-pal water supply, explaining building and zoning regulations, and
maintaining community facilities. Details of community organization and ad-
ministrative functions of the local officials are presented in Annex 8.
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Site and Service and Kampung Improvement Programs would have
far reaching consequences for the Jakarta region. The project would not only
improve physical living conditions for a large part of the population, and
provide substantial employment opportunities, but would also have a profound
long-term influence upon the direction of metropolitan economic development.
The latter objective would be achieved through coordination of investments in
industry, urban infrastructure and housing. It is also expected that basic
labor productivity would be raised through improved health, access to job
opportunities, training and education.
6.02      Substantial benefits should accrue to both Jakarta and the country
as a whole through the institutional aspects of the proposed project.
With the establishment of the National Urban Development Corporation a
project cycle would be set in motion beginning with acquisition of urban
land throughout the country for gradual development. The National Mort-
gage Bank will make long-term money available for the first time in Indonesia
to creditworthy individuals at low- as well as high-income levels. And,
for Jakarta, the formation of a Greater Jakarta Planning Board would centralize
the review process required for all sector investments within a framework of
available financial resources, priority needs and desired directions of economic
and physical expansion.



- 25 -
6.03      Additional benefits to be generated by this project include:
(a) Improved living conditions for nearly 20% of Jakarta's
population, or about 890,000 people residing in kampungs
and about 40,000 who will be residing in the site and service
area where project investments will be made;
(b) Increased employment opportunities for low-income residents
as a result of improved access to transDort facilities
and the expansion of construction activities, of building
materials manufacture and of trade and service sectors in
new communities:
(c) Better health standards for Jakarta residents as a result of
investments in community and individual sanitary facilities,
systematic garbage removal, improved storm drainage channels,
community health centers, and a less contaminated water
supply;
(d)  Better education opportunities for low-income residents by
doubling the number of elementary scncol spaces presently
available in the p :oject karpungs and by providing in the
site and service a-ea three times the number of spaces
available in urban kampungs;
(e) Vocational training in construction techniques at the site
and service area to aid residents in building their own
houses and in learning skills needed for employment in the
construction sector;
(f) The provision of individual home sites with core housing for
low-income residents on mortgage terms for the first time
in Indonesia.
Economic Return -/
6.04      The calculation of a quantitative estimate of the economic rate
of return is based upon the assumption that benefits can be measured at
least approximately, through imputed rental values of property in the
project areas. While there are certain project benefits, especially those
1/ The economic analysis was performed on the basis of real (constant value)
prices estimated as of October 1973. Since that time, price estimates
for project inputs have increased substantially. Because the appraisal
mission was not able to collect additional survey data on the changes
in rental values that have occured since the original analysis, the
assumption was made for purposes of the economic analysis, that recent
price increases will affect both benefits and costs equally. Sensitivity
analyses have been run to test the assumption of a lag in benefit
response.



- 26 -
that are health related, that may be only imperfectly reflected in rental
values, such values are believed to provide a useful indicator of the
minimum economic value of project outputs. For the KIP project component,
the rental values used as a measure of benefits are based upon differences
in observed market prices between improved property and non-improved property
in similar locations. For the site and service project component, direct
observation of sales and rental values for semi-permanent dwellings on
serviced lots in comparable locations were obtained.
6.05      Project cost estimates used in the economic analysis include
construction, site preparation, on-site infrastructure, self-help dwelling
construction costs (for the site and service component) and operating and
maintenance costs. In addition, physical contingencies, administrjation and
detailed engineering were included. Infrastructure external to the project
site was allocated to the project on the basis of a "with project" and
"without project" comparison of the provision of such facilities. Land
costs at market prices estimated as of the time of the analysis were included
in the site and service component since market prices were judged to
adequately reflect opportunity costs. Adjustments were made to project inputs
to eliminate taxes and duties. Unskilled labor was shadow-priced to reflect
the upper limit of opportunity costs.
6.06      Wi th these assumptions, the economic rate of return for the
total project is 17h .  A sensitivity analysis for a 25% reduction ini bene-
fits and a 10% increase in cost results in a return of 11%. With no shadow-
pricing, the return is 16%. The kampung improvement component of the
project and the site and service component each have a rate of return of
17% (see Annex 9).
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government
that:
(a) DKI would carry out its IREDA Tax Improvement Program
and that annual implementation reports would be submitted
to the Bank (para 2.13);
(b)  DRI would execute the Kampung Improvement Program accord-
ing to design standards acceptable to the Bank (para 3.03);
(c) Facilities and services necessary for the execution of
the project would be provided promptly (para 3.08);
(d) Project accounts in NUDC, NMB and DKI would be duly set
up, maintained and audited annually separate from other
operations (para 4.12);



- 27 -
(e) Vehicles provided under the project would be properly
maintained and operated regularly to serve the urban
areas covered by the Project (para 4.13); and
(f) Criteria for selecting purchasers of site and service lots
would include, inter alia, those agreed with the Bank
(para 5.06).
7.02      The following events are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Bank Loan:
(a)  Completion of the subsidiary loan agreements between
the Borrcwer and DKI and NUDC, respectively (para 4.043',
(b) Transfer of the title to 130 ha of land for the site
and services program to NUDC free from encumbrances
(para 4.07); and
(c)  Appointment i NUflC of a Managing Director and ?rc-.act
DiZector in consultation with the Bank (para 5.02) and
their full-time assumption of these posts.
7.03      With agreements resonec on the aboove recommendations, t'he project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million.






ANNEA I
Page 1
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Urban Background
A. Land Use
1.        The area that is now Jakarta was a small trading port named Sunda
Kalapa at the time of the initial  Prtuguese contact i n the early 16th cen-
tury.  In 1619, the Dutch overran the city and established a port at the
mouth of the Ciliwung RJiver. From this area, with two centers at the old
town (Kota) and the port area (Pasar Ikan), the fortress city renamed
Batavia grew inland towards the south along the Ciliwung.  The old center
was subject to flooding and recurring epidemics as the harbor silted up in
the 15th and  early 19th centurv.  To avoid the floodlng, the Dutch built
government buildings on sli-htly hi her 'and to the South, an araa that is
now the center of the cicy, Herde'ka Scuare. The residential area of Mentang
has develnoad ;:bout 7 SOu1     o      '         and zhe <n_ O-
Priok was constzucted to the a orthezst as a re?lacement for che badly silted
old port.
2.        A system of canals was constructed to reduce the problems of
flooding and disease epidemics, and an extensive system of urban railways
developed. By 1920, intercity rail lines connected Jakarta with Tanggerang
in the west, Serpong and the Sunda straits in the southwest, Bogor and
Bandung in the south, and Bekasi and Cirebon in the east. These rail lines
and the roads paralleling them have been major axes for development.
3.        Until the mid-1950s the! expansion of the city, with the exception
of Tanjung Priok Port, had been constantly toward the south where the flood-
ing was less and the climate slightly cooler. Kebayoran Baru, a satellite
town for upper-income residents, was built from 1950 to 1965 and now accom-
modates about 175,000 people. To connect Kebayoran with the city, Jalan
Thamrin and Jalan General Sudirman were widened to six-lane highways to
form a second major north-south axis to the traditional route from the Kota
to Banteng to Kramat Raya and Jatinegara.  In the late 1950s and early 1960s
imposing monuments, government buildings, hotels and the large sports complex
were built to give Jakarta a modern appearance. The employment which these
major projects created attracted many new workers to the city. The popula-
tion grew rapidly in the 1950s largely due to the unrest of the Revolution
and immediate post-Independence period of the early 1950s and the irmigration
tion stimulated by rebellions in Sumatra and Sulawesi in 1958. This increase
continued in the 1960s due to the massive investments pumped into the capital
city.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        The north to south direction of city growth was modified in the
late 1960s by the construction of a four-lane ring road. This road pro-
vides the only rapid east-west link across the city with the exception of
the Ancol road in the north. The effect of its construction has been to
provide an opportunity for industrial development in the east, and to
stimulate the development of residential areas in an east-west direction
between the new road and the existing city.
5.        The 1965-1985 Jakarta Master Plan, designed in the early 1960s
with UN aid and enacted by the DKI Jakarta Regional Council in 1967, em-
phasized the growth potential to the east and west along with continued
expansion to the south. Most of the new industrial development proposed
is in the east, and much of the new residential areas are in the west.
A greenbelt, 4 to 5 km wide, is proposed to circle the city, with exten-
sions north and south along natural features such as river valleys. There
are major questions regarding the feasibility or desirability of attempting
to locate industrial development on one side of the city and residential
areas on the other which need to be examined before making further deci-
sions about major sector investments.
B. Demograph
Population of Jakarta City
6.        The best sources of data on the demography of Jakarta are the
1961 and the 1971 national censuses. They indicate a substantial growth
during the decade of 2,906,000 to 4,576,000 persons, an increase of 57.5%
over the decade. The latter figure probably underestimates the total pop-
ulation by approximately 500,000 because it did not include persons who
had lived in the capital for less than three months. 1/ Thus, the popula-
tion of Jakarta in 1972 was approximately 5,000,000 persons (see Table 1).
7.        The rate of growth for Jakarta between 1961 and 1971 was 4.6% per
year, 2.1% for natural increase and 2.5% due to migration. The corresponding
overall rate for Indonesia as a whole was 2.0%. The Jakarta city government
(DKI) has estimated that the present rate of growth is even higher -- 5.7%
per year, 2.4% for natural growth and 3.3% due to migration. 2/ While this
rate seems high, it does help to confirm the indications that this rate of
growth is at least the same as the past decade despite the introduction of
a family planning program and the adoption of a closed city policy in 1971
to discourage further migration by providing a strict registration procedure
1/   Dr. Sam Suharto, Director, Data Processing Center, Biro Pusat Statistik
(Central Bureau of Statistics).
2/   Kantor Census dan Statistik, DKI Jakarta.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
for migrants. Actual growth has been much higher than the DKI estimate of
4.0% per year used in preparing the City Master Plan 1965-1985.
8.        The closed city policy has shown since its introduction little
impact on population figures. Under this policy, migrants must show certi-
fication from an employer that a job is ready for them or from a school that
they have been properly enrolled. In addition, they must report a specific
dwelling in which they will stay. Finally, they must deposit money for a
return ticket with the RT (official in charge of 20 to 30 families). If
they do not have a job after six months they will be returned to their home
village.
9.        With or without a closed city policy the rate of migration to
Jakarta remains substanrtial due in part to the huge disparity -in household
income between Jakarta and irs primary sources of migrants, West java and
Central Java. Using per capita income figures for 1969 and assuming an
average household size of five persons, based on census figures discussed
in more detail later, the annual income for a Jakarta household was
Rp 197,295 while that of a household in Central Java was Rp 92,080 and
that of a household in West Java was Rp 88,100. 1/
10.       A recen-.st_dy of migration over the past decade by Professor
Nathan Keiftz CH -arard Universit7 fr -the Denartment  f o_' nover an_- he
>Kl Jakarta indicates a steady rapid _ncraase of migration a. a ate -
89,200 persons per year. 2/  Two-thirds or tnhs total or 57,200 persons per
year are between the ages of 15 and 29. An estimate by the Biro Pusat Sta-
t-istik sets the annual rate of population increase due to migration at
99,600 persons annually. These figures indicate that approximately one-
third of the total population increase over the past decade has been due to
migration. These are conservative estimates that are lower than those of
the DKI government described earlier.
11.       The growth of Jakarta over the past 50 years would indicate that
high population growth projections are likely to be accurate. The growth
of the city has been at a rapid but rather regular pace since 1920 except
for the depression and war years and two other periods of extreme disloca-
tion: the revolutionary period of 1948 to 1950 and the revolts in Sumatra
and Sulawesi in 1958 to 1959. In the latter period the population grew
by 1,000,000 persons within a one-year period. Thus it has been estimated
on the basis of past growth that the population of Jakarta will reach at
least 7,000,000 in 1981 and 8,850,000 persons in 1986.
1/   Kantor Census dan Statistik, DKI Jakarta.
2/   Nathan Keifetz, Migrants into Jakarta, 1961 to 1971 (Unpublished) (1972)-



ANNEX 1
Page 4
12.       The national government is alive to the prospect of a large
Jakarta and accordingly is taking steps to reduce migration through an
extensive rural development program, a program of regional government
aid to secondary cities and a program of transmigration from Java to
the outer islands which has settled 112,000 families (415,000 persons)
since 1950. 1/
Population Projection for Metropolitan Jakarta
13.       A population projection cannot be made with any certainty for
the Jakarta Metropolitan area because its physical boundaries have not
been agreed by various planning units. Therefore, using the 1971 census
figures it is necessary to include all of the three districts bordering
Jakarta -- Tan-gerang, Bekasi, and Bogor. Except for Bogor, the cities
included are small traditional centers serving surrounding agricultural
lands. Bogor, with a population of 200,000, has an independent economic
base as a tourist center.
14.       Industrial growth along the new road to Bogor, spurred by the
building of the Indonesian Pentagon, and along the road to Tanggerang will
stimulate population growth south and west of Jakarta. Given these trends
and taking a mediar. of the rates of growth for these areas over the past
decade, a rate of growth of 3.8% per year until 1986 seems a reasonable es-
timate. Th'us the population of the metropolitan area outside of Jakarta
City would reach 4,565,000 in 1981 and 5,039,000 in 1986. The population
for the entire Jakarta Metropolitan area would reach 11,740,000 in 1981
and 14,020,800 in 1986 (see Table 2).
Household Formation
15.       For the purpose of determining housing demand, this estimate of
total population increase must be translated into an increase in the total
number of new households that will need housing. Using a straight line
projection that reflects current population trends and assuming a house-
hold size of approximately 5.3 persons as in the 1971 National Census
figures for Jakarta, there would be approximately 409,000 new households
by 1981 or an average of 51,000 new households annually. These house-
holds will have to be served by existing municipal and community facilities
or an expansion of those facilities.
Projected Unplanned Expansion of Jakarta's Urban Areas
16.       Good statistics on the micro distribution and movements of popula-
tion within Jakarta are not available. However, the DKI Census Office com-
piles returns from the lurahs (district chiefs) on the registration of in-
coming and outgoing residents in their kelurahans (districts). These give
1/   Mr. R. Soebiantoro, Director General of Transmigration, Ministry of
Cooperatives and Transmigration.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
a rough guide, but should be treated with caution, due to the under-regis-
tration of new residents. A mapping of these statistics reveals that the
new urban kampungs of the city are the chief recipients of Jakarta's pop-
ulation growth. They receive not only the incoming migrants, but also
some of the households moving out from the densely populated inner kampungs.
17.       These new kampungs cover about 35% of the urbanized area of the
city but accept about 70% of the population growth. Moreover, average
household size is smaller than in the areas housing middle- and upper-
income groups. Thus more households are formed and more area absorbed
than for comparative growth elsewhere in the city. The newly forming
"urban" kampungs have densities of about 310 persons per ha and an aver-
age plot size of 170 m2, compared with a density of 515 persons per ha
and an average plot size of 87 m2 in improved kampungs which lie largely
within t;he  Inner city.  Thus it seems likely that the "newq" kampungs are
forming new households at about 10% per year, probably half of this figure
is attributable to the formation of new areas, and half to the densification
of the existing ones through plot subdivision. On the basis of 57'
per year household increase in new areas, an average plot area of 150 m2 1/
and an average of 1.3 households per building, 2/ the area of the new urban
k.ampungs is like'ly to increase from about 5,000 ha and 320,000 households
in 1973 to 1,719 ha in 1981 and 3,138 ha in 1936.  This increase assues
the continuation of past governmenz Jo1icv with resoect to non-orovis40n
of seztlement areas for low-incoae pec?e.  However, i  a continuing
policy of sites and services similar to that proposed in the accompanyirng
report is implemented, a reduction in this speed of kampung formation could
take place.
C. Housing Needs
18.       The inadequacy of data reflecting various aspects of life and
demography generally in Indonesia and Jakarta is reflected in attempting
to estimate the need for housing. There are no adequate data on the amount
of housing that is presently being constructed by the Government and private
sectors. Thus it is difficult to estimate the amount of housing and munici-
pal services specifically required.
1/   A lesser area than the present average, on the assumption that land
or rent prices will rise faster than income.
2/   Census of buildings 1970 and 1971 by B.P.S. shows the average number
of households per building in Jakarta is 2.0 since central areas will
have higher than average densities, 1.3 households per building appears
to be a reasonable estimation for new kampung areas.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
19.       However, by. any definition, there is an extreme housing deficit.
In 1972, BAPPENAS established a team to study the need for housing (Team
Research Proyek Pembiayaan Pembangunan Perumahan). Their results indicated
that to meet the total Indonesian housing shortage would require the build-
ing of 1.5 million houses annually at an annual cost of about Rp 540 billion.
It was estimated that 300,000 units would be required annually to meet the
needs of the major cities. A separate study conducted by the University of
Indonesia reported a present shortage of 1.8 million housing units for
Indonesia, with an additional 1,350,000 units required by 1981. The Ministry
of Public Works in yet another study has estimated on the basis of 1971 Cen-
sus figures that the Government must build 70,000 new housing units annually
in the major cities until the year 2000 to catch up with existing housing
shortages. Unfortunately, none of these studies attempted to define the
housing needs for Jakarta.
20.       A rough estimate of the housing needs for Jakarta can be made
simply to indicate the magnitude of the deficit and the urgency of beginning
to plan a program for supplying housing of an appropriate type and cost.
Based on the anticipated population growth for Jakarta by 1981, there would
be an additional 500,000 families needing shelter in single family units.
In addition, if it is assumed that the nearly one million families now liv-
ing together in less than 500,000 houses would prefer single family dwell-
ings, then another 500,000 uni_s would be required. Furthermore, of the
existing housing structures more than 200,000 are constructed of temporary
materials such as bamboo and thatch which should in the course of a decade
be replaced. On the above basis it is possible to project a need for 1.2
million houses in Jakarta between 1972-83, or about 120,000 units annually.
Consultants to Cipta Karya (Planned Community Development, Inc.) estimated
present construction of permanent houses in Jakarta at 25,000 units annually.
Such units are generally so costly that they can be purchased only by fami-
lies with incomes above Rp 35,000/month.
Needs of the Site and Service Target Population
21.       The target population for the site and service component of the
proposed project has been defined as 50% of the population or families with
incomes between the 15th and 65th percentiles. Families below the 15th
percentile would benefit from the Kampung Improvement Program, and families
with incomes in the range above the 65th percentile would be capable of
acquiring housing on the open market. If the annual housing deficit is
assumed to be approximately 120,000 units annually with April 1973 as the
base period, and if at least 50% of this deficit would be required by the
sites and services target population, then the annual housing need for the
target population would be roughly 60,000 units. By April 1976 when the
project would be nearing completion, the cumulative deficit for the group
would be about 180,000 units. Therefore, the proposed project which will
provide about 8,000 lots measuring 80 and 140 m2 would satisfy only about
5% of the estimated requirement for low-income housing units.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
D. Household Income-Expenditure Patterns
22.       The 1968-69 Jakarta Survey of Income Expenditures and Rbousehold
Conditions conducted by the GOI Bureau of Census and Statistics is the only
source for income and expenditure distributions. However, it is flawed by
(a) gross understatement of income in kind, especially housing and cars and
other transportation allowances; (b) failure to include income from second
jobs and secondary wage earners; (c) lack of consideration of one person
households; and (d) mathematical errors in compiling raw data. Despite
these problems this survey is the best place to start an analysis.
23.       To update the survey a 4.0% net annual growth rate for real per
capita income in Jakarta has been assumed based upon a 9.0-9.5% annual
growth rate in real income and a 4.5-5.0% annual growth rate in population.
The annual rate of growth of the Gross Domestic Product for Jakarta for the
period 1967-70 is as follows:
Gross Domestic                           Increase in
Product (adjusted       %7 Annual         Per Capita
t-  1966 3ricas)          na cs ____m_a
1967       29,473,300
1968       31,637,400             7.3                  3.5
1969       34,346,400             8.6                  2.3
1970       37,481,200             9.1                  6.4
Source: Kantor Census Dan Statistik, DKI Jakarta.
24.       The median household income in 1969 has been estimated by the
Government as about Rp 10,000 per month. This figure is slightly lower
than the average monthly household expenditures of Rp 10,147.
25.       The survey figures grossly understate household incomes because
of the failure to count transients; secondary wage earners; income in kind;
and income from second jobs. These omissions were exaggerated by dropping
from the survey persons who earned more than Rp 100,000 per month. Finally,
5-10% of the total households were dropped from the sample because their
expenditures exceeded their monthly income by more than 20%.
Transients
26.       The income distribution may underestimate the number of persons
at the very lowest levels (below Rp 5,000 per month) because it does not
take direct consideration of the large number of migrants (now at least 2%
of the total population of the city annually) many of whom pick up garbage
or get only the most menial jobs. This group should continue to exist in
about the same proportions for the foreseeable future.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Secondary Wage Earners and Second Jobs
27.       The 1968-69 Survey indicates that 24.2% of all households have
secondary wage earners. However, other indications are that as many as 50%
of the households have secondary wage earners, especially in the lower in-
come categories below Rp 10,000 per month. Many wives and children earn
Rp 2,000-3,000 per month working in the pasar. In addition, many primary
wage earners have second and third jobs. The survey did not list the num-
ber of such persons though it attempted to count such income. However,
secondary wage information is difficult to obtain in any country and Biro
Pusat Statistik has acknowledged that the survey probably failed to measure
a large portion of household income.
Income in Kind
28.       Income in kind is very difficult to measure unless it is given
as part of an easily translatable monthly equivalent, such as rice or
sugar. Census Bureau officials have acknowledged that it is extremely
difficult to value and count payments in kind and that it is quite possi-
ble that such payments are understated by 10-15%. Housing expenses and
transportation expenditures were definitely understated but there is no
way to check this easily.  If these payments are indeed understated by
that amount it would make a major change in income and expenditure dis-
tribution. The Industrial Survey of Jakarta coupleted in 1970 showed
that the value of wages in kind, although varying greatly as a share of
total earnings in different industrial sectors, was commonly from 20-25%. 1/
For lower grade workers the share would be higher. In some industries it
is as high as 50% of total income. The lowest government worker earning
about Rp 6,000-7,000 per month with a wife and four children receives
about 35% of his total income in kind. 2/
29.       Between 1969 and 1973 the Jakarta Price Index increased approxi-
mately 90%. Assuming conservatively that the median income in 1969 was
Rp 10,000 per month, and assuming that wages in nominal terms increased
at 15% per year between 1969 and 1973, the median income in 1973 would be
approximately Rp 17,800. Table 4 shows the estimated income distribution
based upon the 1968-69 survey that corresponds to these assumptions about
income growth. Projections are also made to 1976.
1/   Biro Pusat Statistik, Survey Perusahaan Industri (Survey of Industries),
1970.
2/   Department of Manpower, Study of Wages and Salaries in Preparation
for the Second Five-Year Plan, 1972.



ANNEX 1
P affle ~9
Table 1
INT,DONESIA ^-
JAKARTA URBAN DEWELOPMENT PROJECT
Jakarta Population -Trowth
Year                               Populat,ion
1920                               300, ooo (c)
'fc, coc(
1 ?. 1+,a,^,l
1961                             2,907,000 (c)
1971                             4,576,ooo (c)
1976 L                           5, 730, 000
1981                             7,1 75T,000
1986                             8,981,000
1991                            1 1,2L7,000
(C)  Years in which an official census was taken.
Source: Kantor Census Dan Statistik, DKI, Jakarta.
/    Population projections for 1976 and subsequent years are based on straight
line projection of annual rate of increase on 4.6'.



INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population of Jakarta         l an
% Annual         % Total                                        % Annual Rate
Increase         Increase                                       of Increase
Municipality                1961          1971        1961-1971         1961-1971           1981            1986         1971-1986
Jakarta (DKI)             21907,533      4,576,o0o        4.6              57.5         7,175,000         8,981,800         4.6
Bekasi                      692,800        830,700        1.8              19.9
Bogor                     1,314,200      1,668,8oo         2.4             27.0
Tanggerang                  850,hOO      1,066,700        2.2              25.4
Total Jakarta
Metropolitan Area    54763,hO0        8,1h2,200        3.5              41.3        11,740,000        14,020,800         3.8
Source: Biro Pusat Statistik, 1971 census.
IfJM2
f'3o0-



ANNEX 1
Page 11
Table 3
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*1/
E=nloyment in Jakarta (By Sector), 1971
(in numrnber of jobs)
Emplovment Sector             Modern Skills          Traditional            Total
Government                       130,000                 -                 130,000
Services                         105,000              225,000              330,000
Commerce                          65,000              255,000              320,000
Tranrsort                         45,000               95,000                 0.000
Manufacture                      120,000                 -''J ,00
Construction                      30,000               60,000               90,000
Agriculture                       10,000               35,000               45,000
Mining                             5,000                 -                   5,000
Finance, Insurance,
Real Estate,
Business Services             35,000                  -                  35,000
Other                             40,000
Total                      585,000               710,000            1,295,000
Source:  Biro Pusat Statistik, 1971 Population Census.
1/  aiEployrment data is for the  lurisdict-on of DKI Jakarta only.



ANNEX 1
Table 4
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jakarta Household Ifncome Distribution
Income Group                    April
(Rp/month)                    1973                  1976 Li
0 -  5,000 L                 4.4                  3.1
5,000 - 1O,000                  16.4                   2.0
10,000 - 15,000                  16.6                   7-
15,000 - 20,000 /3               20.8                  11.9
20,OOO - 25,000 /3               13.3                 13.0
25,000 - 30,000 /3                7.7                 13.0
30,000 - 35,00o 13                6.o                  11.0
over 35,000 /3                 14.8                 39.0
Median Income                   21,000                30,00
(Rp/month)
*l   Based on assumed increase of 15% per year growth in nominal income.
2   In making annual adjustments it was assumed that 80% of the population
in this group had incomes above Rp 3,000.
3   In making annual adjustments it was assumed that 75% of the population
in each group had incomes in the lower 60% of the total category (i.e.,
RX) 15,000-18,000; Rp 20,000-23,000, etc.).
Source:  Extrapolations from GOI Biro Pusat Statistik, 1968-69, Jakarta
Survey of Income Expenditures and Household Conditions.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Indicative 20-Year Improvement Program for Jakarta -/
1.        Past approaches to Jakarta's development have clearly fallen
short of achieving a widespread distribution of the benefits from improve-
ments in municipal infrastructure and services. While the Kampuing Improve-
ment Program carried out by the DKI Government in Repelita I represented a
limited recognition of the need to tailor public investment to the benefit
of lower income groups, a systematic approach to low-cost, minimum-standard
programs has hitherto been lacking. The basic economic feasibility of the
approach incorporated in the proposed project design can be stated simply.
The provision of modern municipal infrastructure and services and the con-
tinued expansion of jobs in the modeCr  sector or. the pattern of the more
developed world implies extremely high capi.al and operating costs that
are simply beyond the fir.&anc-a-i feas'          -4z -:' 3f C'5s  -n t:e de7eloplng
world.  in the speci.ic case of Jakarta, the inc rmental costs of a mod_rn
water supply system, as currently formulated by consultants, would involve
a first stage capital expenaiture of UJS$40 per capita and ultimately aver-
age around US$100 per capita at full development; costs of modern sewage
disposal systems would average about the same. Conventional low-cost
housing in Jakarta has in the past ranged from a minimum rarely below
US$750-1,000 per family unit for the house alone. Capital costs for job
creation typically range from US$450 per worker in the more traditional
urban sectors to over US$1,500 in the modern sector and several times this
amount in more capital-intensive, advanced-technology occupations. Simi-
larly, large investments for modern transport infrastructure and equipment,
electricity, police, fire, health, garbage collection and other urban serv-
ices are presently being proposed by several major sector studies that have
either recently been completed or are nearing completion. The major con-
straint on such capital intensive development is one of financial resources.
At Jakarta's present level of per capita income (US$160), annual gross sav-
ings available for financing public and private investment might at best
amount to US$30 per capita. The disparity between these potential savings
levels and the cost of providing amenities on the pattern of the more devel-
oped world is thus apparent.
1/   The cost estimates used to develop this illustrative program were based
on July 1973 figures and have not been adjusted to account for price
increases.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
2.        The proposed project represents what should become a systematic
approach to designing low-cost, minimum-standard improvements for Jakarta.
In order to illustrate the feasibility of such an approach with regard to
both a long-term, city-wide perspective and a short-term project design,
a projection exercise illustrating a long-term perspective of Jakarta's
development was undertaken by the appraisal mission on the basis of avail-
able data. This exercise rests on two key assumptions which are integral
to establishing a long-term program incorporating a low-cost minimum stand-
ard approach. First, it was assumed that the GOI would implement the re-
commendations of the IREDA Tax Study (Annex 3), which would permit the DKI
to generate a more than hundred fold increase in property tax revenues
within the next twenty years. Second, it was assumed that modern sector
public investments which tend to benefit high-income residents'such as
those owning cars, telephones, etc., would be constrained below present
levels to about 60% of total public investment and that a significant pro-
portion of municipal revenue would be reprogrammed for investment in the
traditional sectors benefitting primarily low-income residents.
3.        As a result of the greater emphasis on the low-cost, minimum-stand-
i- development and the constraining of modern sector public investments,
some important implications for the growth pattern of the city have been
drawn in the projection exercise.  First, the ef'ects of the city continuing
.o develop along its present trends, was estimated to lead to a spread over
an area of some 175,000 ha by 1995, i.e., a more than three-fold increase
in land area, while population would also triple in twenty years. On the
basis of present density trends, this would imply that roughly one-third of
the total urban area would continue to be devoted to residential use. The
city could also spread out a ful. 10 km in all directions beyond its present
area (Map 10709). The additional land area of some 100,000 ha would add at
a minimum US$1 billion at current prices to the overall costs of development.
More expensive transport solutions would be required. The middle and high-
income area would likely grow from 4,500 to 14,750 ha, an area almost as
large as the present dense core of the city. At present development costs
of US$150,000/ha for high- and middle-income areas and US$50,000/ha for
conventional low middle-income housing, annual costs of US$80 million in
new investments would be needed if present density patterns continue.
4.        As a serious alternative to the continuation of unplanned sprawl,
there is the potential of an extremely dense pattern constraining the growth
of the urban area by a mere 30% as opposed to the 300% increase in popula-
tion. Such a pattern would imply that the future dense "core" of the city
could increase to include some 80% of the total area. This would require
a substantial effort at planning and controlling future land use and chan-
nelling private development into high-density alternatives for high- and
middle-income housing. The implications of this alternative for Jakarta's
resource balance would be dramatic--a saving in land costs of approximately
US$1 billion. Other savings could be effected due to reduced transport
network needs, and greater control of job and residential locations. In
practice, it is quite likely that only a development pattern midway between



ANNEX 2
Page 3
these extremes would be achieved. The implications of the above are drawn
in the illustrative perspective described in Table 1. The assumption is
made that annual private housing investment will build up to the US$80 mil-
lion level in a constrained manner over the next decade and will reflect
the constraint placed on conventional public investments in the modern sec-
tor. The urban development issues briefly posed above will need greater
elaboration and study and would be incorporated in the scope of work for
the proposed Metropolitan Jakarta Planning Board.
5.        The assumption of an increased IREDA base for the DKI rests on
proposals made by tax consultants to GOI as outlined in Annex 3. This is
a crucial assumption in the macro projection exercise and, more importantly,
is crucial to securing long-term financial independence for the DKI and
reducing substantially the flow of national resources into Jakarta.
6.        Implementation of a program of upgrading low-income kampungs, as
outlined in Table 2, and developing new site and service areas to accommo-
date the projected population increase in the low- and middle-income cate-
gories would require annual public investments rising from a level of US$25
million in 1975 to US$107 million by 1995. For Repelita II (1974-78) the
implied investment in these programs would be USS126 million rising more
than four-fold by Repelita VI (1994-98) to US$533 million.
7.        Table 1 shcws a macro projection of resources and investments
and illustrates the potential feasibility of the proposed approach. Over
a 20-year period assuming substantial revenue increases from the IREDA tax,
public investment in Jakarta could decline from 32% in 1975 to only 11% of
the national total in 1995. Foreign aid transfers to the municipal budget,
which in recent years have run as high as 75% of total foreign aid disbursed
in Indonesia, could be reduced as the city begins to develop its fiscal in-
dependence, and Central Government budgetary transfers could be phased out
at the end of the first decade.
Implications for Project Design
8.        From the framework of the macro level analysis, it is possible to
obtain a long-term perspective for a continuing program of site and service
schemes in conjunction with a kampung improvement program leading to an up-
grading of the entire city. The initial question was of the minimum design
standards to be adopted in projecting investment needs. The proposed proj-
ect site and service scheme is the first systematic effort in Jakarta at
promoting a new approach to low-cost community development. Design stand-
ards were developed by the Government as the minimum desirable consistent
with a balancing of Indonesian community goals and the need to maintain a
low-cost profile to benefit a vast majority of low- and middle-income house-
holds. 1/ The minimum cost of about $120 per capita in the site and service
scheme (including the core house, or $90 per capita without) is only about
one-fifth the cost of past, conventional low-cost housing programs. Yet
1/   Both project standards and costs have been updated since this indica-
tive projection exercise undertaken in July 1973.



ANNEX 2
Page  4
the minimum standards are substantially higher than presently exist in the
kampungs. They represent a level of infrastructure and services that could
be realistically attained in Jakarta's kampungs in three phases over the
next two decades (see Table 2). The transition from an unimproved condi-
tion to the first phase of improvements would involve an incremental in-
vestment of about US$30 per capita for improved areas.  The next step would
require an additional US$40 per capita and a third increase of US$60 per
capita would enable a typically unimproved kampung to reach the minimum
site and service standard, at a cumulative total investment cost of US$130
per capita. The investments required under such a program and their rela-
tionship to other public investments are outlined in Table 1.
9.        In 1973, nearly 80% of Jakarta's population lived in unimproved
or marginally improved kampungs, which represented about one-half of the
total densely urbanized area of the city (8,800 ha out of some 17,500 ha).
Consistent with the emphasis on a low-cost, minimum-standard approach and
on a constraining of investment in the modern sector, it was assumed that
over the next two decades or more, the basic mix of kampung and minimum-
standard areas in the total densely urbanized city area and the distribution
of the population probably will not change substantially. Thus, the bulk
of the projected population increase would be accommodated in new kampung
and site and service areas. For the purposes of illustration, a realistic
annual target of some 300 ha oi new site and service areas (rising to 700 ha
annually by the end of the 20-year period) has been postulated for execu-
tion. This would provide a mix by 1995 of one-third in the site and serv-
ice areas and two-thirds in other kampungs. Such a mix seems possible from
an implementation and financing standpoint.
10.       The perspective long-term program is indicated in Table 3 which
illustrates the basic feasibility of the phased approach to kampung improve-
ment. By 1995, at least 50% of the present and future kampung area would be
at the second level of development and the rest would have reached the site
and service standard. Table 3 also indicates the five-year (Repelita II-
Repelita VI) programs in both land area and possible investment cost.
11.       The proposed project represents the beginning of a minimum-standard,
low-cost program. During Repelita II (1974-78), the annual program of kampung
improvement could average about 1,700 ha starting from a base of about 1,000
ha in 1974. The kampung improvements included in the proposed project will
involve a total 1,980 ha over the first two years of Repelita II. As the
IREDA base is strengthened, the DKI could be expected to devote increasing
8sms to the KIP and accelerate the program to reach the 1,700 ha level by
the end of the plan period. The target would be to cover during Repelita II
the bulk of existing kampungs in Jakarta with at least a first round of
improvements. The site and service areas proposed in the project cover a
total of 330 ha during a two-year execution phase. 1/ During the remainder of
1/   Final formulation of the project includes only 130 ha for site and serv-
ice development. The perspective plan described in this Annex does not
reflect this change.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Repelita II, an additional 1,000 ha of new areas could be developed, an execu-
tion level of about 300 ha a year. The proposed project would thus be the
first two years of a long-term program based on the low-cost, minimum-standard
approach.
12.       Finally, the proposed minimum-standard approach would have impor-
tant long-term employment effects. Employment generated by using this ap-
proach was estimated to be sufficient to absorb the increase in the labor
force as well as cut down on the backlog of underemployed by greater use
of the traditional sector, self-help, and urban works as part of the KIP
and site and service schemes. In the site and service scheme, for example,
it was estimated that some 60 person-years of employment in the construction
industry would be generated, mostly in the modern sector, for each hectare
developed, together with some 15 person-years for each hectare in the tradi-
tional building materials industry. In addition, 60 nerson-years of employ-
ment per hectare would be generated through the involvement of new house-
holds in the labor-intensive task of constructing their own houses, and of
using other skilied and unskilled workers to help in that construction.
Significant amounts of traditional employment through a wide base of small-
scale family type activities, as well as through the development of more
locally generated retail trade would also result in 16 person-years of employ-
ment per hectare. Estimates shown in Annex 9 indicate an additional 35
person-years of employment per hectare for these traditional activities.
Annually the minimum standard programs could generate an addition of 10-20%
to total city employment.



ANNEX 2
P?ae 6
INDONESIA                                                      Tabl1e I
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Illustrative Twenty-Year Perspective
Income. Investments, Finmncine for DKI Jakarta
1975                 1980                   1985                   1990                  1995
Population /1                               (million)                 5.5                   6.9                   8.6                   10.7                  13.4
Annual Increase                           (1,000)                   250                   320                   400                   490                   620
Labor Force /2                              (1,000)                 1,650                 2,070                 2,580                 3,210                 4,020
Annual Increase                           (1,000)                    75                    96                   120                   147                   186
Regional Income 13                          (million US$)             850                 1,240                 1,800                 2,600                 3,770
Regional Income per capita               (USS)                      156                   179                   209                   243                   282
Gross Savings as II of
Regional Income                                                      12                    16                    18                    20                    22
aross Savings                               (million 'SS)             102                   200                   325                   520                   830
naves tments
'ir:mum Standard /4                      (rillion USS)              25                    37                    50                     74                   137
Oc8-r ?ablic  -v--stxents /5                 "       ' )             35                    50                    70                    95                   125
to'al /&biic l.-.est,oars                 "       " )             Ri                    87                    20                   169                    232
Hat  lousing /6                      * "          )             40                    56                     79                   112                   165
1nous:rial and  o-m -al /7                          "                75                   111                   161                   229                   335
Tot  Private 1-vestcents             (  '       " )            115                   166                   240                   3h4                    500
T7cal  nvesc.er. t                              "              175                   253                   360                    510                   }32
uezd R.everao
IRA Tax
oaeartv Value /8                      (  '       " )          4,500                 7,500                12,h00                20,900 30,.OC
aeraessrt  auccor 7.  /9                                        2S                    50                     75                    75                    7
aaaec. on  _ccor -   9                                        50                    75                    90                    90
Tax Rae/?er  il Y.  9                                                                     6                   7.5                  l0.3
.Laz'  ny cs fom  .3'
-IS                                                    37 a /4                                     79                    :4-
Tota; .axes                          (            "             39                    58                   129                   227                    379
3adge c  xoenditures
Routine /11                                                          19                    28                    41                    59                    86
Capital                                                              60                    87                   120                   169                   232
Total Budget Expenditures                                        79                  115                    161                   228                   318
Budget Deficit/Surplus                                              -40                   -47                   -32                    +1                   +61
Transfer from Central Government /12                                 15                    15                    15                    -                     -
Net Public Deficit/Surplus                                          -25                   -32                   -17                    +1                   +61
Investment/Savings Gap
Investment                                                          175                   253                   360                   510                   732
Savings                                                             102                   200                   325                   520                   830
Investment/Savings Gap                                           -73                   -53                    -35                   +10                   +98
Foreign Aid /13                                                      75                    55                    35                    -                     -
/1  The average population growth 1961-1971 was 4.67 annually. DKI has estimated that the present growth rate is 5.86  even though the "closed city policy"
has been in effect since 1970.  This policy and GOI emphasis on a balanced regional development will presumably reduce the growth of Jakarta.  As a
basis for this illustration a continuation of the 4.6% trend is assumed.
12  The labor force is presently about 307. of the population and this ratio is assumed to continue.
/3  The regional income per capita was US$134 in 1971 and the average growth rate was 47.  (Source:  Regional Income of DXI Jakarta, Census and Statistics
Office, Jakarta, 1972.)  This growth rate is assumed to exist until 1975.  Beyond 1975, a growth rate of 5% a year is assumed.
/4  Presently 347 of the population does not live in kampungs and this ratio is assumed to exist in the future.  For the increase of this population site
and service areas are assumed to be built. The cost for a site and service area is calculated at US$120 per capita. A gradual improvement in three
steps is assumed for all kampungs in order to reach site and service standards in year 2000.  It is also assumoed that 66% of the population will
continue to live in kampungs.  The population densities in the kampungs are assumed to decrease 1.57 a year.  (In most cities the densities seem to
decrease at about half the rate of the increase of per capita income.  The consultants have estimated that the average density will decrease 1.0-2.9h
per year, but their estimate is based on figures from  a period of 4% growth of per capita income, which gives an income elasticity in the interval
0.25-0.71.)
/5  Other public investments are assumed to grow around 7.57. a year until 1980 then gradually taper down to around 57. a year by 1995.  This assumption is
justified by the need for major investments in water supply, drainage/sewerage, electricity distribution and transport that are being prograrssed to
occur in the next decade.
16  Private housing investments are assumed to stay at about 5h of regional income, lower than past average levels, due to the impact of higher levels of
site and services and KIP investments.
/7  The estimate of commercial investments is based on assumed cost of US$1,000 per person entering the labor force.  1970 investment in Jakarta was about
US$300 million.
/8  The total property value in Jakarta is assumed to grow at the same rate as the regional income if no infrastructure investments are made.  These
investments tend to increase the land value 2-10 times. Since the IREDA tax for residential properties is based on land values it is assumed that the
relative tax base for IRBDA will double over the next 25 years.
19  The assessment ratio and the collection rate are assumed to increase over the next 10 years.  The assumed increases are in line with the reco-ssendations
of the holland-Oldman Tax Study.
/10 Other taxes are assumed to grow at the same rate as the regional income.
711 The routine budget is assumed to grow at the same rate as the regional income.
712 Transfers from the central government are assumed to be kept on their present level of Us$10-IS million per year until DKI's budget deficit disappears.
/13 Foreign aid disbursed for Jakarta in 1972 amounted to US$110 million.



ANNEX 2
~Page 7
INDONESIA                                                        Table 2
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOP!MENT PROJECT
Illustrative Scandards for Incremental
Kampuns Improvement /1
Level 0                     Level I                  Level II               Level III                Sites & Services
Typical Unimproved            .CIP for the 0980s      XIP  for the  1990s      KIP for year 2000/2         project Stardards
Kasmpungs
Rcads and          Dirt roads and dirt        90 r paved rcad/ha      150 af raved road/ha    150 a paved road/ha        123 m paved roads/ha
Footpaths        fzotpaths.                 121 a gaved foot-       250 a paved foot-        450 m paved  'oot-        300 m paved footpaths/ha
path/ha                 path/ha                  path/ha 'all lots
with access to road
o, 'ootnath)
Drainage           large areas flooded        PriMary irairage        Only infrequent          Dry-                      Dry.
along roads and         flooding of minor
fotpaths, only          areas.
minor areas
flooded.
Water              Olz pipe systems          Rehabilitaticr of        80, of all lots          Private connections       Private connections to
exist   tcertral          z-'d -ie system         -with orivate             -o the municinal          tile municiral system.
k3r=pungs; no pu-blin     -rz enew  Icon           onnecti=ns; --e          syszem.
-ystcm _n-erigherli        ys   c-    ne           zub'-c -an zer
noL z3z-:gz; -.G fol-2l_   -'_Z_iZ -aD  er  two '-a.
-werarte --a 2s .u                       e; 2-a.-rzbr                                     ?
_ea,era,e ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~- :.  ulzz:l-   -   'Z _   C'   -raease  rim-acer  ,r:vazs sentat fanos     r-ze_-'  -*rS
_.Lm  en trcmber zf       S^ -rasng i    L:n       z- trivan-e 3erjzc       or mun2.cial seweraSe
orsI-Vate seotno in2 oer -wo ha;                   :sno  begrining         systemr.
tanks.                    vsa- nr3   clo. .             m nunicisal
sewerage system.
G-arbage           A limited number           Cne public garbage      Improved public          Improved public           2.3 public garbage box/ha
of public garbage         box/ha; one hsnd         collection.              collection.               Collection from box by
boxes.                     truck for garbage                                                          garbage truck.
per 6 ha; garbage
trucks.
Electricity        Overloaded,                Not improved.            Street lights.          Private connections       None.  (Connections to
inadequate system                                                           to all lots.              all lots by year 2000.)
in same kampumgs,
with few private
connections; no
street lighting;
no electricity in
many kampungs.
Approximate                                   US$30                   US$70                    US$130
Cumulative
Investment /3
Approximate                                   US$30                   uS$40                    us$60                     US$90 (excluding land and
Incremental                                                                                                            housing).
Investment /3h
/1   This illustrative table was prepared in August 1973 based on infrastructure cost estirmates at that time.  Since it was prepared as an indicative
exercise, it has not been revised to reflect continuing price increases since that time.
/2   To obtain a level of service in KIP at year 2000 equivalent to that in Sites and Services more expensive infrastructure may be required, due to
the unplanned nature of existing kampungs.
/3   Per capita (1973 prices).



INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVEI.LLOPF'NT 'PRO.JECT
Twenty-Year Perspective - MilliMsIA-Standard Progranis
1975                      1980                          1985                           1990                          1995
Jakarta total population (million)                                  5.5                       6.9                           8.6                           10.7                          13.4
Densely urbanized city area (ha)                                 18,000                    25,000                        33,000                         43,600                        50,000
Kanpung area (ha)                                                 9,340                    11,390                        13,960                         17,180                        22,600
Sites and services area (ha)                                        560                     2.210                           2_45                         6820                         10.000
Total minimum-standard areas (ha)                                 9,900                    13,600                        18,200                         24,000                        32,600
Population in minimum-standard area (million)                       3.8                       4.7                            6.1                           7.9                          10.6
Minimum-Standard Areas (ha)
aimpung area at less than Level I Standards                    2,440
At Level I Standards                                           6,900                     9,690                         5,790
At Level II Standards                                              -                     1,700                         8,100                         16,460                        12,400
At Level III Standarda                                                          -                                           -                           720                        10,200
Sites and Services area                                          560                     2,210                         4,240                          6,820                        10,000
Annual Programs (ha)
KIP Level I                                                    1,230                       670                            850                         1,000                         1,400
"    II                                                      -                      1,000                         1,530                          1,690                        1,400
"    "    III                                           -                         -                              -                           720                         2,300
Sites and Services                                               300                       400                           520                            620                           690
1974-78                   1979-83                       1984-.88                       1989-93                       1994-98
Five-Year Programs (ha)
KIP Level I                                                    6,700                     3,500                         4,100                          5,200                         7,300
"    II                                 ~                                     5,800                          3,850                         7,300                         7,300
"1 "    III                                             --                                                       -                         6,200                        13,000
Sites and Services                                             1,400                     2,000                         2,600                          3,100                         3,450
Five-Year Programs (US$ million)
KIP Level I                                                       81                        37                             41                            52                            7
"    "  II                               ~                                      81                            120                             95                           95
"    "    ' III                                        -                         -                              -                            120                          255
Sites and Services                                                45                        65                             65                           100                           1LO
Total Investment Minimum-Standard Programs (US$ million)            125                       183                            246                            367                          533                    sI j
O,s 



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jakarta Real Estate Tax (IREDA)-/
A. Evaluation of the Present Structure of IREDA
1.        Adroit and ingenious tax management has kept Jakarta's revenues
rising over the last five years at a rate rapid enough to prevent the city
from falling behind in the services it provides. But from its tax structure,
as currently designed and administered, a continuation of this kind of per-
formance over the next five years is unlikely. To keep its services up to
their present level, as a modest goal, or to raise enough revenue in addi-
tion to permit Jakarta to start to meet pressing needs that have been long
deferred, the DKI must develop a major source of additional revenue.
2.        For this purpose, an obvious choice would be a tax on real estate.
Indeed, this tax is a major component of the revenue structure of many if
not most large cities throughout the world. Jakarta already levies a tax
on property, 2/ but currently, it represents a modest effort. IREDA ac-
counted for about 4% of the DKI total receipts in FY71. In the usual
case, however, the cities that have a property tax draw on it more heavily;
characteristically receipts from this base range between one-fifth and one-
half of total revenues.
3.        There are several reasons for the prominent role of property
taxation in municipal finarce. Administratively real estate is a good
base for local governments to tax because it cannot be hidden from the
tax collector and it cannot be moved to another jurisdiction. Moreover,
within reasonable limits, its value can be established objectively with-
out the need to have recourse to taxpayer records that may or may not
exist (or, if they exist, that may or may not be made available). Finally,
land and improvements are a major component of wealth, which is highly
concentrated in its distribution and whose value benefits from the growth
of the economy and the Government's provision of infrastructure and current
1/   This Annex was exerpted from the Summary and Recommendations chapter
of the Jakarta Real Estate Tax Study Final Report dated October 1972
by Professors D. Holland of Massachusetts Institute of Technology and
0. Oldman of Harvard University. The Study was financed under the IDA
Technical Assistance Credit for Indonesia.
2/   The designations "real estate" and "property9 are used synonymously.



ANNEX 3
Page  2
services. It would be hard to argue that real estate, whose value has been
skyrocketting in Jakarta, cannot be called on to provide substantially more
revenue for the City. Certainly the value of real property far exceeds the
value of automobiles in the DKI. Yet, taxes on the latter come to 25% of
Jakarta's revenues compared with 4% from real estate. A tax on property
will serve to get at those who have avoided or evaded the personal income
tax for investment in business property and luxury housing are major ways
of holding wealth.
4.        A two-year study of IREDA, however, indicates that it should not
be used as the mechanism for raising several times the current amount of
revenue, without major modification. IREDA requires improvements before
it can be expected to play a major role in the DKI's fiscal structure.
5.        From a sample of market values it appeared that the tax is now
levied at a very low rate. The law stipulates that IREDA be levied at 5%
of annual value, which is equivalent to 0.4% of capital value.  At present,
however, IREDA assessments come to about 0.1% of market value, on average.
Moreover, only about half of each year's IREDA is collected. Further re-
search showed that the structure of effective rates of IREDA on individual
properties is characterized by a very wide dispersion. T^he law provides
that all properties shall be taxed at one and the same rate. But, in fact,
IREDA assessments constitute a widely varying percentage of individual
properties. Less than one-third of the properties analyzed were subject
to effective rates that diverged from the overall average by less than 30%.
For more than two-fifths of the properties, the IREDA rate diverged by more
than 50% from the average rate for all properties. Experience indicates
that such a wide dispersion of effective rates constitutes a strong obsta-
cle to raising more revenue from a given tax. Strong taxpayer resistance
and undue distortions could be expected if the DKI sought, for example,
to quadruple its IREDA receipts and thereby, on average, tax property at
the rate now stipulated in the law. Too many taxpayers would feel they
are paying too "high" a tax, and could point to a large number of taxpayers
who would be paying too "low" a tax. In the face of such a wide variation
in applicable rates tax administrators, understandably, will be reluctant
to enforce for all properties a tax that is a heavy burden on some and a
light one on others. The uneven collection of IREDA--collections average
50% of assessments, and this ratio varies with respect to sections of the
City, the value of real estate, and the uses to which it is put-serves to
constrain IREDA's revenue potential even more.
6.        Very simply, IREDA which has already been improved considerably
since its inception in 1967, still needs further major improvements before
it can become a primary revenue source for Jakarta. The most important
recommendation in this respect is that market value be made the basis for
IREDA assessment, replacing the Index that has been used since the inception
of the tax. This is not as revolutionary as it sounds; this recommendation
seeks to achieve a more consistent structure of relative values as the
basis for IREDA assessments. Market value, incidentally, is the predominant
choice among cities that levy a tax on real estate. Relative market value is



ANNEX 3
Page  3
what the' Index was designed to provide, but which, clearly, it is not now
achieving. Rephrasing this recommendation highlights its close correspond-
ence to the initial objectives of IREDA. It is recommended that the Index
values be made to accord more closely, ideally in 1 to 1 correspondence,
with market values.
7.        To this end, it is further suggested that a land value map be
developed for the DKI and that a capability be built up for the appraisal
of individual properties. Meeting these objectives will require new offices
in both the DKI and Central IREDA.  This follows because both levels of gov-
ernment are involved in IREDA and, because what works in Jakarta could be
applied in other cities in Indonesia. The DKI needs a Valuations Operations
Office to prepare the land value map, develop adjustment factors for speci-
fic plot characteristics, and build up a corps capable of appraising the
value of individual properties. The Central Government needs a Valuations
Research and Training Office to participate in the PKI's improved valuation
effort, capture the lessons learned there from the transmission to other
cities, and serve as a training and research resource for Jakarta and such
other cities that would seek these services.
B. Revenue Potential of Improved IREDA
8.        The program required to implement the above recommendations will,
of course, require additional government outlays. But improving IREDA
should have one of the highest benefit-cost ratios of any government pro-
gram. The study of IREDA in Jakarta suggests that improvements in assess-
ments and collections could be the basis for a very large increase in revenues
from this tax. It is estimated that if assessments were improved to the
point where they were effectively the 5% of annual value (0.4 of market
value) called for in the law, IREDA liabilities (and revenues) would be
about four times their present amount. Moreover, improving collections
from their present rate of about half to substantially 100% of assessments
would also lead to about a quadrupling of revenues from IREDA. Since IREDA
collections were 500 million in 1971/72 (Table 1), the eight-fold increase
(a factor of 4 for raising effective rates, and another factor of 4 for
doubling collection percentage) would mean Rp 4 billion a year for the DKI
from IREDA.
9.        It is utopian, however, to expect perfection either as regards
assessments or collections; 2 to 2.5 billion more a year from IREDA might be
more realistic. But, of course, an effective rate of 0.4% is quite modest in
the light of experience in other cities. Over the longer pull, an effective
rate as high as 1% might be the target. If achieved, additional IREDA reve-
nues would be on the order of Rp 5-6 billion annually. The cost to implement
the improved program has been generously estimated assuming that as many as
100 high level civil servants, each receiving an annual salary of Rp 1 mil-
lion, were required for the program when it stabilized. After the build-up
period, traceable to the 100 million in costs would be at least 2 billion
in additional revenue each year, possibly more.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       There would be further benefits from the program.  The inventory
of the City's real estate and catalog of its prices that would be generated
for Jakarta would be an invaluable tool in planning land use and development
in the DKI. The Central Government income tax authorities would find the
information on property values and ownership a great help in income tax ad-
ministrators of the DKI's Baat Belasting and the Central Government's wealth
tax. Finally, the lessons learned in Jakarta improving IREDA and raising ad-
ditional revenue from it would be of benefit to a number of cities in Indo-
nesia.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Table 1
I1NDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMfNT PROJECT
Realized Revenues of the DKI Government 1970/71 - 1972/73
and Budgeted Revenues 1973/74t
(Rp million)
Budgeted
1970/71    1971/72    1972/73              1973/74
I. Subsidies and Revenue Sharing
from Central Government
1.  Subsidies                      2,062       2 ,654     3,371                6,000
2.  Revenue share - fuel             428        403         5L4                  380
3. Revenue share - export tax        311        554         387                  350
2)bl       -3=,6      4 ,302    2208       6,730
T7.  IRMA Property Tax                    13L4        500        724      3.8         750
7TI.  Local taxes
Motor vehicle tax              1,013      1,565       2,342                2,00
Automobile transfer tax        1,809      1,849       2,435                1,650
Eitertairnent                    499        619       1,003                1,000
Hotel, restaurant                212        388         621                  830
Radio                             76          39         75                   50
Foreigner                         -          52         383                  200
-   Other                           87         76        164                   165
3vM9b      LL,568     7,023     3702        5,895
IV. Fees, charges, retributions           142         454      1,141     601         706
V. Revenue from government
owned enterprises                  28         57         128       .7          70
VI. Special Revenues
Lottery tax                      584        463         425                  500
Casino tax                     1 613      1 882       2,586                2,250
3,9011    160o       2,750
7II.  Other DKI Revenues                 1,167       1,462      2,531     13Q4          299
Total Revenues               10,165     13,017      18,860    100.0      17,535
_L5



ANN   3
nfDOAEM                                                Page 6
Table 2
JAKARTA URBAN DEVPN3NT PROECT
Realized  xpenditures of the Dl: Governrent 1970/71 - 1972/73
and Budgeted Ependitures 1973/74
(Rp mi.llion)                                                     73/74
1970/71         71/72           ?2/73      Total  Budget
Routine Budget
I., DXI Government Administration                     14288.5          1,805.8         2,534.1   19.2% 1,967.7
II. Government Offices
Public Aorks                                    167.1            204.6           271.5             280.0
City Planning                                                       -             124.5            120.0
Education                                          97.7           213.7           169.4             820.1
City Health                                      115.4            155.2           185.7            255-.2
Social Affairs                                    32.8             42.4            59.1              71.4
Sanitation                                       139.9            193.9           247.3             709.0
r revention                                      55.S             71.1            98.4             168.0
I'r f ic                                          30.4             33.9            57.5 51.7
Ceimetertes                                        20.9            26.0            35.3              40.4
Husbazdry                                         12.9             13.8            17.4              19.5
Agriculture                                         8.5            11.9            16.1              18.2
Forestry                                           6.2              7.0            10.8             16.0
'ishery                                            3.9              6.0             .5                9.6
Sea Fishery                                         7.7            11.9            14.6             14.0
Industry                                            7.3            10.2            15.6              21.3
"ax & Revenrues                                   48.5            197.9           238.1             225.0
Hcusir.g                                          10.5             17.1            20.6              21.3
,uditing                                          13.8            17.1             22.6             24.5
7ard Afairs                                        6.o             10.1            1C .?
Coo-Dera-"e                                       2.7              4.2            !4.9               7.2
Cultural ASfairs                                   7.4             10.7            11.0             13.0
.useu0 dL tristory                         12.2             21.4            19.0              25.0
Parks                                               -              20.4            91.0            100.O
Tourism                                                            14.3            16.7              24.2
Sports                                             -                -               -               11.3
808.0         1,314.8         1,766.5  13.4   3,109.6
IIT. _,elfare and Civi Servants                         1.217    .           8_          1 648&.6   I P 5   11,4 7
IV. Other Expenditures                                    175.6           357.1           415.5    3.2      377.0
V. Emergency Funds                                                        93.9            43.1    .3        61.1
Total Routine Budget                      3I489.2          5,409.9         6,407.8   48.7   7,000.1
Development Budget
Admim.stration                                           661.7           714.5           495.0    3.8  1,355.5
Public Security Order                                   113.8            151.5           143.5    1.1      213.0
Public Health                                         1,732.6          2,046.7         1,582.5  12.0   2,275.5
Infrastructure                                         2,472.0         3,527.9         2,964.7   22.5   4,204.0
General Econony                                           91.7           117.7           219.5   1.7       337.0
Kampong Improvement                                   1,013.2 (10.6%) 1,254.3 (9.3%) 1,176.5    8.9   1,900.0(10.8%)
Sports Festival                                            -             250.7           175.0    1.3      250.0
Total Development 3idget            6,o85.o         8,063.3          6,756.7   51.3  10,535.0
Total Budget                  9,574.2        13,473.2        13,164.5  100.0  17,535.1



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Design Standards and Cost Estimates
Part I
KampunR Improvement Program
1.        The design standards for the ±mprovements _n those kampungs which
were upgraded in Repelita I varied from one kampung to another. This reflected
the particular needs of a given residential area and the different level of
infrastructural services in the city's kampungs. The actual work und2r!taken
in the Repelita I program was determined by the city authorities after tak-:
into account the particular demands of the inhabitants of each kamuncg.
2.        Design standards for the Repelita II KIP are based on an evalU;-tien
of the Repelita I program.  These standards have been reviewed by the ission
and form the basis of the cost estimates. A comparison of the Repelita I
and Repelita II standards appear in Table 1.
3.        Cost estimates have been prepared by the KIP Project Unit in the
DKI for the first year of the program where specific kampungs and work items
have been identified. Estimates for the second year are based on first-year
costs per hectare. For details on unit costs see Table 2.
Roads and Footpaths
4.        Three different road designs will be used depending on the nature
of the traffic to be carried:
Right-of-Way    Paved Surface   Typical Base                 Traffic
6 m             4 m            20/20/5 -        Heavy loads prohibited.
Limited ROW available.
8 m             4 n            20/20/5          Heavy loads prohibited.
Provision for future
pavement widening.
10 m             6 m            15/15/10/5       Heavy loads permitted.
1/   Actual sub-base thickness will vary according to soil strengths.
2/   Sand/Broken Stone/Binder Course surface - all in cm.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
The first two designs are based on the Telford system which is common practice
in Indonesia and heavily loaded traffic will be prohibited. The third design
for heavy loads will include a 40 cm base of sand and broken and graded stones.
All roads will have a 1 m concrete drain on either side. These roads will
open the kampungs to garbage trucks, fire engines, ambulances and small buses.
5.        The footpaths will have a 3m right-of-way, a 1.5m wide 6 cm concrete
pavement on a 10 cm sand layer and concrete drainways on both sides.
Drainage Canals
6.        Flooding during the rainy season is a serious problem in most
kampungs.  Extensive drainage works are, therefore, an essential element of
the improvement program. Secondary drainage is included in the road and foot-
path design by providing drainways on both sides of all roads and-paths. The
cost for these drainways is included in the roadworks costs. These secondary
drainways flow into open primary drains which will be constructed in each
kampung. The primary drains in turn flow into the city's main drainage
canals. 1/ About 42 km of primary open drains will be constructed during the
first year.
Water Supply
7.        Improvement in water service and toilet/washing facilities is a
hi-- -rior-ty among residents in both improved and unimproved kampungs.  Tne
city is badly in need of an improved network including a secondary distribu-
tion system to supply public toilet facilities and washing areas (MCKs) in
the kampungs and to provide for regular water points which can be used for
fire fighting. A detailed study of the first-year kampungs indicates that
most of the kampungs can be connected with the city mains. However, six
deep tube wells have been included in the cost estimates for those kampungs
outside the reach of the city system.
8.        The main lines will be laid along the improved roads from which
there will be offtakes to public hydrants.  Between each hydrant will be
two stub lines leading from either side of the main line to the edge of
the road where they will surface above the flood culverts beside the road.
These stubs will provide service for those residents along the road who wish
to have private connections to their houses. With the mains running along
the road and visible connection points above the culverts, illegal con-
nections, which presently absorb up to 40% of Jakarta's piped water, should
be minimized.
9.        The average consumption of water in Jakarta is estimated by PAM to
be 80 1/capita/day; however, actual consumption in the southern kampungs
of the city by those residents who have their own wells is about 45 1/capita/
day. A recent survey in the northern areas of the city, where residents have
1/ The citywide drainage system, consisting of rivers and canals, was de-
signed for a city of 600,000 and is consequently totally insufficient.
The NEDECO consultant team has prepared a master plan for drainage and
flood control that calls for an extensive system of canals and polders
and substantial land fills. The kampung improvement program will be
coordinated with the master system.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
to buy water from vendors, shows that consumption drops as low as 7.3
I/capita/day for drinking and cooking water. Water for personal ablution and
clothes washing comes either from wells or the canals. On the basis of these
figures, 30 1/capita/day is proposed as the consumption from the public
hydrants and MCKs and 50 1/capita/day from the individual connections. The
piping system, however, will be designed with a potential capacity to meet a
future demand of 60 1/capita/day.
Sewage and Garbage Disposal
10.       Only 25% of the houses in the first-year kampungs have septic tanks.
The balance, therefore, used rivers, canals or neighbor's facilities. Very
few public washing and toilet facilities (MCKs) were provided in -the Repelita
I program.
11.       MCKs ranked high among the needed improvements in the household
survey. Based on these considerations, the project will provide 91 12-seat
MCKs in the first year. An MCK consists of a covered toilet space with
12 seats, a space for washing clothes and separate washing spaces for men
and women and a septic tank.
12.       The effluent of the septic tank will be discharged by sewerage
pipes to nearby main drainage canals. Although this is not an ideal solu-
tion, it is an improvement over the existing situation where the major part
of the human waste goes directly to the canals.
13.       At the moment, the Dinas Kebersihan DKI Jakarta iCity Sanitation
Department) has eight vacuum trucks with a capacity of 5 m each. In addi-
tion, there are seven trucks owned by private companies. This is, of course,
inadequate to meet the demands of the city and many septic tanks, especially
MCKs are consequently clogged and not functioning properly. To initiate a
better sludge collection system, the3project includes the purchase of two
vacuum trucks with a capacity of 5 m for the first year. Operation and
maintenance will be the responsibility of the City Sanitation Department.
The residents will eventually be charged for these services.
14.       The City Sanitation Department is responsible for the collection
of garbage. It is supposed to be picked up from the streets or from collect-
ing points in the kampungs by street sweepers employed by the Sanitation
Department. With the help of baskets or wooden carts, it is brought to main
collection points where it is transported by truck to dumping places in or
near the city. Frequently, the garbage is used in the kampung itself for
fill.  The Sanitation Department3has some 200 trucks in operation, with an
average loading capacity of 15 m per working day. The available capacity
meets no more than about 65% of the total demand of the city. The remaining
part is collected by private initiative (markets and industry) or is dumped
in the canals where it contributes to the flooding problems and poses a fur-
ther health hazard.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
15.       To alleviate this problem, the 3project will provide 36 concrete
garbage boxes, each with a volume of 6 m during the first year. In order
to 5ransport the garbage to the boxes, about 250 carts, with a capacity of
2 m , will be provided as a part of the project. In addition, 6 garbage
trucks will be included to remove the contents from the boxes to the City's
dumps.
Schools and Health Clinics
16.       School attendance in Jakarta falls below established national
standards of compulsory elementary education. Although the average elemen-
tary (grades 1 - 6) attendance level is about 68% of those children who are
of an eligible age, the attendance level is only about 20% in th_e densely
populated kampungs to be improved as part of the project.1/ Therefore, as
expansion of KIP beyond the scope of physical works executed during Pelita I,
the DKI plans to add a sufficient number of elementary school spaces so that
by operating schools, as is the current practice, on the basis of double
sessions it will be possible to accommodate twice the number of children
presently attending elementary school. The municipal Departme2t of Education
plans to construct 49 schools, each measuring a total of 600 m with 6 class-
rooms in those kampungs included in the first-year program. It is assumed
that a similar number will be included in the second year. Each classroom
will be designed for a capacity of about 44 children. The cost of accuiring
the land will be borne by the Department of Education and has not been in-
cluded in the cost estimate. The DKI development budget for education is
about Rp 4 billion, of which Rp 3.3 billion will be utilized for elementary
school construction. The proposed Education Department development budget
for Pelita II is Rp 27 billion. The cost of additional teaching staff will
be provided by the Department of Education.
17.       The Jakarta Department of ealth has a program to construct small
health clinics, each measuring 150 m , in tle 227 kelurahans (subdistricts)
of the city. Large clinics measuring 500 m have already been constructed
in the city's 22 kecamatans (districts). In two years (1972-73), 51 small
clinics were completed. The remainder of the program will be completed in
a four-year period (1974-78) assuming 21 of the small clinics are included
in the project kampungs improved during the first year which are not pres-
ently served by such clinics. In the second year of the project, health
clinics will also be included for those kampungs which are not served by a
kelurahan clinic. Each of the clinics will have a staff of eight persons,
headed by a qualified physician. Family planning services will also be
available at each clinic.
1/  In 1973,some Jakarta primary schools were operating on eight shifts per
day with only 45 minutes of instruction for some students.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Part II
Sites and Services
18.       The standards used in the design of the site and service program
have been developed to provide a substantially higher service level than
presently exists in the urban kampungs of Jakarta, while keeping costs low
enough to enable low-income families to purchase lots. The number of lots
and the proportion of roads and open spaces are shown in Table 3.
19.       The cost estimates were prepared by PTB based on their experience
on similar projects in Jakarta (see Table 4).
Land Cost and Compensation
20.       The DKI Government has been urged for some time to acquire land for
low-income housing development but has been slow to respond due to budgetarv
limitations. During this period land values have increased substan.,3 1a
The Government has agreed that the purchasers of the 80 rm and ;40 m- lots
would not have tQ bear the increase in land costs from Rp 500/im  in April
1973 to Rp 693/m  in January 1974 which occurred due to administratdva
delays. Instead, incremental costs w"'ll be borne by the DKI as a _arta
subsidy.
Site Preparation
21.       The need for clearing and leveling is small since the site at
Klender is mostly under paddy. Other than some tree cutting, the site
occupants will be expected to do their own individual lot grading where
necessary.
Internal Infrastructure
22.       Drainage.  Topographic studies show that a primary drainage system
is required. Further studies were undertaken to determine the amount of
rainwater accumulation and to draw up a drainage plan. Based on these studies
secondary drainage along roadworks and footpaths and a collector main drainage
canal will be constructed. The cost of the secondary drainage is included
in the costs of the roads and footpaths.
23.       Roads and Footpaths.  The main and secondary roads and footpaths
have been designed on the following principles:
(a) Developing a system of roads to restrict access to specific
vehicles within the site areas;
(b) Probable carrying loads, i.e. vehicles expected to use specific
roads; and



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(c) Location of roads and footpaths so that all residents are within
walking or becak distance of buses and bemos.
The three types of roadways have the following design features:
(a) Main roads designed for heavy traffic such as buses and trucks.
They have a 15 m right-of-way, a 5 m pavement (with traffic
restricted to 4 m between curb stones) constructed according to
the macadam system (for example - 15 cm base, 15 cm broken stone,
10 cm gravel and 5 cm asphalt penetration), grass shoulders of 4 m
width and 1 m wide drainage gutters on both sides. ThAe 4 m
shoulders will permit later widening of the pavements without
increasing the right-of-way.
(b) Secondary roads designed to be used by small bemos, private cars
and becaks. They have a 7 m right-of-way, a 3 m macadam pavement,
1.25 m shoulders and 0.75 m drainage gutters on both si,les.
(c)  Footpaths have a 3 m right-of-way, 1.5 m wide and 6 cm thick con-
crete pavements and drainage gutters of 0.75 m on both sides.
Access will be restricted to pedestrians, bicycles and becaks.
Concrete pavement rather than bitumen will be used because it
is more easily constructed and less costly to maintain.
24.       Water Supply. Each lot will be connected to the municipal water
system through the extension of existing mains to the sites. Various dis-
tribution systems have been studied in. detail. The least cost system in-
cluded one public water fiydrant per 30 households, with an average walking
distance of 40 m. However, the benefits of private water taps within each
lot were considered by the Goverrment and the mission to outweigh the in-
cremental cost estimated to be about 3.5%.
25.       The system is designed for a per capita consumption of 60 1 per
day, which is about 10 1 more than the present consumption of low- and
middle-income people in Jakarta. It is also more than the available con-
sumption figures for comparable cities in South Asia. There will be suffi-
cient pressure to provide each household with 300 1 per day.
26.       The city municipal water authority (PAW) will charge a flat monthly
rate of Rp 200 instead of metering the water, which will reduce both investment
and operating costs. Currently, most city water is metered and a minimum
monthly charge of Rp 170 is made.
27.       Sewage Collection, Treatment and Disposal.  No central sewage
treatment exists in Jakarta 1/. The canal system acts as the open sewage
collectors. The only treatment of sewage is by septic tank, relying on
1/   A study for a Jakarta Sewerage Master Plan, including preliminary engi-
neering and feasibility studies, has been proposed as a possible UNDP
project.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
aerobic bacterial action, with final distribution through a sand filter and
percolation in the ground. In the northern part of the city, the soil is so
impervious and the water table so high that most of the effluent of the sep-
tic tank goes directly and untreated to the open drainage gutters and canals.
28.       Septic tanks and seepage pits, each servicing four lots, will be
provided. The soil is sufficiently permeable and the water table low enough
to permit satisfactory seepage from the pits. The costs of the septic tanks
and seepage pits have been included in the core house3 To ensure proper
maintenance of the tanks, one vacuum truck with a 5 m capacity will be
provided.
29.       Garbage Collection and Disposal.  The collection and disposal of
solid wastes will be achieved through the provision of wooden garbage carts
and concrete 6 m boxes. The carts will be used to collect the garbage from
the houses and deposit it in the boxes. There will be one box per 7,000
people and 3 carts per box. One garbage truck will be provided to collect
refuse from the boxes and remove it.
30.       Electricity and Telephone.  These services are not provided for
the following reasons:
(a) Present power facilities are heavily overloaded with only
20% of the city receiving service;
(b) Experience in Jakarta shows that the availability of electricity
tends to increase land speculation; and
(c) Telephone service is at present so expensive that only businesses
and high-income people can afford it.
The National Electric Company (PLN) will eventually extend these services
as capacity permits.
31.       Community Facilities.  An essential part of a site and service
project is the provision of community facilities. There are three categories
of community facilities:
(a) Public facilities provided by the central or municipal government,
such as schools, health clinics, police and fire station, post
office and recreation areas. These facilities are provided as
part of the project;
(b) Public facilities provided by the local community-, such as mosques
and community centers; and
(c) Commercial facilities, such as small shops and markets. While
these facilities are provided by the owners, the cost of the land
is included as a part of the project.



ANNEX 4
Pn.e 8
32.       These community facilities are based on the existing RW, RT and
Camat system of community organization discussed in Annex 9. The nature of
the facilities, and the number of people served by each facility, are based
on present planning standards in Jakarta.
33.       Educational Facilities.  It is the responsibility of the DKI to
provide schools for primary education (7-12 years old) and the Central
Government for secondary education (12-15 years old).- The DKI educational
system for primary or elementary schools now operates basically on a two-
shift basis. The schools for the site and service area will operate on
a two-shift basis; however, sufficient land is provided for nearly doubling
the amount of schools as attendance levels increase. The funds that are
provided in the project are based on providing spaces for 60% of the
eligible school age children to attend based on 1972 Jakarta records that
68% of the school age elementary children were enrolled. Fifteen percent
of the population of Jakarta is of elementary school age and 2.2% is of
secondary school age; however, not all children attend school since the
family has to provide a tuition fee and meet the cost of all books and
materials. However, textbooks are now in production as part of IDA Credit
387-IND which will be distributed to all elementary schools free of charge.
Presently, one ten-classroom primary school (630 m ) is built for 1,200
families. 1/ In order to provide appropriate area for playgrounds and open
space, the schools in the project will be allocated 3,000 m- of land. A
community of approximately 3,000-5,000 households forms the basis for a
six-classroom secondary school. 2/ The design of the school and its
facilities varies, depending on the discipline taught. The secondary
schools would provide training for both students and adults related to
nearby employment opportunities.
34.       Health Facilities.  The DKI is now making a major effort to expand
the level of health services, including family planning, with the objective
of providing one Primary Health Center for each Kelurahan (sub-district).
At Klender two types of health facilities will be provided, the Small Health
Clinic for out-patients and the Large Community Clinic with the more
specialized services including in-patient facilities:
(a) Small Health Clinic (Polyclinic). It is equivalent in size to the
Small Kelurahan Primary Health Center. The purpose of this poly-
clinic is to provide diagnostic services and administer and dispense
medications. The staffing of this facility would include: doctor,
dentist, administrator, two assistants, nurse, mid-wife and labora-
tory worker. Not all of these staff members would be full-time and
many would operate from this facility only one or two day! per week.
The space requirements for a Small Health Clinic is 200 m building
area and 300 m lot area.
1/ This gives, an average class size of 40-50 students on a two-shift basis.
2/ This gives an average class size of 30-35 students on a two-shift basis.



ANNEX. 4
Page 9
(b) Large Community Clinic. One facility per site will provide more
specialized care and take referral cases from the smaller poly-
clinics as well as emergency cases. It will have 25 beds for
in-patients. Staff of this facility will also serve the smaller
clinics on a part-time basis, but this large clinic shall serve
as their main base. Staffing of this facility would include:
doctor, dentist, dental assistant, two administrators, two chemist
assistants, two nurses, two mid-wives, two PKEs, two laborers and
a custodian. Other extension workers would also serve in this
facility.
35.       Recreation Area.  The site plans have been prepared taking into
account the need for open space for recreation.  Each group of 184 lots forms
a cluster around a common green space. The green spa5e rw7ould have a badminton
court and child en's play area of approximately 200 m (78 m- for badminton
court and 120 m  for play area).  Larger play areas for soccer and other
sports would be combined with the secondary schools. Approximately every
1,160 lots would be served by a recreation space of about 3,000 m . The
equipment for these areas will be provided by each neighborhood.
36.       Community Organizational Services.  Part of the success oI a project
with this population density is dependent upon providing community facilities
that will reinforce the alreadv established spirit of `.otong-rzyogl' or ccm-
munity particiDation that exists in Indonesian cities and towuns.  TFis mnans
providing facilities and space for community organizations and religious par-
ticipation. The following facilities are planned.
(a)  Community centers  for approximately 1,160 households will serve
as a central gathering place for meetings and as a center for legal
aid offices, job training center and day care center. It will be
centrally located to help form a neighborhood cluster. The facility
will be simple and it would be constructed and equipped by the com-
munity it serves and at their cost;
(b) The RW's Office is an integral part of the community structure.
His office is not provided by the Government and, therefore, his
home acts as his office and constituents' meeting place;
(c) Police posts will be scattered throughout the sites. They are
built in a variety of ways, by "gotong-royoIg", by companies, by
the DKI and by the police. An area of 30 m in each cluster of
approximately 200 lots is set aside for this function. The post
building itself will be built once the community has taken form;
2
(d)  Mosques.  200 m  is provided for a small mosque for every 200 lots.
These are the centers of community religious life. The mosques
will be built by the Ministry of Religion with self-help from the
community; and



ANNEX 4
Paee 10
(e)  Transportation Terminals.  For every 1,200 lots there will be a
parking space for becaks which provide the main mode of transport
within the site.  A central bus terminal for each site will be
located in the center of the site near the major market and other
community activities. This terminal will serve oplets and regular
buses that run to the city's employment centers.
37.       Municipal Services.  The city government provides facilities for
safety, security and communication. A combined fire station, police office
and post office is included at each site. The central post office for the
area would be located in the municipal services complex. These facilities
will serve a larger population than the site occupants, due to the shortage
of existing facil'tves of this type in the vicinity.
38.       Commercial and Industrial Space.  There are basically three types
of commercial and industrial areas included;
(a) Small shops and craft manufacturing that is done in the home provide
additional income to lcw-income families. No site area is set
aside for these small shops;
(b) Shops and manufacturing within a small neighborhood cluster.
About ten shops will be provided for a2populatio  of 1,000 people.
These shops average approximately 25 m or 250 m per 1,000 persons.
The land for these shops would be sold or rented by the land
development organization and revenues would be reinvested in the
site in the form of site improvements and maintenance; and
(c) Markets (pasars) will be provided for a population of approximately
5,000 households. The area qf these markets are designed on the
basis of approximately 114 m per 1,000 persons served. In addi-
tion to these large markets, small neighborhood markets will serve
the areas near the neighborhood stores. It is anticipated that a
large number of shops will be oriented towards building materials
and supplies to service those who will be constructing their own
houses. Other shops will provide daily necessities and staples and
small manufacturing will generally reflect that of the surrounding
large employment centers and those industries which are home-craft
oriented.
External Infrastructure
39.       Drainage.  The s4te drainage plan is based on studies prepared by
the Dutch consulting firm of NEDECO, supplemented by the Basan Laboratory at
Bandung.  Drainage works will be required because the capacity of the Cakung
and Buanan Rivers is restricted where they pass under the Bekasi railroad
line. The drainage plan includes a new culvert for the Cakung River, where
it flows under the railroad and the extension of the Buanan railroad bridge.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
Access Roads
40.       The main road from the market area to the road leading to Duren
Sawit and project site (2.6 km) will be widened by 2 m to accommodate
increased bus, oplet and the bemo traffic. An access road to the site
(1.5 km) and a bridge over the Cakung River will be constructed as part of
the project. Presently, a dirt road leads to the site across a low sawah
(rice) field and crossing over the Cakung River. The road will have a 10 m
right-of-way and a 5 m asphalted surface. The existing bridgeworks at the
Cakung River will be strengthened.
41.       Water Supply.  A main to the Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate, close
to the Klender site, is under construction and this will be extended to the
site. The expected consumption at Klender is 31 l/s. This can be met by the
existing treatment plants which, by the beginning of 1974, will have a
capacity of 5,300 1/s.
42.       Railroad Station.  A new station on the Jakarta-Bekasi line will
be constructed for the Klender site. The station will also serve the workers
at the Pulo Gadung Phase II site, and will be located 3 km from both the
Klender and the Jatinegara stations.
Housing
43.       Core House.  It is expected that all 80 m2 and 140 m2 lots would
be sold with a 20 mZ core shelter already constructed. This shelter would
consist of a compacted lime-soil floor; supporting stanchions and a tile
roof; bamboo matting walls; a sanitary unit; and a septic tank. Two core
houses would share a common roof. This design follows the traditional
method of house construction in Jakarta. After occupying the core, a family
would erect partition walls and start adding on to the core in terms of
their own needs for accommodation. The 200 m2 lots would not include a
core house since the purchasers of these lots would have higher incomes
than the target population and could therefore finance construction of their
own houses.
44.       The rationale for providing this simple core house instead of
letting a family begin from scratch is as follows:
(a) Core housing initiates an order to the building pattern and helps
to define site development. This will substantially reduce the
risk for a haphazard and squatterlike development;
(b) It also builds into the lots an almost self-imposed series of
building regulations, especially regarding health and fire;
(c) The core shelter provides for an immediate occupancy of the lot,
which is important since families without their own dwellings
have priority in the selection process;



ANNEX 4
Page 12
(d)  This easy and rapid occupancy also reduces the risk for land
speculation;
(e)  The large number of core houses will provide economies of scale
in construction and purchase of materials resulting in lower
costs than if site occupants were to build the shelter themselves;
(f)  The additional cost of the core house will be within the means
of the lower-income levels of the target population.
45.       The sanitary unit consists of a cement floor with water tap, water
closet and septic tank with gravel pit. The size of the septic tank is
4.5 m3 and the gravel pit 2.5 m3. The core house would be located at the
back of the lot since this permits a better fall for the sewerage pipe to
the septic tank. This location also is suitable for later extension of the
core.
46.       The estimated cost (at June 1974 prices) of a 20 m2 core house
is as follows:
Foundation and Floor                      Rp  15,500
Roof and Columns                              62,875
Bamboo matting walls                      .   14,745
Sanitary Unit                                 14,950
Septic Tank                                   23,500
Total Construction Cost
(including a 30% labor component)      Rp 131,620   (US$317)
Contingencies                                 52,507   (US$127)
Interest during Construction                  21,995   (US$ 53)
Selling Price-                            Rp 206,122   (US$497)
/1   Calculation of sales prices is described in Annex 6.
47.       Demonstration Housing.  A demonstration group of low-income houses
will be constructed on each site. These demonstration houses will provide
an example of the kind of house that occupants may build themselves as an
extension of the core.



ANNEX 4
Page 13
Part III
Sites and Services Land Use
48.       The design standards described in Part II were developed to pro-
vide a higher standard than presently exists in the urban kampungs of
Jakarta, while keeping costs low enough to enable low-income families to
acquire the lots.
49.       Overall Site Layout.  The private lots and the community facili-
ties are clustered on a neighborhood basis following the Jakarta.RW, RT and
Camat system of cotmunity organization.  The purpose or -.-lase groupings is
to reinforce community participation while providing a simple, logical loca-
tion pattern.
50.       The basic neighborhood unit is the block, normally consisting
of 30-40 lots and corresponding to the RT level of community organizaeior.
Twelve to sixteen of these blocks are grouped around an open space at whic.;
the neighborhood markets are located. Consequently, no household is fur-
ther from open areas, with, for example, badminton courts, and markets than
100-150 m.  These main blocks are surrounded bv secondary or primary roads,
while all internal movement is by foot, bicycle or becak on Footpaths.
51.       Clusters of several neighborhoods or 1,000-2,000 families, form
a primary school district.  This means that a child has no more than about
300 m to travel to school and passes a vehicular road no more than once.
The structure of the site is reinforced by the hierarchical nature of the
transportation network. This is designed to provide all-weather access to
all lots while restricting the use of automobiles in the residential areas.
The secondary roads give access from the main roads to the main blocks,
within which all vehicular traffic is prohibited. This hierarchical layout
not only gives large areas that are protected from automobile traffic but
also minimizes the area that is needed for the communication network.
52.       One of the objectives for the site layout has been to maximize the
effective land use while providing a good access to public facilities, open
space and public transport. These considerations have resulted in the fol-
lowing land use 1/ distribution:
1/   This can be compared with the land utilization in other site and service
projects that have been approved by the Bank or are under consideration:
Project             Residential             Public            Community
Jakarta                64                     18                 18
Nicaragua               55                    25                 20
Senegal                61                     15                 24
Jamaica                 60                    20                 20
Botswana                66                    14                 20
Zambia                 50                     15                 35



1
ANNEX 4
Page 14
Residential                               62%
Commercial                                 3%
Community facilities and open space       17%
Roads and footpaths                       18%
53.       Lot Sites and Lot Distribution.  Most Indonesian settlements con-
sist of socially balanced communities. In order to achieve this type of
integrated community in the site and service program, a variety of lot sizes
will be provided. In addition to the general benefits from social integra-
tion, this will provide work opportunities for lower-income residents serv-
ing upper income groups, and an opportunity to provide a subsidy for lower-
income groups by charging higher prices for the larger lots. There are also
clear indications from the urban kampungs in Jakarta that the higher-income
groups set a standard of construction that induces the low-income groups to
improve their houses and prevent a slum-like development.
54.       The most important lot size is the smallest, since this is intended
for the target group of low-income families. Not only will the cost of land
increase if the lot size increases, but also the cost of infrastructure per
lot would be higher for a larger lot. Consequently, the aim is to minimize
the cost of the lot while at the same time guaranteeing that the lot will be
efficiently used and provide room for an adequate house. A study by the con-
sultants who prepared the initial feasibility study indicated that this mini-
mu_m size was 6 m (width) and 13 m (depth) or roughly 80 m2.  This lot can be
afforded by the target group and is larger than the lots that low-income
groups have in the urban kampungs. It provides enough space for a 55-60 m2
house, which is roughly the size that large (7-8 persons) middle-income fam-
ilies presently have in Jakarta. If the lot were made wider, the cost for
urban infrastructure such as footpaths and watermains, would increase. A
narrower lot would not, on the other hand, permit a reasonable house layout.
55.       Based on calculations of costs for different lot sizes and com-
parisons with the urban kampungs, the following distribution of lot sizes
was determined (see Table 3):
80 m2 lots    70% of all lots      56% of the residential area
140 m2 lots    24% of all lots       33% of the residential area
200 m2 lots     6% of all lots       11% of the residential area.
This gives an average lot size of 104 m2 which is roughly 15% higher than
the average size in the urban kampungs.



ANNEX 4
Page 15
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KAMPUNG f4PROVEMENT DESITN STANDARDS
Conditions       T=rovnements Under        Improvements Planned
Before           Peli4-a 7 Program          ir F4rst Year of
Improvements      (5 years)  2400 ha        KIP Project   950 ha
Roads and        Dirt roads         94 m/ha of paved roads   75 m/ha of paved roads
Footpaths        and dirt           101 mr/ha of paved        132 m/ha of raved
footpaths.              footpaths.                footpaths.
Drainage         Non-existent.      `econdary drainage        Secordary drairage
90% of lots       along roads and           along roads and
flooded.              footpaths.                footpaths.
Water            An old pipe        Old pipes re-             Connection to city
system existed;   habilitated.              main supply and
connected with    36 public watertaps.            tubewells.
city main.  No                              244 public watertaps.
public watertaps.
Sewerage         No public          75 public toilets         91 public toilets
toilets.         and washing               and washing facilities
facilities (MCKs).        (MCKs).
2 vacuum trucks.
Garbage          A few public       Provision of              Provision of
garbage boxes     447 garbage boxes         36 garbage boxes
existed.         (capacity 2m3)            (capacity 6 m3).
125 carts for
garbage collection.
6 garbage trucks.



ANNEX 4
P'age 16
Table 2
I INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAII DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Cost E tinatess  Kampung Improvement Program
wJune 1974 Prices)
First Year 1974-1975    955 ia
Second Year 1975-1976 1,025 ha
Total           1,980 ha
FIRST YEAR PR0GRAM
Quantity          Unit Price          Total
and Unit              Rn             Rv 'O0
A. LtNDSJR_VE                                 955 ha             -               22,538
B. P.OA2S, PATHS AND BPIDGES
Vehiiclular Roads
45,546 m             29,025        1,321,973
1- -4-1 -i                       19,194 m              31,313         601,012
1-1-6-1-1                         6,901 m              43,463         299,935
Footpaths                          125,779 m               5,950       1,125,722
R  d BridgeS                            36             6,83l,625         24S6,05L
Foot Bridges                            5              1,1309,063         59,453
Sub-total                                                              3,651,1IL9
C. DRAINAGE CANALS                         41,930 m              1,950
D. WdATZ. SIP?rP.
Connectlons                          4,,860 mn            18,750          91,125
dydrants                               214               657,000         16C,3C8
Deepwells                                 9            9,375,0o0          Z,375
Sub-total                                                                335,508
E. SEWAGE AND GARBAGE
MCKs                                    91             2,411,175         219,417
Garbage Carts                          125               130,075          16,259
Garbage Boxes                           36                60,650           2,183
Sub-totAl                                                                237,859
F. SCHOOLS AM HEALTH CLINICS
Efl.ementary Schools                    4.9           22,011,250       1,078,551
~aeLl Health Clinics                    21             8,662,500         181,913
Sub-total                                                              1,260,464
G. ViICLEIS
Vacuum Trucks                             2            5,000,000           10,000
Garbage Trucks                            6            6,250,000          37,500
Sub-total                                                                 47,500
Total  (Base cost per hectare Rp 6,520,520)                            6,227,101
Price Contingency  /1                                                    465,845
Grand Total for First Year Program                                     6,692,946
SECONI YEAR PROGRAM
1 ,025 ha at Rp 6,520,520/ha                                           6,683,533
Price Contingency  /1                                                  1,609,310
Grand Total for Second Year Program                                    a,292,843
GRAND  TOTAL FPO 2-YEAR PROGPRA:                                      14,9S5.7e9
/1 For the second half of calendar year 1974, price contingencies are estimated at
7.5% for civil works and 5% for vehicles. For subsequent periods it is estimated
at 15% per year for civil works and 1I  for vehicles.



ANNEX 4
Page 17
Table 3
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVEIOPMNT PROJECT
Site and Service Land TTre
Amount                      Percentage
Tot-al Site Area                        130.0                           100
(;n hevctaxres)
Fe sident ial                       80.1                            62
Roads and Footpaths                  23.L                            18
Commercial                            3.°                            3
Commnity Facilities
and Owen Spaces                 22.6                            17
Total Number of Residential Lots        7,930                           100
80 m2                              5,590                            70
14b0 m2                             1,900                            24
200 m2                                 440                             6
Total Residential Area                   80.1                          100
(in hectares)
80 m2                               44.7                            56
1h0 m2                                2606                           33
200 mi2                                8.8                           11



A1 4
Pag18
Table 4
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost E-timates: KLlender - 130 ha
(June 1974 Prices)
Qantity          Unit Price          Total
and Unit             RR Rp '000
A. LAIfD
Land                          1,300,000 m2              950        1,235,000
B. SITE PREPARATION
Topographical                       130 ha           25,000            3,250
Clearing and Leveling               130 ha          150,000           19,500
Staking Out                        130 ha          100,000           13,000
Sub-total                                                             35,750
C. INTERNAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Main Drainage Canal              11 ,800 m3             398            L,691
Bridge in Main Road                   1          11,590,000           11,590
Bridges in Secondary Road             3           6,240,000           18,720
Bridges in Footpaths                 33.3           174,375            5,894
Main Roads                        2,820 m            26,063           73,496
Secondary Roads                  13,900 m            13,538         18,171
Footpaths                        4o,G81 i             8,175          327,662
Water Distribution Sy,stem                                           146,478
Garbage 3cxes                         5              55,375              276
Garbage Carts                        1 L             118,750           1,663
Sub-total                                                            778,641
D. CMMUNI4UTY FACILITIES
Elementary Schools                    7          22,011,000          154,079
Secondary  Schools                    2          25,575,000           51,150
Community Centers                     3          11,131,250           33,393
&aDll Health Clinics                  6           8,662,500           51,975
Large Health Clinics                  1          22,090,000           22,090
Fire Station/Police and
Post Office               1         14,292,000           14,292
Sub-total                                                            326,980
E. EITERNL INEUASTRUCTURE
Culvert under Railroad                1          14,375,000           14,375
WLdening Rail Bridge                  1          11,500,000           11,500
-Widening Access Road             2,600 m             9,674           25,151
Paving Access Road                1,500 m            26,298           39,44.6
Bridge over River                     1          14,375,000           14,375
Railroad Station                      1           1,250,000            1,250
Main Road                         6,060 m            27,398          165,968
Water Main                        3,000 m             7,500           22,500
Sub-total                                                            294,565
F. HOUSII
Core Houses                       7,490             131,620          985,831
fDemonstration Houses                10             550,000            5.5oo
Sub-total                                                            991 ,331
G. VE1rCLES
Garbage Truck                         1           5,000,000            5,000
Vacuum Truck                           1          6,250,000            6,250
Fire Engine                            1         10,000,000           10,000
Sub-total                                                             21 ,250
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                                       3.683.517



INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Klender Site and Services
Breakdown of Costs by Pro,ject Items
(Rp million)
-   -   --                    /i    ~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~Physical  Pri-ce          % of      
Base Cost _     Contingency      Contingency      Total      ProJect
Land                                  1,235.0              _                _         1,235.0        25.2
Site preparation                         35.8             5.4              7.5           48.7         1.0
Internal infrastructure                 778.6           116.8            243.8        1,139.2        23.2
External infrastructure                 294.6            44.2             56.o          394.8         8.0
Community facilities:
Secondary schools                    51.2             5.1             15.2           71.5         1.5
Elementary schools,clinics
police and fire stations/ DKI   242.4              24.2             72.0          338.6         6.9
Community center                     33.4             3.3             1000           46.7         0.9
Vehicles                             21.3             2.1              3.6           27.0         0.6
Housing                                 991,3            99.1            296.9        1,387.3        28&3
Total                       3,683.6            300.2           705.0         4,688.8
Detailed Engineering and
Supervision                           167.5             16.8            32.6           216.9        4.4
Total                       3,851.1            317.0            737.6        4,905.7       100.0            u
/1 June, 1974






ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
A. National Urban Development Corporation
Project Execution
1.        The National Urban Development Corporation (NUDC) which will be
responsible for project implementation, plans to retain consultants to
provide management, engineering and accounting services to assist it in
executing the project.
2.        The consultants shall assist the Project Implementation Units
within the Central and DKI Governments in executing their responsibilities
in the field of engineering, financing and accounting, management and
organization and evaluation of the project.  An important function of the
consultants' services will be the training of counterpart staff. For this
purpose, the consultants shall provide the following types of experts:
Person-Years of Services
(with approximate allocation between three project units)
NUDC
(a)  Management                       1.5
(b)  Engineering                      4.0
-(c)  Accounting                      2.5
(d)  Monitoring                       2.0
Total Person-Years             10.0
3.        Management.  The Consultants should have experience in working with
Government Departments executing large development projects and be capable
of advising on organizational arrangements, management systems and procedures
to efficiently execute the proposed project.
4.        Engineering Services.  Consultants should be knowledgeable in all
phases of civil (municipal) engineering, including sanitation (septic tank),
roads and drainage and have experience in low-cost housing schemes in devel-
oping countries, preferably in Southeast Asia. They would be primarily
responsible for assisting in the preparing of standard engineering procedures,
including a critical path network, in contract procedures and in supervising



ANNEX 5
Page  2
of the civil works to be constructed under both the Site and Service Program
and the Kampung Improvement Program.
They would assist the project implementation units in NUDC, PTB and KIP
to do the following:
(a) supervise detailed engineering, including the
development of the construction schedule;
(b) review and evaluate prequalification procedures
and construction tender documents (including
roads and footpaths, water distribution, sewerage
treatment, drainage, construction of core housing
and community facilities);
(c) evaluate bids and select contractors for each phase
of the construction work;
(d) supervise all construction work;
(e) inspect completed work as certified by the contractor
and issue a letter of work completion; and
(f) prepare progress reports and monitor the project.
The senior engineer will be a member of the Tendering Committee,
which approves each award of contract.
5.        Accounting Services.  Consultants should be CPAs experienced in the
establishment of cost accounting systems to monitor and record expenditures
made by KIP and PTB from a number of different financial sources, preferably
in connection with similar publicly-sponsored projects in other developing
countries. It would also be helpful if they had experience in the procedures
used by the World Bank for record-keeping and preparing applications for
reimbursement. The scope of work for accounting services would be:
(a) assist the project implementation units in NUDC,
PTB and KIP to establish an efficient record-keeping
and monitoring system for costs, taking into account
the several sources of project funds;
(b) assist in establishing procedures for payment of contrac-
tor's bills and auditing of project accounts satisfactory
to the World Bank; and
(c) train Indonesian counterparts at both the provincial and
national Covernment levels in these financial control
procedures.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
6.        Evaluation and Monitoring.  Consultants should have a degree in
sociology, planning or economics and experience in evaluating low-cost
housing projects or other projects designed to serve social needs, such as
health projects, preferably in developing countries. Evaluation experts
would be primarily responsible for establishing a system for evaluating both
the Site and Service Program and the Kampung Improvement Program:
(a) With regard to this site and service project, he would
establish a system for monitoring the progress of the
project including:
(i)  type of housing that is completed in the project,
including effectiveness of aid given by site office
in self-help housing;
(ii)  effectiveness of sanctions for default in pavments
and for not completing the house according to required
standards;
(iii)  rate of turnover of housing sites; and
(iv)  site occupant opinion with regard to:
(1)  physical design of the project and
(2) type of core housing provided.
(b) With regard to future site and service projects, he would
help to establish criteria for selecting and reviewing
potential projects including:
(i) responsiveness and capability of the sponsoring
agency;
(ii)  target population to be reached;
(iii) access to employment centers;
(iv)  adequacy of infrastructure provisions; and
(v)  financial feasibility.
(c)  With regard to the Kampung Improvement Program, he would
help to establish a system of evaluating the progress of
the program including:
(i) opinion of site occupants regarding type of municipal
infrastructure required;



ANNEX 5
Page 4
(ii)  maintenance of project infrastructure;
(iii)  turnover of housing and increase in land values
because of Kampung Improvement Program;
(iv)  optimum type of infrastructure to be provided for
fixed amount of money with regard to both increase
in land values and economic enterprises but also with
regard to the preferences of site occupants; and
(v) use of communal sanitary facilities, garbage boxes and
garbage carts.
Management Assistance
7.        Initiation of a major new institution such as the National Urban
Development Corporation (N UDC) requires advisory expertise familiar with
the urban problems involved and the role such a corporation could play in
alleviating them. A long-term relationship might be established with simi-
lar institutions in Malaysia or Singapore where they would provide advisers
in Jakarta as required and conduct a training program for Indonesian staff
at local operational headquarters. Alternatively, a team of consultants
could be retained to assist in designing the framework and operaticnal pro-
cedures for NUDC.  The project would provide about US$720,000 for approxi-
-iately 12 person-years of assistance in the fields of program planning, fi-
nancing and engineering during a two-year period. During negotiations terms
of reference will be discussed for the required services.
8.        Management assistance is required immediately to help establish
the operating procedures for the organization and begin the preparation of
a project work program for Repelita II (1974-79) in major cities in the
country. A financing plan needs to be prepared that will indicate the
amounts and services of funds necessary to implement the work program, and
a staff of engineers will need to be organized and trained for the work of
preparing and evaluating specific project plans.
Site and Service Feasibility Studies
9.        To assist NUDC in preparing site and service feasibility studies,
funds would be provided under the proposed Bank loan for about eight person-
years of consultant services estimated to cost US$480,000. These services
would be utilized over an intensive two-year period to evaluate priority
locations in 8 cities for site and service development and prepare pre-
liminary engineering and cost estimates for projects that would be
suitable for Bank appraisal.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
B. Jakarta Metropolitan Planning Board
10.       Since the economic life of Jakarta is rapidly expanding beyond
the city's present boundaries it is necessary to begin approaching the
Jakarta connurbation as a cohesive unit and undertake the planning for
economic and physical expansion on that basis. To this end, the project
makes provision for 10 person-years of technical assistance in a two-year
period to participate in a high-priority review of current sector studies
in order to develop a five-year investment program for the metropolitan
area.
11.       Although the provincial governors of Jakarta and West Java, and
the Central Government have agreed to establish a Greater Jakarta Planning
Board and agreed its functions and responsibilities in outline form, de-
tailed terms of reference have yet to be developed. The priority of the
Board is to review current sector proposals and make investment proposals
to BAPPENAS and the provincial governments. During this review process
consultants would endeavor to develop counterpart expertise capable of
evaluating future sector studies and preparing terms of reference for the
sector work required.  In the course of conducting sector analyses the
consultants would also undertake preparation of an economic and physical
growth strategy for the metropolitan area. It is anticipated that at the
end of a two-year period, the Board's technical staff would be sufficiently
trained to initiate, coordinate, and review the planning and implementation
of sector plans, and proposals for the expansion of physical infrastructure.






ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Arrangements
A. Project Financing Plan
1.        The project financing ?ian is formulated so as to strengthen
two new national institutions, the National Mortgage Bank (NMB) and the
National Urban Development Corporation (NLUDC), establ1shed to carry out the
housing and urban development program of Repelita II.  The flow of funds
is described below and presented in Table I.
(a)  Of total project costs amounting to an estimated
US$51.0 million ecuivalent, the proposed l3RD Loan
would finance about US$25.0 -nillion or 49%. of pro3ect
costs for civil works construction, vehicles, and
technical assistance.
(b) The Borrower will be the GOI. The proceeds of the Loan
will be substantially onlent through subsidiary loans to
DKI and NUDC. However, Loan proceeds for technical
assistance to NUDC for purposes of management develop-
ment and future project preparation will be passed to
NUDC as equity and loan proceeds for metropolitan
planning assistance will be passed to Cipta Karya.
(c) DKI will finance the KIP program, the purchase of the
garbage and vacuum trucks for the KIP and Site and
Service Program and schools, clinics, and fire-police
stations at Klender site.  To assist in the financing
of about 50% of KIP civil works costs and 100% of the
foreign costs for vehicles, the GOI plans to onlend the
proceeds of the IBRD Loan at 8-1/2% interest per annum
amortized over a 15-year period following a five-year
grace period.
(d)  NUDC will finance the costs incurred for administration
(2%) and development of the site and service area on
the following basis: from its equity 25% of total
expenditures and from a subsidiary loan 75% of such
expenditures. The subsidiary loan will bear an interest
of 12% per annum repayable upon receipt of the proceeds
of the lot sales.



ANNEX 6
Page  2
2
(e)  NMB will finance mortgage loans to purchasers of 80 m  and
140m2 lots from its equity and a loan from the Borrower
which will be at least equivalent to the amount withdrawn
from the IBRD Loan account for NUDC expenditures plus an
additional amount to cover the GOI share of project costs
not financed from NMB's equity.  The NMB loan would be
extended on terms of between 8% and 9% annual interest to
be repaid in accordance with the aggregate amortization
schedules of the 15-year mortgage loans to lot purchasers.
B. Site and Service Financial Considerations
Allocation of Site and Service Costs
2.        The capital costs allocated to and recoverable from site occupants
include:
(a) Acquisition costs for all land, including land
for internal roads and footpaths, open space and
community services such as schools, clinics, fire
and police stations;
(b) Costs of detailed engineering and supervision for the
projects;
(c)  Site preparation costs;
(d) Costs for internal infrastructure including water
distribution, sewerage, roads, footpaths and internal
drainage;
(e) Costs for a community center;
(f)  Costs for the construction of the core housing units;
(g) Costs for interest during construction; and
(h)  NUDC project administration fees.
These costs include all physical and price contingencies.
3.        The following project components will not be charged to site
occupants but will be borne by the provincial and central governments as
is the normal practice in Indonesia:



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(a) Schools, health clinics, fire and police stations;
(b)  Garbage and vacuum trucks (DKI-Jakarta); and
(c) External infrastructure including access roads to the
site and water mains (GOI).
Determination of Lot Prices
4.        The procedure used to determine the price of lots is illustrated
in Table 2, and summarized below:
(a) Calculation of total costs for land, internal infrastructure,
site preparation, community center, engineering and supervi-
sion, interest during construction on NUDC subsidiary loan
from GOI, and NUDC administration fees; including physical
and price contingencies;
(b)  Allocation of the total costs in (a) to the usable
residential and commercial area (84 ha) on an equal m2
basis;
(c)  Calculation of the net revenue from the sale of 200 m'2
and commercial lots at estimated market value, 100
above fully allocated cost.  At project completion,
these lots would be sold at prevailing market rates;
(d) Calculation of the differential prices obtained by
applying the net revenues from the sale of commercial
and 200 m3 lots to offset the cost of the 80 m2 lots.
The 140 m2 lots would be priced at development cost.
5.        On this basis, the commercial and 200 m2 lots would be sold at
a price perhaps of 100% above fully allocated costs; the 140 m2 lots would
be sold at fully allocated cost; and the 80 m2 lots would be sold for
approximately 28% or $495 instead of $692.
6.        Estimated sales prices for the 80 m2 lot, with a core unit, is
Rp 411,722 (US$992). The basic mortgage scheme will provide for a 25%
down payment and a 15-year mortgage at 12% annual interest. Under this
scheme, monthly repayments for the 80 m2 lot and core unit will thus be
Rp 3,706 (US$8.90). These prices will permit households with minimum
monthly incomes of about Rp 18,500 (US$45) and above, or roughly the 20th
percentile and above on the income scale to purchase lots.
7.        Variations to the basic mortgage scheme presented in Table 3
would permit lot sales to families with regular incomes as low as the 12th
percentile. The first would allow for lower monthly payments in the early
years, increasing by some 3% a year over the life of the mortgate; the



ANNEX 6
Page 4
second would permit a lower (20% instead of 25%) down payment as well as
lower monthly payments increasing at 3% a year; and the third would allow
a 10% down payment with all other terms as in the first and second
variations.
8.        The estimated sales prices for the 140 m2 lot and core unit is
Rp 708,622 (US$1,708). The same basic mortgage scheme and variations would
be provided. This pricing would permit families having minimtmi monthly
incomes between Rp 25,776 (US$62) and Rp 31,888 (US$77) to purchase the
larger lots.  Monthly repayments, depending on the selected options, would
vary from Rp 5,155 (US$12.40) to Rp 6,378 (US$15.40).
9.        The 200 m2 lots will be sold on a cash-only basis at market
value, which has been estimated at about 100% above development cost, or a
price of Rp 1,435,600 (US$3,460). Comnercial lots will be sold at market
value also, again estimated at about Rp 7,900 per m2.



INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Financing Plan
(Rp millioni)                               (US$ million)
Source of Funds                            Source of Funds
Project Component                     Total Cost       DKI        Gol       Bank     Total Cost    DKI         GOI        Bank
A. Kampung Improvement -
Survey and Civil Works          14,871.6      7,1435.8/L      -    7,435.8/-    35.84        17.92        -          17.92
B.  Sites and Services                 1,235.0                   1,235.0      -           2.98                2.98
Land
Site Preparation,
Civil Works, Design
and Supervision,
Community Facilities,          3,643.7       338.6      1,607.8   1,697.3        8.78         .82     3.87         4.09
Housing                                             2         /i
C.  Vehicles                             141.3           -           -       111.3        0.34        -         -           0.34
D.  Technical Assistance               1.281 5           -        181.1   1,092.8         3.09        -          144        2.5
21,173.1      7,774.4      3,024.5 10,374.2       51,03        18.74    ?.29        25.00
A   50% of total KIP costs (Rp 14,871.6 million)
/2   Total cost of elementary schools, clinics, fire and police stations.
a   Includes Rp 466.3 million departmental budgetary allocations for secondarv schoqls and external infrastructure.



ANNEX
Paxe 6
Table
INDONESiA
JAgARTA URBAN DEVEL0OPHINT PROJECT
Sites and Services - Calcuiation of Sale Prices for Lots at Klender
Cost per i2                                 7 of
Total                               cross Area (130 ha)                              Total
M (Rp) Dwillion                               (Rp)
1. Cost of Land and Infrastructure
Land                                                    1,235.0                                    950.0                                       41.0
Site Preparation and Internal Infrastructure            1,187.9                                    913.8                                       39.4
Comunity Center                                            46.7                                     35.9                                        1.5
Demonstration Houses                                         7.7                                     5.9                                         .3
Engineering and Supervision                               216.9                                    166.8                                        7.2
Subtotal                                                2,694.2                                  2,072.4
Interest during Construction                              320.6                                    246.6                                      10.6
Total Development Cost                                  3,014.8                                  2,319.0                                      100.0
2.  Site Development Cost apportioned to                                             RD                                         US$
Net Commercial/Residential Area of
84 ha (cost/r2)                                                                3,589                                        8.6
3. Develooment Cost Per Lot
30  m2 lots                                                                287,100                                      691.8
140  M2 lots                                                                502,500                                    1,210.8
200  r2 lots                                                                717,800                                    1,729.6
4.  Development Costs:  Comsercial and 200 m2 lots                              Rp million                                  US$ million
Cammsercial Area:  39,000 a2
Total Development Cost                                                      139.97                                       .337
Area of 200 a2 lots:  88,000 i2
Total Development Cost                                                      315.83                                        761
Total                                                                       455.80                                      1.098
5.  Differential Pricing Effects
Gross Revenue from Sale of 200 a2
and Comuercial lots at Market Value /1                                    911.6                                      2.196
Less:  Full Development Costs                                               4                                          1.098
Net Revenue                                                                 455.8                                      1.098
USS
Revenue Available per 80 m2 lot                                             81,500                                      196.4
Net Sale Price 80 x  lots                                                  205,600                                      495.4
6. Lot Sal% Prices
80  ml (below Cost)                                                         205,600                                      495.4
140  a2 (at Cost)                                                            502,500                                    1,210.8
200  M2 (at market Value) L                                                1,435,600                                    3,459.3
Commercial lots per m2 (at Market Value) /1                                    7,868                                       19.0
/1    Market values are estimated at 100% above costs, but lots are to be sold at prevailing market prices.



INDONESIA                                                              ANNEX 6
Paea 7
JAR?TA M        DEV2tOT PR00RAM                                                  table 3
Finasoinz IRlications - Lot Ptrohaeere at Klender
(Rp Mia3±)
80 32                                                 140 m2
Sellin2 Price                                                                  Rp                                                     Ru$
Lot  /I                                                                    205,600                    495                          502,500               1,211
Core Unit  /2                                                               206,122                    97                          206,122                 497
Total                                                                       411,722                   992                          708,622               1,708
A. Basic Schems (25% Down Paynent, 15-Year Mortgage, 12% Intereat)
Down Payment (25%)                                                      102,830                   248                          177.tS6                 427
Mortgage Amount                                                         308,792                   744                          531,466               1,281
Monthly Payment (.012)                                                    5,706                   8.9                            6,378                15.4
Monthly liouoehold Income Required (at 20%)                              18,528                    45                           31,888                  77
Percentile Reached (in 1976)                                                         20th                                                  50th
B. Variation Nlo. 1 (25% Down Payment, 15-Year Mcrtgage, 12% Inxterest, Monthly Repayments Increasing Annually at 3%)
Down Payment                                                            102 930                   248                          177,1                   427
Noregage Amount                                                         389                        =7                          531,lleZ              1,281
Hcnthiy Payment (First Year)                                              2,995                   7.2                            5,155.4
Monthly Household Income Recuired                                        14,976                    36                           25,776                  62
PercenT'ile Reached (in 1976)                                                        12th                                                   40th
C.  Variation No. 2 (20C  Down Payment, 15-Year Mortgage, 12% Interest, Monthly Repayments Increasing Annually at 3%)
Down Payment                                                             82,344                   198                         1t4  724
Mortgage Amount                                                        329,378                    796                                                1*,m
Monthly Payment (First Year)                                              3,195                   7.7                            5,499                13.3
Monthly Household Income Required                                        15,975                    38                           27,495                  66
?ercentile Reached (in 1976)                                                         15th                                                  45th
-7ariatisn .o. 3 (107l flown Payment, 15-Year mortgage, 12% interest, Monthly Repayments Increasing Annually at 35)
Dowin Payment                                                            41 172                    99                           70,862
Mortgage Amount                                                                                                                6370 50               1,,;7
Mcnt-. -y Payment (First Year)                                            3,594                   8.o                            6,136                  15
"t'ily 4waaseb,old Income Required                                      17,972                     43                           30,931                  75
Percentile Reached (in 1976)                                                         20th                                                  50th
1/    From Table 2, Annex 6
2t   Base cost (Amnex 4, Table 4) plus contingencies, plus interest during construction






ANNEX 7
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                                      Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                             at End of Ouarter
(US$o000)
1974/75
Dec. 31, 1974                                                     1,180
Mar. 31, 1975                                                     3,730
June 30, 1975                                                     7,410
1975/76
Sep. 30, 1975                                                     8,630
Dec. 31, 1975                                                    10,740
i'ar. 31, 1976                                                   14,740
June 30, 1976                                                    20,240
1976/77
Sep. 30, 1976                                                    22,190
Dec. 31, 1976                                                    23,030
Mar. 31, 1977                                                    23,810
June 30, 1977                                                    24,560
1977/78
Sep. 30, 1977                                                    25,000






ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization and Management
1.        The Jakarta Urban Development Project aims to strengthen those
branches of government now responsible for urban work and assist in the
formation of appropriate new agencies to undertake long-term urban devel-
opment. This Annex describes the current government administrative struc-
ture related to the project and the changes envisaged during Pelita IT to
facilitate national urban development. The GOI is establishing a National
Urban Development Corporation (NUDC) and a National Mortgage Bank to handle
a permanent program of site and service development and kampung imDrove-
ment, as well as other housing and infrastructure programs. Although u-
timate responsibility for national urban policies rests with the National
Economic Planning Agency (BA2PENAS), it is Cipta 'Karya 1/ which prepares
general urban policy recomaendations with guidance from the National
Housing Authority for BAPPENAS, and subsequently coordinates the imple-
mentation of BAPPENAS approved policies. Tnus preparation of the proposed
urban development project in Jakarta has been supervised by a special proj-
ect unit in Cipta Karya which will be transferred to become the nucleus of
the new corporation (see Chart No. 8683).
A. National Level
National Housing Authority
2.        Broad guidelines pursuant to establishing national housing
policy originate with the National Housing Authority. This body, con-
sisting largely of Cabinet Ministers, is chaired by the Minister for
Economic, Monetary and Industrial Affairs, one of two super-Ministers
who share supervisory responsibility over several ministries and report
directly to the President. Members of the Authority include: the Vice-
Chairman of BAPPENAS; the Minister of Public Works; the Minister of Fi-
nance; the Minister of the Interior; the Minister of Social Affairs; the
Minister of Health; the Minister of Industries, Labor and Transmigration;
1/   Cipta Karya is the Directorate-General in the Ministry of Public
Works and Electric Power responsible for housing, building, urban
and regional planning, and sanitation, building and materials
research.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
and the Governor of the Bank of Indonesia. The Executive Secretary of the
Authority is the Director-General of Cipta Karya, and the staff at Cipta
Karya constitutes the Secretariat of the Authority.
Cipta Karya
3.        Cipta Karya is the principal agency at the national level respon-
sible for developing housing programs responsive to guidance from the Na-
tional Housing Authority. Within the Directorate-General of Cipta Karya
there are five divisions, each responsible for different aspects of housing
and its related services. The divisions are: Housing; Building; Planning;
Sanitation; and Building Materials Research. Cipta Karya assists provincial
and municipal government agencies involved in public works infrastructure,
housing programs, and regional planning by providing technical advice. Of
approximately 2,900 persons employed by Cipta Karya, some 200 have univer-
sity degrees in civil engineering or architecture. The present Director-
General is a senior engineer who has successfully organized and executed
several urban programs.
National Urban Development Corporation (NUDC)
4.        To undertake the acquisition and development of urban land pri-
marily to benefit middle and low-income families on a sound commercial
basis, the Central Government has established a National Urban Development
Corporation (NUDC). From time to time the NUDC may establish branch office
operations in cities that do not have real estate development agencies capa-
ble of planning and executing projects. The NUDC has authority to buy land
and hold title with the right of administration, right of building andl right
of use. This land will be developed for sale or rental as residential, com-
mercial or industrial sites. In its early stages the NUDC will begin bank-
ing land in urban areas in anticipation of the continued rapid inflation of
land costs. Some of this land will be utilized for further site and service
projects in the course of Repelita II; other portions will be developed as
middle-income residential sites and industrial estates.
5.        As its charter indicates, the NUDC will be responsible for executing
urban projects in the fields of housing and physical infrastructure consistent
with Government policy directives. To fulfill its obligations, the NUDC will
prepare project plans; organize project financing; execute or supervise the
implementation of projects; and administer and regulate the sale or leasing
of developed land and housing. The Corporation is structured as a finan-
cially autonomous agency empowered to borrow on the private market, as well
as receive foreign investment capital in order to finance its projects. During
Repelita II, GOI plans to provide Rp 24 billion (US$60 million) for housing,
most of which would be channeled through NUDC. The working capital would be
increased with profits from project undertakings, loans and grants from do-
mestic and foreign sources, and the sale of NUDC bonds. Sources of income to
NUDC will be revenue from the administration, sale and/or rental of the land,
housing, and infrastructure it develops. Net profits of the NUDC will be
'-tilized largely to expand the general Corporation budget.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
6.        Because the NUDC is organized as a perum, administrative policy
direction for the NUDC will come from the Minister of Public Works through
the Directorate-General of Cipta Karya. On behalf of the Minister, a
Board of Supervisors consisting of no less than three members will over-
see NUDC operations; one of these supervisors is the Director-General of
Cipta Karya, the other two have yet to be designated. The NUDC will be
controlled by a Board of Directors headed by a M£anaging Director assisted
by a Director for Planning and Engineering and a Director for Finance. De-
tailed staff functions and the NUDC scope of work will be developed with
technical assistance provided to the Managing Director as part of the pro-
posed Loan for the Jakarta Urban Development Project. The initial training
program planned by Government for NUDC Directors and top staff members in-
cludes sessions with the Housing Development Board in Singapore; the State
Architectural Office in Malaysia; and the Housing and Home-Site Corporation
in 'Manila.
Project Unit (ITLDC)
7.        The Project MIanager and staff within Cipta Karya who were respon-
sible for preparing the Jakarta Urban Development Project will transfer to
the NUDC where they will become a permanent part of that organization. The
Project Unit staff of professional engineers, accountants and planners will
continue to be expanded during Repelita II. The Project Manager, who reports
to the NiUDC Managing Director, will be responsible for coordinating and su-
pervising all project activities and preparing periodic progress reports for
the Bank as and when requested. To assist the Project Unit in its oversight
responsibilities during project implementation, the Project Manager will re-
tain a firm of consultants with engineering, management and accounting ex-
pertise (see Annex 5).
B.  Provincial Level
8.        The project will be executed in Jakarta where the local government
(DKI) will be responsible for the civic administration of the site and serv-
ice scheme at Klender and fully responsible for the Kampung Improvement Pro-
gram (KIP). The Deputy-Governor for Development will have supervisory re-
sponsibility for the project, but operational responsibility will rest with
the Manager of the KIP unit.
Kampung Improvement Organization
9.        The KIP Program Manager will supervise the selection of kampungs
for improvement, planning, contracting, accounting, evaluation and long-term
development of the kampungs based on ultimate land use potential and a de-
sired infrastructure standard. When conflicts arise between the agencies
of government participating in the program, these will be resolved by the
DKI Director for Coordination. Judging on the basis of past performance,



ANNEX 8
Page 4
DKI appears capable of executing the expanded and accelerated program of
improvements financed in this project and, with the consolidation of KIP
activities into a single administrative unit, the program should become in-
creasingly efficient and capable of expanding the work program according to
available financial resources. Staff for the new KIP unit has been drawn
from the various departments who participated in the past kampung program.
Technical assistance for engineering and accounting expertise will be pro-
vided to the KIP office from the consultants attached to the NUDC Project
Unit. Program accounts will be kept separately from other provincial
accounts.
Present KIP Operational Procedures
10.       A procedure acceptable to the Bank is already established for
selecting the kampungs to be improved each year. Proposals for improving
specific kampungs can be generated from the community level and proposed
by the local Lurah or Camat (district officers) to the five mayors (Wali-
kota) who pass them to the City Planning Board, or, the initiative can
come directly from the City Planning Board. Individual kampungs are then
evaluated and improvement programs initiated in the following sequence.
11.       In September, the DKI Physical Planning section (Tatakota) makes
a reconnaissance survey by means of air-photos and field visits to evaluate
kampungs proposed by the Camats and to propose additional kampungs.  Through
October, Tatakota does detailed survey mapping of the potential kaimpungs.
A preliminary selection of kampungs is made by the Planning Board and the
Kampung Improvement Unit. Rough phasing site design and budgeting is done
by Tatakota and DKI Public Works. This is sent in mid-November to the Proj-
ect Committees in the selected kampungs. As a consensus of these committee
meetings, each Camat makes a short list of improvement projects and submits
it to the KIP Unit.  At this stage, other departments would prepare a joint
implementation schedule under the guidance of the Director for Coordination,
for all the inputs, i.e., roads, bridges, canals, footpaths, water supply,
sanitation, schools, clinics and health centers.  The KIP office will also
coordinate the project work of the Water Authority (PAM), Health Department
(DKK) and Sanitation Department (Kebensihan) while the Public Works Depart-
ment undertakes through contracts the construction of buildings for health
centers, DKK staffs and operates them.  PAM lets its own contracts for the
installation and rehabilitation of pipelines. Meanwhile, Public Works de-
velops detailed plans and costs for the proposed improvements. These are
consultations with the Project Committees concerning road alignments and
the number of buildings requiring removal. The Project Committees provide
feedback to the KIP Unit concerning proposed changes in alignments due to
technical factors or resistance from kampung residents. In February, the
final proposals go to the Governor.
12.       Public Works Department (DPU) invites bids from contractors
in IMarch.  After the award of tenders, the work begins in July.  During
Repelita I, contracts were awarded covering a specific type of work, e.g.,



ANNEX 8
Page 5
footpath and drainage construction or water distribution lines, etc. How-
ever, this practice caused problems of coordination among the contractors
and physical works that did not synchronise. The procedure for Repelita II
will be to have a single contractor responsible for executing all the works
in a kampung wherever possible. After contracts are awarded, actual imple-
mentation takes almost one year. Local supervision is exercised by the
Project Committees under the Camats. Engineering supervisors employed by
the DPU check the contractors' bills for payment against work done. Bills
are certified by the Camat and sent to the KIP Unit which monitors program
expenditures. After authorization by the KIP Unit, the request for payment
is passed on to the DKI Directorate of Finance which makes the actual pay-
ment. On a monthly basis these bills will be forwarded to the NUDC Project
Unit for reimbursement under the proposed IBRD Loan.
Site and Service Program
13.       At the direction of 'NUDC, the site and service schema wfil be
executed by DKI's Land Development Agency (PTB) established in 196>
agency is a wholly-owned subsidiary of DYK  thac rapors -<4rectly -o tse
Governor.  PTB carries out a wide range of real estate ard property devel-
opment Lor DKT on a non-proFit basis and o-. its o-wn account ror cormeian
profit.  At the end of Decenber 1972, PTB had completed work on proiscts
costing about US$3.6 million and had work in progress valued at another
US$3.0 million.  About 30% of PTB's work has been performed on a non-profit
basis. For the purposes of this project, however, the Manager of PTB will
report to the DKI Deputy-Governor for Development so that planning and im-
plementation for KIP and the site and service program is closely integrated.
PTB will develop the 130 ha site owned by NUDC by contracting with private
engineering and construction companies. A competent project manager for
PTB has been appointed and separate office quarters have been constructed
and equipped for the Project Unit. DKI will conduct a training program to
teach occupants construction techniques for expanding the core shelters.
14.       NUDC will retain local engineering consultants to prepare detailed
engineering for the Klender site. The award of construction contracts and
the supervision of construction will be done by PTB under the supervision of
NUDC, and its consultants on engineering and accounting procedures.
15.       Site Offices.  The site would have an office headed by a site of-
ficer reporting directly to the PTB Project Manager. He would represent
the project management and serve as the contact with site occupants, com-
munity organizations and government functionaries on the site. Except for
routine reporting of a technical nature, he would be kept informed of all
decisions and actions of the various departments of the PTB Project Divi-
sion. He would participate in occupant selection, formation of community
organizations and local management of mortgage repayments. When project
execution is complete, the full community responsibilities will be borne
by local civic administrators.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
16.       Occupant Selection.  The procedure for selecting families to
purchase the lots will be fully determined by DKI, NMB and NUDC. The
Deputy-Governor for Development will appoint a committee to review the
applications in light of established criteria. NUDC will process the
applications, arrange for the committee to make selections, and then
handle all matters related to notifying selected families and processing
their moves. The National Mortgage Bank will make the final selection of
creditworthy purchasers from amongst prequalified applicants and subse-
quently collect the monthly mortgage payments.
17.       The program will be advertised in Indonesian language newspapers
and by local government officials in their communities. Each of the 227
Lurahs will have pamphlets explaining the program and the eligibility cri-
teria plus a kit of applications. Each application will have included a
list of requirements to which each family must agree before submitting the
application, i.e., a promise to complete mortgage payments, a promise to
take up residence at the lot within six months from the date of purchase,
a promise to abide by established building regulations, and to cooperate
in the development and maintenance of community facilities.
18.       Eligibility will be determined first by household income, as
verified by employer and RT.  Selection will be restricted to families
with monthly incomes at least five times greater than the monthly mortgage
>n ents and for the 80m2/lots to families with regular monthly incomes that
do not exceed 15 times the average monthly mortgage payments and for the
140 m2 lots to families with regular monthly incomes not exceeding 10 times
the average monthly mortgage payments. Within this very broad category
priority will be given to families: (a) who resided within the site previously;
(b) who were relocated by the KIP; and (c) who do not own a home. The
Selection Committee will include the Director of Coordination, DKI, as
chairman; and representatives from the NM3 and NUDC. If the number of
qualified applicants should exceed the number of available lots, selection
would be determined according to the date of submission of a completed
application. Each application would be secured by the down payment. If
the application is rejected, the down payment would be returned by the NMB
with interest. Applications would be accepted periodically and final
decision made not more than two months after each submission deadline.
C. Community Level
19.       The successful implementation and management of the project will
depend to a large degree on the active involvement and cooperation of the
occupants of the project sites and of the improved kampungs. The tradition
of mutual self-help (Gotong-Royong) among the residents of a neighborhood
has a long history in Indonesia. For instance, if one family in a village
is building a house, all other families must help. While this custom has
weakened in urban areas due to lack of strong ethnic or family ties, it has



ANNEX 8
Page 7
been retained to some extent in the urban kampungs. Wherever possible, it
would be encouraged as both a help to low-income families and as a stabiliz-
ing bond in a new community.
20.       In Indonesia, the traditional (adat) community structure is allied
with the governmental structure and, as such, is potentially the most effec-
tive means of executing and monitoring the project at a local level. Govern-
ment administration in DKI has five mayoral districts; the city is divided
into 27 Kecamatans, each headed by a Camat (district chief) and 227 Kelura-
hans, each headed by a Lurah (sub-district chief). Camats and Lurahs are
appointed to their offices by the Governor. Each Kelurahan has between
50,000 and 45,000 people who are subdivided into two levels of community
groups. An RW contains about 150 families and an RT, the smallest unit,
averages about 30 families. Each RT and RM is headed by a man who lives
in the group; he is not a civil servant, but works at some, other occupa-
tion.  The functions of the RT and RW, as representatives of their conmuni-
ties, are to organize cooperative community efforts to build local rona.s.
footpaths and drainage, to organize garbage disposal and to organize fes-
tivities.  As Government representatives, they are charged with registering
incoming and outgoing residents and visitors, reporting to the Lurah on
community activities and keeping peace in the area.  The Lu2an nas a s2all
staff to collect statistical infonrmation for the Government from tne RWs
and RTs in his area.  He is involved with infrastructure, community serv-
ices and Kampung Improvement Programs being built in his area.
Community Organization under the Site and Service Program
21.       The present community organization would be extended to Klender and
the community structure developed gradually following occupant selection. RTs
and RWs would channel suggestions of occupants concerning the development of
their site to the Lurah. RTs and RWs would be-appointed from among the new
occupants before they move to the site. The functions of the community or-
ganizations would be:
(a)  the maintenance of infrastructure and community facilities,
particularly footpaths, garbage bins, mosques and playgrounds;
(b)  the expansion of core shelters by self-help techniques in
coordination with the implementing agency,
(c)  the recommendation of priority of expenditures for the con-
struction and maintenance of community facilities;
(d)  the explanation and enforcement of building and zoning
regulations;
(e)  the organization of community activities, including the
construction of community facilities requiring direct par-
ticipation, i.e., mosques and playgrounds, etc; and



ANNEX 8
Page 8
(f) the expediting of mortgage repayments problems. Though
not directly required for this, the community organiza-
tions would assist NMB in resolving any problems related
to regular payment.
Community Organization under KIP
22.       A major objective of the Kampung Improvement Program is to bring
lower-income residents into the fabric of urban life, since the majority of
residents migrated to Jakarta during the last decade. By providing environ-
mental improvement that the residents consider beneficial, the DKI can involve
people in the process of local government. The administrative -network extends
to the kampungs. Under the present program arrangement, committees at the
kampung level are directly involved in planning, execution and maintenance
under KIP.
The Kampung Committee
23.       At present, there is an organization at the kampung level which
organizes self-help labor and collects money for kampung maintenance work
and distributes money to help residents displaced by KIP.  The Kampung
Committees are composed or the Lurah's staff, the Vice-Lurah, RWs and RTs,
all of whom live in the kampungs. Their function is to establish the
priorities for improvement reflecting the views of the kampung residents.
They respond to official proposals concerning the balance of social and
physical infrastructure, location of roads, footpaths, communal sanitary
facilities, schools and health centers, alternatives on the removal and
the relocation of households and collections and expenditures of compensa-
tion monies.  Instructions to kampung residents on the use of the facili-
ties and organization of maintenance would be a continuing element of their
work.  In cases where the KIP necessitates the removal of more than half a
house, the Committee will see that the displaced families are relocated to
one of the site and service projects at government expense.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Justification -/
1.        The Site and Service and Kampung Improvement Programs will
have far reaching consequences for the Jakarta region. The project will
not only substantially improve pthysical living conditions Lor a large part
of the population, provide substantial emplovment opportunities, but also
have a profound long-term influence upon the direction of economic devel-
opment of the metropolitan area.  The latter objective will be achiev7ed
through coordination of investments in industry, urban infrastructur- ancZ'
housing.  It is also expected that basic labor productivity w-iUl be rais_-c
through improved health, access to job opportunities, training and educati.on.
2.        Many of the project benefits are not readily quantifiable.  How-
ever, imputed rental values and increased land values reflect some of the
socio-economic benefits, and in this Annex, rental and land values are
used to obtain rough estimates of these benefits in order to calculate an
internal economic rate of return.
A. Benefit Valuation
Land Values and Rents as Measures of Benefits -
3.        Most urban amenities and services incorporated in the project are
either public or social goods for which a market pricing mechanism seldom
gives a complete indication of the consumers' evaluation. Most of the bene-
fits of the site and service and kampung improvement projects thus have to
be evaluated by indirect methods.
4.        The method used here is to assume that the benefits of improved
urban infrastructure can be measured by the increased land values or rents.
The reasoning behind this approach is the following: Assume that two prop-
erties have the same size and location, and the same type of building, but
1/   This Annex was written with prices estimated as of October 1973.  Since
that time, substantial price changes due to inflation have occured.
Cost tables in the main body of the text reflect the latest estimates,
but because the economic analysis is based upon real rather than nominal
prices, the results of this Annex could not be significantly affected
by the inflation that has taken place.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
one of them is served by a higher level of infrastructure than the other.
The property with the highest quality will then be more attractive and,
consequently, competition among households will increase the price for
this property. In a free housing or land market, the price difference
between the two properties will reach a level such that potential buyers/
renters are indifferent between the two properties. Consequently, the
price difference is equal to the willingness to pay for the higher stand-
ard of infrastructure.
5.        The rental market in Jakarta is very thin; only about 10% of all
households rent their houses on a monthly basis and another 20% on the basis
of a two-year advance payment. In consequence, rental values have been de-
rived from property sales values with data from the rental market used as a
supplemental check.
Effect of Kampung Improvement Program on Property Values
6.        The Kampung Improvement Program (1970-71) increased property
values in the following manner:
1970      1972
Improved kampungs -J
-  along roads                      1,000     3,625       Rp/m2
-  along footpaths                    600     2,125       Rp/m2
-  with no direct access              300       850       Rp/m2
7.        During the same period, as a basis of comparison, property values
in non-improved kampungs of similar locations increased in the following
manner:
1970      1972
Non-improved kampungs 2/
-  along roads                      1,000     1,700       Rp/m2
-  along footpaths                    660     1,120       Rp/m2
-  with no direct access              300       510       Rp/m2
1/   Based on sales values registered by the Lurahs in eight kampungs.
2/ Mission estimates based on the IREDA Land Tax Study for Jakarta and
discussions with Lurahs and real estate agents.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
8.        The increase in property values due to the Kampung Improvement
Program is calculated as the difference between the two sets of values set
out above and then brought up to date to October 1973, as follows:
1972   October 1973 I/
-  along roads                      1,925      2,500       Rp/m2
-  along footpaths                  1,005      1,310       Rp/m2
-  with no direct access               340       440       Rp/m
Calculation of Benefits for the KIP Project Component
9.        The lots along roads cover aDproximately 32% of the kampung area,
lots along footpaths 40% and lots with no direct access cover 28%. Using
these percentages as weights, the everage increase in property values for
comparable locations is Rp 1,450/m . Expe5ience in actual kampungs indi-
cates a variation of from Rp 1,100-1,800/m .
10.       The average size of a house in the imDroved karDpungs is 52 m  and
the average size of a lot is 37 m2. The i,puted increase (1370-72) in rental
values is calcutlated at Rp 13.6/rm2 per month.  A survey conducted by Planned
Community Development (PCD)2in 1973 showed an actual increase (1970-72) in
rental value of only Rp 8/m per month. Since most rental agreements are
for relatively long-term, rental increases undoubtedly would normally lag
behind land values. The two figures are not inconsistent.
11.       The lots occupy betweer 70% and 85% of the land in the various
kampungs. Based on the lower figure, the increased rental value per hectare
of kampung area is calculated at Rp 910,000/year.
12.       The Kampung Improvement Program as it has been modified for these
projects, is more ambitious than the past KIP, with a larger percentage of
improvements going into footpaths, water, drainage and sewerage. The PCD
surveys of specific kampungs show that priority is attached to these im-
provements by kampung residents. The greater emphasis on access will in
itself result in a nominal increase of 20% in land values above past im-
provements, so that an increase in rental values of Rp 1,090,000/year/ha
of kampung area has been used in the calculation of benefits.
Calculation of Benefits for the Site and Service Component of the Project
13.       The benefits from the site and service project can also be cal-
culated from imputed rental values but the value of private housing invest-
ments must be included since a 20 m shelter on a highly-serviced lot is only
1/   Property values in the central parts of Jakarta have increased 30-50%
in 1972-73. In order to bring the property values up-to-date (October
1973), 1972 figures have been increased 30%.



ANNEX 9
Page  4
the starting point for the development. In the calculation, the rental
value of a completed house is taken as a gross measure of benefits and
the land value which represents an opportunity cost is added to construc-
tion costs.
14.       The current rental value for a property with semi-permanent house
and running water located in a well-developed site in the neighborhood is
130 Rp/m2 per month.
15.       There is also a small component of benefits arising out of a net
increase in annual revenues to the water supply company.
B. Cost Estimates
Capital Costs
16.       In both the KIP and site and service project components, infra-
structure costs including construction costs plus contingencies, adminis-
tration, detailed engineering and supervision -- minus taxes, shadow priced
as described below have been included. For comparative purposes the con-
struction cost of housing has been based on a 60 m semi-permanent house
estimated by the consultants to be Rp 420,000. The labor component is as-
sumed to be 30% and half of the work is normally done by the owner and his
family. 1/ Off-site infrastructure was allocated to the project on the
basis of a "with" and "without project" estimate of the provision of such
facilities.
Operating and Maintenance Costs
17.       Basic operating and maintenance costs have been expressed as a
percentage of capital costs.  The figures assumed are as follows:
Kampung roads                         4% (of capital costs)
Site and service roads                3%  "     "
Footpaths                             2%  t     t
Water mains, sewage mains         1-1/2%  "     '       *
18.       For the KIP component, it is not correct to assess all operating
and maintenance costs to the project, but just those that otherwise would
not occur. Since no information is available on the maintenance costs in
the non-improved kampungs, it is assumed that half of the costs for road
and footpath maintenance is due to the improved standards.
1/  Mission estimates based on the PCD review of low-cost housing in
Jakarta, survey review of kampung residents and discussions with
Government officials.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
19.       The costs in para 17 have been separated into component items and
each item has been adjusted to reflect differences between border prices
and domestic prices. This gives a shadow price for maintenance work that is
approximately 90% of the monetary cost.
Other Social Costs
20.       PCD consultants estimated the cost for relocating people and com-
pensating them for their lost property (either in cash or communal arrangements)
to be 10-15% of the construction costs in the Kampung Improvement Program.
As a basis for the economic evaluation, 13% has been assumed. The same per-
centage was assumed for the site and service component.
21.       The disturbance to the kampung residents during the construction
period is assumed to be equal to half a year's benefit from the KIP.  No
disturbance cost is assumed in the Site and Service Project.
C. Shadow Pricing
22.       Open unemployment in Jakarta may not be high compared to many
other large cities in developing countries. Under-employment on the other
hand is substantial, which is indicated by the fact that roughly 20% of
Jakarta's participating labor force is becak drivers. The income of a
becak driver is less than two-thirds of the income of an unskilled worker.
23.       The following shadow prices were used in the analysis:
(a) The shadow wage rate for unskilled workers is estimated at 75% of
the market wage rate;
(b) Skilled labor working in the traditional and all labor in the
modern sector is priced at market rates;
(c) Imported goods are valued at their estimated c.i.f. prices
converted at the shadow exchange rate, which is set at
1 .05 times the official exchange rate;
(d) Goods produced by the modern sector, e.g. cement, are
valued at their current domestic prices;
(e) Goods produced by the traditional sector, e.g. tiles, are
shadow-priced at 85%-95% of their domestic prices in order
to reflect the social benefits of increased production;
(f) Land costs are valued at market resale prices as of the
time of the analysis since market prices seem to ade-
quately reflect opportunity costs;



ANNEX 9
Page 6
(g)  Self-help is shadow priced at 25% of the wage rate for
unskilled workers, since this labor is expected to occur
at time periods when opportunity costs are lowest.
D. Summary of Calculations
24.       The Kampung Improvement Program Component               RpJha
Construction cost                              4,432,000
Relocation cost                                  606,000
Disturbance cost                                 545,000
Total investment cost                     5,583,000
Annual benefits to the residents               1 ,090,000
less increased annual operating
and maintenance costs                            (70,000)
Annual net benefits                       1,020,000
After allocating the investment cost over the implementation period and
assuming a 17-year life for the improvements, the internal economic return
(IER) for the KIP project component is 17%.
25.       The Site and Service Project Component
(Including Completed House)
Klender
(Rp million)
Infrastructure cost                    929.2
Land cost                              550.0
House construction                   2,345.3
Total Investment costs         3,824.5
Net rental value                       655.8
Water company's surplus                  4.0
Less maintenance costs                  (4.1)
Annual net benefits              655.7
After allocating the investment costs over the implementation period, and
assuming a 25-year life for the investments, the internal economic return
(IER) of the site and service project component is 17%.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
E. Sensitivity Analysis
Shadow Wage Rate
26.       The rate of return for the subprojects under different assumptions
about the shadow wage rate are as follows:
Shadow Wage Rate for Unskilled Labor
50%         75%        100%
Kampung Improvement Program           18%          17,        16%
Site and Service                      19%          17%        147%
Total Project                    19%         17%         15%
Other Costs and Benefits
27.       The sensitivity of the project rate of return to assumotions a"Dout
cost variations and benefit variations is shown below:
Kampung Improvement Program
Cost Variations
Benefit Variations             -10%        t0%       +10%
+25%                     25%O       22%        20%
+ 0%                     19%        17%         15,
-25%                     14%        12%        10%
Site and Service Program
Cost Variations
Benefit Variations             -10%        ±0%       +107
+25%                     22"        20%        18,.'
± 0%                     18%        17%        14%
-25%                     13%        12%        112
i,



ANNEX 9
Page 8
28.       Land for the Site and Service component is valued at its oppor-
tunity cost which is estimated from current resale values.  Market distor-
tions might mean that the money cost of land does not properly reflect the
opportunity cost of land in Jakarta. If the opportunity cost is half or
double the money cost, the internal economic rates vary as follows:
Land Va4ue              IER
(Rp /m- )--
250                18%
500                17%
1,000                15%
F.  Summary of Economic Analysis
29.       The economic analysis is based on the assumption that benefits to
the site occupants are reflected in increased land values and imputed rental
values.  Many social benefits, for examDle, from increased productivity and
improved health, may be only partly reflected in the land and rental values.
This means that the calculated economic rate of return possibly understates
the real return.  Ihen project inputs are shadow priced as described above,
the economic rate of return is 17%. If no shadow pricing is employed the
return is 16%. Both the KIP and Site and Service project components each
have individual rates of return of 17%.



ANNEX 9
Pane 9
Appendix 1
INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOP}HENT PROJECT
The Employment Situation in Indonesia and Jakarta
1.        An analysis of the growth of the city comDared with the national
statistics on population, labor force and employment, reveal how dependent
the country is on the creation of employment opportunities in Java. The
labor force is expected to grow as follows:
1961       1971    131
Indonesia /a
Total populauion                              97.0       119.2    153.6
Population (Age 10-64)                        61.4        77.5    103.2
Labor force (Age 10-64)                       33.3        38.9     50.4
Labor force participation rate (%)            54          50       49
Annual increase of labor force (%)            ----  1.6 ------2.6---
Jakarta /b
Total population                               2.9         4.6       7.2
Population (Age 10-64)                         2.0         3.1       4.9
Labor force (Age 10-64)                        1.0         1.4       2.2
Labor force participation rate (%)            50          46       45
Annual increase of labor force (%)            ----  3.6-------4.4------
/a   Source:  IBRD Report No. 25-IND, Development Issues for Indonesia.
/b   Source:  For 196-1 and 1971, Biro Pusat Statistik;
For 1981, mission estimates.
2.        Employment as well as unemployment statistics in Indonesia have
serious shortcomings and as is the case in many other Asian countries, both
employment and unemployment have large percentages of underemployed persons
included in them. The official unemployment in Indonesia's urban areas is
about 5%0 and the unemployment in Jakarta is doubtless higher. The large
number of underemployed persons in Jakarta is clearly indicated by the fact
that about 20% of the participating labor force are becak drivers. Conse-
quently, there are reasons to assume that at least one-third of the labor
force in Jakarta is un- or underemployed.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
Appendix 1
3.        The figures relating to unemployment show an addition of one mil-
lion workers per annum to the labor force and some seven to nine million
new labor force entrants in the younger age groups during the Repelita II.
However, the adaptability of the Indonesia worker and the prevalence of small
individual enterprises will encourage a good deal of economic activities in
the project, sites. The Site and Service program, coupled with the gov-
ernment programs will directly provide additional employment opportunities,
and have a direct impact on the local employment situation.
A. Integration of the Site and Service Area
and Employment Onortunities
4.        Easy access to places of work and the costs of transportation
determine the choice of living area for the low-income people evervwhere
in Asia.  For these reasons, modernized housing quarters located away from
employment centers, even when subsidized have appealed little to the poor,
resulting in failures of many site and service projects. The site under
consideration has been carefully chosen from an inventory of 45 sites, with
employment opportunities ranking fairly high among the criteria used.
D.        The Klender site is located about 1 km from the Pulo Cadung In-
dustrial Estate where the Indonesian Government, with World Bank financial
support, is beginning a development that will provide about 15,000 jobs.
In addition, there are traditional employment opportunities at Pasar Klender
and good rail access at Klender Station.  The PTB is constructing a 600 unit
middle income housing project at Duren Sawit and a squatter resettlement
project at Pondok Bambu.  Besides this, housing for Navy and Air Force em-
ployees is planned for the area.
B.  Direct Employment Effects of the Site and Service Program
6.        The labor costs for construction including land preparation,
installment of municipal services and the building of community center
and public offices would amount to about 30% of the project cost. The
non-standardization of production, non-mechanization, the habit of buying
in small quantities and the lack of transportation network,  will also
contribute to the small scale manufacturing, crafts and retailing sectors.
7.        Detailed estimates of employment effects of site and service
projects in Jakarta were made based on the available information for a
typical site, as shown below. Since the general situation remains the
same for all sites, the data illustrates the employment creation expected
at Klender.



ANNEX 9
Page 11
Appendix 1
Total Number of Jobs and Man-Years of Employment at Typical Site (180 ha.)
Jobs     Man-Years
Construction - additional improvement,
building materials, manufacturing                       1,300      1,300
Household help                                            2,700       1,170
Community facilities                                        560         480
Markets, commercial opportunities, shons
(two in number)                                         1,640        870
Small shopping areas (nine in number)                       450         L50
Banks, government offices, etc.                             350         200
Home crafts, snack vending, mornev-lending
and the like in and around residences                    ,000      2 ,OCO
Total                                         15,000       6,470
Employment at Project Site (Klender)
No. of Jobs          No. of Man-Years of Employment
9,200                         3,900
C. Employment Generated by the Kampung Improvement Program
8.        The total employment generation by the Kampung Improvement Program
will be 46,000 man-years, calculated as follows:



ANNEX 9
Page 12
Appendix I
Direct employment:
No. of Jobs
Roads and footpaths                              10,280
Bridges                                             500
Drainage canals                                   2,730
Water supply                                      1,720
Sewage and garbage disposal                       2,180
Subtotal                                    17,410
Administration /a                                    300
Detailed engineering /a                              130
Supervision /a                                      260
Technical assistance /b                             -
Inflation                                           _
TOTAL                                       18,100
/a   White collar workers in these categories are assumed
to make about four times as much as manual laborers.
/b   Primarily foreign personnel.
Local Building Materials
9.        There will also be indirect employment generated in the building
materials industry amounting to approximately 27,600 jobs.  Estimates of
the labor component in local building materials have been made on "Survey
of Large and Medium-Scale Manufacturing Industries", Central Bureau of
Statistics, Jakarta, 1970, and mission visits to local building materials
industries.



ANNEX 9
Page 13
Appendix 1
Labor Component in Local Building MIaterials
/a
Building material           Labor component            Shadow-price,--
Brick                            0.45                      0.89
Tiles                            0.45                      0.89
Ceramic pipes                    0.40                      0.90
Concrete pipes                   0.40                      n.90
Bamboo mats                      0.40                      0.90
Lumber                            0.35                     0.91
Stone, sand, gravel               0.30                     0.93
Asbestos products                 0.25                     1 . 0
/b
Cement                           0.25                      1.00-
Asphalt                          0.20                      1. O/b
Metal pipes                      0.20                      1.0 G
Plastic pipes                    0.20                      1. o
/a   If unskilled labor is shadow-priced at 757; of the wage rate.
/b   Produced by the modern sector or imported.



ANNEX 9
keage' 1L
Appendix .
Table 1
*1                                           INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Employment Calculations - Typical Site (180 ha)
Community Employment                                  Number of    Person-Years
positions    of Employment
I. Construction Manufacturing
Past construction work - redevelopment,
changing roadways, additional improvement, etc.    1,000          I,000
Building materials, manufacturing bricks -
lumber works, etc.                                      300         300
Sub-total         1,300       1,300
:I. Househo'd Help
1/6th of the 80 m2 households (7,560 total)
may employ part-time help for 2 hours/day             7,260         315
1260 x 2
1/3rd of 140 m2 households (2,700 total)
employ 4 hours of help per day                          900          450
2700 x 1/3 x 4
1/2 of 200 m2 households (540 in number)
employ full-time help                                   270         270
1/2 of 200 -m2 households employ part-time
help 4 hours/day                                        270          135
Sub-total         2,700       1,170



ANNEX 9
Page 15
INDONESIA                                       Appendix 1
Table 1 (Cont'd)
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Employment Calculations - Typical Site (180 ha)
Coanunity Employment                                 Number of          Number of    Person-Years
facilities         positions    of Employment
III. Communitv facilities and Man Hours of Employment
Badminton court                                        75             None               None
R.W. office and police posts                           65          65 part-time jobs    20
Soccerfield                                           11        5 part-time employees   2
Elementary schools /1                                  11              231               231
Secondary schools /2                                    3               57                57
Community center and day care center               Will be manned by the community on a voluntary basis
Kindergarten                                           15          15 part-time            6
(3 hours/day)
Small health clinic /3                                  8         64 employees (full    40
and part-time)
Large health clinic /4                                  1          16 full-time           16
Fire brigade, post office, police station               2         80 (full & part-time) 60
Mosques                                                25         25 priests (partly    20
paid by government)
Garbage collection |5                                  27                                 25
Total                             558            477
/1   15% of the total population in Jakarta is of elementary school going age. Applying the same criterion,
out of 511,000 peop'e, 8,100 will be the number that mizht constitute the popuLation in
elementary school, it is estimated that 11 schools will. be there in the total site area.
All 11 elementary schools will have 8,100 pupils. Each school will have 736 children. 40 pupils per
class, there will be 18 classes in each school or 9 classes in two sessions. Hence, each elementary
school will have at least 16 teachers - one head teacher, one administrator, an office clerk, a
registrar or admissions clerk and one caretaker. There will be altogether at least 21 employees in
each of these schools. Multiplied by the number of schools on the site - 11 x 21 - 231 man-years.
/2  Total population * 54,000.  Approximately 2.2% of the population attend secondary school.  Secondary
school population - 54000 x 2.2
100         -  1,188 students
There are three school sites. Each school will then contain 396 students. Each class will have 30
students - 13 classes. Could be in two shifts - 6 classroom schools. Staffing - each school will
have 12 teachers - a head teacher, school administrator/registrar, clerk, two physical activities
teachers or coordinators, two care takers - total 19. Three schools in the site then will require
3 x 19 persons - 57 man-years.
/3 Small health clinic facility would include:
1 doctor - part_time
1 dentist - part-time
1 administrator - part-time
2 assistants - 1 full-time, 1 part-time
1 nurse - full-time
1 mid-wife - full-time
1 labor worker - part-time - everyday 4 hours
Total 5 man-years
8 such clinics will generate 40 man-years of employment
/4 Large health clinic facility would include:
1 doctor
1 dentist
1 dental assistant
1 administrator
2 chemist assistants
2 nurses
2 midwives
2 P.K.E.
2 laborers
1 custodian
Total 16 - all full-time
LS  For 63 households - 1 garbage box.  One truck per 2,000 persons.  Total number of trucks
54000
2000  -  27        27 truck drivers - also acting as workmen collecting garbage and emptying garbage
boxes. There may be additional help employed from time to time. The 27 truck drivers might do the
city rounds on stipulated days. Total number of estimated man-years of work - 25.



ANNEX 9
Page 16
Appendix 1
IS1DO11ESIA                           Table I (Cont'd)
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Employment Calculations - Typical Site (180 ha)
Community Employment                                 Number of   Person-Years
positions   of Employment
IV.  Markets, Commercial Opportunities and Shops
It has been estimated on the basis of government data, that there
will be a large market or pasar for everv 5,000 households.  There will be
a small shopping area serving every 1,200 households
Total number of markets at Site                 =  2 (estimated)
Total number of small shopping areas               9
Estimated Number of Employment at Market Places:
1.   Retail Stores
Cloth shop and cloth stands                      80           40
General stores                                   30           15
Grocery stores                                   30           15
Vegetable and fruit stores (several part
time, seasonal transient type jobs)          200           50
Other consumer goods                             40           15
Hardware                                         30           15
Furniture stores and lumber yard                 25           10
Meat, fish and poultry stores & stands           20           10
Live cattle, fowl selling                        15           10
Sub-Total                  470          180
2.   Service Type Snops
3arbers                                          20           15
Tailors                                          15           15
Cycle repairs                                    10           10
Leather goods - servicing                        10           10
Other types of services                          15           15
Sub-Total                   70           65
Restaurants & Food Stands
Full time restaurant type employment and
part time selling of food                       120           60
1.   Other Activities connected with Marketing
Oplet, Oxcart business                      .   50            50
Carriers and peddlers                            40           40
Odd jobs                                         60           40
Sub-Total                  150          130
Total /1                   820        ' 435
Total number of job and man-years at
the two markets                              1,640           870
V.   Small Shopping Areas
Total such areas in site - 9 (estimated).  Zach awall shopping
area may contain a neighborhood grocery store, covered departmental store, a
barber shop, a neighborhood mill and the like. The mission has estimated 50
man-years of employment and 45 jobs at each of these areas.
Total                 450        0oo
Banks, government offices market entrance fee collectors, maintenance
crew on the site will generate approximately 200 man-years and 350 jobs.
VI.  Lomecrafta, Snack Vending, Monevlending and Other Part-time Jobs
2     At least one or two members of most of the families in the 8Om2
140m sites will indulge in such part-time activities, thus generating a
considerable number of man-years of work. Out of 8,000 households if one
person has an occupation of four hours a day and did so only for half this
number of days in a year,2,000 man-years of job (low income jobs) will be
there.
Total number of man-years mav amountyto  -  18,000         2,000
/1 A typical market contains as many as 400 Bakuls and 200 Artisans.
Hence our numbers for jobs (820), man-years (435) seem fairly realistic.
Source: Present market conditions in Jakarta.



INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR                                1974                          19-5                         1976                         1977
QUARTERS                            01    02    Q3    04         Q1    02      Q3    04       Q1    02    03    Q4         Q1    02    Q3    04
KIP
Kampung Selection -      -------   ---       ---------_----
Contract Preparation ---_-_-_-
Tendering--------------------------          _      4                                       AS
Construction --------------------        - - ---
SITES AND SERVICES
Land Acquisition ------------------
Detailed Engineering ---                                - MOM
Contract Preparation ------        -----------                   _
Tendering   ------- ------------ --------
Site Construction                 -----       ---------------       - -. -,   _  
External Infrastructure
Roads                -   ----------------- .-                      _-
Water Mains-------------                                                                               i --
Site Occupancy -------------------  ------                    l        -       -
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
National Urban Development Corporation
Management Assistance -*-------------   ------i-1-- 5----
Project Execution                                     --                          -.                                  M - .  _   _         -Iie  _  _    _
Project Feasibility Studies. -    -        --   -         -
Greater Jakarta Planning                        [                                   l 
Board----------------- -----------
_______oB 83 -   -                                                                           -   -   -   -   -   -   -  - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - = _  i 
World 8ank-8863(R)



l
i
s
1
7
. ,:
.!
'
:.
:1
,
-



INDONESIA
JAKARTA URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
National Housing Authority
Minister of Economics, industry
& Commerce - Chairman
Cipta Karya - Secretariat
National Urban Develop-                                                         DKI - Jakarta
ment Corporation
Board of Supervisors                                                             Governor
Managing Director             Deputy Governor
Managing Director                              For Development
Planning &    | 
Engineering   |                             Finance
Director     |                             Director                     _ _
Project Unit                           Directorate of                                                  PT8
Pr-jec Unit                    Coordination      , --                           mm            PT
Manager                                        Director                                                   Director
KIP  Unit    |                                      | Sites & Services Unit
Manager                                                    Manager
Administrat o                                            Engineering &         ccoints          Land Purchase         Enginieerinig     Community            Accounts
Planning                           & Administration                         Development
World Ban k-8683



