Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFlCIAL USIE ONLY
Repwt No. 12973
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2800-IND)
APRIL 18, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                              -     Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
At Loan Appraisal in October 1986          -     US$1.00 = Rp 1,630
At the closing date for Loan
Disbursement In April, 1993              -      US$1.00 = Rp 2,074
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia                    -     April 1 - March 31
Bank Rakyat Indonesia                      -     January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB           -   Asian Development Bank
ASKRINDO    -   PT Asuransi Kredit Indonesia (Credit Insurance Company of
Indonesia)
BAPINDO       -   Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (Development Bank of Indonesia)
BBD           -   Bank Bumi Daya
BDN           -   Bank Dagang Negara
BEII          -   Bank Ekspor Import Indonesia
BI            -   Bank Indonesia
BIMAS         -   Bimbingan Massal (an integrated program for crop intensification)
BKK           -   Badan Kredit Kecamatan (Rural Credit Institutions)
BNI           -   Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
BPKP          -   Agency for Financial and Development Supervision
BRI           -   Bank Rakyat Indonesia
BULOG         -   Board of Logistic Affairs
CPIS          -   Center for Policy and Implementation Studies
GDP           -   Gross Domestic Product
GOI           -   Government of Indonesia
HB            -   Handling Bank
KIK           -   Kredit Investasi Kecil (Small Investment Credit Program)
KMKP          -   Kredit Modal Kerja Permanen (Small Permanent Working Capital
Program)
KTN           -   Cooperatives, Farmers and Fishermen Credit Department
KUPEDES       -   Kredit Umum Pedesan (General Village Credit Program)
MOF           -   Ministry of Finance of the Government of Indonesia
PCR           -   Project Completion Report
PDFCI         -   Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
PPAR          -   Project Performance Audit Report
PUD           -   Village Unit Development Division
RDB           -   Regional Development Bank
SEDP          -   Small Enterprise Development Project
SIMPEDES      -   Simpanan Pedesan (Village Saving Program)
SOE           -   Statement of Expenditures
SSE           -   Small-Scale Enterprises
TABANAS       -   Tabungan Nasional (Small Saving Program)
USAID         -    United States Agency for International Development



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Offloe of Diretor-G.ral
Operaton Evaluatlon
April 18, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on INDONESIA -
BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit Project (Loan 28004-ND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia - BRIKUPEDES Small Credit
Project (Loan 2800-IND) prepared by the Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part II contributed
by the Borrower.
The BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit Project supported three specific objectives: (i) to support
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)'s efforts to develop a viable subbranch network (otherwise known
as KUPEDES) that would provide credit to small borrowers, mobilize savings, and extend banking
services; (ii) to assist BRI in mobilizing funds so that it could eventually fund KUPEDES; and (iii)
to improve institutional capacity within BRI overall as well as for the KUPEDES program. The
IBRD loan financed a credit component for general purpose financing and a technical assistance
component to strengthen BRI's institutional capability to implement the KUPEDES program.
This Project is rated highly satisfactory. The technical assistance component, which was
supplemented by a reallocation from the credit component, was completed as planned. The concept
of providing unsubsiized credit to small borrowers proved viable. Resource mobilization exceeded
initial expectations. The developmental impact, especially in rural areas was high. About 25
percent of small borrowers were women. The institutional capacity within the BRI and the
subbranch network was strengthened. The project appears sustainable.
The PCR provides a sound analysis of the reasons for the success of the program. The
project was well focused, with simple objectives, and the Borrower demonstrated high commitment
to the program. Part A in particular, provides useful insights. It gives a historical perspective and
explains why earlier World Bank small credit projects had not succeeded as well as the KUPEDES.
An audit of this operation is planned.
Attachment
lSik docuthu a reaice dird  and my be und by rcwpieas only in dh* pefxnmac of thr official Ada. It coateat
may aca odiwm. be dAcboed wto Wold Bank sudzatn.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2800-IND)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i
Evaluation Summary .ii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity  .........................................                                        1
2.   Background ............................................                                            1
3.   Project Objectives and Description  .............................                                  2
4.   Project Design and Organization ...............................                                    2
5.   Project Implementation   ....................................                                      4
6.   Project Results ..........................................                                         7
7.   Project Sustainability ......................................                                     12
8.   Bank Performance  .......................................                                         14
9.   Borrower Performance .....................................                                        15
10. Project Relationship .16
11.  Consulting Services .................                     ,       .      ..........              16
12. Project Documentation and Data .17
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I.  Overall Assessment of the Project Performance .18
II. Overview of the Credit Component .22
III. Overview of the Technical Assistance Component .24
IV. Bank's Performance During the Project .26
V. Borrower's Performance During the Project .28
VI.  Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower During the Project                                32
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.   Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .............................                                  33
2.   Project Timetables  .......................................                                      33
3.   Loan Disbursements  ......................................                                       34
4.   Project Cost and Financing ..................................                                    34
5.   Project Results ...........................................                                      35
6.   Status of Covenants ...............                      ....................                    36
7.   Use of Bank Resources  ....................................                                      37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.   BRI's Audit Income Statement, 1987-1992  ........................                          38
2.   BRI's Audit Balance Sheet, 1987-1992 ...........................                            39
3.   Indicators of BRI's Financial Performance, 1987-1992 .................                      40
4.   Summary of BRI Lending and Borrowing Operations, 1987-1992 ....                ......       41
5.   Unit Desa System Income Statements, 1984-1992 ....................                          42
6.   Unit Desa System Balance Sheets, 1984-1992  ......................                          43
7.   Indicators of Unit Desa System Financial Performance, 1984-1992  ....           .....      44
8.   Actual KUPEDES Lending Operations, 1984-1992  ...................                          45
9.   Analysis of Unit Desa System Loan Portfolio, 1984-1992 ...............                      46
10. Sectoral Distribution of KUPEDES Loans .47
11. Comparison of the Unit Desas with Total BRI .48
12. Status of Technical Assistance Component .49
13. Organization Structure of BRI Unit Desa Department .50



- j -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2800-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit Project in
Indonesia, for which Loan 2800-IND in the amount of US$101.5 million was approved on April 28,
1987. The Loan Account was closed on April 8, 1993, and an outstanding balance of US$65,834.57
was canceled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division, Country
Department III, East Asia and Pacific Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the
Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in July 1993, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Reports; the Loan and Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2800-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Obiectives and Description
1.    The BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit Project (the Project) had the specific objectives of: (a)
supporting BRI's efforts to develop the Unit Desa system into a financially viable subbranch network
that would be able to provide credit on a nonsubsidized basis to creditworthy small borrowers, to
mobilize savings and to provide other banking services; (b) encouraging BRI to improve its resource
mobilization so that it could eventually fund KUPEDES !' loans from the deposits that it raises, thus
reducing its reliance on BI liquidity credits for the KUPEDES program; and (c) improving the
institutional capability of BRI overall as well as for the KUPEDES program.
2.    To achieve these objectives, two components were included under the Project: (a) a credit
component for general purpose financing; and (b) a technical assistance component to strengthen
BRI's institutional capability in implementing the KUPEDES program.
Implementation Experience
3.    The Project was approved on April 28, 1987, and became effective on June 11, 1987. The
Project implementation has been smooth and satisfactory. The credit component was fully disbursed
by the third quarter of 1989, almost three years before the originally estimated completion date (June
30, 1992). The implementation of the TA component was completed as originally planned. The
Project was completed according to the original schedule, and the Loan account was closed on April
8, 1993, the date on which the final disbursement was made. An undisbursed balance of about
US$65,000 under the TA component was cancelled.
4.    There was little departure from the original Project design. The only variance was the
reallocation of US$3.3 million from the credit component to the technical assistance component, to
strengthen BRI's institutional capability as well as to finance related studies.
Proiect Results and Sustainabilitv
5.    The primary objectives of the Project have been successfully achieved and the Project is
sustainable.
Y'    KUPEDES is a small credit program operated by BRI through the Unit Desa system.



- 111 -
6.     Financial Viability: The financial viability of the Unit Desa system can best be measured by
its profitability over time. The net profit far exceeded the appraisal estimates, rising steadily each
year and more than tripling between 1987 and 1992, from Rp. 22.5 billion to Rp. 69.3 billion.
7.     Resource Mobilization:  The Unit Desas' resource mobilization also far exceeded the
appraisal expectations. Total deposits increased from Rp. 287.5 billion in 1987 to Rp. 3,399 billion
in 1992; and the number of depositors increased from 4 million to 10 million during the same period.
The market share of the Unit Desas deposits also increased, from 0.79% of total domestic bank
deposits in Indonesia in 1986 to 3.16% in 1992.
8.    Institutional Development:  BRI's Unit Desa Policy and Unit Desa Strategy Statements
adopted by BRI's Board of Managing Directors in June 1990 outline the overall goals and operational
objectives of the Unit Desa system. As the Unit Desa operations have grown, its organizational
structure has expanded from a Section to a Desk to a full Division within BRI. The Business Unit
Desa Division at BRI headquarters, provides general leadership and overall control. Sections at each
Regional Office and Branch are responsible for direction in the field. Immediate supervision is from
the Branches, with a full time cadre of Unit Business Managers assisting the Unit Desas in their
operations. BRI's internal auditors audit the Unit Desas when they audit the responsible branch.
9.     Credit Provision to Small Borrowers:  Unit Desa borrowers are small enterprises with
average capital investment of about US$650 equivalent, and less than five workers. Unit Desas
lending to these small borrowers increased substantially. Total loans outstanding increased from Rp.
429.6 billion in 1987 to Rp. 1,648.5 billion in 1992.
10.   Developmental Impact:  KUPEDES loans are made for productive activities. Trade and
retailing have dominated, representing over 60% of the identified borrowing enterprises. Small
industry loans come next, accounting for about 13% of the total. Direct agricultural production loans
are less frequent, making up about 8% of the total. However, total funds going to support agriculture
should be higher than this figure, given that part of the trade and industry loans are used to finance
the production and marketing of agricultural products.
11.   Women represented at least 25% of the borrowers. A survey done by BRI in 1990 shows
that the Unit Desa borrowing enterprises are growing rapidly and are making substantial contributions
to improved income and employment generation in the rural and small scale business sectors.
12.   The Unit Desas as a Part of BRI: The Unit Desas make a very important contribution to BRI
as a whole. For the three years from 1990 to 1992, the Unit Desas' loans outstanding were stable at
about 9.4% of BRI's total portfolio, the Unit Desas' contribution to total BRI deposits rose from
17.5% to 28.8% and the Unit Desas profit in 1992 accounted for more than two-thirds of BRI's total
earnings.



- iv -
Findings and Lessons Learned
13.   Overall, through Loan 2800-IND, the Bank has made a very positive contribution to the
successful development of the BRI Unit Desa system. The following conclusions and lessons can be
drawn from the success of this Project regarding financial intermediary lending operations:
(a)    A project is more likely to be successful if it is clearly focused and has simple
objectives. These objectives should be thoroughly discussed by the Bank with, and
understood and agreed by, the Borrower to ensure high commitment and ownership;
(b)    The design of the project should be directly linked to the project objectives. In
particular, the credit component should be designed to encourage and support the
institution's own resource mobilization efforts, rather than to compensate for a lack of
it;
(c)    Continuity of Bank and implementation agency staff throughout project design and
implementation is an advantage in ensuring smooth and successful project preparation
and implementation;
(d)    A well-designed and maintained information system/data base is important to the
successful implementation of the Project, as is congruence between the Bank's
reporting requirements and the implementation agency's existing reporting system;
(e)    It has become evident that in Indonesia rural small and micro enterprises are willing
and able to pay an interest rate which fully covers lending costs; assured access to
lending, convenience of location and prompt credit decisions are more important to
small borrowers than getting a lower interest rate;
(f)    On the deposit side, there is large potential for mobilizing rural savings in Indonesia,
provided that the needs of the potential depositors are satisfied. These needs, in order
of importance, are: safety, accessibility (immediate and unlimited withdrawal),
convenience of service location, and acceptable interest rate;
(g)    Consultant services can play an important role in ensuring successful project
implementation, provided that the consultants have clearly defined terms of reference,
are able to work closely with their counterparts, and have direct access to senior
management; and
(h)    Making provisions already at the design stage for training of additional staff to avoid
shortages in case business activities develop more dynamically than expected.



a



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2800-IND)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name        :      BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit Project
Loan Number                2800-IND
Loan Amount                US$ 101.5 million
Regional Unit              East Asia & Pacific Region - Country Department III
Country             :      Indonesia
Sector              :      Industry and Finance
Subsector           :      Financial Intermediary
2.    Background
2.1   In 1970, upon establishment of BIMAS Z' as a national program, Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI)
was asked by the Government of Indonesia (GOI) to establish a Unit Desa (village sub-branch) system
to administer BIMAS credit. GOI provided an administrative subsidy and later covered the
operational losses of the Unit Desas. By 1983, GOI recognized that the BIMAS credit program had
outlived its usefulness. Costs far exceeded possible benefits. With the discontinuation of BIMAS,
BRI faced the choice of either abandoning the Unit Desas (since their operations was no longer
subsidized by GOI) or changing their role and function to make them profitable. BRI chose the latter
course for various reasons. First, the Kredit Mini and Kredit Midi programs 1' had shown that there
was large demand for all kinds of village entrepreneurial activities. Second, Unit Desa staff had
already learned how to administer small credit programs; disbanding the system completely would
therefore be wasteful and result in substantial staff layoffs.
2.2    Thus, with the close assistance of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), BRI initiated in 1984 the
Kredit Umuim Pedesan (KUPEDES), a new general purpose credit program, as the main activity of
The BIMAS program was aimed at improving agricultural production and practices through the
provision of physical inputs, technical assistance and short-term credit through BRI Unit Desas
at an interest rate substantially below market rates. BI/GOI bore up to 75 % of the credit risk and
provided an administrative subsidy to BRI to cover the operating costs of the Unit Desas.
Established in 1973 and 1979 respectively, these programs extended credit to small borrowers
outside of the BIMAS program, primarily for off-farm economic activities.



- 2 -
the Unit Desas. KUPEDES was designed to provide credit to creditworthy small borrowers for
general purposes to cover investment, working capital and trade needs.
2.3    BRI's long-term goal was to develop the Unit Desa system into a nationwide sub-branch
system, integrated within the overall BRI structure, which would be profitable. Each Unit Desa
would operate as a profit center, making loans and raising deposits, with staff being paid a bonus,
based on annual financial results, to encourage good performance. BRI's goal was in line with GOI's
policy reforms to deregulate the financial system, spur resource mobilization, restrict the scope of BI
liquidity credit programs and enhance the access of creditworthy small borrowers to credit. These
reforms were supported by the Bank in the form of policy advice, institutional support and financial
resources. The Bank report entitled "Indonesia - Policies and Prospects for Long-Term Financial
Development" in 1985, clearly identified the need to limit the scope of the then existing priority
credit programs and to reduce the credit subsidies associated with those programs. The reduction of
the subsidy and its effect on the budget was an important objective of the Bank's dialogue with GOI,
particularly given the country's difficult economic situation at that time. The KUPEDES program
represented a dramatic and successful departure from the heavily subsidized and directed credit
programs. In the first two years of its operations, with assets growing at 68.1% in 1985 and 38.8%
in 1986, KUPEDES rapidly developed into the country's largest and most widespread source of credit
for small borrowers. Losses declined steadily during these two years, and the Unit Desas registered a
profit in 1986.
2.4   In order to support and strengthen the Unit Desa system, which was clearly economically and
financially viable, the Bank prepared the BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit Project (the Project) in 1986.
3.     Proiect Objectives and Description
3.1    The Project's objectives included: (a) supporting BRI's efforts to develop the Unit Desa (sub-
branch) system into a financially viable network that is able to provide credit on a nonsubsidized basis
to all creditworthy small borrowers, to mobilize savings and to provide other banking services; (b)
encouraging BRI to improve its resource mobilization efforts so that it could eventually fund
KUPEDES loans out of the deposits that it raises; (c) reducing its reliance on BI liquidity credits for
the KUPEDES program; and (d) improving the institutional capability of BRI overall as well as for
the KUPEDES program.
3.2    To achieve these objectives, the Project consisted of two components: (a) a credit component
for general purpose financing. This was expected to meet BRI's requirements for funds for
KUPEDES lending, other than those which it could raise through savings mobilization, and was equal
to the amount of BI liquidity credits that BRI would otherwise require for the period. The component
would finance small-scale enterprises in all sectors including manufacturing, agriculture, trade and
services; and (b) a technical assistance component to assist BRI in improving its institutional
capability relating to the implementation and strengthening of the KUPEDES program.
4.     Proiect Design and Organization
4.1    Project Design:  As mentioned above, the Project was designed to comprise two
components: one credit component and one technical assistance component. While this design is



- 3 -
fairly typical for a financial intermediary lending operation, the particular design of the Project had
several strengths which have contributed to success.
4.2    One major strength of the Project's design was the emphasis on building an institution capable
of providing banking services on a sustained basis, rather than just moving Bank funds to support
KUPEDES disbursements. Under the Project, drawdown of Bank funds was based on the growth in
banking services, i.e., increase in the Unit Desa loan portfolio and deposits mobilization. Thus, Bank
funds were not used to refinance other funds already committed. The maximum percentage of the
increase in the portfolio that could be financed by the Bank was set at 65% for the first year and 60%
for the second year. This disbursement formula created an incentive for BRI to mobilize other
resources. BRI was thereby compelled to raise part of the expansion funds from deposits, which, as
noted above, was one of the institution building objectives of the Project. Another aspect of
institution building was the support for strengthening through technical assistance the audit and
supervision functions of BRI related to the Unit Desa operations.
4.3    A second strength of the Project's design was the emphasis placed by the Bank and BRI on
goals and strategies for achieving these goals. The Unit Desa Policy and Strategy Statements were
jointly prepared by the Bank and BRI and became part of the Project documentation. The Policy
Statement listed the basic concepts on which the Unit Desa system was based:
(a)    credit available for any productive purposes, nontargeted, with decisions based on
sound banking considerations;
(b)   interest rates sufficient to cover all costs, including loan losses, and to provide a profit
margin;
(c)    deposit mobilization to be encouraged by paying positive real rates of interest;
(d)    additional services to be introduced according to customer needs, with costs fully
covered;
(e)    emphasis on Unit Desa location close to Unit customers, to reduce transaction cost
and provide genuine access; and
(f)    environmental impact to be considered in making loan decisions.
4.4    Ways of implementing and achieving these policies were elaborated in the Unit Desa Strategy
Statement. These commitments were taken seriously by BRI management. For example, early in the
life of Project implementation, Japanese balance of payments support was made available to BRI by
the Government, specifically to finance the portion of KUPEDES expansion (40% by the Bank's
disbursement formula) not covered by the Bank. Even with this additional financing available, BRI
did not relax its mobilization efforts and continued with its emphasis on developing the Unit Desas'
independent funding sources.
4.5    Thirdly, the Project objectives were clearly stated and were realistic. They coincided with
plans and goals that were already accepted and being implemented by BR!, and were supported by the
Government. Thus, the decision had been taken in 1983 to convert the Unit Desas into a viable rural



- 4 -
financial network. By 1987, KUPEDES loans were expanding rapidly, and the Unit Desa system was
profitable. Deposits mobilization was moving ahead, although deposits still covered a minority of
loans outstanding. The Project was therefore timely and provided important outside support for the
policies and goals that were in place, and strengthened BRI's resolve to continue on the same path.
4.6    Since deposits were still far below loan funding requirements at that time, the Unit Desas
were partially dependent on a line of credit from Bank Indonesia. This line could be reduced or
cancelled at the discretion of Bank Indonesia. The Bank funds removed the Unit Desas' dependence
on Government or Bank Indonesia funding for additional growth and helped to ensure that KUPEDES
loans would continue to be available to creditworthy enterprises at all times.
4.7    Finally, the Project also provided support for the Government's financial sector policy
reforms. In 1983, the Government had partially deregulated the banking sector. This first
deregulation was incomplete, and many subsidized credit programs were still in place. The Bank's
Loan for KUPEDES provided a clear signal of the Bank's support for further moves away from the
subsidized credit programs. The successful development of the Unit Desas as unsubsidized suppliers
of credit in the rural areas encouraged the Government to consider ending most subsidized credit
programs other than those for cooperatives. Bank Indonesia withdrew from most of the subsidized
credit programns in 1990.
4.8    Project Organization:  BRI's Board of Managing Directors is the main authority for the
establishment of policy regarding Unit Desa activities. Policy directives (in the form of operational
circulars) are communicated from the Board through the regional offices and branches to their
respective Unit Desas. BRI's Unit Desa Policy and Unit Desa Strategy Statements adopted by BRI's
Board of Managing Directors in June 1990, as mentioned previously, outline the overall goals and
operational objectives of the Unit Desa system. In late 1988, in recognition of the growing
importance of the Unit Desas as a major service and profit center within BRI, a full division known
as Business Unit Desa Division was established.
4.9    While the regional offices oversee the operations of the branches, branches have the primary
responsibility for the day-to-day supervision of Unit Desa activities. Each branch has at least one
Unit Desa Business Manager who routinely visits and monitors Unit Desa operations, cash balances
and financial controls; in those branches where there are more than ten Unit Desas, a Unit Desa
Officer is assigned to oversee the Unit Desa Managers.
4.10   The standard Unit Desa comprises a manager, a loan officer, a bookkeeper and a cashier.
Standardized workload coefficients (based on number of loans, number of savings accounts and
average daily cash transactions) have been developed that determine the number of additional Unit
Desa staff needed in order to operate efficiently a Unit Desa. "Posts", comprising two-person teams,
are attached to those Unit Desas where there is significant business activity in outlying areas but
insufficient transactions to justify the creation of a fully-staffed Unit Desa.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1    General Status:  The Project was approved on April 28, 1987, and became effective on June
11, 1987. The implementation of the Project was smooth and satisfactory. The credit component



- 5 -
was fully disbursed by the third quarter of 1989, almost three years before the originally estimated
completion date (June 30, 1992). The implementation of the TA component was completed as
originally scheduled.
5.2    There was little departure from the original Project design. The only variance was the
reallocation of US$3.3 million from the credit component to the technical assistance component to
strengthen BRI's institutional capability as well as to finance related studies.
5.3    With the exception above, the Project proceeded in line with its original design. On the
output side, the results, particularly for deposits mobilization, far exceeded the levels forecast at the
Project appraisal. This will be discussed under the section on project results.
5.4   Procurement: Under the Project, subloans have been very small (with an average size of less
than US$250 equivalent) and have no direct foreign exchange component; competitive bidding
procedures would have been impractical. Therefore, goods and services procured with subloan
proceeds have been acquired through normal commercial channels available to the borrowers.
However, the consultant services financed under the Project were provided in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines on the use of consultants.
5.5    Project Cost: Funds available to the Unit Desas for extending KUPEDES loans came from
several sources:
(a)    Equity: consisted of the proceeds of the Government grant to BRI for the Kredit Mini
program which, in 1984, was reallocated for funding the KUPEDES loans. BRI
distributed this grant among the Unit Desas as an "equity contribution";
(b)    Liguiditv Credit from Bank Indonesia: consisted of: (i) the conversion of the liquidity
credit originally provided by Bank Indonesia for the purpose of funding the Kredit
Midi program; and (ii) an initial liquidity credit made available to BRI for KUPEDES
lending. It was agreed under the Project that BRI would pay a single consolidated
rate of 12 percent per annum on these liquidity funds, and that they would be repaid
on a quarterly basis over seven years, beginning in the first quarter of 1989;
(c)    Official Loan: consisted of the Bank line of credit; and
(d)    Deposits Mobilization by the Unit Desas: The Unit Desas provided two major
savings instruments: TABANAS and SIMPEDES. TABANAS (small savings
program) was a national savings scheme sponsored by Bank Indonesia and available to
depositors in all banks, both state and private. SIMPEDES (village savings prograrn)
was introduced by BRI in 1985 as a Unit Desa savings instrument. In addition, the
Unit Desas also offered time deposits with maturities ranging from three months to
one year and checking accounts, which were held primarily by local government
agencies.
In addition, funds were also provided by the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) and the Bank to finance technical assistance programs to strengthen the Unit Desa system.



- 6 -
5.6    Actual Project cost compared to the appraisal estimate is shown in Part III. The original
Project cost was estimated at US$ 1,125 million, but the actual Project cost was about US$ 4,726
million equivalent. This large increase was due to the extremely successful incremental Unit Desa
deposit mobilization and also to the repayment of previous KUPEDES loans, which was not expected
at the time of Project appraisal.
5.7    Disbursements: Actual disbursements compared to the estimates at appraisal are shown in
Part III. The credit line was fully disbursed by end of 1989, three years before the closing date,
much faster than the appraisal estimate. The disbursement under TA component followed the original
plan. The Project was completed according to the original schedule, and the Loan account was closed
on April 8, 1993, the date on which the final disbursement was made. An undisbursed balance of
about US$65,000 under the TA component was cancelled.
5.8    Project Risks: Two potential risks were identified under the Project: portfolio deterioration
and "bureaucratization" of the Unit Desa system.
5.9    The first risk identified, portfolio deterioration, is a principal risk in the support of any
lending program. While the experience with KUPEDES lending up to the approval of the Project was
very positive, with low delinquencies and losses, there was concern that as the portfolio expanded,
quality might suffer. There were in fact two periods of portfolio deterioration, but they resulted from
external economic factors, rather than from the growth of the portfolio. In 1988, loan quality
declined as drought affected the rural economy. This decline was moderate and brief, with loan
quality restored within one year. The second period of declining portfolio quality, in 1991-1992, also
reflected drought condition in eastern Java, more severe and prolonged than in 1988. This time, the
problems of drought coincided with a period of tight money policy. BRI made strong efforts to
improve portfolio quality which showed good results by the end of 1992. Improvement has continued
in 1993.
5.10   Under the Project, the principal indicator of the portfolio quality was the Portfolio Status,
which measures the total of overdue installments to the total of loans outstanding. Conceptually, this
is an imperfect measure, since at a time when portfolio growth declines, or the size of the portfolio
reduces, this measure will automatically increase, which may or may not reflect a real decline in
portfolio quality and repayment probability. The KUPEDES portfolio quality did decline in 1991,
and the Portfolio Status exceeded the level of 8% for a six month period, above which level
performance was considered unsatisfactory under the Project. As required by the Bank under the
Project, BRI prepared an action plan to reduce arrears, which was the basis for a concerted collection
effort. BRI's concentration on collections was at the expense of seeking new and good loans, so that
loans outstanding actually declined for several months in 1991 and 1992. Because of the nature of the
Portfolio Status indicator, as mentioned above, the portfolio decline exaggerated the apparent decline
in quality. The second measure of loan quality specified under the Project was the percentage of
loans more than three months past their due date, to the total loans outstanding. The "trigger" level
for this indicator was set at 6%, but the actual percentage never approached this level.
5.11   In retrospect, a more useful indicator of loan quality under the Project would have been an
arrears ratio, i.e., percentage of the amounts not collected to the total that has come due. The use of
a 12 month arrears ratio would have picked up the portfolio problem earlier, and would have signaled
the subsequent improvement in a more timely fashion.



- 7 -
5.12   The second risk identified under the Project was that the KUPEDES credit process might
revert from the agreed straightforward market based approach to a bureaucratically determined
targeted and subsidized lending strategy which had previously typified Government supported lending
in Indonesia. Such a development could stifle the program and distort the basis for making
KUPEDES loans, as well as give scope for increased irregularities by Unit Desa staff. There had
been some pressures to move back to the targeted and subsidized lending approach. The assurance of
continued Bank support for BRI's implementation of the agreed Policy and Strategy for the operation
of the Unit Desa system, has helped BRI management to withstand these pressures.
6.     Project Results
6.1    Achievement of Project Objectives:  The primary objectives of the Project have been
successfully achieved. Detailed projections for lending, deposits mobilization and Unit Desas profits
were made in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Project for the period 1987 through 1990. A
comparison of these projections with actual results is shown below for the four years from 1987 to
1990, plus actuals for the years 1991 and 1992.
In Rupiah (billion)
KUPEDES Outstanding         Total Deposits         Unit Desas Profits
Year      Estimate     Actual      Estimate     Actual    Estimate      Actual
1987         460.2        429.6       197.7       287.5          8.9        22.5
1988          578.1       542.3       241.4       493.0         14.3        30.6
1989         695.3        846.5       290.2       959.1         26.5        36.9
1990          810.3     1,381.8       344.2      1,694.8        36.2        65.2
1991              -     1,455.7           -      2,540.5           -       66.1
1992                    1,648.5           -      3,399.1                   69.3
6.2    KUPEDES Growth:  The Loan objective of safely expanding non-targeted and non-subsidized
credit was clearly achieved. From the end of 1987 to the close of 1990, KUPEDES loans outstanding
rose by a factor of 3.2, compared with a forecast of 1.8 at Project appraisal. The number of loans on
the books rose from 1.3 million to 1.9 million. As a result of the dramatic rise in loans outstanding,
Bank funds were fully drawn in the third quarter of 1989 rather than in the fourth quarter of 1992 as
originally forecasted. '[he portfolio quality was well controlled. The Portfolio Status was lower at
the end of 1990 than at the close of 1987.
6.3    KUPEDES growth slowed during 1991 for the reasons discussed earlier and recovered
moderately in 1992. The annual growth rates in Rupiah terms for the two years were 5% and 13%
respectively. The number of active borrowers dropped by 3 % in 1991 and was stable in 1992. The
failure to add new borrowers reflected a concern with loan quality, the diversion of manpower to



- 8 -
collecting arrears rather than looking for new loans, and over-selective loan approvals. In 1993, the
number of borrowers shows a modest but steady increase.
6.4    The average outstanding loan size rose from Rp. 330,000 at the end of 1987, to Rp. 730,000
at the end of 1990, and to Rp. 896,000 at the end of 1992. Part of the increase in average loan size
reflects the slowdown in lending in 1991. When loans outstanding decline, fewer new borrowers are
added, and the proportion of repeat borrowers rises, so does the average outstanding loan size. BRI
is currently emphasizing adding customers with credit needs at the small end of the KUPEDES range,
which should bring down the average loan size in the future.
6.5    Deposit Growth:  The Project objective of deposit mobilization was fulfilled. Unit Desa
deposits increased from Rp. 287.5 billion in 1987 to Rp. 3.4 trillion in 1992, far beyond the
expectations of both BRI and the Bank at the time of Project appraisal. There were several reasons
for the dramatic rise in deposits.
(a)    BRI's Unit Desas represent the only banking system that operates in virtually all of
the nation's sub-district towns and small cities. This geographic coverage, when
coupled with attractive savings instruments and a sustained program of funds
mobilization, has gave BRI a powerful advantage in attracting deposits;
(b)    The SIMPEDES savings account was extended from a pilot basis to nationwide
availability in the second half of 1986. This account was designed to meet customer
desires based on field research. It offers unlimited withdrawals, carries a strong
positive real rate of interest, and includes periodic lottery prizes at the local level. It
has proved to be a very attractive instrument, and its growth has exceeded
expectations. By the end of 1986, SIMPEDES balances at the Unit Desas exceeded
those of the TABANAS, the national savings program. SIMPEDES remains the most
important deposit instrument at the Unit Desas. SIMPEDES balances alone covered
72% of the KUPEDES loans outstanding at the end of 1990, and exceeded the
KUPEDES loans outstanding in 1991 and 1992; and
(c)    The continuing deregulation of the banking sector in Indonesia led to the rapid
proliferation of private banks following the liberalization of entry requirements in late
1988. The expansion of banks, while most were in urban areas, represented strong
potential competition for the Unit Desas, and BRI anticipated that such competition
would occur. In some areas it did, but there was an even stronger effect in the
opposite direction. Weaknesses in the private banking sector led to the well-
publicized failure of one large private bank. BRI, as a wholly state owned bank with
a perceived implicit government guarantee of deposits, was widely seen as a safe
place for savings, and as fears of banking sector weakness rose, so did Unit Desas
deposits.
6.6    Financial Viability: The Unit Desas broke even on a monthly basis in August 1985, and
have been profitable each month since then. Net profit, after full costing of direct Unit Desa
expenses, supervision, training and conservative provision for debt losses, rose each year and more
than tripled between 1987 and 1992, from Rp. 22.5 billion to Rp. 69.3 billion. The Unit Desa
operations continue to be profitable in 1993, with profits for the first five months of Rp. 33.6 billion



9-
compared with Rp. 30.8 billion during the same period in 1992. Profits for the full year of 1993 are
expected to rise substantially from those earned in 1992.
6.7    Profitable operations have helped to ensure the continued availability of credit, which is basic
to the creation of a sustainable financial system. The Unit Desas' record of sustained profits, together
with control of portfolio quality are the clearest indicators that the Project objective of financial
viability has been achieved.
6.8   Institutional Capabilitv:  The management of the Unit Desas has been successfully integrated
into BRI's overall organization. As the size of Unit Desa operations has increased, its organizational
structure has expanded from a Section to a Desk to a full Division within BRI. The Unit Desa
Division at headquarters, under a Managing Director, provides general leadership and overall control.
Sections at each regional office and branch are responsible for direction in the field. Immediate
supervision is from the branches, with a full time cadre of Unit Business Managers assisting the Unit
Desas in their operations. BRI's internal auditors audit the Unit Desas when they audit the
responsible branch. Part of the Project funds under the TA Component was used for the training of
some 125 auditors who specialize in audit of the Unit Desas.
6.9    BRI is presently reorganizing its Branch and Regional offices. Two aspects of the Unit Desa
experience have influenced the planning for this reorganization. First, the successful experience of
treating the Unit Desas as a profit center within BRI, and making each Unit Desa a fully accountable
accounting center, will be applied throughout BRI. Branch lending, and international/large corporate
lending will be set up on a profit center basis, with the necessary changes in organization and
accounting to permit identification of results by operating unit. Second, the successful use of profit-
sharing at individual Unit Desas has led to the serious consideration of incentive systems to link
reward with performance at the Branches.
6.10   Intermediation of Deposits:  Since the Unit Desas are part of BRI, a Unit Desa can
intermediate funds by depositing excess cash with its Branch, or by borrowing from the Branch if
loan demand exceeds available internal funding. The Unit Desa receives or pays interest on these
funds at an internally determined transfer price. By raising or lowering the transfer price in relation
to the deposit rates, BRI sends signals to the Unit Desas as to the appropriate division of their efforts
between funds mobilization and seeking additional lending. Such transfer price has been kept above
the rate paid on savings, in order to encourage the Unit Desas to mobilize funds. For the Unit Desa
system as a whole, funds are intermediated from areas of deficient demand to areas of surplus
demand.
6.11   Starting in October 1989, Unit Desa deposits have exceeded Unit Desa lending, as shown in
the table above. This net surplus goes to BRI's branches. Since the bulk of branch lending is also in
rural and small town areas, the excess Unit Desa deposits are used to support small and medium
businesses in KABUPATEN locations, essentially the same rural economy served by the Unit Desas.
Since 1989, BRI has also operated Unit Desas in major urban areas. These urban Units have
consistently had an excess of deposits over loans, so their excess deposits have also been
intermediated into the Branch network, for lending to small and medium size businesses.
6.12   Thus, the Unit Desas' funds intermediation efforts have played an important and successful
role in BRI's overall development of a rural financial system.



- 10 -
6.13   The Unit Desas as a Part of BRI The Unit Desas make a very important contribution to BRI
as a whole. As shown in the following table, for the three years from 1990 to 1992, the Unit Desas'
loans outstanding were stable at about 9.4% of BRI's total portfolio, the Unit Desas' contribution to
total BRI deposits rose from 17.5% to 28.8% during the same period, and the Unit Desas profits
represented an increasing share of BRI total profits (before tax), from 36.5% in 1990 to 92.3% in
1992. 4/
(Rp. billion)
Loans                      Deposits               Profits (before tax)
Year                     Units as                    Units as                   Units as
BRI    Units   % of BRI    BRI    Units   % of BRI   BRI   Units   % of BRI
1990   14,335   1,382       9.6%     9,667   1,695     17.5%    179       65      36.5%
1991   15,648   1,456       9.3%    11,626   2,540     21.9%      92      66      72.1%
1992   17,811   1,649       9.3%    11,821   3,399     28.8%      75      69      92.3%
6.14   The Project also provided technical assistance to strengthen the Unit Desa system, consisting
of training and study programs. Under the training program, 125 new auditors were trained with
specialization in auditing of the Unit Desas. Training was also provided to implement a new
operating system in the Unit Desas which both increased safety checks and balanced the workload of
the staff members.
6.15   Under the study program, several studies were conducted with help of consultants. These
studies, including a study of the reasons why KUPEDES lending for investment was lower than
anticipated, a study of the extent of market penetration and of the potential for additional KUPEDES
lending, and a study of loan arrears, were important to the effective management of the Unit Desas.
6.16   KUPEDES Investment Credit Study: The findings of this study led to a number of important
decisions by BRI. It was clear that the lower interest rate on investment credit than on working
capital was not considered important by the KUPEDES borrowers. Instead, they were much more
concerned with the extra requirements for securing an investment credit as described below.
6.17   With concerns about the possibility of corrupt negotiations between the KUPEDES borrowers
and the loan officer to obtain a lower-cost investment credit, BRI inspectors insisted on pre- and post-
purchase proof of equipment procured, something not in any instructions from the BRI Business Unit
Desa Division. They even insisted on construction drawings for small buildings. As a result, many
borrowers were taking working capital loans at the higher interest rate for investment purposes to
avoid the extra hurdles in obtaining cheaper investment loans.
The high percentage in 1992 was due to large loan loss provisions being made by BRI on
account of its classified assets as required by Bank Indonesia prudential regulations.



- 11 -
6.18  In view of these findings, BRI and the Bank decided to consolidate interest rates into a single
interest rate for all KUPEDES loans and also to eliminate the barriers for obtaining investment
credits. The possibility of corrupt negotiations as mentioned above was thus also minimized. With
these changes, the main difference between investment and working capital loans was in the loan
maturity: three years for investment loans and two years for working capital credits.
6.19   Market Potential Survey:  This survey indicated that there is still a large potential for
KUPEDES lending. The competition introduced by new branches and sub-branches of large private
banks in Indonesia caters mainly for people who are in the top 10% of the village income distribution.
Below this top 10% there is a large group of creditworthy entrepreneurs, many of whom are savings
customers at the Unit Desas but have not yet borrowed. The competition from the new small private
banks (BPRs) is largely in the city suburbs, except in Bali, and is not significant for most Unit Desas.
6.20   There is strong competition from BPRs for deposits in some areas such as Bali, where deposit
collectors of BPRs go door to door every day to collect very small amounts from each depositor.
This system is far too labor intensive and expensive for the Unit Desas to attempt. However, this
competition does not seem to affect the total deposits mobilized by the Unit Desas, partly because
there is a general perception of greater safety in the Unit Desas and depositors move their savings
from BPRs to the Unit Desas when their savings balances build up to a significant amount.
6.21   KUPEDES Arrears Study:  This study examined the causes of the decline in KUPEDES
repayment performance beginning in late 1990 and continuing through 1991 (the KUPEDES
repayment record began to turn around in early 1992 and improved steadily throughout the year).
The study concluded that two factors, adverse weather conditions (drought followed by heavy rains
and flooding throughout much of Indonesia) and the Government's tight money policy, were the most
important determinants of deteriorating performance.
6.22   Although the majority of KUPEDES loans are not directly for agricultural purposes,
KUPEDES arrears are very sensitive to harvest failure because borrower households often have
agricultural enterprises (about half of the borrower households surveyed had at least one agricultural
enterprise) or trade agricultural goods. In addition, farmers comprise a very large part of the
customer base of the Unit Desa borrowers.
6.23   The effects of the tight money policy were felt in several ways by KUPEDES borrowers.
The general tightening of bank credit caused suppliers and marketing intermediaries to drastically
reduce cash advances and trade credit to KUPEDES borrowers. In addition, many marketing
intermediaries delayed payments or only accepted goods on consignment. The disruption of trade
relationships caused by the tightening of credit and general slowdown in the rural economy persisted
well after monetary policy had begun to ease.
6.24   The severity of and uncertainty surrounding the tight money policy caused BRI to place tight
restrictions on credit expansion. In effect, KUPEDES was no longer demand driven: credit was
rationed even to good repeat borrowers which weakened the connection between repayment
performance and subsequent access to credit, while routine refusal of potentially good new borrowers
hurt the Unit Desas' reputation as an institution where creditworthy borrowers had consistent access
to credit. The credit restrictions also concentrated final loan approval decisions at the branch level,
often weakening the ability of Unit Desa staff to make independent credit judgements. Finally, staff



- 12 -
shortages meant that field officers were often overloaded with borrowers and were frequently diverted
to serving customers in the Unit Desas rather than collecting arrears and checking on borrowers with
potential repayment problems.
6.25   Overall, the studies carried out under the TA component of the Project have been of great
help to the policy makers within BRI responsible for the Unit Desas. Moreover, many researchers
from the BRI's Research Division obtained experience in survey techniques which should prove to be
of value in conducting future studies. However, it should be noted that further in-depth studies
regarding Unit Desa operations are not on the current research agenda of the Research Division,
which is now focusing on BRI's large portfolio problems.
6.26   In addition to the above, part of the TA funds was used to strengthen BRI's institutional
capability. As a result, the Unit Desa system was changed to strengthen cross-checks and safety, as
well as to improve efficiency by achieving a better balance in workload among the Unit Desa staff.
7.     Project Sustainabilitv
7.1    The Project is sustainable, as described below.
7.2    Financial Viability: The financial viability of the Unit Desa system can best be measured by
its profitability over time. Long-term sustainability would be doubtful without healthy net earnings.
As mentioned previously, the net profit, after full costing of direct Unit Desa expenses, supervision,
training and conservative provision for bad debts, far exceeded the appraisal estimates, rose steadily
each year and more than tripled between 1987 and 1992, from Rp. 22.5 billion to Rp. 69.3 billion.
The Unit Desa operations continue to be profitable in 1993, and it is expected that 1993 profits will
rise substantially from those earned in 1992. Additionally, the average earning assets of the Unit
Desas increased ten-fold during the Project life, from Rp. 309 billion in 1987, to Rp. 3,086 billion in
1992.
7.3    Resource Mobilization: A sustainable credit system should be able to mobilize sufficient
funds to finance its loan portfolio. The Unit Desas have certainly achieved this and the mobilization
of deposits far exceeded appraisal expectations. By June 1987, when the Bank Loan became
effective, savings in the Unit Desas was Rp. 210 billion. By September 1989, when the last
disbursement was made under the Bank Loan, total savings in the Unit Desas had increased to Rp.
748 billion, greatly exceeding the 40% of KUPEDES loans outstanding as required under the
disbursement formula of the Bank Loan.
7.4    The market share of Unit Desa deposits also increased. At the end of 1986, when the Project
was appraised, total Unit Desa deposits of Rp. 175.8 billion represented 0.79% of the total domestic
bank deposits in Indonesia. At the end of 1992, when the Project was completed, total Unit Desa
deposits of Rp. 3.4 trillion accounted for 3.16% of the total domestic bank deposits in the country.
7.5    The growth of Unit Desa deposits and their relationship to the KUPEDES loans outstanding
during the period 1987 through 1992 are shown in the following table.



- 13 -
Total Deposits       Deposits as % of          Number of
Year        (Rp. billion)       Loan Outstanding          Depositors
1987            287.5                  66.9               4,183,983
1988            493.0                  90.0               4,998,038
1989            959.1                 113.9               6,261,988
1990          1,694.8                 122.7               7,262,509
1991          2,540.5                 174.5               8,587,872
1992          3,399.1                 206.2               9,953,294
7.6   Institutional Development:  As mentioned earlier, the management of the Unit Desas has
been successfully integrated into BRI's overall organization. As the size of Unit Desa operations has
increased, its organizational structure has expanded from a Section to a Desk to a full Division within
BRI. The Business Unit Desa Division at headquarters, under a Managing Director, provides general
leadership and overall control. Sections at each regional office and branch are responsible for
direction in the field. Immediate supervision is from the branches, with a full time cadre of Unit
Business Managers assisting the Unit Desas in their operations. BRI's internal auditors audit the Unit
Desas when they audit the responsible branch.
7.7    The Unit Desa Policy and Unit Desa Strategy Statements adopted by BRI in 1990 outline the
overall goals and operational objectives of the Unit Desa system. Detailed operational procedures are
also in place.
7.8    Developmental Im2act: KUPEDES loans are available for any productive activities. Stated
loan purposes show that retailing and trading dominate, representing over 60% of the total. Small
industry loans come next, accounting for about 13% of the total. Direct agricultural production loans
are less frequent, making up about 8% of the total. However, total funds going to support agriculture
should be higher than this figure, given that part of the trade and industry loans are used to finance
the production and marketing of agricultural products.
7.9    The Unit Desa borrowers are truly small enterprises, with average capital investment of about
US$650 equivalent and less than five workers including family members. Women make up at least
25% of the borrowers. The amount of funds going to enterprises headed by women, however, should
be higher than that, because husbands often sign the note (they are predominantly the title holders to
land) when the funds are actually used by their wives. Even when the husband is the borrower, part
of the proceeds is often used in the wife's business activities.
7.10   It is clear that the Unit Desa borrowing enterprises are growing rapidly and making
substantial contributions to improved incomes and employment generation in the rural and small scale
business sectors. A field survey done in 1990 gathered income and employment information from
Unit Desa borrowers over a three-year period of borrowing. After three years of borrowing
(typically three loans), Unit Desa customers experienced substantial increases in enterprise and total



- 14 -
family income. Average enterprise income rose about 93% and average family income rose by 76%,
both in real terms. Average number of workers of borrowing enterprise increased from 3.4 to 5.6.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1    Overall, through Loan 2800-IND, the Bank has made a very positive contribution to the
successful development of the BRI Unit Desa system. The Bank's performance in the various stages
of the Project cycle was satisfactory, as described below.
8.2    There was continuity of Bank staff during the entire life of the Project, which obviously
facilitated the smooth preparation, appraisal and subsequent successful implementation of the Project.
The members of the Bank task team were well-informed and thorough. They had previous experience
with the banking sector in Indonesia and therefore understood the background of previous BRI and
Government decisions on the BRI Unit Desa system. They worked closely and harmoniously with
their BRI counterparts, so that the Project was a joint effort, with strong commitment on both sides.
The Bank staff impressed BRI management with their ability and dedication during the Project
preparation and appraisal, and therefore enjoyed a high level of trust and confidence during Project
implementation.
8.3    The Bank's reporting requirements from BRI were set up based on BRI's existing regular
management reports. No extra surveys or reports were required solely for the Bank's purposes.
When administering a system with a very large branchlsubbranch network, preparation of one extra
report can be very time consuming. This was avoided under the Project so that BRI staff and
consultants could concentrate more on Project implementation.
8.4    Bank staff provided substantial assistance to BRI in developing the Unit Desas Policy
Statement and Unit Desas Strategy Statement, which were formally adopted by BRI and incorporated
by reference in the Project documents. These agreed statements set up clearly the policy, principles
and strategies for Unit Desa operations, which were followed during Project implementation.
8.5    During Project implementation, the Bank went beyond focussing on investments on a case-by-
case basis, and looked at all aspects of the Unit Desa system (including organization, policy and
procedures). Conditionality was used to promote the strengthening of the institutional framework,
with a clear emphasis on long-term sustainability and financial viability. This approach has proven
successful, as demonstrated by the Unit Desa system's impressive growth and profitability on a
continuing basis.
8.6    The Bank conducted field supervision missions on a regular basis, which is considered
adequate.
8.7    Some useful conclusions and lessons can be drawn from this successful operation:
(a)    A project is more likely to be successful if it is clearly focused and has simple
objectives. These objectives should be thoroughly discussed by the Bank with, and
understood and agreed by the Borrower, to ensure high commitment and ownership;



- 15 -
(b)    Design of the project should be directly linked to the project objectives. In particular,
the credit component should be designed to encourage and support the institution's
own resource mobilization efforts, rather than to compensate for a lack of it;
(c)    Continuity of Bank and implementation agency staff throughout project design and
implementation is an advantage in ensuring smooth and successful project preparation
and implementation; and
(d)    The Bank's reporting requirements should be in line with the implementation agency's
existing reporting system; any extra reporting requirement solely for Bank purposes
should be minimized, so that the implementation agency can focus more on project
implementation.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1    BRI's performance during the Project cycle was generally of high quality. There was
continuity at the top management level. At the operating level, the Business Unit Desa Division was
created in June 1988, in recognition of the growing importance of the Unit Desas to BRI.
Management of the Division changed periodically, in accordance with BRI's management rotation
policies, but there was reasonable continuity at the Section head level.
9.2    There was also strong and continuing consultant support throughout the Project life. The
research and planning consultant, financed under the Project, was in place for the entire period of
Project implementation. The bulk of the consultant services for the Project was provided by USAID
through a contract with the Harvard Institute for International Development (HIID). The USAID-
contracted consultants worked in close cooperation with BRI and the Bank. Several of the consultants
who worked in the Project development stage continued to provide services throughout the period of
implementation. USAID financed the HIID consultants from 1987 to 1991, when the financing was
assumed by the Bank under the Second BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit Project (Loan 3249-IND) for the
balance of the implementation period, and continuing to the present.
9.3    An implementation problem has been assuring adequate staffing at the Unit Desas to support
the rapid growth that has taken place. Because of the lengthy training periods required, as well as the
geographic dispersion of the Unit Desas, staffing needs should be addressed on a flow rather than a
stock basis. The tendency at BRI has been to solve staffing needs in an ad hoc manner, responding to
actual vacancies rather than anticipating future needs and preparing to meet them smoothly. During
1988 and 1989, a system was developed to forecast staffing needs in the Unit Desas by estimating for
the Unit Desas attached to each branch the planned expansion, growth of business, attrition, required
reserve staff, etc. This system was accepted and worked effectively for the year 1990. In 1991, as a
result of difficult monetary conditions and financial sector problems, BRI undertook a staff reduction
program at the Branches and regional offices. It was difficult to continue recruiting for the Unit
Desas while retrenching in the rest of BRI. The Unit Desa recruitment process was a casualty of this
period, and BRI reverted to ad hoc recruiting during the last two years of Project implementation.
The staffing shortage problem is being addressed, and there is agreement on the resumption of orderly
recruitment starting with 1994, but ensuring that there will be adequate staff to support continuing
growth of Unit Desa operations remains somewhat of a concern.



- 16 -
9.4    Among the conclusions that can be drawn from the Unit Desa operation are:
(a)    It has become evident that, in Indonesia, rural small and micro enterprises are willing
and able to pay an interest rate which fully covers lending costs; assured access to
lending, convenience of location and prompt credit decisions are more important to
small borrowers than getting a lower interest rate;
(b)    On the deposit side, there is large potential for mobilizing rural savings in Indonesia,
provided that the needs of the potential depositors are satisfied. These needs, in order
of importance, are: safety, accessibility (immediate and unlimited withdrawal),
convenience of service location, and acceptable interest rate; and
(c)    Making provisions already at the design stage for training of additional staff to avoid
shortages in case business activities develop more dynamically than expected.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1   The Bank relationship with the GOI agencies concerned and BRI on the Project has been very
satisfactory. Both parties worked very closely during the various stages of the Project cycle, building
up a relationship based on mutual trust and confidence. The successful Project preparation, appraisal
and implementation was really a joint effort by all the parties involved.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1   Several consultants (both expatriate and local) were hired under the Project to provide
advisory services and conduct studies. These consultants worked closely with BRI staff, and their
services were considered of high quality. Their recommendation and suggestions were well taken by
BRI management to formulate policies for the improvement of Unit Desa operations.
11.2   First funded by USAID and then by the Bank under the Second BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit
Project (Loan 3249-IND), HIID has been providing technical assistance to BRI on Unit Desa
operations for many years now. Their assistance has been considered both by BRI and the Bank to be
very satisfactory. The strengthening of the Unit Desa operations, at a time when the rest of BRI is
not performing well, can be attributed in part to the sensible advice given by HIID advisors on issues
such as arrears reduction. HIID has also assisted BRI in implementing MIS and computerization of
the Unit Desas, which has resulted in improved productivity, cost savings and good quality of
information and data on Unit Desa operations.
11.3   Among the conclusions and lessons that may be drawn in connection with the consulting
services are: (a) clearly defined terms of reference are essential to the successful implementation of
the assignment; and the consultant should be selected on the grounds of technical qualifications; (b)
the consultants should work very closely with their counterparts, and should be able to have direct
access to senior management in order that their expertise can be fully utilized; (c) an action plan
should be developed to ensure that knowledge is transferred and the activities currently undertaken by
the consultants are continued after the consultant assignment terminates.



- 17 -
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1   The legal documents and Staff Appraisal Report for the Project were adequate, and provided a
useful reference and framework for Project implementation. The Project files are generally complete
and adequate.
12.2   The quarterly progress reports prepared by BRI were found especially useful, with detailed
information on the Unit Desas' general status, organization and procedures, staffing and training,
lending operations, deposit mobilization, financial condition and performance, loan portfolio quality
and analysis, problems and issues, and other related activities. The reports also provided monthly
financial statements and performance indicators (ratios) of the Unit Desa system.
12.3   One conclusion or lesson learned would be: a well designed and maintained information
system/data base is very important to the successful implementation of the Project, to provide both
early warning signals and the basis for timely corrective actions.



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2800-IND)
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The BRI/KUPEDES Small Credit Project (Loan 2800 -IND), called KUPEDES I in this
report, started in August 1987. The completion date was December 31, 1992. The project provided
support to Bank Rakyat Indonesia in converting its Unit Desas into a financially viable and therefore
sustainable basic rural banking system. This conversion of the Units placed special emphasis on
providing the banking services required by low income borrowers and savers throughout the country.
I.     Overall Assessment of the Proiect's Performance
1.    Development of BRI Units Prior to KUPEDES I.
The development of the Unit system at BRI during KUPEDES I was associated with a
dramatic shift in the nature of BRI's rural banking activities from the form they had taken in the
1970s and early 1980s. This shift commenced before the start of KUPEDES I, but the Bank's support
was a positive factor is accomplishing the purposes of the revised system of rural banking. An
appraisal of the Project's performance requires an understanding of this background.
Before 1984, the Unit Desas were essentially administrative offices designed to deliver
subsidized credit as part of the Government's agriculture development program, BIMAS. Interest
rates were set by Government and there was no attempt to balance operating expenses, loan losses,
and cost of funds against income. Government shared the risk and subsidized operating expenses.
The choice of borrowers was essentially made by the agriculture extension service, though the Unit
staff theoretically could veto credit to an individual borrower.
There was no real attempt to mobilize savings, though at Government instruction the Units
received savings under TABANAS, the national savings scheme designed by Bank Indonesia. The
Units paid the TABANAS interest to the saver and passed the savings to the BRI branches for branch
use. As a result, the "profit and loss" statement of a Unit showed an increased loss if a Unit
increased savings, providing a strong incentive not to mobilize savings.
By the end of the 1970s, the BIMAS credit program had fulfilled its agriculture extension
purposes. Indonesian rice farmers had converted to use of fertilizer-responsive rice varieties and the
much larger fertilizer dosages appropriate to those varieties. The BIMAS credit program was serving
fewer farmers and suffering a higher percentage of arrears each year, leaving the Units dependent on



- 19 -
a steadily increasing government subsidy to continue in operation. A decision by Government to
abandon the BIMAS credit program and the subsidies involved would mean that BRI could not sustain
the Units unless their operating methods, pricing of banking products, and even their basic
bookkeeping system were drastically changed.
From the standpoint of Government, the closing of the Units would have meant withdrawal of
all banking services in about 95% of the locations in Indonesia which had such services. In addition
to urging the BRI to convert the Unit Desas to commercially viable banks, the Government offered to
subsidize BRI's losses on the Units until the whole system began to break even (a "subsidy to end
subsidies").
Government provided seed money for the new credit system by allowing BRI to utilize the Rp
66.7 billion grant given for Kredit Mini, an earlier credit program which was to be discontinued, as
the Units' "capital". Bank Indonesia converted Rp 43 billion of liquidity credit which had been
provided for the Kredit MIDI to liquidity credit for KUPEDES, the new credit program of the Units.
They also made available an additional Rp 100 billion of liquidity credit. The interest rates for these
new liquidity credits were set at 15% for KUPEDES working capital loans and 3% for KUPEDES
investment loans. The 15% was the rate paid by all banks for TABANAS savings; the intent was to
avoid inhibiting BRI from mobilizing savings. The 3% rate was at the insistence of Bank Indonesia
which still felt that they should subsidize investment credit.
The Ministry of Finance estimated that the BRI Unit system should be able to begin breaking
even by the end of two years. Lending under KUPEDES began in February 1984. By August 1985,
the Unit Desa System had begun to break even on a monthly basis. The subsidy required from the
Ministry of Finance was Rp 25 billion in 1984 and 0.9 billion in 1985. The BRI Unit system has
been profitable in each year from 1986 on and has required no further subsidy from Government.
In 1985/86 the World Bank was reviewing the results of its two step loan operations in
Indonesia. The progress of the BRI Units in providing credit to low income people in the rural areas
on an unsubsidized, commercially sustainable basis presented an alternative to the subsidized credit
programs which the World Bank had previously supported, in fact had helped to conceive. The
decision to provide a loan to BRI for increased lending in KUPEDES was intended as an endorsement
of a shift in Indonesian Government policy toward liberalization in the financial sector and eventual
abandonment of subsidized credit.
By the beginning of 1986, the Units had an outstanding KUPEDES portfolio of Rp 229
billion. They had fully utilized the Rp 210 billion of seed capital and liquidity credit made available
by Government and Bank Indonesia. Savings mobilized by the Units had increased from Rp 26.6
billion at the end of 1983 to Rp 84.9 at the end of 1985, but the new BRI-designed savings
instruments were still under test and not yet ready to be offered nationwide.
At the speed that KUPEDES outstanding was increasing, BRI was facing the possibility of
having to restrict KUPEDES lending because of a shortage of funds. This would have violated one of
the basic principles on which the banking relationship between the Units and their borrowers was
being established, i.e. that credit would be available to any creditworthy borrower. It had already
been found that the assurance of additional credit for any borrower who paid back a previous loan on
time was basic to maintaining a high repayment rate.



- 20 -
2.    Start of KUPEDES I
Credit from the World Bank was considered crucial in enabling the Units to keep the credit
window open for any creditworthy borrower who applied for a loan. Contact with the World Bank
on the possibilities of securing a loan to support the Units lending began in 1986. The final loan
agreement was signed in August 1987, with expenditures in the July/September quarter eligible for
reimbursement.
The World Bank originally provided $100 million dollars for onlending in KUPEDES, $1
million for Technical Assistance, and $500 thousand for training to strengthen the capacity in
accounting and auditing related to the Units. Later, $3.3 million was diverted from KUPEDES
onlending to finance an ongoing technical assistance contract originally financed under KIK/KMKP.
Most of this contract did not concem the BRI Units; only the work which did concem the Units is
evaluated in this completion report. The $96.7 million remaining for onlending equalled Rp 166
billion with the changing exchange rates over the period of drawing the funds.
The basis for calculating the amount which would be reimnbursed by the World Bank was set
at 10% of the amount disbursed or 50% of the increment in KUPEDES outstanding during a quarter,
whichever was greater. If the 10% of disbursements was the applicable measure, the amount to be
reimbursed had an upper limit of 65 % of the increment in amount outstanding in the first year and
60% in the second year. The purpose of this provision was specifically stated to be to push BRI to
raise savings or otherwise provide a major part of the resources required for lending. Success in
raising savings was not to be punished by withdrawing the loan if savings mobilized amounted to
more than enough to finance the rest of KUPEDES lending.
By the end of June 1987, when World Bank loan funds became available, KUPEDES
outstanding had increased to Rp 403 billion and savings mobilized by the Units had increased to Rp
210 billion. While the World Bank loan appraisal and negotiations were in process, BRI covered
temporary shortages in Unit funding from its own resources plus a 90 day call money loan from
BAPINDO. Bank Indonesia made available an additional Rp 50 billion of liquidity credit before the
BAPINDO loan was due.
3.     Growth of KUPEDES
KUPEDES lending increased more rapidly than had been projected in the World Bank's
Appraisal Report. The outstanding portfolio increased from Rp 403 billion at the end of June, 1987,
to Rp 763 billion at the end of September, 1989, when the last of the funds available from the World
Bank loan was drawn. The World Bank funds were thus fully utilized in 29 months, rather than the
60 months originally projected in the Appraisal Report.
The growth in lending during the Project period is summarized as follows.



- 21 -
Amount Outstanding
Year-End            Billions of. Rupiahs      Number of Loans
1986                    334.3                   1,231,723
1987                    429.6                   1,314,780
1988                    542.3                   1,386,035
1989                    846.5                   1,643,980
1990                   1,381.8                  1,893,138
1991                   1,455.7                  1,837,539
1992                   1,648.5                  1,831,723
4.    Growth of Deposits
The mobilization of savings also exceeded expectations. The rapid rise in savings mobilized
began in 1986, when the SIMPEDES savings instrument, designed by BRI to meet the needs of rural
savers, was made available at all BRI Units. By June 1987, when the World Bank Loan funds
became available, savings in the Units stood at Rp 210 billion. By September 1989, when the last of
the World Bank funds for onlending in KUPEDES were drawn, total savings in the Units had
increased to Rp 748 billion, thus greatly exceeding the 40% of KUPEDES outstanding which BRI had
to raise under the disbursement formula in the World Bank loan agreement.
At the close of 1986, total Unit deposits of Rp. 175.8 billion represented 0.79% of
total Indonesian banking deposits. They rose each year, both in Rupiah and market share. At the
close of 1992, total Unit deposits were Rp.3.4 trillion, or 3.16% of total Indonesian bank deposits.
By October of 1989, total deposits exceeded total Kupedes outstanding. The growth in deposits and
their relations to KUPEDES outstanding is summarized as follows:
Total Deposits
Year         (Billions of RD)    % Loan Outst.       # of Depositors
1986              175.8                52.6%               n.a.
1987              287.5                66.9           4,183,983
1988              493.0                90.0           4,998,038
1989              959.1               113.9           6,261,988
1990            1,694.8               122.7           7,262,509
1991            2,540.5               174.5           8,587,872
1992            3,399.1               206.2           9,953,294
5.    Other Project Activities
The original US$ 1 million in the Loan Agreement for Technical Assistance provided advisors
to help build up the capability of the Research Division of BRI to undertake research useful to the
management of the BRI Units in Business Unit Desa Division. (More general technical assistance to
the BUD Division was provided under USAID grant funding.) All but $65 thousand of the Technical



- 22 -
Assistance funds under the World Bank Loan were expended by the closing date of December 31,
1992. The Technical Assistance provided is evaluated in Section III below.
The US$ 500 thousand of training funds enabled BRI to train 125 new auditors specializing in
auditing of Units. It also assisted in the training required to implement a new operating system in the
Units which both increased safety checks and balanced the workloads of the staff members. The
training funds were utilized except for a remainder of $616 by the closing date of December 31,
1992.
6.     Assessment of Performance
It is clear from this summary that the purposes of KUPEDES I were successfully achieved by
the end of 1992. The Unit system provides the basic banking facilities of the rural areas of Indonesia.
Loan totals showed sustained and rapid growth. Deposit mobilization exceeded all expectations. The
Unit operations covered costs and returned an attractive profit, so that sustainability was clearly
accomplished. BRI's demonstration of the existence of a market for unsubsidized banking services in
rural areas encouraged the Government to open up bank license procedures for setting up small
private banks (BPRs) in kecamatan towns in competition with the Units. In the May 1993 World Bank
Report "Indonesia Sustaining Development", the Unit experience is cited as a successful example of
what can be done in financial restructuring and provision of banking services.
II.    Overview of the Credit Component
The growth of KUPEDES lending is summarized above. This section looks briefly at loan
quality, loan purposes, customer profiles, and the impact of KUPEDES loans on customer business
activities.
1.    Loan Ouality
BRI uses several measures of loan quality. The Portfolio Status indicates the percentage of
overdue installments to total outstanding. The Long term loss ratio shows the percentage of payments
that have come due that have not been paid since the start of KUPEDES lending. Short term and
moving average loss ratios show similar percentages for the change in the most recent month, and for
the last 12 months. Together, these measures provide good basic information on loan quality.
Delinquencies and bad debt losses have been well controlled. The long term loss ratio ranged
from 2.5% to 3.5 % during KUPEDES I. The percent of overdue installments to outstanding ranged
from 4.1% to 9.6%. The latter measure rose during 1991 and 1992 reflecting regional drought, some
slowing in the rural economy and the effects of tight money policies in 1991. It has since declined.
These measures of delinquency and loss are very good, compared with small loan finance programs in
developed and in developing countries.
Incentives for repayment are built into the program. Each Unit receives 10% of its profits as
a bonus, divided among the Unit staff. Borrowers' monthly payments include a prepaid penalty for
late payment, which is returned if all payments are on time for a six month period. Perhaps more
important, the borrower knows that if the repayment record is good, he or she is assured of getting



- 23 -
another loan for an increased amount when it is needed, with minimal additional investigation. The
large majority of borrowers re-borrow. They have recurrent credit needs and will work hard to
protect their credit status.
2.     Loan Purposes
KUPEDES loans are available for any productive activity. Indonesian families, particularly in
rural areas, operate several activities. On average, the households of Unit borrowers are engaged in
3.6 separate enterprises. Each loan application must identify one activity as the source of repayment,
and present a convincing picture of that activity's ability to meet the payments. In reality, proceeds
are frequently shared by several activities, and moved from one to another during the course of the
loan. BRI does not attempt to police the use of loan proceeds, trusting that the borrower knows
better than the bank where funds are needed.
Stated loan purposes show that retailing and trading dominate, representing over 60% of the
identified borrowing enterprises. Small industry loans come next, representing about 13% of the
total. Direct agricultural production loans are less frequent, making up about 8% of the total. Total
funds going to support agriculture is higher than that figure, since part of "trade" loans are used in
agriculture, and many of the trade and industry loans are to support the production and marketing of
agricultural production.
3.     Customer Profiles
Unit borrowers are truly small enterprises. The average capital investment in the borrowing
activity is about $650. The average borrowing enterprise has less than five workers, including family
members. Women make up about 25% of nominal borrowers. The amount of funding going to
female headed enterprises is higher than that, because husbands frequently sign the note (they are
predominantly the title holders to land) when the funds are used by their wives. Even when the
husband is the borrower, part of the proceeds is often used in the wife's activities.
4.     Loan ImDact
A field study done in 1990 gathered income and employment information from Unit
borrowers over a three year period of borrowing. After three years of borrowing (typically three
loans), Unit customers experienced substantial increases in enterprise and total family income.
Average enterprise income rose 93% in real terms and average family income rose by an inflation
adjusted 76%. A Bank estimate placed the increase in real rural per capita income at about 12% for
the three year period 1984-87.
As recall data, the income growth figures in the survey should be treated with some care, but
the growth in enterprise employment, which is probably less subject to recall error, is also consistent
with strong enterprise growth. At the time of first borrowing, the customers surveyed employed an
average of 3.4 workers in the borrowing enterprise. Three years later, the average stood at 5.6
workers per enterprise.
These figures do not indicate causality. The Units may simply be successful in identifying
borrowers whose abilities will cause them to prosper. However, it is clear that the enterprises that



- 24 -
borrow from the Units are growing rapidly and making substantial contributions to improved incomes
and employment in the rural and small-scale business sectors.
III.    Overview of the Technical Assistance Component
During the time that consultants financed under the KUPEDES I Loan were in the Research
Division of BRI, several studies important to the management of the Unit Desas were conducted.
These included a study of the reasons why there was apparently less KUPEDES lending for
investment than anticipated, a study of the extent of market penetration and of the potential for
additional KUPEDES lending, and a study of loan arrears.
1.    KuDedes Investment Credit Studv
The findings of the first study, on KUPEDES investment credit, led to a number of important
decisions by BRI. It was clear that the lower interest rate on investment credit than on working
capital was of very little interest to borrowers. They were much more concerned with the extra
requirements for securing an investment credit. These had grown up in response to the BRI
inspectors' concern that no one secure a 21% "investment" credit for an activity which should have
been financed by a 32% working capital credit.
The possibility of corrupt negotiations between the borrower and the loan officer to obtain a
lower cost credit made the inspectors nervous. They therefore insisted on pre- and post- purchase
proof of equipment purchased, something not in any instructions from the BUD Division. They even
insisted on construction drawings for small buildings. As a result, many borrowers were taking
working capital loans at the higher interest rate and using the funds for investments to avoid the extra
hurdles in the way of the cheaper loans.
BRI therefore decided to consolidate interests rates into a single interest rate for all
KUPEDES loans and simultaneously to eliminate the barriers to obtaining investment credit. The
main remaining difference was in the maximum term available: three years for investment loans
compared with two years for working capital credit.
2.    Market Potential Survey
The market potential survey indicated that there is still a large potential for KUPEDES
lending. The competition introduced by new branches and sub-branches of the large private banks
caters mainly to the people who are in the top 10% of the village income distribution. Below this top
10% there is a large group of credit worthy entrepreneurs, many of whom are savings customers at
the Units but have not yet borrowed. The competition from the new small private banks (BPRs) is
largely in the city suburbs, except in Bali, and is not yet significant for most Units. Where they do
compete, many BPRs do so by making "permanent" loans, i.e. loans in which the principal stays with
the borrower so long as he pays interest. This type of loan has been responsible for the collapse of
some of the BPRs when depositors want to withdraw their deposits.
There is strong competition for savings in some areas, such as Bali, where savings collectors
go door to door every day collecting very small amounts from each saver. The system is far too



- 25 -
labor intensive and expensive for BRI to attempt. However, this competition does not seem to affect
the total savings mobilized by the BRI Units, partly because there is a general perception of greater
safety in the Units and savers move their savings from the daily collector banks when their balances
build up to a significant sum.
3.     Kup2edes Arrears Study
The Kupedes Arrears Study examined the causes of the decline in Kupedes repayment
performance beginning in late 1990 and continuing through 1991 (Kupedes performance began to turn
around in early 1992 and improved steadily throughout the year). The study found that two factors,
adverse weather conditions (drought followed by heavy rains and flooding throughout much of
Indonesia) and the government's Tight Money Policy, were the most important determinants of
deteriorating performance.
Although the large majority of Kupedes loans are not directly for agriculture, Kupedes arrears
are very sensitive to harvest failure because borrower households often have agricultural enterprises
(about half of the borrower households surveyed had at least one agricultural enterprise) or trade
agricultural goods. In addition, farmers comprise a large part of the customer base of Unit Desa
borrowers.
The effects of the Tight Money Policy were felt in several ways by Kupedes borrowers. The
general tightening of bank credit caused suppliers and marketing intermediaries to drastically reduce
cash advances and trade credit to unit borrowers. In addition, many marketing intermediaries delayed
payments or only accepted goods on consignment. The disruption of trade relationships caused by the
tightening of credit and the general slowdown in the rural economy persisted well after monetary
policy had begun to ease.
The severity of and uncertainty surrounding the Tight Money Policy caused BRI to place tight
restrictions on credit expansion. In effect, Kupedes was no longer demand-driven: credit rationing to
good repeat borrowers weakened the connection between repayment performance and subsequent
access to credit, while routine refusal of potentially good new borrowers hurt the BRI Units'
reputation as an institution where creditworthy borrowers had consistent access to credit. The credit
restrictions also concentrated final loan approval decisions at the branch level, often weakening the
ability of Unit personnel to make independent credit judgements. Finally, the chronic shortage of
staff meant that field officers were often overloaded with borrowers and were frequently diverted to
serving customers in the units rather than collecting arrears and checking on borrowers with potential
repayment problems.
4.     Other Aspects
Overall, the studies conducted with assistance from consultants financed by the Bank loan
have been of great help to the policy makers responsible for the BRI Units. While many researchers
obtained experience in survey techniques, it is not clear that there has been any real
institutionalization of the idea that the Research Division should make in-depth studies helpful to the
Business Unit Desa Division. The attention of the Research Division is now focused mainly on
research connected with the recapitalization of the State Banks and the reorganizations which are a



- 26 -
condition of the World Bank loan for recapitalization. It appears that studies of use to the Business
Unit Desa Division will in future have to be made by BUD personnel.
Part of the funds diverted to Technical Assistance after the original loan was made, went to
support a Booz Allen Hamilton study of the BRI Unit structure and the supervising structure at higher
levels. One result of this study was a change in operating system at the Unit to strengthen cross
checks and safety, as well as to improve efficiency by achieving a better balance in workloads among
Unit staff. Most of the rest of Booz Allen's technical assistance financed by the diversion of funds
from onlending in KUPEDES did not concern the Units.
IV.   Bank's Performance During the Project
Support of the KUPEDES I project represented a change in direction from previous loan
projects which the World Bank had supported. Previously, World Bank had supported credit
programs such as the KIKIKMKP which had the following problems:
1.    The primary objective was to push out a certain amount of credit, not to build
financially viable banking institutions capable of making the type of loan targeted in
the program.
2.     The programs made loans at rates which would have been impossible if the source of
funds were savings mobilized within Indonesia or funds borrowed at commercial
rates. This made the programs dependent on government budget funds, Bank
Indonesia liquidity at subsidized rates, or donor funds. As a result they were
unsustainable in the long run. While they lasted they weakened the incentive to the
banks to mobilize savings.
3.    The programs contained risk sharing or subsidized credit insurance provisions
intended to cause the handling banks to make loans which they would not have made
on the basis of their own commercial banking judgement. This not only produced bad
loans, it weakened the incentive to the banks to pursue collection of overdue loans.
4.     The programs did not even succeed in locating a group of reliable customers who
were potential repeat borrowers on a commercial basis after the programs themselves
collapsed, as illustrated by the experience of KIK/KMKP.
In contrast, KUPEDES, as the credit instrument used in the development of the BRI Units
into a commercially viable banking system, was designed to avoid most of the problems of "program
credits":
1.    The primary objective was to build a banking institution capable of making small
loans throughout the rural areas of the country, not to push out a certain amount of
credit. Narrow targeting of eligible borrowers was dropped; KUPEDES loans were
available to any creditworthy enterprise.



- 27 -
2.    Interest rates on KUPEDES loans were set to cover cost of funds raised as savings,
plus credit risk, plus all operating costs, at a loan level which could be reached in
about two years. If savings could be mobilized at the savings interest rates used in
the calculation, the Units would eventually be free from reliance on the government
budget, Bank Indonesia liquidity credits or donor funds.
3.     To facilitate savings mobilization, the Units' basic savings instrument, SIMPEDES,
was designed to meet the desires of savers as identified through field studies. Savings
interest rates were set at levels that provided a positive real rate of return to
depositors.
4.     Bank Indonesia seed money for KUPEDES working capital loans was priced at 15%,
rather than the 3 % used for previous liquidity credits. In 1984 this was the same as
the rate paid on TABANAS. By 1986 it was 3 % higher than the top rate paid for
SIMPEDES. The rate was intended to be high enough to encourage the Units to
mobilize savings. (Liquidity credit at 3 % for KUPEDES investment credit was a
deviation from the general principle and was later dropped.) Seed money was needed
because it had to be proven that the Units could find a market for credit and could
make and collect loans successfully before savings mobilization by the Units could be
encouraged responsibly.
5.     All credit insurance, risk sharing, and other mechanisms for distorting the banking
judgement of the responsible loan officers were dropped. To encourage the loan
officers to keep the quality of lending high, the Unit staff were given an incentive
based on the profit of their own Unit.
The BRI Units have concentrated on building up a financially viable institution capable of
making credit and savings services available to a broad range of enterprises through the use of
appropriate credit and savings instruments. The record suggests the clear superiority of this approach
over the previous model of narrowly targeted credit programs which concentrated on pushing out a
certain amount of money quickly.
It is not clear what lessons have been learned by the World Bank from the BRI Unit
experience. An internal team of the World Bank has recommended that the Bank stop supporting
narrowly focused institutions such as industrial or agricultural banks in favor of broadly diversified
banks. This is now being interpreted by the Bank to mean that a Bank loan should not go to just one
bank, even if it is a bank which is in the process of diversifying assets over different sectors. Under
this interpretation, the Bank would probably not have supported the buildup of the BRI Units.
Other lessons which the World Bank may have learned have to do with the nature of markets
for banking services, both savings and credit services, among relatively low income people in rural
areas, the design of instruments to serve potential customers in these markets, and the possible
application of the Indonesian experience to other countries. Since these are lessons also learned by
BRI, these are covered in more detail in V below.



- 28 -
Finally, the World Bank may have found the experience with this loan useful as another
illustration of the economic development consultant's formula for success, "Find something that is
moving and push on it."
V.    Borrower's Rerformance During the Proiect
The lessons for BRI in the development of the Units before and during the period that the
World Bank KUPEDES I Loan was being utilized can be sunmmarized under the following headings:
-      The effect of broad versus narrow targeting in the development of a financially viable
banking institution.
-      The design of appropriate credit instruments for the people of the rural areas of
Indonesia.
-      The design of appropriate savings instruments for the people of the rural areas of
Indonesia.
-      The importance of incentives to achieve the response desired from staff, supervisors,
borrowers, and savers.
-      The market for savings and credit services in rural Indonesia.
1.     Broad versus Narrow Targeting
Analysis of the banking needs of rural low-income people indicated clearly that access on a
continuing basis was critical. The need was not for a program which loaned money for a few
seasons, but a banking institution which could provide access to credit and access to savings services
whenever the borrower or saver needed these services. This continuity of services can only be
delivered by a financially viable banking institution with offices within fairly easy reach of the
borrowers and savers.
The problem is how to develop a financially viable institution as close to the customers as is
required. Once a minimum staff is put in place to provide banking services, limiting credit to only
part of the market in the area makes it difficult to achieve full utilization of staff, which in turn makes
it difficult to cover costs at a reasonable interest rate. For example, it does not make sense to loan
only to rice farmers or to women. Rice farmers are not helped by excluding credit to the traders who
purchase rice and move it to an urban market. Women are not helped by excluding credit to the
larger traders to whom they sell or by excluding credit to other members of the family.
The BRI chose to make credit available at the Units to any productive enterprise in the rural
areas. Later, loans to wage earners were added; many of these loans are used for home improvement
or education, which are valuable investments, but not immediately income producing. As a result
most Unit staff is fully utilized and over 80% of the Units are profitable in any year. Many of the



- 29 -
unprofitable Units are new; it takes between one and two years to build up sufficient business to make
a new Unit profitable.
2.     The design of appropriate credit instruments
BRI has found that to design credit instruments that meet the needs of people in the rural
areas of Indonesia a financial institution must consider availability, dependability, convenience, and
simplicity.
A.    Availability
Credit must be available for the enterprise of the borrower. The borrower should not be told
by the bank that he should change his enterprise because someone in the bank thinks only certain
enterprises should receive credit. The loan terms available should fit the needs of the enterprise.
This is mainly based on the cash flow. For example, if the loan is to be repaid from harvest of a
seasonal crop, the repayment should be a single payment after harvest with time to sell. If the
enterprise has a relatively steady cash flow, weekly or monthly payments should be required. (It is
much safer if the bank sees the borrower every month and can automatically check on loan
installments which are late and may indicate that the borrower is in trouble.
The loan decision must be prompt. It is no use lending for fertilizer after the crop is in the
ground - the normal fate of most subsidized agricultural credit programs. The borrower should also
be able to talk with the person who will make the decision on the loan. In some cases, larger loans
may need to go to higher authority for approval (however uninformed such approval may be). If so,
this should be done in such a way that the direct relationship of loan officer and borrower is not
destroyed.
B.    Dependability
The borrower should know that another credit will be available if the previous credit is repaid
according to the loan agreement. This is the main reason for repaying. The need for dependability
has implications both for the development of a stable institution rather than a program and for the
availability of funding to meet the demand for repeat loans.
C.    Convenience
The location of transactions should be close enough to the borrower's place of work or home
that borrower's transaction costs are low. Otherwise, borrower's transaction costs on small loans can
often be more than the interest charged. However, if this principle is stretched to mean that the bank
official has to go to the borrower's residence to make a loan or collect payment, the bank's
transaction costs will be extremely high and the interest rate required will also have to be very high.
D.    Simplicitv
The loan system must be simple, both for the borrower and for the loan officer. An example
of the simplification in the BRI Unit loan system is the preparation of a set of tables which show the
amount to be paid each month for a loan of a particular amount and a particular length of payment



- 30 -
and timing of installments. This table can be shown to the borrower, which assists understanding. It
also means that the teller and bookkeeper do not have to make calculations of interest and principal
each time an installment is paid.
3.     The design of appropriate savings instruments
Before the start of SIMPEDES, a careful field survey was conducted to ascertain the
characteristics of a savings instrument which would meet the needs of people in the rural areas of
Indonesia. This study found that people would place their savings in a bank if they were sure of
safety, convenience, protection from inflation, and availability - unlimited withdrawals.
A.     Safety
The saver needs to be able to rely on the honesty of the staff. Procedures have to be such
that the institution takes full responsibility for safeguarding the savings in case of any fraud by an
employee. Another aspect of safety is that the saver must know that the institution itself is not likely
to go bankrupt. Deposit insurance by the government is a partial substitute, but it is better if the
saver can see that he is putting his funds with a relatively conservative, profitable institution.
B.     Convenience
The location of the office at which savings can be deposited and withdrawn must be close
enough to the work place or home of the saver that transaction costs are not too great. Savings may
be somewhat more sensitive to convenience than is credit because the arnounts saved are usually
smaller than loans and therefore the cost of transport can amount to a much higher percentage of the
amount saved in an individual transaction than the amount borrowed or installment to be repaid.
C.     Protection from Inflation
The saver should receive a positive real interest rate on savings so that the value when the
savings are withdrawn is at least equal to the value when they were placed in the institution. It is not
clear that the rate needs to be strongly positive to serve the purpose. The difference in a one or five
percent positive rate appears to be less significant for household savings than for business savings.
D.    Availability - Unlimited Withdrawals
The saver must be able to get to the savings at any time. Savings which are not freely
available to the saver do not meet the savings needs of people, at least in rural Indonesia. Forced
savings, which are often a part of credit programs or cooperatives, should not really be considered
savings; they are thinly designed costs of borrowing or receiving cooperative benefits.
4.     The importance of incentives
BRI has found by experience that it is not sufficient to just issue instructions and assume that
staff, supervisors, and even borrowers and savers, will perform as BRI desires. It is important that
incentives be carefully designed and publicized ahead of time to get the response desired from each of
the participants in the banking activity.



- 31 -
A system of incentives was thought out before lending under KUPEDES began in 1984:
The Directors of BRI were faced with the possible alternatives of running a loss of $15
million a year for the foreseeable future or firing 13,500 Unit staff. As a result, there was a strong
incentive for the Directors to avoid these two alternatives by successfully reorganizing and redirecting
the Units.
The Unit staff is paid an annual bonus of 10% of the profit of their particular Unit up to a
maximum of one and a half months total salary and allowances. Profit was chosen as the
performance measure to be utilized in determining the bonus because it sums up the effects of many
decisions and actions by the staff. When a special effort such as a drive on savings mobilization is
needed, the staff can also earn additional bonuses based on performance in that effort.
An incentive to the borrowers for prompt payment was built into the KUPEDES instrument.
The rate of 1.5 % per month flat (on the original balance) is the rate which borrowers pay if they
make all payments on time. The rate charged is 2% per month flat with 0.5% returned if all
installments are paid on time.
Savers not only receive a positive real interest rate on their savings, they are automatic
participants in a lottery based on the amount they have saved. The lottery in SIMPEDES gives prizes
at the local level, in contrast to prizes only at the national level in the previous Bank Indonesia
designed national savings scheme.
Incentives tied to performance for the Unit supervisors at branch and above have not been
well developed. The quality of supervision is recognized as being in need of improvement.
5.     The market for savings and credit services
In the process of developing the Units, BRI has learned a great deal more about the need of
rural people for savings services. This need for a safe place to keep their savings turns out to be
more important to the majority of people than is access to credit. Thus when both savings and credit
windows are kept open and the savings and credit instruments are appropriate, the number of savers
greatly exceeds the number of borrowers. At the end of 1992, the BRI Units had 9,953,294 savings
accounts (including time deposits and giro) and 1,831,732 KUPEDES loans outstanding.
If an institution offers only credit services, many people will borrow for the liquidity needed
for household operations. If both savings and credit services are offered, most people will save to
accumulate the liquidity they need for emergencies, for school fees, etc. The demand for credit is
then more concentrated on the need for working capital for enterprise. The savings and credit
operations of the bank reflect the more normal situation of the economy as a whole in which
households save and business borrows and invests. The bank is mainly an intermediary between
domestic borrowers and savers, rather than between government and borrowers or foreign savers and
domestic borrowers.



- 32 -
VI.   Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower During the Project
The relationship of the World Bank and the BRI has been excellent throughout the entire loan
process from the original appraisal to the final closing date of the loan. Part of this good relationship
can be attributed to the continuity of World Bank personnel assigned to work on the loan. The
original appraisal for KUPEDES I was done by World Bank staff who were already knowledgeable
about Indonesia and Indonesian banking, as were their immediate superiors. These same people were
responsible for negotiations and then for supervising the implementation of the loan agreement.
The reporting requirements from BRI to the World Bank were set up so that the reports could
be prepared from data available in the regular management reports from the field to headquarters. No
extra survey or set of reports was necessary just for the World Bank's purposes. When administering
a system of over 3200 individual Units, the time consumed by one extra reporting requirement is
enormous. This waste of time has been completely avoided in reporting for the KUPEDES I loan.
An additional major contribution of the World Bank Appraisal Team was to assist BRI in the
formalizing of two draft statements, the BRI Policy Statement and the BRI Unit Strategy Statement.
These were formally adopted by BRI and incorporated by reference in the Project Agreement. These
formal statements were useful in clarifying the thinking of the management of BRI about the
development of the Units. They were also useful in explaining to government officials and others
interested in the Units why some of the policies and strategies should not be changed.
As a result of the initial agreement of the World Bank and BRI on purpose and strategy for
the BRI Unit Desa development and the continuity of supervising Bank staff, there was a minimum of
disruptive reinterpretation of understandings already reached. The supervisory teams did not always
agree with each action of the BRI, but the World Bank staff always stated their objections clearly and
helped BRI to understand their position. Most helpful has been the availability of the World Bank
supervisory staff for discussion whenever the BRI needed to ask for guidance or interpretation of the
Bank procedures, even if this was after working hours Washington time.



- 33 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECTS
(LOAN 2800-IND)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
[                       | Year of
[   Loan Title   |        Purpose        | Approval |       Status       | Comment
Second          To promote BRI's ongoing  July 31,   The Project is under
BRI/KUPEDES    efforts to strengthen and    1990    satisfactory
Small Credit    expand its Unit Desa                implementation. Its
Project         system as a financially             objectives have been
viable subbranch network.          successfully achieved.
2. Proiect Timetable
Item         J    Date Planned    |   Date Revised   |    Date Actual
- Identification (EPS)  |        -         |                          05/86
- Preparation                  05/86                                 06/30/86
- Appraisal                    11/86             09/29/86            10/10/86
- Loan Negotiation           02/02/87            03/09/87            03/11/87
- Board Approval       __04/28/87                                    04/28/87
- Loan Signature             05/27/87                                05/27/87
- Loan Effectiveness         08/25/87            06/11/87            06/11/87
- Loan Closing                12/31/92                               12/31/92
- Loan Account Closing    _                                          04/08/93
- Project Completion         06/30/92                                06/30/92



^ 34 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
FY                 1988          1989 _ _1990 _ _1991 _I                1992 _I      1993          Total
Appraisal Estimates           15.3         25.7         35.5          18.0         7.0            -           101.5
Actual                        30.0         47.1   }   23.1   T    0.0              0.4          0.8           101.4
Actual as %  of Est.         196.1   |  183.3   T   65.1              0.0          5.7    1       -     T    99_9_|
[ Date of Final Disbursement:  April 8, 1993;  $65,834.57 was cancelled.
4. Proiect Cost and Financing
A. Project Costs (US$ million)
Appraisal Estimates      |        Revised Estimates                    Actual Costs
Item________   ____Local  F F     |  Toreign                           Total  |  Local  i Foreign i       Total
KUPEDES Loan         1,006.2 L       0    1,106.2    1,006.2        96.7     1,102.9    4,608.1        96.7     4,704.8 
|TA and Trauung   |      8.2 L       15|       19.7 |      8.2 |     13.3  |     21.5 |      8.2 |      12.9 |      21.1
Total            |  1,014.4          111.5    1,125.9    1,014.4 |   110.0  |  1,124.4    4,616.3     109.6    4,725.9
B. Proiect Financing (US$ million)
Revised        |          Actual
Source                      Planned                                                           Comments
Amount         %         Amount           %
IBRD Loan                                       101.5          101.5       9.0            101.4       2.1
Incremental Unit Desa Savings                    69.0           69.0       6.1          543.6 *      11.5
USAID TA Loan                                    10.0            8.5       0.8             8.2        0.2
GOI/BRI                                          19.7           19.7       1.8             19.7       0.4
Repayment of Previous Kupedes Loans             925.7          925.7      82 3         4,053.0       85.8
Total                J         1,125.9 |      1,124.4    100.0          4,725.9 |   100.0
* Actual incremental Unit Desas savings, using Rp. 1,630/US$I, were US$ 1,722.3 million.



- 35 -
5. Proiect Results
Comparison of Appraisal Estimates with Actuals
(during 1987-1992, the project life)
In Rupiah (billion)
_______I|KUPEDES Outstanding          Unit Desas Deposits      Unit Desas Profits
Year      Estimate  L  Actual     Estimate  |  Actual     Estimate     Actual   |
1987          460.2       429.6      197.7        287.5        8.9         22.5
1988          578.1       542.3      241.4        493.0       14.3         30.6
1989          695.3       846.5      290.2        959.1       26.5         36.9
1990          810.3     1,381.8      344.2      1,694.8       36.2         65.2
1991              -     1,455.7          -      2,540.5          -         66.1
1992              - -   1,648.5           -     3,399.1                    69.3



- 36 -
6. Status of Covenants
Deadline for   Compliance
Covenant                      Subject                    Compliance      Status
Loan Agreement
Section 3.01(b)  GOI Subsidiary Loan Agreement with BRI        -        Complied
Section 6.01(a)   Subsidiary Loan Agreement executed           -        Complied
Section 6.01(b)  BRI has adopted Unit Desa Policy Statement    -        Complied
and Strategy Statement
Project Aer.
Section 2.02(a)  BRI to make available part of loan to Unit    -        Complied
Desa for purposes of KUPEDES, ensuring
onlending rate at least equal to highest interest
rate payable by Unit Desa on customer
deposits
Section 2.02(b)  BRI to allocate to Unit Desa development  from 10/1/87  Partially
fund an amount equal to at least 50% of   every 3 mths  complied
amount of margin between interest rate                  (every 6
payable by BRI on subsidiary loan and BRI               mths)
onlending rate to Unit Desas
Section 2.03(a)   BRI to adopt satisfactory Unit Desa policy            Complied
statement
Section 2.03(b)  BRI to adopt satisfactory Unit Desa strategy  -        Complied
statement
Section 2.06(b)  BRI to employ research and planning advisor  10/31/87    Complied
Section 2.09(a)   BRI to furnish results of study on credit  03/31/88    Complied in
demand for KUPEDES                                      12/88
Section 2.09(b)  BRI to prepare acceptable plan of action for  06/30/88    Reflected in
carrying out results of demand study and                new
plans to improve BRI capacity for KUPEDES               KUPEDES
policy
parameters
effective
05/01/90
Annual audit requirement (financial statements  09/30 of each  Complied
and SOEs)                                     year



- 37 -
7. Use of Bank Resources
Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                      Planned           Revised             Final           Comments
Through Appraisal                                        NA                NA                14.5
Appraisal through Board Approval                         NA                NA                 55.9
Board Approval through Effectiveness                     NA                NA
Supervision                                              NA                NA                24.1
TOTAL                                 NA                NA                94.5
Missions
Performance
Stage of           Month/    No. of   Days in    Specialization         Rating                  Type of
Project Cycle          Year      Persons    Field      Represented         Status                 Problems
Through Appraisal           02/86        3         NA        Fin. Analyst
05/86        2         NA        Fin. Analyst
07/86        4         14        Fin. Analyst
Appraisal through Board     10/86        3         17        Fin. Analyst
Approval
Board Approval through                              -             -
Effectiveness
Supervision                 8/88         1         10        Fin. Analyst          I         Shortage of staff
08/89        1          5        Fin. Analyst          I         Shortage of staff
03/90 a/      3          2        Fin. Analyst          I         Non
11/90 b/      1          5        Fin. Analyst          I         Non
11/92 b/      1          4        Fin. Analyst          I        Shortage of staff, arrears
a/     Combined with appraisal mission for BRI/KUPEDES II.
b/     Combined supervision missions for BRI/KUPEDES I and II.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 2800-IND)
BRI AUDITED INCOME STATEMENTS. 1987-92
(Rp. billion)
1987      1988        1989       1990       1991        1992
INCOME
Interest
On loans                                      706.7    1,002.3    1,403.2    2,144.8    3,079.7       a/
On notes/securities/placements                 52.8       106.9      157.3       128.0      211.6     a/
Other                                           0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0     a/
Subtotal Interest                             759.5    1.109.2   1t5605        2.272.8    3.291.3     3 7
Commissions and fees                           41.1        54.2       77.7       104.9      102.7      113.6
Net Foreign exchange transactions              47.0        21.5       23.3        22.5       19.2       68.5
Other operating income                          59.4       57.4       36.8       226.0      132.7      127.0
Subtotal operating income                     907.0   1t242.3   1t698.3    2.626.2    3,545.9    3.670.8
Nonoperatina income                             5.6        16.8       23.8        2.4         _         12.6
TOTAL INCOME                                  912.6    1.259.1    1.722,1    2.628.6      35522       3683.4
EXPENSES
Interest charges on borrowings                509.5       730.6      972.7     1,407.7    2,621.5    2,562.6
Salaries and other personnel expenses          161.1      189.6      235.8       287.9      344.3      322.2
Other operating and miscellaneous expenses      71.0      101.2      160.5       378.2      262.8      250.0
Depreciation                                    12.9       17.6       23.7       49.1        61.8       70.0
Provision for bad debts                        87.4       119.1      204.9       324.9      158.2      397.9
Nonoperating expenses                           0.5         0.9        1.5        2.2         1.4        5.6
TOTAL EXPENSES                                842.4     11590    1t599.1       2,450.0    3.450.0    3,608.3
Net Income Before Taxes                        70.2       100.1      123.0       178.6      102.2       75.1
Less: Provision for taxes                      26.6        38.8       47.2       70.7        35.8       35.3
NET INCOME                                     43          61.3       75.8      107.9        66,4       39.8
a/ Breakdown not yet available.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 2800-IND)
BRI AUDITED BALANCE SHEETS. 1987-92
(Rp. billion)
1987      1988        1989       1990        1991      1992 a/
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash on hand                                   217.7       213.9      251.6      318.8       367.0      386.5
Due from Bank Indonesia                        455.4       186.3      502.0      204.5       207.5      288.3
Due from other banks                           152.6       179.7      299.1      352.1       505.3     1,158.7
NotesJSecunties/Short-term placements          640.6     1,756.5    2,090.1     3,835.4    2,596.2     3,710.3
Short-term loans                              4,569.1    5,207.7   10,351.7    9,984.0    15,648.1    17,810.6
Less: Allowance for Doubtful Debts             141.4          b/          b/         b/          b/         bl
Net Short-Term Loans                         4,427.7    5,207.7   10,351.7    9,984.0    15,648.1    17,810.6
Other current assets                           180.8      471.6       661.7     1,033.9    2,297.9     1,603.9
Total Current Assets                          6.074.8    8015.7    14.156.2   15.728.7   21.622.0   24.958.3
LONG-TERM ASEETS
Long-term loans                               1,464.7    2,560.3        N/A    4,578.9           c/         cl
Less: Allowance for Doubtful Debts              48.5          b/          b/         b/          b/         bl
Net Long-Term Loans                           1,416.2    2,560.3        0.0    4,578.9         0.0        0.0
Equity participation                             3.7         4.0        4.0       13.2        43.3       73.8
Other investments                                0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0
Total Lono-Term Portfolio                     1.419.9    2.564.3        40      4,592.1       43.3        73.8
Net fixed assets                                85.6       108.0      147.0      241.5       324.0      421.0
Other                                            0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Total Long-Term Assets                        1 505.7    2,672.3      151.0    4.833.6       367.3      494.8
TOTAL ASSETS                                  7.580.5   10,688.0   14.307.2   20.562.3    21,989.3    25.453.1
CURRENET LIABILITIES
Demand deposits                               1,241.7    1,630.9    2,261.6     2,539.0    2,996.1     2,591.2
Time deposits                                 1,637.1    2,279.6    2,822.7    5,370.1     5,803.7     7,000.2
Savings deposits                               538.5       739.3     1,172.7    1,809.5    2,902.9    4,241.3
Accounts payable                               153.7       164.8      286.3       63.5       200.0      711.4
Liquidity credits from BI                    2,175.1     2,616.0    3,031.8    4,340.6     3,656.4    4,027.0
Due to other banks                              27.3       182.2      275.5      305.2        60.0      483.2
Other current liabilities                      332.9      568.8    1,272.0      2,183.6    2,038.6     1,623.8
Total Current Liabilities                    6,106.3    6181.6    11.122,6   16611.5    17.657.7   20,678.1
LONG-TERM LIABILITIES
BI liquidity credits                           972.4     1,293.5    1,588.3          d/         d/          dl
Loans from Bl                                   47.9       51.5        79.6          dl         d/          dl
Govemment loans                                156.6       312.5      544.6      624.8       812.0      915.5
Time deposits                                  148.2       384.0      331.4          el          el         el
Other                                            0.0         0.0        0.0    2,354.2     2,678.0    2,154.2
TotIa Lono-Term Liabilities                   1,325.1    2,041.5    2.543.9   2j9790       3,4900      3.069.7
EQUITY
Paid-up Capital                                  0.3        0.3         0.3        0.3         0.3      600.0
Reserves & Govemment Participation             105.2       133.6      167.7      273.0       322.4      289.7
Allowance for Doubtful Debts b/                            268.5      396.2      590.6       452.5      787.3
Retained eamings                                43.6       62.5        76.5      107.9        66.4       28.3
Total Eouitv       -                           149.1      464.9       640,7      971.8       841.6     1,705.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                 7.580.5   10,688.0    14.307.2   20.562.3    21.989.3   25.453.1
Contingent Liabilities                          1,081.6    1,837.4    2,220.6    7,620.5    10,990.6    13,214.8
al Breakdown between long & short term assets and liabilities not yet available.
b/ Allowance for doubtful debts treated as equity effective March 25, 1989 (1988 accounts adjusted
correspondingly to reflect this policy).
c/ Included in 'Short-term loans' above.
d/ Included in current "Liquitity Credits from BI".
e/ Included in current "nme Deposits'.



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 2800-IND)
INDICATORS OF BRI'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. 1987-92
(Rp. billion)
1987       1988       1989        1990        1991       1992
Average Total Assets (Rp billion)               7,161.6     9,134.3    12,497.6    17,434.8    21,275.8    23,721.2
Average Loan Portfolio (Rp billion)             5,405.3     6,900.9     9,059.9    12,457.3    15,105.5    16,729.4
Average Borrowings (Rp billion)                 6,503.0     8,217.2    10,798.9    14,725.8    18,126.3    20,160.9
Average Equity (Rp billion)                       142.2       307.0      552.8       806.3       906.7     1,273.5
As a % of Average Assets
(a) lncomefrom lending                           10.44%      11.57%     11.85%      12.90%      14.96%     14.17%
(b) Other income                                  2.30%       2.22%      1.93%       2.17%       1.74%      1.38%
(c) Gross income                                 12.74%      13.78%     13.78%      15.08%      16.70%     15.55%
(d) Financial expenses                            7.11%       8.00%      7.78%       8.07%      12.32%     10.80%
(e) Gross spread (c-d)                            5.63%       5.79%      6.00%       7.00%       4.37%      4.75%
(f) Salary and personnel expenses                 2.25%       2.08%      1.89%       1.65%       1.62%      1.36%
(g) Administrative expenses                       1.18%       1.31%      1.49%       2.46%       1.53%      1.37%
(h) Provision for bad debts                       1.22%       1.30%      1.64%       1.86%       0.74%      1.68%
(i) Profit before tax                             0.98%       1.10%      0.98%       1.02%       0.48%      0.32%
(j) Net profit                                    0.61%       0.67%      0.61%       0.62%       0.31%      0.17%
Retum on Average Equity (as a %)                 30.67%      19.97%     13.71%      13.38%       7.32%      3.13%
Lending Margin
(k) Income from lending as %
of Average Loan Portfolio                     13.83%     15.31%      16.35%      18.06%     21.07%      20.09%
(I) Financial expenses as %
of Average Borrowings                          7.83%      8.89%       9.01%       9.56%     14.46%      12.71%
(m) Spread on Lending (k-I)                       6.00%      6.42%       7.34%       8.50%      6.61%       7.38%
Reserve for Bad Debts as %
of Outstanding Loan Portfolio                  3.15%      3.46%       3.83%       4.06%      2.89%       4.42%



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRIUKUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 2800-IND)
SUMMARY OF BRI'S LENDING AND BORROWING OPERATIONS. 1987-92
(Rp. billion)
1987      1988       1989       1990       1991       1992
Total Assets                                  7,580.5   10,688.0   14,307.2   20,562.3   21,989.3   25,453.1
Total Loan Portfolio a/                       6,033.8    7,768.0   10,351.7   14,562.9   15,648.1   17,810.6
Long-term                                   1,464.7    2,560.3       N/A    4,578.9
Short-term                                  4,569.1    5,207.7   10,351.7    9,984.0   15,648.1   17,810.6
Total Borrowings                              6,944.8    9,489.5   12,108.2   17,343.4   18,909.1   21,412.6
Long-Term                                   1,325.1    2,041.5    2,543.9    2,979.0    3,490.0    3,069.7
Time deposits                               148.2      384.0      331.4
Bi&othergov't loans                        1,176.9    1,657.5    2,212.5     624.8      812.0      915.5
Other                                         0.0        0.0        0.0    2,354.2    2,678.0    2,154.2
Short-Term                                  5,619.7    7,448.0    9,564.3   14,364.4   15,419.1   18,342.9
B1 loans                                   2,175.1    2,616.0    3,031.8    4,340.6    3,656.4    4,027.0
Customer deposits                          3,417.3    4,649.8    6,257.0    9,718.6   11,702.7   13,832.7
Demand                                    1,241.7    1,630.9    2,261.6    2,539.0    2,996.1    2,591.2
Time                                      1,637.1    2,279.6    2,822.7    5,370.1    5,803.7    7,000.2
Savings                                     538.5      739.3    1,172.7    1,809.5    2,902.9    4,241.3
Other                                        27.3      182.2      275.5      305.2       60.0       483.2
Total Eouity                                   149.1      464.9      640.7      971.8      841.6    1,705.3
Ratios
Equity: Total assets                         1.97%      4.35%      4.48%      4.73%      3.83%      6.70%
Total loan portfolio: Total deposits       169.23%    154.32%    157.12%    149.85%    133.71%    128.76%
Total loan portfolio less Bi/govemment
borrowings: Total deposits                 75.22%     69.42%     77.52%     98.75%     95.53%     93.03%
Total loan portfolio: Total assets          79.60%     72.68%     72.35%     70.82%     71.16%      69.97%
B/govemment loans: Total borrowings        48.27%     45.03%     43.31%     28.63%     23.63%     23.08%
Debt: Equity (times)                          49.84      21.99      21.33      20.16      25.13      13.93
a/ Before provision for bad debts.



- 42 -
ANNEX 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 2800-IND)
BRI Unit Desa System
Income Statements, 1984-1992
(Rp million)
For the year ending December 31               1984      1985       1966      1987       1968      1989        1990       1991       1992
Revenues
Interest Income
Unit Desa funds deposited in Cabang                -7,639      8,840   12,675      18,366   41,445       88,832   203,250   299,489
Credit
cUPmDhs - Investment              )               1,973      3,034    4,004       5,184 )262,992    421,734   564,398   636,116
KUPBDRS   Working capital         )              59,458   108,411  150439    188,043
Krrdit Midi                       1   22,045        753        259        92           -
Kredit Mini                       )                 341        162        55
Other                             )               1,102         99        SO           -        -           -          -         --
Subtotal credit interest               22.045    63,627   111,965  154,640    193,227  262.992    421.734   564.398   636,116
IPTII Forfeited                              na.       n.a.       n a      9,204     15,204   19,525       23,151    33.686    35,551
Collection of previous write-offs            n.a.      n.a.       n.e.      na.         n.a.    5,354       9,296      9,719    13,848
Fees and co,ieions                           165         91        70        67          87        61         26
Other operating income                      1,327        801     5,845    1,188        2,645    1,033       3,353  )  5.791       7,801
Nonoperating income                         3,052       407        212        99          84      219         476
Total Revenues                         26.589    72,565   126,932  177,873    229,613  330,629    546.868   816.844   992,805
-r!naecial BxDenses
Loans                                       561    13,761    24,093   25,970       21,678   23,184       38,645    50,458    32,287
Giro accounts                                11         82       178       129         171      282         706
TASRAJS                             )    3,548      5,593    10,377   20,212         8,976   11,842      16,060
SIMPROBS                            )                                              23,388   47,532       89,219
Tim  deposits                                61       216        434    1,389       4,446   13,429       33,071 ) 348,891   458,374
SiMPBDBS and SIMASKOT Promotion               -          -         -         -           -         -     13,837
Other                                       195         51        26       294      2,650                 8.308
Subtotal financial expenses             4.376    19,703    35.108   47,994        61,309   96.269    199.918   399.349   490j661
IPTW reserves                               3,974    13,971    26,032   38,865       48,695   66,484    107,237   141,802   158,957
Insurance premium                              18         36        44        72          91    2,249       6.385      5,971      9,067
Administrative and General Rxoenses
Personnel
Salary and wages                  1              26,170    26,661   30,923       33,365   44,789       54,845
Allowances                        )   30,434      4,367      4,726    6,179       6,794   11,280       16,652
Payments in kind                  )               2,583      2,404    2,427       3,427    4,217       4,835
Subtotal personnel                     30,434    33.120    33,791   39,529        43,586   60,286       76.332    85.683    99. 3N9
Rent                                        361       406        593       393        822    2,614        3,598     4,858      5,799
ODeration and Maintenance
Vehicles                               1,710      1,605      1,276    1,257       1,661    1,400        1,841
Buildings                                           284        546       562      1,332    2,806        4,611  )
Subtotal O0M                            1,710      1,889      1,822    1,819       2,993    4,206        6,452     6.616      6,419
Depreciation                                559       525      1,019       881      1,894    3,557        5,407
Taxes                                       11S       219        174       138         170      240         215      8,651    19,505
Provisions for bad debts                 8,381      2,368    12,027   16,715       26,669   24,465       36,122    46,954    75,356
Other Operatina Ixoenses
Office supplies and materials             921     1,038      1,334    1,919       2,761    3,766        7,145    13,376    13,161
Training                                    -         -          -         -           -    7,762       6,879     4,670      7,631
Supervision expenses                                 50      4,446    5,720       7,627   11,565      15,074    16,579    19,043
Bonuses                                     -                  677    1,061       1,579    1,862       2,724      5,083      5,673
Other                                    670        166          -       253        723    8,133        8,135    11,069    12,689
Subtotal other operating expenses       1,591      1,254      6.457    8.953      12J690   33,088      39,957    50.777    58.197
Nonoperating expenses                          82         10        19        35          54      257          54         76       199
Total 8xpenses                         51.601    73,501   117,086  155,394    198.973  293,715    481.677   750.737   923.4S9
NBT INCOMB                           (25.012)      (936)      9,846   22,479      30.640   36,917       65.191    66,107    69 316
- - - ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~ ~~ ~ - - - - -



- 43 -
ANNEX 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 2800-IND)
BRI Unit Desa System
Balance Sheets, 1984 - 1992
(Rp million)
Sept.
As of December 31                        1984       1985       1986        1987        1988        1989         1990       1991       1992
ASS8TS
MESK in Unit Degas                         171        212      1,521       4,200      7,647       13,725      17,697      16,806      14,232
Cash in Cabang (branch)               47,563    62,595    95,728        93,014   208,013       438,834    750,297  1,434.123  2,079,405
Loano Outatanding
110,698   229,029   334,402    429,033   538,820         845,613  1,381,816  1,455,603  1,648,481
Krrdit midi                         15,900      7,098     4.697           45                 -           -           -                --
Kredit mini                         10,410      7,736      5,894          14          -            -           -           -          --
Other                                    -      1,609      1,368       1,885      1,227        1,181       2,326            Lb       890
Subtotal loans outstanding        137,941   245,472   346,361    430,977   540,047          846.794  1.384.142  1,455,199  1.649S371
Less:  Provisions for losses         9,167    10,524    20,608        21,301/b  34,230        39,663      52,659      78,526    107,805
Net Loans Outstanding             128,784   234,948   325,753    409.676   505,817         807.131  1.331,483  1.378,673  1,541.566
Other Receivables
Interina                               820        829        918       1,308      1,933        1,859       1,273
External                                59         99         96         218        372          416         246
Subtotal other receivables            879        928      1,014       1,526     2.305         2,275       1,519       2.161       1,521
FirX dndA nd bildings                               624        558         480      3,839       14,032      32.960
Vehicles                                          405      2,500      1.708       1.851        2,825       3,018
Machinery, furniture and other                    110        141         105      4,269        6.333      11,570
Subtotal fixed assets               1,386      1,139      3,199      2,293      9.9S9       23,190       47,548      76,024    115.568
Other assets                              65        649        665       1,243      2,475        6,010       9.951      12,333      15,663
TOTAL ASSETS                     178,848   300,471   427,880    511,952   736,216   1.291.165  2,1580495  2,920,120  3,767,955
LIABILITIES AND 80UIT
iro *ccounts                        2,006    13,830    10,930       12,458    16,635        26,831      41,383       55,221      80,723
iABlS                                38,642    63,604    78,156        79,546    89,523       113,662    154,700    217,611    301,704
SIMP DES                                 -      5,134    82,601    182,637   341,954        693,011  1,007,316  1,334.129  1,921.994
Time deposits                          690      2,018      3.893     12.704    44,44         117,3605    360,5~96    646.304    6816
Other                                  850        287        220        s186        388        2, 32       1 827889                  992
SIMASKOT                                 -          --                                             -    154,269    283,886    457,844
Subtotal savings                  40.182    71,043   164,870    275,073   476,313          926.606  1,678,708  2.485,819  3,317,700
Managed funds                              -      1,609      1,368       1,885      1,227        1.181       2,326       1,9S6         890
ETVILnv   Cabmnne                  21,194    16,275    16,140        15,742    24,055        64,151       1.201
Working capital                     61,655   125,250   158,652    107 011    93 284         104,130    174,805
Other                                             929      1,055       2.266      9,395       30,178      37,092
Subtotal loans                     82,849   142,454   175,847    125,019   126,734         198.459    213,098    149,124    144,576
Reserves
-                                                                    118,592    21,89S       30,142      49,737      43,007      41,472
TABANIAS interest                    3,661      8,539    12,384            9        231          234          15
SIMPEDES interest
Time deposit interest                   35         28         32         182        806        1,164       2,853      20,525      23,998
Other                                    -          -        721         521      1,595        2,922       6,367
Subtotal reserves                   3,696     8,567    13,137       19,304    24,527        34,462      58,972       63,532      65 470
Other liabilities                                   269        127          78         SS        2,162      24,784      27,702      S88U46
Total Liabilities                 128,733   237.672   366.279    433,817   645,493   1,189,697  2,019.271  2.782.994  3.668.205
9fingrane                            67,754    56,601    43,944        48,414    52,855        57,377      66,234      63,803      63,587
Contributions for fixed assets    7,373         7,034     7,811       7,242      7,228        7,174       7,799        7,216       7,279
Retained *arnings /a              (25,012)      (936)     9,846      22,479    30,640        36,917      65,191       66,107     69.316
Total Bquity                       50,115    62,699          61,601  78 135    90.723      101,468    139,224    137.126    140.182
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND ROUITY   178.848   300,471   427,880    511,952   736,216   1,291,165  2,158.495  2,920.120  3J082L367
Retained earnings are appropriated by BRI at the end of each year
f  Included in  IKUPEDBS loans  above.



- 44 -
ANNEX 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECTS (LOANS 2800-IND AND 3249-IND)
BRI Unit Desa System
Indicators of Unit Desas' Financial Performance. 1984-1992 /a
1984       1985        1986         1987         1988         1989         1990         1991        1992
Average Total Assets
(Rp billion)                              89.4      239.6       364.2        469.9         624.1    1,013.7    1,724.8          2,533.4   3,326.4
Average Loan Portfolio L
(Rp billion)                              69.0      191.7       295.9        388.7         485.5        693.4      1,115.5    1,419.9   1,552.1
Average Borrowings
(Rp billion)                              62.5      176.2       289.5        382.1         516S 1       885.8      1,542.5    2,301.3   3,099.7
As a t of Average Assets
(a) Income from lending L                   20.2        20.8        23.6         24.6          23.2         19.3         18.2         16.7        14.3
(b)  IPTI Forfeited                          n.a.        na.         n.a.         2.0           2.4          1.9          1.3          1.3         1.1
(c) Other income                             S.1d        3.7d        4.1L         3.0           3.4          4.8          6.0          8.6         9.6
(d) Gross income                            25.3        24.5        27.7         29.6          29.0         26.0         25.5         26.6        25.0
(e) Financial expenses                       4.9         8.2         9.6         10.2           9.8          9.5         11.6         15.5L       14.4,S
(f) Groom spread  (d-*)                     20.4        16.3        19.1         19.4          19.2         16.5         13.91        11.1        10.6
(g) Salary and personnel
expenses /e                           34.0       13.8         9.3          8.4           7.0          6.0          4.4          3.5         3.1
(h) Administrative expenses                  5.0         1.9         2.8          2.6           3.0          4.5          3.6          3.0         3.6
(i) Provision for bad debt                   9.4         1.0         3.3          3.6           4.3          2.4          2.1          1.9         2.3
(j) Profit/loss /i                         (28.0)       (0.4)        2.7          4.8           4.9          3.6          3.8          2.7         2.1/h
Lending Margin
(k) Income from lending as I of
average loan portfolio               26.2        25.9        29.0         29.8          29.8         28.3         28.2         29.7        30.6
(1) Financial expenses as I of
average borrowings                   7.0        11.2        12.1         12.6          11.9         10.9         12.1         17.1        15.5
(m) Spread on lending (k-i)                 19.2        19.7        16.9         17.2          17.9         17.4         16.1         12.6       15.1
Reserve for Bad Debt as 
of Outstandinq Loan Portfolio              6.6         4.3         5.9          4.9           6.3          4.7          3.8          5.4         6.5
Salary and Personnel Sxpenses L
as S of Averaqe Loan Portfolio            44.1        17.3        11.4         10.2           9.0          8.7          6.8          6.2         6.6
/a   With all percentages calculated on an annualized basis.
Lb   Before provisions.
/c   Income from  lending excludes IPTW collected; likewise, IPTW collected  (and which is set aside in a reserve)
is excluded as an expense in the expense computations below.
L    Includes IPTW forfeited.
/a   Excludes bonuses, which are included in administrative and other expenses, through 1990; includes bonuses from  1991 Onward.
/f   Before taxes.  Unit Desa annual profits  (losses) are appropriated by BRI.
L    Includes all promotional costs associated with SIMPEDES savings scheme.
Lb   Based on Gabunane  not telex figures.



ANNEX 8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 2800-INDI
BRI UNIT DESA SYSTEM
ACTUAL KUPEDES LENDING OPERATIONS. 1984-1992
'Rp billion)
1984     1985      1986      1987     1988      1989      1990     1991      1992
C:-
outstanding at beginning of period             111.0    229.3    334.2    429.2    538.7    845.6   1,381.8   1,455.7
Plus: disbursements                  164.5    335.1    481.9    597.9    707.4   1,072.7   1,645.7   1,701.0   1,940.7
Less: repayments                      53.5    217.1    376.7    497.5    585.4    745.6   1,084.7   1,608.1   1,706.1
Less: write-offs                                                    5.5      12.5      20.2      24.8     19.0      41.8
Outstanding at end of period         111.0    229.0    334.5    429.1    538.7    845.6   1,381.8   1,455.7   1,648.5
New loans (in Rp '000)               639.4    991.9   1,150.1   1,136.7   1,137.3   1,379.4   1,529.7   1,416.5   1,490.8
Outstanding loans (in Rp '000)                                                    .           1,893.1   1,837.5   1,831.7



ANNEX 9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONES I
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 2800-IND)
BRI Unit Desa System
Analysis of KUPEDES Loan Portfolio, 1984 - 1992
(Rp billion)
1904                  1905                  1906                   1967                  Islas                  1989                  1990                  1991                     1992
Cua1lativ. amint
loaned                          164.S                 499.6                 961.5               1,579.4                2,287.1               3,359.8                S.005.S               6,706.5               6,907.0
Portfolio status
Total loans
outstandIng                  110.7                  229.0                 334.4                  429.0                 530.0                 645.6               1.381.5                1,455.7               1,648.5
Total principal in
arrears                         0.5                   4.8                  15.0                   24.6                  40.2                  45.7                   56.5                 124.4                  150.1
1964                   196s                   1966                  1967                  1986                   1969                  1990                   1991                    1992
As to          kof               As  Sof   kg otAA  of                                   Anto                   Asof       As So e of                       As Iof                 As  of
outstanding           outstanding           outstanding            Outstanding           outstanding            outstanding           0utstanding            touttandinkg          wutstanding
Ant.   PorttOlio       Amt.  Portfolio   Ant.   Portfolio   Amt.   Porttolio   Ant.   Portfolio   Amt.   Portfolio   Amt.   Portfolio   Ant.   Portfolio   Amt.   Portfolio
Total /a                    0.5          0.5        4.6         2.1      19.0         4.9       24.6         5.7      40.2        7.5       45.7        5.4        58.5        4.2       124.4    6.5         150.1        9.1
Overdue heymid final
due date less than
3   nmths                  D.&.          n.a.       0.9         0.4       1.9         0.6        4.S         1.0       7.6        1.4         7.5       0.9         1.9        0.6        17.6      1.2        24.5        1.5
Overdue more than
3 months beyond final
due date                   n.a.          0.5.       0.3         0.1       4.0         1.2        5.8         1.4       9 .3       1.L7       13.2       1.6        14.4        1.0         29.7    2.0          50.5        3.1
LiAny payment overdue by one day or more.



- 47 -
ANNEX 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2800-IND)
SECTORAL DISTRIBUTION OF KUPEDES LOANS
(1990-1 992)
SECTOR                  1990           1991            1992
Trade                       58.3%          58.9%           60.0%
Agriculture                 23.7%          23.4%           23.2%
Industry                     2.3%           2.3%            2.2%
Fixed Income                11.4%          11.0%           10.1%
Other                        4.3%           4.4%            4.5%
Total               100.0%         100.0%          100.0%



ANNEX 11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2800-IND)
COMPARISON OF THE UNIT DESAS WITH TOTAL BRI. 1990-1992
(Rp million)
1990                                1991                                 1992
AMOUNT        NO. OF ACCTS.         AMOUNT         NO. OF ACCTS.        AMOUNT         NO. OF ACCTS.
Loa
BRI                   14,334,797           3,396,938       15,648,100          3,072,350       17,810,608           3,107,909
Unit Desas             1,381,800           1,893,138        1,455,700           1,837,549       1,648,500           1,831,732
Units as % of BRI          9.6%               55.7%             9.3%              59.8%             9.3%               58.9%
Deposits
BRI                    9,666,745          10,896,657       11,626,004         12,228,237       11,820,758          13,725,877
Unit Desas             1,694,830           7,262,509        2,540,450          8,587,872        3,399,100           9,953,294
Units as % of BRI         17.5%               66.6%            21.9%              70.2%            28.8%               72.5%
Profits
BRI (before tax)         178,559                              91,673                               75,127
Unit Desas                65,191                              66,107                               69,316
Units as % of BRI         36.5%                                72.1%                               92.3%



- 49 -
ANNEX 12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
BRI/KUPEDES SMALL CREDIT PROJECT (LOAN 2800-IND)
STATUS OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENTS (USS4.8 MILLION)
(In USS)
DATE          AMOUNT         AMOUNT          NET           AMOUNT         AMOUNT
AUTHORIZED    COMMITTED    CANCELLED    COMMITTED            DISBURSED    CANCELLED
Cateoorv 2 (US$4.3 m) - Contrects
(t)  Rihdwd T. Monteverde                       12t30/87       225.000.00     28,522.86     198,477.14               -
(Research & Planning Advisor)
(2)  Ann Dunham Sutoro                         05/17/88         27,900.00     2,025.59       25,874.41
(Study on the demand for KUPEDES
investnent loans on small-scale industries)
(3)  Booz, Allen & Hanilton                    08/01/88       1.555,674.00        0.00     1,555.874.00
(Phase III work covering period of April-
October 1988)
(4)  Booz Allen & Harnilton                     11/09/8      1.341,977.85         0.00     1.341,977.85              -
(Rerminder of the Phase IlIl work &
incorporation d the MIR work covering
period of 11/1/88 - 4t30t89)
(5)  Short-terrn sty tours                     075/9           100,000.00       258.28       99,741.72
(for BRI oMcers working with the Unit
Desr)
(6)  Booz Allen & Hamilton                      128289         400,000.00         0.00      400,000.00
(portion of the contract work asociated
with 'Unit Des Operons & Sprvision'
(7)  Obaidullah Khan                           0507/90          65,78t.00    41,617.38       24,170.62
(survey of present relationship between
BRI and the KUDS and recommendations
on futre BRI support of the KUDS)
(8)  Ann Dunham Sutoro                         06/11/90        274,400.00         0.00      274,400.00
(Research Coordinator for Unit Doss
Development Activities)
(9)  Richard T. Monteverde                     07/19/90        254,388.00    29,000.00      225,388.00
(extension of Research and Planning
Advisor contract)
(10) Warren Niles                              12/26/90         75,000.00    26,498.89       48,501.11
(Consultant on future role of BRI on
supporting BRIAJDES automaton)
(11) Warren Niles                              0O/23/91         29000.00      4,235.42       24,764.58
(Consultant on future role of SRI on
supporting BRIAUDES automation: 6
months extension)
(12) Warren Niles                              11/23/91         63,900.00         0.00       63,900.00
(Consultant on future role of BRI on
supporting BRIAJDES automation: 9 mth of
12 mth ext.)
Subtotal Cateaorv 2                                     4.413.005.85    132.158.42    4.280.847.43    4.235.299.3     45 547.80
Cateoory 3 (US$0.5 mt - Training
Intemal Training                          02/06/90        500.00000          000       500,000.00      498,865.80      1,134.20
(for strengthening the capacty of BRI in
accounting & auditing for activities related
to Und Desas)
GRAND TOTAL (Catoories 2 & 3)                           4.913.005.85    132.158.42    4,780J847.U4   4.734,165.43     46.882.00



- 50 -
ANNEX 13
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
UNIT DESA BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
BRI
DEPARTMENT
HEAD
DEPUTY
DEPARTMENT
HEAD
STAFF
ADMIN. AND          AUTOMATION              PRODUCT               UNIT AND
REPORTS              DIVISION            MANAGEMENT            CUSTOMER DEV.
DIVISIONS                                   DMSON                 DMSION
STAFF               STAFF/             STAFF:                 STAFF:
PROGRAMMERS  _                      _
- CREDIT              - MARKET AND
ADMIN.           I MPLEMENTATION         MARKETING             CONSUMER
SECTION         _    SECMON                                     RESEARCH
- SAVINGS             - ADVERTISING
MARKETING             AND
REPORTS              HARDWARE                                   PROMOTION
I_SECTION         J    SECTION
SECTION_SECTION      - OTHER BANK           - UNIT LOCATION
SERVICES              RESEARCH
MARKETING
HADMIN. EMPLOYEES |    ADMIN. EMPLOYEES 



