Report No 1035b-IND                                                 % t 
Appraisal of Irrigation
Project VIl Indonesia
April 28, 1976
East Asia & Pa( ifi( Projects
Irrigation Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restrited dlstribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authortzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00               Rupiahs (Rp) 415
Rp 100                US$o.241
Rp I million          US$2,409.64
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 millimeter (mm)                  0.039 inches
I meter (m)                        39.37 inches
I kilometer (km)                   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km 2           0.386 square miles
I hectare (ha)                     2.47 acres
3
1 cubic meter (m )                 35.31 cubic feet
1 liter (1)                   =   0.264 gallons (USA)
I liter/second (1/sec)             0.035 cubic feet per second
1 kilogram (kg)               =   2.2 pounds
I metric ton (ton)            =   2,205 pounds
CONVERSION FACTORS FOR RICE
1 ton "dry stalk paddy"'      =   800 kg paddy ("paddy gabah")
:   =   500 kg milled rice
I ton paddy (gabah)           =   630 kg milled rice
INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
BIMAS     -     Bimingan Massal Swa Sembada Bahan Makanan
-       "Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs"
-       a farm input-credit package program
BRI       -     Bank Rakyat Indonesia - People's Bank of Indonesia
BULOG     -     Badan Urusan Logistik - "National Logistics Body"
- rice procurement agency
BUUD      -     Badan Usaha Unit Desa - Forerunner of KUD as Village
Unit Cooperative
DGWRD     -     Director(ate)-General of Water Resources Development
DOLOG     -     Depo Logistik - provincial branch of BULOG
GDP       -     Gross Domestic Product
GOI       -     Government of Indonesia
HYV       -     High-Yielding Variety
INMAS     -     Intensifikasi Massal - "Massive Intensification"
- a fatm input program
INPRES    -     Instruksi Presiden - "Presidential Instruction"
- a rural public works program
IPEDA     -     luran Penbangunan Dearah - Land Tax
IRRI      -     International Rice Research Institute
KUD       -     Koperasi Unit Desa - Village Unit Cooperative
MOA       -     Ministry of Agriculture
0 & M     -     Operation and maintenance
Pelita    -     Five-Year Development Plan
P3SA      -     Proykek Perencanaan Pengambangan Sumber - Sumbur Air -
Proyek Jratunseluna, an executive body within DGWRD
created to program and study water resources development
P4S       -     Proyek Pengembangan Persawahan Pasang Surut, Jambi and South
Sumatera, an executive body within DGWRD created to study
tidal lands development
PPL       -     Field Extension Worker
PROSIDA   -     Proyek Irigasi IDA - Agency of DGWRD created to execute
IDA-assisted projects
REC       -     Rural Extension Center
TSP       -     Triple Super Phosphate
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Table of Contents
Page No,
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................. .   i--ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...........        ..   ... . .......... .    1
II.   BACKGROUND .       ...........................,    .. ......       1
The Economy ...        ..............................
Rice Production ............... ...           *  .  .        1
Project Formulation .                  .                    2
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ................. ,. ..... ..... ** .... .    5
General . ....       . .. .. ........................
Climate   ...................................-.      ........ . ....... 5
Soils and Topography ........... . .. . .... ...............    5
Population, Farm Size and Tenure..                          6
Agricultural Production ............. 0 .... . .......    6
Storage, Processing and Marketing ................    7
Agricultural Support Program  ..................  .    8
Transportation .............*.........       ...*......    8
Operation and Maintenance..........                         9
IV.   THE PROJECT .......       ....      ......      ...........  .    9
Project Works .............................. ......   10
Consulting Services . . .... . .......    12
Water Supply, Demand and Quality    .................   12
Status of Engineering       ...........................   13
Implementation Schedule                ..                  13
Cost Estimates .....          ...................    14
Financing ............       ...   ............   15
Procurement ............ 15
Disbursements ....                             .... 16
Accounts and Audits ... ..... .....  17
Environmental Effects .......................   17



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANGEMENT .     ............................   17
Organization ....................................   17
Training ...................***.*.......   18
Agricultural Support Services ... .................   19
Monitoring Benefits ..................... ........   20
Operation and Maintenance    .......................   20
Cost and Rent Recovery ..... .................         21
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME ..   23
Production . ................................   23
Market Prospects ................................   23
Prices .      ...............................   24
Farm Income ....................................   24
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ............................   26
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS .....................................        27
Annexes
1   Averages Monthly Rainfal]l Within Project Areas
2    AgricuLtural Production
3    Agricultural Support Program
4    The Project Works
5    Consulting Services
6    Cost Estimates
7    Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
8    Trainirng
9    Operation and Maintenance
10    Market Structure and Prices
11    Crop arnd Farm Budgets
12    Farm Labor Analysis
13    Economic Analysis
14    Cost and Rent Recovery
15    Feasibility Study for Development of Tidal Swamp Lands



-3-
Charts
8964      PROSIDA Sub-Project Organization
15114(R) Estimated Opportunity Cost for Farm Labor in North Sadang
15116(R) Estimated Opportunity Cost for Farm Labor in Tertiary Development
Areas
15530     O&M Organization  of Jatiluhur Authority
15533     Organization of Services for Irrigated Agriculture
15534     Design and Construction Schedule for Tertiary Development on
PROSIDA Systems
15535     Design and Construction Schedule for Tertiary Development on
Jatiluhur System
15536     Design and Construction Schedule for North Sadang Irrigation
System
15537     Design and Construction Schedule for Preliminary Works on
Kedungombo Dam
16017     Water Resources Organization Chart
16008     PROSIDA Management Organization
Maps
3627R3    Location Map
11728R    Kedungombo Dam Site
11867R    North Sadang Irrigation System
11957R    Typical Tertiary Development



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF IRRIGATION PROJECT VIT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture accounts for over 40% of Indonesia's GDP, about 66% of
its employment and nearly 80% of its non-oil exports. Rice, which accounts
for 30% of agricultural production, is the staple food and, throughout the
First Five-Year Plan period (1969-1974), Government programs concentrated on
expanding its production. Despite these programs, rice imports continue at
a rate in excess of 400,000 tons per year and self-sufficiency in rice has
been made a priority goal of the Government's Second Five-Year Plan (1974-
1979).
ii.       The Government of Indonesia has requested Bank assistance to carry
out the proposed project, the seventh Bank-assisted irrigation project aimed
at increasing domestic rice production. With the exception of Credit 514-
IND, which is assisting in the construction of a new irrigation system, the
on-going projects have concentrated on the rehabilitation of existing systems.
Construction works on the six on-going projects have been progressing rela-
tively well, although rising costs due to inflation have created budgetary
constraints, resulting in delays in project completion. The most serious
problem, however, has been the lack of adequate and timely operation and
maintenance (O & M) funds. After consultations with the Bank, the Government
has allocated in its 1976/77 budget Rp 2, 810 million for 0 & M of all Bank-
assisted irrigation projects. Although this is slightly below the amount
required to operate and maintain the systems efficiently, it is a substantial
improvement over last year's 0 & M funding and is consistent with the Govern-
ment's current budgetary capability.
iii.      Tertiary development 1/ is being financed as part of the project
works under the fifth and sixth Bank-assisted irrigation projects, but no
provision for such development was included in the first four projects.
Therefore, the proposed project would introduce tertiary development to
100,000 ha covered by the first four Bank Group-assisted irrigation proj-
ects. The level of tertiary development would be similar to that established
for the fifth and sixth Bank-assisted projects. The tertiary systems would
permit good water control, timely water delivery, a more equitable sharing
of water and improved access to individual farms. The improvement in water
control and distribution at the farm level would minimize the risk of crop
loss and encourage farmers to make investments in improved seed, fertilizer
and pesticides, thereby allowing the Government to derive higher benefits
from the systems. The second major project component is a new 6,000 ha ir-
rigation system adjacent to the existing Sadang irrigation system in South
Sulawesi. It would utilize a diversion weir rehabilitated under the third
1/   Tertiary development consists of the construction of tertiary and
quaternary canals and drains and inspection roads.



ii -
project (Credit 220-IND). This component would increase rice production
and improve the living conditions of the people in the North Sadang area.
Also included in the project are studies and detailed engineering on the
Kedungombo storage dam and downstream river improvements, to provide dry-season
water and protect lands under the first irrigation project, and preparation of
a tidal lands reclamation project and a drainage project for coastal lands.
Detailed engineering for the Kedungombo dam, whose technical feasibility and
economic viability have been established, would include detailed designs and
tender documents for construction under a subsequent project. The project
components would require about 3,500 man-months of consultant services,
of which 2,900 man-months would be provided by Indonesian consultants.
iv.        The estimated cost of the proposed project is US$60 million
(Rp 24,900 million), of which US$27.9 million or approximately 47%, would be
in foreign exchange. The Bank Loan of US$33 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of project works (US$20.2 million) and 80% of the total
costs of both foreign and local consultants (US$12.8 million). Vehicles and
equipment costing US$2.1 million would be tendered on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Con-
struction of tertiary systems, which would be spread over a wide area and time
span and involves an element of volunteer labor, would be unsuitable for
international competitive bidding. The same would apply to the North Sadang
project, where civil works (US$6.2 million) could not be grouped efficiently
into a single contract large enough to attract international bidders. These
works would, therefore, be carried out by locally advertised contracts
(US$12.0 million) and by force account (US$10.1 million). Consulting services,
mapping and training would cost US$17.2 million. Contingencies would amount
to US$18.6 million, of which US$12.8 million would be for expected price
increases during the four-year construction period.
v.        The Jatiluhur Authority, a semi-autonomous agency successfully carry-
ing out two Bank-assisted projects, would be responsible for one-fourth of the
total tertiary development on the Jatiluhur system. PROSIDA, a special unit
within the Directorate General of Water Resources Development of the Ministry
of Public Works and Electric Power, which is executing the other four Bank-
assisted projects, would be responsible for the balance of the tertiary
development programn. The studies and investigations for subsequent projects
would be carried out by consultants responsible to special units of the
Directorate General of Water Resources Development.
vi.       The economic rate of return on all project investments combined
would be about 30%. The rates of return would be 33% for tertiary develop-
ment and 20% for the North Sadang component. Under a number of adverse
assumptions, the rate of return on each part of the project would still exceed
12%.
vii.      The proposed project is suitable for a Loan of US$33 million for a
term of 25 years, including a six-year grace period. The borrower would be
the Government of Indonesia.



I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance in
financing tertiary development 1/ on 100,000 ha in part of the irrigation
systems being rehabilitated with Bank assistance (Credits 127, 195, 220 and
289-IND) and construction of the 6,000 ha North Sadang irrigation system in
South Sulawesi. This would be the seventh Bank-assisted project for improving
and promoting irrigation development in Indonesia. Five of the six proj-
ects concentrated on the rehabilitation of major engineering works of existing
irrigation systems to restore their original design capacities in the shortest
possible time. They also provided technical assistance in preparing subsequent
projects for execution. Only one project (Credit 514-IND) is assisting in the
construction of a new irrigation system.
1.02      The feasibility studies for tertiary development were prepared by
PROSIDA and, for the North Sadang irrigation system, by PROSIDA assisted by
Binnie and Partners (UK). This report is based on the findings of an ap-
praisal mission composed of Messrs. H.J. Tennent, J.T. Caparas, P.V. Apple-
garth (Bank), P. Judd and P.T. Reddy (consultants), which visited Indonesia
in October/November 1975.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      The latest economic report on Indonesia, "Indonesia - Development
Aspects and Needs" of April 15, 1975 (708-IND), described and analyzed the
structure of production and incomes, the recent changes in the availability
of resources and the medium and longer-term outlook for the Indonesian econo-
my.  The main findings of the report are summarized in the President's Report
for this project.
Rice Production
2.02      Agriculture accounts for over 40% of Indonesia's GDP, about 66% of
its employment and nearly 80% of its non-oil exports. Rice, which ac-
counts for 30% of agricultural production, is the staple food and, throughout
the First Five-Year Plan period (1969-74), government programs concentrated on
expanding its production. Specific efforts included rehabilitating existing
irrigation systems, creating fertilizer and rice price support programs,
providing funds for research and extension and improving the supply of seed,
fertilizer, pesticide and credit. As a result of these efforts, rice produc-
tion grew from 12.3 million tons in 1969 to 15.5 million tons in 1974. On a
per capita basis, production increased at a 2.1% annual rate. Self-sufficiency
in rice is a priority government goal for the Second Five Year Plan (Pelita
II, 1974-79). However, numerous problems hinder achieving this goal, despite
1/   Tertiary development consists of the construction of tertiary and
quaternary canals and drains and inspection roads.



-2-
the recent progress.  Inadequate maintenance threatens to destroy the gains
from the recent rehabilitation of irrigation systems; flooding and inadequate
drainage sharply reduce rice yields and cause two or three replantings in some
areas; and fertilizer does not reach the farmer on a timely basis. Supplies
of certified and high-yielding variety seed remain inadequate; numerous
changes in the types of insecticides and other inputs supplied through govern-
ment agricultural support programs confuse farmers and cause them to apply the
inputs improperly. Losses to disease and rats remain a serious problem and
grain drying and storage facilities are inadequate in many areas. The Govern-
ment has begun to act on many of these problems, but the development of
adequate programs would take some time. The Bank Group is assisting the
Government's efforts through a number of projects (paras 4.08 and 5.04).
2.03      BecauLse of the problems discussed above, rice imports are still
necessary. Over 1.1 million metric tons were imported in 1974/75. Imports
have been sharply reduced in 1975/76, with less than 200,000 tons being
imported during the first six months of the year.
2.04      Although production of secondary field crops (palawija), such as
groundnuts, maize, cassava, soybeans, and onions, is believed to have de-
clined during the First Plan period partly because of shifts of land use to
rice production, their position remains significant. Under the Second Five
Year Plan, production would be revitalized, and the Government has recently
extended the BIMAS agricultural support program to several of these crops.
The Government has also begun research to improve palawija yields.
Project Formulation
2.05      Following nearly thirty years of neglect, virtually the entire
1.5 million ha of Government maintained irrigation systems, which are located
mainly in Java, were in need of rehabilitation. Rehabilitation work on
about 1.0 million ha was started under Pelita I (1969-1974), with about
840,000 ha on nine major systems being rehabilitated with financial assistace
from four Bank Group Credits. Subsequently, two more projects received Bank
Group assistance at the start of Pelita II, bringing the total coverage to
about 990,000 ha. Work on the Madiun irrigation system, the last major group
of systems in need of rehabilitation, is being considered for Bank financing
in 1977. Because of the large volume of rehabilitation work to be done
on each system, only the most essential works were undertaken to put the
systems back in working order. They consisted mainly of reconstructing diver-
sion weirs, dredging main and secondary canals and replacing broken-down
structures. By and large, these works were deferred maintenance and they were
undertaken with the full realization that once the most pressing rehabilitation
works have been completed, further upgrading and improvement of the systems
would be required. Having overcome much of the initial rehabilitation backlog,
GOI is now turning to the next most urgent task on these systems, namely,
construction of tertiary canals.
2.06      When the Bank appraised the first four irrigation rehabilitation
projects in Indonesia, it was generally accepted that construction of the



- 3 -
system by the Government would extend down to units serving about 1,000-1,500
ha each. Tertiary canals feeding from outlets provided in these systems were
to deliver water to units of about 150-200 ha each. Quaternary canals taking
off from the tertiaries were supposed to deliver water to units of about 10-15
ha; below that level, irrigation was to be from field to field. With the
exception of the first 50 m of tertiary canals, which were constructed by the
Government, there were no cost entries for tertiary and quaternary systems in
the rehabilitation projects financed by the Bank since it was assumed, as has
been traditional in Indonesia, that farmers would carry out these works using
volunteer labor. Drains below the secondary level were similarly excluded
from the works to be carried out by the Government. It soon became apparent,
however, that the farmers were incapable of executing the works for several
reasons. First, the farmers had neither the technical knowledge to set out
canal systems to correct lines and grades, nor design experience to locate and
build tertiary control structures. Second, construction of control structures
required cash outlays, which were often beyond the farmers' means, as well as
volunteer labor. Third, although the area of land lost due to construc-
tion of the tertiary system was small, it meant a substantial loss to some
individual owners. Without at least some minimal arrangements for right-of-wa;-
compensation, farmers were unwilling to construct the system. Finally, the
recruitment of all farmers in the village to go out and construct the system
required at least some organizational support from the Government, which was,
however, not forthcoming.
2.07      In an effort to demonstrate to farmers the benefits from tertiary
systems, pilot tertiary units serving about 150 ha each were introduced
throughout the systems being rehabilitated under the first four Bank-assisted
projects. Design imperfections inherent in the earlier systems because of
inaccurate maps have been corrected in later schemes as more accurate maps
became available and designers' techniques improved. The tertiary systems
have, on the whole, operated satisfactorily and have effectively served as
demonstration units. Quaternary canals serving 10-15 ha limit the field-to-
field distribution of water to no more than 6-10 individual paddy fields.
Bicycle and foot paths on canal embankments provide direct access to 40-50% of
the farms. In contrast, water drawn from secondary systems without tertiaries
travels over 50-100 plots before reaching the farthest fields in the 1,000-
1,500 ha command areas of these systems. In nearly all cases, some fields
have to be flooded deeper than optimum to cause water to flow to adjoining
fields. As a result, water travel time to distant fields is 6-10 times longer
and, when the supply is limited, coverage is restricted to no more than
300-500 m beyond the secondary canal. In times of abundant water supply,
water travel time has not proved critical, but low-lying fields suffer from
flooding due to uncontrolled water releases from other fields. In the absence
of adequate internal and project drains, these fields remain flooded for
extended periods. In both cases, yields from distant plots are adversely
affected and serious water allocation problems are encountered.
2.08      Although farmers were quick to realize the benefits from the
tertiary systems, they are still unable to construct them for reasons ex-
plained above (para 2.06). GOI has therefore agreed to assume responsibility



-4-
for construction of the tertiary systems as part of the project works under
the fifth (Credit 514-IND) and sixth (Loan l100-IND) Bank-assisted irriga-
tion projects. GOI still felt, however, that farmers should participate fully
in works they are capable of doing. Under these projects, therefore, the
respective executing agencies, Jatilihur Authority and PROSIDA, with assistance
from consultants, would design and lay out the tertiary and quaternary canals
and drains in their respective project areas, construct the structures by
force account or small local contracts, and coordinate the acquisition of
rights-of-way, while the farmers would excavate the canals and drains and fill
and compact the canal embankments under the direction of the executing agencies.
To encourage the farmers to construct tertiaries, the Government would pay
them a token wa,ge consistent with prevailing self-help practices in the
community. Wages to farmers for excavation and embankment construction would
vary from district to district, but would average about Rp 150 per day, which
is below the prevailing wage rate of Rp 200 to Rp 300 per day in the construc-
tion industry. The organization of the farmers for aided self-help in the
construction of the systems, as well as the formation of water user associa-
tions to assume responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) in tertiary
systems of about 150 ha each, would be the responsibility of the provincial
district heads and the local village chiefs.
2.09      Under the proposed project, GOI would commence the construction of
tertiary systems on the areas rehabilitated by the first four Bank Group
assisted projects (Credits 127, 195, 229 and 289-IND). Construction methods
and procedures would be identical to those adopted for the fifth and sixth
irrigation projects (para 2.08). The area covered by the four irrigation
projects is 840,000 ha and practically all of it requires tertiary systems.
Tertiary construction on 92,000 ha of this area is being carried out under
Loan 1100-IND. In view of constraints in designing and supervising construc-
tion of the systiems, organizing farmers for aided self-help, forming water
user associations to assume responsibility for 0 & M of the systems and
providing agricultural supporting services, the area included in the proposed
project would be limited initially to 100,000 ha. Subject to the capability
of the involved agencies to construct and provide agricultural services to the
completed systems, tertiary construction on the rest of the area could be
carried out under future projects.
2.10      The proposed 6,000 ha North Sadang irrigation system is adjacent
to, and was originally intended to be part of, the existing Sadang irrigation
system. Construction of an intake at Benteng barrage and 4.5 km of the main
canal for the system were completed in the early 1940s, but further work on
the project was disrupted by World War II. GOI resumed construction of the
main canal in 1969 and succeeded in completing about 7.5 km and 25 canal
structures before running into a hill of solid rock, which could only be
negotiated either by tunneling through rock or by skirting the hill along an
open rock-cut. Faced with these costly alternatives and with funds running
low, construction was halted. GOI has now requested Bank assistance in
completing the system. The alignment of the remaining stretch of main canal
would be shifted to avoid costly tunneling and minimize open-rock excavation.
Other components of the system, which make up about 85% of this sub-project's
cost, would be new.



-5-
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The tertiary development project area includes seven of the nine
irrigation systems covered by the first four Bank Group-assisted irrigation
projects. The seven systems serve about 720,000 ha (Annex 4, Table 1). Six
of the systems are located along the north coast of Java, while the seventh
(Sadang) is in South Sulawesi (Map 3627R2). The 100,000 ha to be provided
with tertiary distribution systems under the project would be spread through
the seven systems. At present, only about 5-10% of these areas have proper
water distribution and internal drainage systems down to the quaternary level
of 10-15 ha.
3.02      About 2,000 ha of the 6,000 ha in the proposed North Sadang irri-
gation service area are presently served by a semi-technical irrigation 1/ sys-
tem, 3,200 ha are rainfed and the remainder are uncultivated low-lying swamp-
lands. Much of the wet-season rice area is subject to flooding. Farmers in
some areas have to replant two to three times to obtain a crop.
Clirmate
3.03      The climate in Java and South Sulawesi is tropical and monsoonal.
Temperatures vary only a few degrees around the annual average of 260C. Day
lengths are almost constant throughout the year. The rainy season, during
which 70% of the rainfall occurs, extends from November to May (northwest
monsoon) and the dry season, from June to October (southeast monsoon). Annual
precipitation varies from 1,700-2,900 mm over the project areas. Annex 1
presents rainfall data.
Soils and Topography
3.04      The majority of the project lands lie on a plain along the north
coast of Java. Exceptions to these are some lands in Pekalen-Sampean and
Sadang (South Sulawesi) which lie inland. The alluvial and volcanic soils
prevalent in the project areas respond positively to nitrogenous and phos-
phatic fertilizers. Approximately 75% of the coastal soils exhibit percola-
tion rates lower than 1.0 mm/day, making them ideal for paddy cultivation.
Sugarcane and a variety of secondary crops thrive favorably on these lowland
soils when adequate drainage is provided. However, secondary crops grow best
on the well-drained upland, lighter soils. The project lands slope from 0-2%
near the coast and rise gently to the higher ground inland. Since the areas
have been cultivated for many years, the topography presents no problems,
except in some low coastal areas and near large river mouths where flooding
occurs.
1/   Constructed with Government technical assistance but operated and main-
tained by farmers.



- 6 -.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.05      The farm and landless labor population to be served by the 100,000
ha tertiary development component of the project is estimated at 2 million.
The number of families is about 330,000. Local census data indicates a popu-
lation of about 5,400 families and 27,000 people in the North Sadang area.
3.06      Farm size and land tenure data is sketchy.  The 1963 Census of
Agriculture estimated that the average farm size on Java was around 0.7
ha. More recent samplings indicate an even smaller size, at least in the
tertiary development areas. Sample farm sizes ranged from 0.15-5.0 ha,
with few farms above 2.0 ha. Farms on Sulawesi are somewhat larger, with
the average farmer holding 1.5 ha of paddy and a half-hectare of upland.
A rough estimate of the distribution of holdings is as follows:
Tertiary Development Areas, Java
Farm Size            % of              % of
(ha)               Farms            Land
Less than 0.25         30               15
0.25 - 0.50           34                25
0.5  - 1.0            25                30
1.0  - 2.0            10                25
More than 2.0           1                5
Tertiary Development Area, Sadang and North Sadang Area
Less than 1.0          27               12
1.0  - 2.0            48                49
2.0  - 5.0            22                32
More than 5.0           3                7
3.07      There are also significant differences in land tenure between the
project areas. In Java, about 35% of the population owns land, 30-35%
sharecrop and the remainder work as landless laborers. In most sharecropping
arrangements, the tenant and the landowner split the production, input and
harvesting costs. The tenant provides the labor and the landlord pay-- the
land tax. Sharecropping arrangements are similar in the Sadang area; however,
there is virtually no landless labor. As a result, labor is relatively scarce
and the underemployment which so characterizes Javanese agriculture is vir-
tually non-existent. Isolated pockets of surplus labor do exist, apparently
due to the effect of poor communications and transport on labor mobility.
About 30% of the farmers in Sadang farm their own land, an additional 45%
own some of their land and either rent some land to other farmers or farm
more themselves as sharecroppers, and 25% sharecrop exclusively.
Agricultural Prodiuction
3.08      Paddy is the major wet-season crop in the areas where tertiary and
quaternary development woil!d occur. High yielding varieties (HYV's), which



- 7 -
occupy about 75% of the planted area, yield about 3.2 ton/ha, while local
irrigated varieties are planted on 20% of the area and yield 1.8 ton/ha.
Rainfed paddy, which makes up the remaining 5% of the area, yields 1.5 ton/ha.
Except in the Jatiluhur area, only run of the river irrigation water is
available during the dry season, which limits cropping intensity throughout
the proposed tertiary areas to 145%. Only HYV's are planted in the dry
season averaging 3.0 ton/ha of paddy. Total paddy production over the 100,000
ha averages around 420,000 tons per year. A number of secondary (palawija)
crops are also grown in the dry season. These crops overcome the limited dry-
season rainfall by using residual moisture from the previous paddy crop.
The most popular crops include groundnuts, maize, cassava, soyabeans and, in
some areas, red onions.
3.09      A few small village irrigation schemes supply water to 2,000 ha of
the North Sadang area. The remainder of the area is rainfed (3,200 ha) or
too swampy to be cultivated (800 ha). Virtually all of the cultivated area
is planted with local varieties of paddy, as the absence of assured water
control discourages farmers from planting the more sensitive HYV's. As an
additional constraint on production, the few roads in the area are very poor,
making access to agricultural inputs and services almost impossible during
the rainy season. Wet-season rainfed crops average 1.9 ton/ha, while irri-
gated crops yield 2.2 ton/ha. In the dry season, the irrigated areas yield
2.0 ton/ha. However, some progressive farmers, using cash inputs, are get-
ting 5.0 to 7.0 ton/ha in areas where the water supply is reasonable and seri-
ous flooding does not occur. Total annual production from the area is approxi-
mately 12,600 tons. A small amount of palawija crops is also grown in the
area. Details of current agricultural production are given in Annex 2.
Storage, Processing and Marketing
3.10      Paddy is sun dried and stored in the farmer's houses.  Some vil-
lages have no drying floors and farmers experience great difficulty in dry-
ing their paddy, especially when heavy rains occur during the harvest season.
In some areas, losses to rodents have also been serious. The project areas
have sufficient milling capacity to handle current production and expected
increases. For example, there are 45 rice hullers in the North Sadang area,
with a capacity of 1.0 ton of paddy daily. The rice milled is medium grade,
around 35% broken. Rice for home consumption is generally hand-pounded.
3.11      Because the farms are so small on Java, few farmers have any sur-
plus production for sale after supplying home and farm needs. Thus, govern-
ment officials estimate that only 15-20% of the total crop is sold to middle-
men or to farmer cooperatives (BUUD/KUD). In contrast, rice production in
the Sadang area exceeds local needs and a significant portion of the total
production is exported to other areas of Indonesia. However, even there,
officials estimate that 53% of the farmers have less than 2.0 tons of rice to
sell, 40% have less than 1.0 ton and 17% have no rice to sell.
3.12      The BUUD/KUD's act as the village-purchasing arm of the Government's
paddy/rice marketing agency (BULOG/DOLOG) and buy standard grades of paddy at



- 8 -
fixed-floor prices. The floor price is currently Rp 67.50 (US$0.16) per
kilogram of dry paddy. During non-harvest periods, prices on the open market
are usually higher than the floor price and individual BUUD/ KUD's have been
known to raise their bid prices to compete with the private market. However,
many farmers are forced to sell their crop below the floor price during the
harvest season. In some cases, inadequate facilities prevent rice from being
dried to the 14% moisture-content standard acceptable for government purchases.
In other cases, BUUD/KUD's exhaust their credit lines from BULOG, and are
unable to obtain cash to pay the farmers. The farmers, who need cash imme-
diately to meet tax payments or to pay off the last season's debts so that
they can purchase inputs for the new season, are then forced to sell their
paddy on the open market at a discount.
Agricultural Support Program
3.13      About 50% of the tertiary development areas receive subsidized in-
puts, extension advice and credit through the BIMAS/INMAS program. The BIMAS
program provides two different input packages, consisting of credit for
fertilizers, seed and pesticides, and a cost of living allowance. INMAS pro-
vides similar packages, but without credit and the cost of living allowance.
Both programs are reasonably adapted to local requirements.
3.14      Certified paddy seed is produced by the National Seed Corporation
at Sukamandi (Credit 246-IND) and is distributed through BUUD's, KUD's and
local kiosks at about double the commercial paddy price. Supplies of this
seed are limited. Most Districts have one or more local seed farms which
are run in conjuinction with District Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) personnel.
Seed from Sukamandi, supplemented with local seed, is multiplied and sold to
farmers at 150% of the commercial paddy price. Extension is provided through
the extension staff of the Directorate of Food Crops in the MOA. Although
all farmers are entitled to extension services, only recipients of BIMAS
packages currently receive extension advice due to the shortage of trained
staff. The proposed National Food Crops Extension Project is being designed
to help correct this deficiency.
3.15      In North Sadang there is only one BUUD to service the area and the
BIMAS program is limited to a few progressive farmers, Due to poor roads,
access to agricultural inputs and services is almost impossible during the wet
season. The proposed project would upgrade the access roads to permit all-
weather use (para 4.07).
Transportation
3,16      National highways and railroads connect the tertiary development
areas with the major cities and seaports. The national railway provides
reasonably good passenger service through the areas but offers only a limited
freight service. The national highways are paved and are generally well main-
tained. The roads get progressively worse from the national highway down to
the provincial, district and villag,e level. The village roads, in many cases,
are limited to light vehicular and pedestrian traffic in the wet season. Some



-9-
are not passable and, due to poor maintenance, remain so for many months. This
makes the transporting of agricultural inputs to the villages extremely diffi-
cult, if not impossible, at the time when they are most needed and highlights
the need for improving rural roads or constructing adequate storage near the
village kiosks.l/ Although it is insufficient to cover the whole network,
the INPRES program includes upgrading of some of these roads, and some of the
shortages and late delivery problems are being alleviated by a Government
program to increase storage space at the BUUD's and KUD's. In North Sadang,
the area is served by the main highway, which connects to the ports of Pare
Pare and Ujung Pandang. The suspension bridge which controls all traffic into
the area has an 8-ton load limit. Most of the village roads are impassable
during the wet season.
Operation and Maintenance
3.17      The systems are generally operated at gate settings established
fron long experience. Constraints to better operation are: (a) lack of
dependable communications, which would allow rapid adjustment of canal flows
based on local requirements and rainfall; (b) the unwieldy process of lift-
ing large gates with manpower and old-fashioned winches, which would be alle-
viated by the provision of counterweights and modification of the gate
structures; and (c) the insufficiency of measuring devices in primary canal
intakes and major secondary bifurcations. The proposed project would deal
with the above problems (paras 4.04 and 4.05). The poor state of maintenance
of rehabilitated systems turned over by the executing agencies to the Provin-
cial Governnent is discussed in Chapter V.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project would comprise:
(a) tertiary development on 100,000 ha in irrigation systems
being rehabilitated under Credits 127, 195, 220 and 289-IND,
which did not include financial provisions for the construc-
tion of these works (Map 3627R3);
(b) construction of a 6,000 ha new irrigation system in North
Sadang, adjacent to the Sadang irrigation system, which is
being rehabilitated under Credit 220-IND (Map 11867R);
(c) studies and detailed engineering on the Kedungombo storage
dam in Central Java, including flood control and drainage
works on coastal areas downstream (Map 11728R);
K Kiosks are stores which serve as primary sources of agricultural inputs.



- 10 -
(d) studies and detailed engineering for a drainage and inspec-
tion roads project, on coastal lands covered by Credits 127
and 220-IND, which did not include financial provisions
for these works;
(e) feasibility studies for a tidal lands reclamation project in
Sumatera;
(f) training of staff; and
(g) procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Project Works
4.02      Tertiary Development.  Tertiary development would be undertaken
on 25,000 ha of the Jatiluhur system (Credit 195-IND) and on 75,000 ha dis-
tributed over the systems being rehabilitated by PROSIDA (Credits 127, 220
and 289-IND). The works would include about 550 km of tertiary canals, 1,000
km of sub-tertiary canals, 5,500 km of quaternary canals, 4,000 km of tertiary
and quaternary drains, 1,500 km of inspection roads and 9,000 canal struc-
tures (Annex 4). The various works would involve about 11 Mm3 of earthwork
and would require the acquisition of about 2,400 ha of rights-of way.  To
facilitate design and construction and good water management during operation,
assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that:
(a) the systems would be constructed in blocks of at least four tertiary
units each (about 600 ha); (b) wherever possible even larger blocks would be
constructed; (c) farmers in these blocks are willing to join water user asso-
ciations and undertake construction of tertiaries; and (d) to the extent possible,
priority for construction of tertiary blocks would be given to areas where
there is a reasonably good water supply and water control in the secondary
canal, no flooding occurs, agricultural supporting services would be available
and the potential for double cropping exists.
4.03      Upon completion of the works, about 670 tertiary systems of 150 ha
each would be added to the existing systems. Water delivery would be con-
trolled at the tertiary and quaternary division boxes, and from there, quater-
nary canals serving units of 10-15 ha would deliver water down to 6-10 indi-
vidual plots on a field-to-field basis. Although this is not yet the optimum
level of on-farm works, it represents a substantial improvement over the
present situation and takes into consideration GOI's budgetary constraints and
limited technical capability. The plan of a typical tertiary system is shown
in Map 11957R.
4.04      The primary and secondary supply systems to the tertiary develop-
ment areas would be upgraded by providing additional measuring devices near
canal intakes and major bifurcations. Existing gates and gate structures
would be modified to facilitate the operation of the gates with motor-driven
devices.



4.05      Communications within the existing systems, including the tertiary
development areas, would be further upgraded by procuring and installing
additional telephone communications equipment. The increased density and
wider coverage of the telephone communications network would allow rapid ad-
justment of canal flows based on local requirements and rainfall.
4.06      Mapping in the Jatiluhur system, which was not included in the
earlier Credit (195-IND), would be carried out under the project. Maps ac-
curate enough for the design of tertiary systems would be produced for the
Prosida area as well (para 4.14).
4.07      North Sadang System.  The existing intake at Benteng barrage, about
12 km of primary canal and 25 canal structures would be rehabilitated and
upgraded to permit double cropping of the 6,000 ha service area. New works,
consisting of 7 km of primary canal and 6 canal structures; 46 km of second-
ary canals and 25 canal structures; and 74 km of primary and secondary drains
and 25 drainage structures, would be constructed. About 54 km of existing ac-
cess roads would be upgraded by raising stretches subject to flooding, widening
where called for and providing a gravel or crushed-stone base course to permit
all-weather use. In addition, the entire service area would be upgraded to
the standards of the tertiary development areas by constructing about 420 km
of distribution canals, 540 canal structures, 240 km of drains and 90 km of
inspection roads. The various works would require about 3.5 Mm3 of earthwork
and the acquisition of 240 ha of rights-of-way.
4.08      Studies and Detailed Engineering:  Consultants would be engaged
under the project to: (a) undertake studies and detailed designs on the
Kedungombo dam and on the flood control and drainage schemes downstream; (b)
prepare a drainage project for about 40,000 ha of low-lying coastal lands in
Ciujung, Cisedane, Pemali-Comal and Sadang; and (c) prepare a feasibility
study for development of tidal lands for smallholder settlers in the provinces
of Jambi and South Sumatera (Annex 15).
4.09      The Kedungombo dam across the Serang River would be a sand
and gravel-fill structure with a maximum height above streambed of 50 m and
an estimated cost of US$70 million (Annex 5, Attachment II). It would regu-
late flood flows and provide dry-season irrigation for about 35,000 ha in the
47,500 ha Glapan-Sedadi area (Credit 127-IND), which presently grow one crop
of rice utilizing the unregulated river flows. Feasibility studies carried
out by consultants (NEDECO) and reviewed by the mission have shown that
construction of the proposed dam would be technically and economically feasi-
ble. Detailed engineering and construction of the dam would take about six
years. Detailed designs and associated works to be carried out under the
project would prepare the dam for construction under a subsequent project and
provide a good basis for estimating project costs. The works would include
temporary offices and quarters for GOI personnel, access roads to the damsite
and quarry areas, detailed site investigations, and design of project features
to tender document stage. Also included would be studies and detailed
engineering on downstream flood control and drainage schemes which would
benefit about 30,000 ha of the Glapan-Sedadi, ITuana, Welahan and S,rang
coastal areas.



- 12 -
4.10      The feasibility study for development of tidal lands would pre-
pare a gross area of 200,000 ha in South Sumatera province and 100,000 ha
in Jambi province for execution under Pelita III (1979-84). Detailed en-
gineering on the drainage project for coastal lands would prepare it for
implementation under the forthcoming irrigation project (Irrigation VIII).
Consulting Services
4.11      The design and construction of tertiaries on 100,000 ha spread over
seven widely scattered systems would require a large number of engineers, whom
PROSIDA and Jatiluhur Authority would be unable to supply from their present
staffs. Instead of hiring new engirLeers and training them for the job, the
agencies would engage consultants tco design the systems and assist in construc-
tion supervision. Since the services involved would require technical skill
as well as contact with the farmers at various stages of the work, the engineers
would be drawn from a number of local consulting firms experienced in tertiary
design and familiar with the tertiary areas.  PROSIDA would also engage
foreign consultants to: (a) design and supervise construction of the North
Sadang irrigation system; and (b) undertake detailed engineering on the
drainage and inspection road requirements in the Ciudjung-Cisedane, Pemali-
Comal, and Sadang irrigation systems. Consultants for the Kedungombo dam and
the tidal reclamation project would be employed by special units 1/ of the DGWRD.
To upgrade the capability of local consultants, foreign firms would be encouraged
to associate with local firms approved by GOI and the Bank. About 3,500
man-months of consulting services would be required, of which 2,900 would be
provided by Indonesian consultants.
4.12      PROSIDA has engaged consultants for detailed engineering of North
Sadang on terms and conditions approved by the Bank under Loan 1100-IND.
Subject to their satisfactory performance, GOI would extend their tenure under
the project to provide assistance during construction. The estimated manpower
requirements and draft terms of reference for the other consulting services
are presented in Annex 5. Assurances were obtained that consultants
acceptable to the Bank would be engaged within eight months of Loan signing on
terms and conditions approved by the Bank. The employment of consultants to
design and supervise construction of the North Sadang irrigation system would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4e13       Water supply and demand in the service areas of the tertiary develop-
ment and North Sadang project have been investigated under Credits 127, 195,
220 and 289-IND. The previous studies show that there is sufficient water
1/   Consultants for Kedungombo dam would be engaged by Proyek Perencanaan
Pengembangan Sumber - Sumber Air - Sub Proyek Jratunseluna (P3SA); for
the tidal reclamation project, by Proyek Pengembangan Persawahan Pasang
Surut, Jambi and South Sumatra (P4S).



- 13 -
supply to meet the demand for 100% cropping intensity in the wet season. The
regulated supply available to the Jatiluhur system would permit 90% cropping
intensity in the dry season, while the present unregulated state of the other
sources would allow 90% cropping intensity in the Sadang and North Sadang
service areas and 30% intensity in other areas. Although a slight increase in
cropping intensity would result from the improvement in water control and
distribution in the tertiary areas, this was ignored in the calculation of
benefits. Tests of water samples in the project areas indicate that there are
no harmful chemicals in the waters. The water is extremely turbid in the wet
season, but years of use have produced no adverse affects on crops grown.
Status of Engineering
4.14      In the PROSIDA tertiary development areas, photogrammetric mapping
at 1:10,000 scale is in progress and is being completed under Loan 1100-IND.
The preparation of 1:5,000 scale rectified photo mosaics and additional
ground surveys required to accurately draw 0.25-0.5 m contours on them would
be carried out on 580,000 ha under the project. This work would not be com-
pleted until December 1978, but sufficient maps would be prepared to keep pace
with design and construction requirements on PROSIDA's systems. Mapping on
200,000 ha of the Jatiluhur system is included in the proposed project. Maps
for about 15,000 ha would be produced by March 1977 tfo meet the scheduled
construction of tertiaries in the 1977/78 fiscal year. The rest of the map-
ping is expected to be completed by April 1978. In the North Sadang service
area, aerial photcgraphs have been produced and required ground surveys would
be completed by December 1976. Detailed engineering and construction super-
vision of the various sub-projects would be done with the assistance of local
and foreign consultants (para 4.11).
4.15      The feasibility studies for the Kedungombo dam were undertaken by
NEDECO, whose site investigations included 20 exploratory drillings to 60 m
depth, geologic mapping of the dam and reservoir sites, and exploration of the
sources of fill.materials. The reservoir created by the dam would innundate
about 3,300 ha and displace 3,000 families. GOI has started studying reset-
tlement schemes for these families in conjunction with the resettlement pro-
posals for families who will be displaced from the Jatigede reservoir area.
Studies and detailed engineering for Kedungomoo dam, which are included in the
proposed project, are scheduled to commence about mid-1976 and the engineering
design could be sufficiently advanced to permit preappraisal by April 1978.
Adequate resettlement proposals prepared by GOI, in conjunction with the
studies and detailed designs, would be submitted to the Bank prior to the             21
appraisal of the dam.
Implementation Schedule
4.16      Implementation schedules for tertiary development on the PROSIDA
and Jatiluhur systems and for the North Sadang irrigation system are pre-
sented in Charts 15534 through 15536. Actual construction would start at the
beginning of the 1977 dry season, The period between loan effectiveness and



- 14 -
start of construction would be used to engage consultants, prepare designs
and carry out preparatory works. The design and construction period for all
sub-projects is four years. The area of tertiary systems which can be de-
signed, laid out, constructed and supplied with essential agricultural inputs
and services each year would be monitored to determine the capability of the
various agencies involved in carrying out future works. Based on this per-
formance, another tertiary development project could be prepared. The im-
plementation schedule for studies and detailed engineering on the Kedungombo
dam and downstream river improvements is shown in Chart 15537. Detailed
engineering to tender documents, studies on the flood control and drainage
schemes for coastal areas downstream, and construction of associated works
will take 2-1/2 years.
Cost Estimates
4.17      Total pro'ject costs are estimated at US$60 million, of which US$27.9
million or about 47% is the foreign exchange component. The costs of the
project components to be constructed were prepared by PROSIDA and have been
based on actual costs of similar works currently in progress in Java. Labor
supplied by farmers in the construction of tertiary systems has been valued at
Rp 150 per man-day (para 2.08). All estimates were updated by the appraisal
mission to mid-1976 prices. Depending on the status of investigations and the
complexity of the work, physical contingencies of 10% to 20% have been included.
Fifteen percent has been allowed for tertiary development to provide for
possible differences in field conditions between the project area and sample
areas used in estimating unit costs applied to the 100,000 ha development. In
North Sadang, where rehabilitation and construction of irrigation and drainage
works are involved, a 20% contingency was applied to the base cost to allow
for additional work which may be uncovered after the structures are dewatered.
Costs due to expected price increases amount to 21% of the total project cost
and assume the following rates of inflation:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1976     1977-79      1980
Civil works                 13          12        11
Equipment and services       9           8         7
4.18      Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 6 and are sum-
marized below:



- 15 -
Foreign
Local  Foreing  Total   Local  Foreigin   otal  Exhiange
---- (Rp Million) ---   ---- (US$ Million) --    (%)
Tertiary Development   4,920   2,965   7,885    12.0    7.0          19.0      37
North Sadang Irrigation
System                1,930   1,515   3,445        4.6    3.7       8.3      45
Studies and Detailed
Engineering           1,690   2,210   3,900        4.1    5.3       9.4      56
Miscellaneous Works
and Services             550   1,400   1,950       1.3    3.4       4.7      72
Base Cost
Estimate            9,090   8,090  17,180    22.0   19.4         41.4      47
Physical
Contingencies          1,340   1,070   2,410       3.1    2.7       5.8      47
Expected Price
Increases             2,880   2,430   5,310        7.0    5.8      12.8      47
Total Project
Cost               13,310  11,590 24,900       32.1   27.9       60.0      47
Financing
4.19      The proposed loan of US$33 million would finance the foreign exchange
component of project works (US$20.2 million) and 80% of the total costs of both
foreign and local consultants (US$12.8 million). It would cover 55% of total
project costs and 16% of local costs. GOI would provide, in a timely manner,
the remaining Rp 11,200 million (US$27 million) to PROSIDA, Jatiluhur Authority,
P3SA and P4S out of annual budget appropriations.
Procurement
4.20      Vehicles and equipment for construction and operation, costing about
US$2.1 million, would be procured after international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of the cif
cost of the imported goods or the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be
extended to qualified local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Small
off-the-shelf items costing less than US$10,000 each and limited to a total of
US$100,000, which are not suitable for international tendering, would be
purchased through normal Government procurement procedures. There are suf-
ficient supplies of such goods to ensure adequate competition. Contracts for
vehicles or equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of US$75,000 or more
would be submitted to the Bank for review before tendering and award.
4.21      The construction of small structures for the tertiary systems, which
are scattered over a wide area and time span, would not be of interest to in-
ternational contractors. This would be carried out either by force account or
small local contracts using labor intensive methods. The excavation of ter-
tiary and quaternary canals and drains, as well as the filling and compaction



- 16 -
of canal embankments, would be done by farmers at reduced wage rates (para
2.08).
4.22      It would be impractical to let works for North Sadang as one contract
since: (a) about 15% of the cost of works would be for tertiary construction;
(b) the remaining work would be spread over a wide area and would not be big
enough to attract international bidders, but it would be too big for most
local contractors who would otherwise qualify if the works were broken down
into a number of smialler contracts; and (c) construction would be delayed
since complete designs and tender documents for the whole system would be
needed prior to the advertisement of the works. Assurances were therefore
obtained from the Government during negotiations that: (a) the works would be
divided into a number of suitably sized contracts which would be let to pre-
qualified contractors following usual government procedures satisfactory to
the Bank, as the tender documents for each become ready; and (b) price esca-
lation clauses, which are not normally provided in local civil works contracts,
would be included in contracts extending beyond one year. For contracts above
US$500,000, documents would be submitted to the Bank for review before tender-
ing and award.
Disbursements
4.23      Disbursements would be made at the rare of 100% against the for-
eign exchange cost of training and directly imported vehicles and equipment,
95%O of the ex-factory cost of equipment manufactured locally, 65% for imported
equipment locally procured, excluding vehicles, and 40% of total expenditures
for locally procured vehicles. To encourage the use of local consultants,
disbursements for both foreign and local consultants would be at 100% of
foreign expenditures or 80% of total costs, which is roughly equal to the
foreign exchange cost of typical foreign consultants. Disbursements for
tertiaries would be at the rate of 60% of total costs, and these would be disbursed
only if each withdrawal application is accompanied by a certificate from the
site engineer stating that the quaternary canals and drains in the tertiary
block had also been constructed. The engagement of local consultants for the
preparation of design and construction drawings in the first year of tertiary
construction would be a condition of disbursement for tertiary systems. Dis-
bursements for other civil works would also be at the rate of 60% of total
costs. Disbursements for force account works would be made against a certifi-
cate of expenditures, the documentation for which would not be submitted to
the Bank for review, but would be retained by the borrower and made available
for inspection by the Bank's supervision missions. Disbursements for mapping
would be at the rate of 80% of total expenditures. The cost of remaining
works and services would be reviewed each year and, based on this review, the
above disbursement percentages would be adjusted, if required, to maintain
disbursements against outstandlng works and services at a meaningful level
throughout the construction period. The estimated schedule of expenditures on
the project and the disbursement schedule are presented in Annex 7. Disburse-
ments are expected to be completed by December 31, 1981, and any undisbursed
balan(c  on tnis date will be cancelled.



- 17 -
Accounts and Audit
4.24      The accounts of PROSIDA, Jatiluhur Authority, P3SA and P4S are
audited annually by the Government's auditors. These auditors have been ac-
cepted for the previous six Bank Group assisted irrigation projects and
satisfactory audit reports have been received. Assurances were obtained
that the above agencies would maintain separate accounts for the project and
that audited financial statements, together with the auditors' comments, would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Environmental Effects
4.25      The service areas of the existing irrigation systems and North
Sadang have been cultivated for many years and no adverse effects are antici-
pated from the project works. The dependable, controlled drainage in the
North Sadang system would, in fact, improve the living conditions of the peo-
ple, many of whom currently suffer from flooding for extended periods in the
wet season and experience shortages of fresh water supply in the dry season.
The fishponds located below the project would be less susceptible to overtop-
ping in the wet season and would have a fresh water supply in the dry season.
There is no schistosomiasis in the project areas but cholera is prevalent
in the flooded areas. The provision of improved drainage would help mini-
mize the incidence of this disease.  The use of fertilizers and pesticides
is already widespread in the project areas.  People are constantly reminded
of the toxic effect of pesticides on humans and domestic animals and no ad-
verse effects are envisaged provided care is exercised in their application.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Organization
5.01      Responsibility for implementation of the tertiary development proj-
ect component would rest with PROSIDA and the Jatiluhur Authority. PROSIDA,
a special unit in the Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD),
is presently in charge of works under Credits 127, 220, 289-IND and Loan 1100-
IND. Jatiluhur Authority, a semi-autonomous public agency established by the
Government to administer the multipurpose development of the Jatiluhur region,
is currently in charge of works under Credits 195 and 514-IND. Both agencies
would use existing staff and office space built up under the earlier projects.
Responsibility for the execution of North Sadang would rest with PROSIDA.
Direction at field level would be from the staff of the existing Sadang sub-
project office, which was strengthened under Credit 220-IND. Preliminary
studies and detailed engineering for the Kedungombo dam and the flood control
and drainage schemes downstream would be implemented by P3SA, an executive
body within DGWRD that is programming and studying water resources development



- 18 -
nationwide. Direction at field level would be through its Jratunseluna 1/
sub-project office, which supervised NEDECO's feasibility studies on the
Kedungombo dam, other dams in Central Java, and flood control and drainage
schemes for coastal areas downstream of these dams. For P3SA this assignment
would, therefore, be a continuation of its earlier work. P4S, another ex-
ecutive body within DGWRD that is responsible for tidal reclamation projects,
would supervise the feasibility study for tidal lands development. Charts
15530 , 16017, 16008 and 15533 show the Jatiluhur Authority management
structure, the general organization of the DGWRD, the PROSIDA management
structure and the organization of services for irrigated agriculture, re-
spectively. The typical PROSIDA organization for each subproject is shown in
Chart 8964.
5.02      With their long experience in dealing with Bank-assisted irrigation
projects, PROSIDA and Jatiluhur Authority, with the assistance of their con-
sultants, would be capable of carrying out their respective parts of the work.
The capability of P3SA to implement the studies and detailed engineering on
the Kedungombo dam for the DGWRD was reviewed during appraisal. The present
staff, which supervised feasibility studies on the dam, as well as other dams
in Central Java, would be able to do their part with the assistance of consult-
ants. The Bank/FA0 preparation mission for the tidal lands development
feasibility study, which visited Indonesia in March 1976, looked into the
capability of P4S to supervise the study. Based on its findings, the mission
has included, as a major objective of the study, the building up of P4S
capability in conducting future feasibility studies for tidal swamp land
development, and detailed terms of reference for foreign consultants would
stress training of P4S counterparts. Assurances were obtained that: (a) all
organizations involved in project implementation would be adequately staffed;
and (b) GOI would consult with the Bank before appointing a replacement for
the General Manager of PROSIDA or the President Director of Jatiluhur Authority.
Training
5.03      To help overcome the shortage of trained and experienced irrigation
personnel, the project would continue the training program initiated under
earlier projects. The project would include local in-service training of 3
months each for some 250 irrigation O&M personnel and 150 construction super-
visors. In addition, consultants engaged under the project would provide
in-service planning and design training to the local counterparts designated
by the executing agencies. Overseas training would include 2-month study tours
to neighboring countries for about 10 senior irrigation engineers; O&M in-
service training in Malaysia and Taiwan of 3 months each for about 40 section
and sub-section irrigation engineers; and post-graduate training of 12 months
each for 10 senior and middle-level planning and design engineers in selected
consultants' home offices supplemented, wherever possible, with theoretical
courses in nearby unaiversities. Further details of training provided under
1/   Jratunseluna stands for five river basins in Central Java, namely,
Jragung, Tuntang, Serang, Lusi and Juana, integrated development
studies for which were started in the early 1970's.



- 19 -
the project are presented in Annex 8. Assurances would be obtained that,
within 14 monah6 of Loani signing, GOI would submit the training program to the
Bank for consultation before commencing with the program.
Agriculture Support Services
5.04      Supporting services consisting of credit, extension, research, sup-
ply of quality seeds, fertilizers and pesticides, and storage and processing
facilities would be provided through Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and MOA. The
improvement of these services as tertiary systems are completed would be neces-
sary to maximize benefits from the project. An Agricultural Development Center
(ADC) and about eighteen Rural Extension Centers (REC's) will be constructed
under Loan 1100-IND in West Java. The proposed National Food Crops Extension
Project would intensify and expand extension services further by constructing
one REC for about every 10 village units (10,000-12,000 farmers) in nine
provinces. Quality seed of improved varieties would be produced by the
National Seed Corporation at Sukamandi (Credit 246-IND), multiplied on seed
farms located in each province and sold to growers through BUUD's, KUD's and
local kiosks. Paddy research would be conducted at the Sukamandi National
Research Centers for Paddy and Secondary Crops and at a number of field
stations under the direction of the Agency for Research and Development (ARD),
established under Loan 1179-IND. Domestic fertilizer production would continue
to grow with assistance from the Bank Group (Credit 193-IND and Loan 1089-IND)
and fertilizer distribution would be aided by the Fertilizer Distribution
Project (Loan 1139-IND). A proposed Bank project currently under prepartion
would assist BRI in improving the agricultural credit system (Annex 3).
5.05      MOA's involvement in the tertiary areas would be intensive.  MOA
officers and extension workers fielded in these areas would assist irri-
gation engineers from the executing agencies in determining development
priorities, help the village chiefs form water user associations and organize
farmers to construct the tertiaries, coordinate extension, improve rat and
pest control programs and ensure that inputs would be available. The on-going
program of the Directorate of Cooperatives to increase storage at BUWD's would
be adjusted to support the project areas.
5.06      At full development, demand for fertilizer is expected to rise
from its current level of 13,000 tons to 30,000 tons per year, and seed re-
quirements are expected to exceed 4,000 tons per year. Existing fertilizer
supply channels could handle the increased demand without difficulty. Di-
sease resistant paddy seed requirements would be met from the production of
Government seed farms established in each Province and from planned seed
certification projects in the three Provinces of Java. Production credit re-
quirements would also rise after project completion. All farmers in the ter-
tiary areas are expected to become eligible to receive BIMAS/INMAS packages
and the coverage in North Sadang, which is minimal at present, is expected to
reach 90% at full development. Assurances were obtained that GOI would
provide adequate agricultural support services in the project areas, including
provision of agricultural extension services and agricultural inputs (improved
seed, agricultural chemicals, fertilizers and credit).



- 20 -
Monitoring Benefits
5.07      Project benefits accruing from tertiary development, together with
other social aspects, would be monitored in accordance with the monitoring
system set up under Loan 1100-IND for all Bank Group-assisted irrigation
projects in Indonesia.
Operation and Maintenance
5.08      Operation and maintenance (O&M) of tertiary systems during con-
struction would be the responsibility of PROSIDA and Jatiluhur Authority in
their respective project areas. After construction, the systems would be
turned over to the Provincial Government and the responsibility for operat-
ing and maintaining tertiary systems of about 150 ha each would shift to the
water-user association previously organized for each system. The associa-
tion would collect 40-50 kg of paddy per ha from all beneficiaries to meet
the full 0 & M costs. This is currently being done on a number of pilot
tertiary systems with encouraging results. In nearly all cases, the systems
are being maintained properly. 0 & M of the primary and secondary supply
systems would still be the Provincial Government's responsibility.
5.09      0 & M of the North Sadang system during construction would be
PROSIDA's responsibility. After completion of the works, 0 & M of the
main supply and drainage works would revert to the Provincial Government,
while 0 & M for the tertiary systems would shift to the water-user asso-
ciations.
5.10      Despite improvements in the arrangements for 0 & M in the ongoing
rehabilitation projects, there is still a need for more trained staff, as
well as an increase in budgetary allocations. The insufficiency of allocated
0 & M funds is an issue which has been under discussion with GOI for the
last three years. Last year's 0 & M allocation for PROSIDA's rehabilitated
systems amounted to Rp 1,600/ha, which was far below the amount required for
proper operation and maintenance of the systems. As a result, several of the
rehabilitated canals; and structures have reverted to their pre-rehabilitation
condition. Following consultations with the Bank, GOI has allocated in its
1976/77 budget about Rp 2,810 million to cover the following 0 & M requirements:
(a) Rehabilitated systems - Rp 3,800/ha for 218,000 ha in
Jatiluhur and Rp 3,200/ha for 468,000 ha on PROSIDA's
systems; and
(b)  Systems awaiting rehabilitation this year and to be rehabilitated
in the n,ext three years - Rp 1,300/ha for 334,000 ha on
PROSIDA's systems and Rp 600/ha for 80,000 ha in Jatiluhur, to
cover operating costs and minimal repairs required to keep
the systems functioning until they are rehabilitated or
completely rebuilt (Annex 9).



- 21 -
Although the level of allocated 0 & M funds is slightly below that required to
operate and maintain all systems efficiently, it is a substantial improvement
over the previous year's funding and is consistent with the Government's
present budgetary capability. This intermediate level of funds would allow the
executing agencies to make adjustments in their staffing requirements to cope
with their expanded operations. Although there may not be a marked improvement
in operating efficiency this year, there should be a significant improvement
in maintenance of rehabilitated systems. To ensure the continuing availability
of an appropriate level of 0 & M funds, assurances were obtained that: (a)
adequate and timely 0 & M funds would be allocated in future years for all
Bank-assisted irrigation systems; (b) the Central Government will take the
necessary steps to ensure that adequate and timely 0 & M funds are at all
times made available to the Provincial Government; and (c) GOI would submit
the proposed staffing requirements and annual per hectare 0 & M budget for
each sub-project to the Bank for review by November 30 of each year, and by
June 1 of each following year, the approved 0 & M budget and staffing
requirements.
Cost and Rent Recovery
5.11      Taxes.  Landowners in-Indonesia pay a land tax (IPEDA), which
is collected by village heads and turned over to local and provincial admini-
strations for use in public services. As a result of a recent GOI deci-
sion to tie disbursements under its local infrastructure development pro-
grams (INPRES) to IPEDA collection performance, IPEDA collection rates have
improved markedly, and collection targets are being consistently exceeded
in a number of areas. A legal basis also exists for localities to levy water
charges; however, such charges are assessed only in some areas. In a number
of areas in which tertiary development has already taken place, farmers are
assessed paddy valued at around Rp 1,000/ha per season. In other areas, water
is looked upon as a gift from the Creator for which no fee can be charged.
5.12      A GOI interministerial committee has recommended that through
IPEDA farmers should pay a portion of the increase in their incomes result-
ing from irrigation development. The charges would cover annual operating
and maintenance costs and recover a portion of the capital costs. Because
IPEDA is assessed as a percentage of the value of production, the amounts
collected would increase as yields rise in response to the project. Before
rehabilitation of the irrigation systems began, the annual IPEDA rates in
the tertiary areas averaged Rp 2,000/ha. Currently, after some rehabili-
tation, the average rate is between Rp 4,000 and Rp 5,000/ha. When the
on-going rehabilitation is completed, the average assessment should increase
by Rp 1,250/ha, and following completion of the tertiary development, the
amounts assessed are expected to increase further to an average of Rp 7,000/ha.
In the North Sadang area, IPEDA currently averages around Rp 4,000/ha, and
there would probably be no increase in assessments without the project. With
the project, the assessment should climb to an average of Rp 10,500/ha across
the project area.



- 22 -
5.13      The cost of the tertiary system would be US$330/ha.  Out of this
total, GOI would contribute US$250/ha and farmers US$80/ha in the form of
labor at reduced wages and donation of land. At full development, contribu-
tions by farmers for the operation and maintenance of tertiary systems (para
5.08) are expected to average Rp 2,900/ha (US$7.0/ha). Discounting these
contributions and the expected increase in IPEDA collections (para 5.12) at a
10% discount rate over the estimated project life of 30 years, the cost
recovery index would be 49%. A further analysis of cost recovery was carried
out, taking into account past investments in rehabilitating the main irrigation
system. This analysis indicates a 31% cost recovery index. For the North
Sadang area, which involves the construction of a new system with extensive
drainage works, the cost recovery index would be 13% (for details see Annex
14). Rent recovery indices 1/ were estimated for representative farm models
in the tertiary and North Sadang areas. In the tertiary areas, the indices
ranged between 25% for a 1.5 ha sharecropper and 76% for a 0.3 ha owner-
operator, and in the North Sadang area, between 15% for a 1.0 ha sharecropper
and 28% for a 3.0 ha sharecropper. The assumptions made in carrying out this
analysis are presented in Annex 14. Since many of these assumptions are
subjective, the results discussed below are no more than a rough indication of
the farmers' ability to pay project charges.
5.14      Incomes at full development for four different model farms (Annex
13) were compared with the Critical Consumption Level (CCL) 2/ for rural Indo-
nesia, which is estimated at US$88 per capita in Mid-1976 prices. With an
average family size of six, the CCL per household is approximately US$530
(Rp 239,000). Even after making allowances for some off-farm income (paras
6.06 and 6.07), the income of nearly 90% of the households benefiting from
the project would still be below the CCL at full development. Considering
the imprecise nature of the data, the fact that only 10% of project bene-
ficiaries would be in a position to pay somewhat higher project charges, and
the administrative and political difficulties of introducing a special tax
to capture the relat-ively small surplus income of this group, the prevailing
level of project charges appears appropriate.  This conclusion is strengthened
by the fact that, in addition to paying increased IPEDA charges and meeting
the full 0 & M costs of the tertiaries, the farmers would also be contribut-
ing to the costs of the system by donating land for canals and drains and
supplying labor at below market rates. Finally, the burden of other assess-
ments on the farmers is relatively heavy, as they also pay village taxes and
a variety of "extra-legal" assessments for mosque construction, public build-
ings, schools and road maintenance.
1/   The rent recovery index is the ratio of incremental direct payments by
a farm family for the project to the incremental "project rent", which
is defined as incremental income accruing to the family from the proj-
ect less the value of family labor, management costs, and allowances
for uncertainty.
2/   The critical consumption or relative poverty level is that income level
at which basic nutritional, clothing and shelter needs can be met.



- 23 -
5.15      To ensure the farmers' continued contribution towards the main-
tenance of the system, assurances were obtained that: (a) through IPEDA,
GOI, in consultation with the Bank, would establish and collect charges oui
all irrigated land served by the systems rehabilitated and constructed under
the project, at levels consistent with the beneficiaries' capability to pay,
to cover the full 0 & M costs of the systems and recover a reasonable por-
tion of capital costs during the project's useful life; and (b) GOI would
submit to the Bank for review every two years the IPEDA rates established
and collected for different land classes.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
Production
6.01      After completion of the project, paddy would continue to be the
dominant crop in all areas. The total area of irrigated land would remain
at 100,000 ha in the tertiary development areas, but would increase from
2,000 to 6,000 ha in the North Sadang project area. Cropping intensity
is expected to increase from 126% to 190% in North Sadang, but remain con-
stant at about 145% in the tertiary areas. Despite these relatively small
increases in irrigated hectarage and cropping intensity, expected production
gains would be substantial. Improved water control and distribution would
minimize the risk of crop loss and encourage farmers to make investments in
fertilizer, pesticides and improved seed. Recognizing this opportunity for
substantial yield increases, GOI would make available expanded credit and more
intensive extension services to the project areas. As a result, paddy
yields from both wet and dry-season crops would average 3.8 ton/ha in the
North Sadang area. Because topography, soil fertility and land tenure vary
among the tertiary project areas in Java and Sulawesi, full production yields
would also vary; however, it is expected that yields would, on average, be at
least 0.7 ton/ha greater than yields obtained through rehabilitation of the
primary and secondary systems alone. These yields would be attained five
years after tertiary development. Yield increases larger than 0.7 ton/ha
might well be achieved, as substantially larger increases have been obtained
in pilot tertiary units. However, this conservative estimate has been used in
the analysis, because the number and dispersion of the tertiary units may
preclude the intensive Government attention given to pilot units and because
delays in expected improvements in transportation and the availability of
inputs may adversely affect farm output. At full development, total paddy
production in the tertiary areas would reach nearly 620,000 tons with the
project, compared with 418,000 tons at present, and an expected 517,000 tons
after rehabilitation. Total paddy production from the North Sadang area would
be nearly 42,000 tons, compared with 13,500 tons at present. Details of
present and future yields and production are given in Annex 2.
Market Prospects
6.02      Much of the incremental production from the project would be con-
sumed at the farm level and the balance would be sold through commercial



- 24 -
channels. In 1968--1974, rice imports ranged between 0.5 and 1.25 million
tons per annum and, although they have been reduced in the past year
following a good harvest and the replenishment of reserves, they continue
at a rate in excess of 400,000 tons a year. Future market and price pros-
pects are discussed in more detail in Annex 10.
6.03      Privately-owned rice mills and a number of BUUD/KUD mills process
the paddy in the project areas. Excess capacity exists currently in some
areas and both the BUUD/KUD's and the private sector have shown themselves
responsive to any needs for capacity expansion. Thus, milling facilities
are not expected to present a major constraint to marketing.
Prices
6.04      For both the farm budget and economic analysis, farm inputs and
outputs have been valued in mid-1976 prices. For rice and fertilizer these
prices were derived from the Bank's Commodity Division's forecasts for world
prices and adjusted for transportation costs. It is expected that only about
10% of rice production from the project would be milled into higher grade (5%)
rice. It is estimated tht 60% would be medium grade (25-35% brokens) and 30%
lower grade (42% brokens). Using the world market price forecasts, the
equivalent farmgate price for paddy would be US$170/ton in North Sadang and
US$178/ton in the tertiary development areas. Historically, the Government has
followed a policy of keeping consumer-food prices low by selling imported rice
below its cost and keeping domestic floor prices low. To mitigate the effect
of this policy on farm income, GOI has simultaneously subsidized fertilizer
and pesticide. In the last two years, however, steps have been taken to raise
domestic prices in order to encourage rice production. This change in policy,
combined with the fall of world prices from the record levels of 1973-74, has
brought farmgate prices fairly close to world levels. Thus, the floor price
for paddy is now Rp 67.5/kg, as compared with an imputed economic price of
Rp 73.7/ kg in tertiary development areas, and Rp 70.4/kg in North Sadang.
The subsidies provided for fertilizer and pesticides have similarly been
reduced. GOI is expected to continue its efforts to align domestic and world
market prices, and consequently it has been assumed that at full development
economic and financial prices for inputs and outputs would coincide at the
Bank's forecasted world market prices.
Farm Income
6.05      To analyze farm incomes, four farm models have been prepared for
the tertiary development areas and two for the North Sadang area. Because
sharecropping is commnon throughout the project area, sharecropped farms have
been analyzed separately. Details of these models are contained in Annex 11,
and the results can be summarized as follows:



- 25 -
Project                                Future   Future            Future   Future
Component                               Without   With             Without   With
& Farm Size      Tenure       Present   Project Project  Present Project Project
(ha)                               (Rp '000)S-------  --------(us$)------
Tertiary Development Area
0.15   Owner Operator    30.3        34.6     40.3        73      83         97
Sharecropper       15.2      17.7      20.7        37     43         50
0.30   Owner Operator    60.7       68.6      80.5       146    165         194
Sharecropper       30.7      35.2      41.3        74     85        100
0.75   Owner Operator   150.7    171.3    201.3          363    413         485
Sharecropper       75.9      87.8    103.1        183    212        248
1.50   Owner Operator   285.4    323.1    379.0          688    779        913
Sharecropper      144.2    165.8    194.3         348    400        468
North Sadang
1.0    Owner Operator   98.8       104.2    312.7        238    251         754
Sharecropper      51.4       54.1    161.6        124    130        389
2.0    Owner Operator  196.0       204.8    591.5        472    494       1,426
Sharecropper    102.0       106.4    306.2        246    256        738
Assuming an average family size of six and excluding income from off-farm
activities, per capita farm income in the tertiary areas at present ranges
from US$12 to US$115 for owner operators and US$6 to US$58 for sharecroppers.
Per capita farm income in North Sadang ranges from US$40 to US$79 for owner
operators and US$21 to US$41 for sharecroppers. After completion of the
project, farm incomes are expected to increase by 20% over the projected
levels without the project. However, even with this increase, per capita
income from farming in the tertiary development areas would still be only
US$16 to US$152 for owner operators and US$8 to US$78 for sharecroppers.
Somewhat higher incomes are expected in the North Sadang area. These expected
crop incomes would still be substantially below the estimated current per
capita income in Indonesia of US$130 1/ in 1973.
6.06      As is apparent from the above figures, many small farmers do not
produce enough food for their own subsistence. Thus, throughout the project
areas, sharecroppers and owner operators with small holdings depend on off-
farm employment for a substantial portion of their income. They work as
laborers in nearby towns and return to their farms seasonally to assist with
the more strenuous farm work, such as land preparation. Women and children
take care of farm management and harvesting. The magnitude of off-farm income
is indicated by farm survey data for the North Sadang area:
1/   World Bank Atlas.



- 26 -
Average Off-Farm Income, North Sadang
Size of Holding        Wet Season        Dry Season            Total
(Rp)             (Rp)           (Rp)      (US$)
1.1 - 2.0 ha              8,365             10,190         18,555      45
2.1 - 5.0 ha             18,910             17,660         36,570      88
More than 5.0 ha           5,250                 0          5,250      13
6.07      Petty trading is a major source of income for all groups, except
the very largest landholders.  Farmers in the 2.1-5.0 ha range also receive
a substantial amount of off-farm income from operating small businesses.
6.08      No reliable income data for the landless laborers who live in the
tertiary development areas are available. However, assuming two full-time
workers per family, a wage rate of Rp 200/day, and 200 days/year of avail-
able employment, the maximum income of a landless family can be no more
than Rp 80,000 or US$195. Because Rp 200 a day may be a high estimate of the
peak harvest wage rate, such a rate is unavailable during much of the
year, and employment opportunities are limited, US$195 per family probably
overstates the income earned by the landless substantially.
6.09      A more precise estimate oL the project's impact on income distribu-
tion should be available from the monitoring survey under Loan 1100-IND (para
5.07).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The primary objective of the project is to increase irrigated paddy
production on 100,000 ha in Java and Sulawesi through better water control
and distribution. It would also provide irrigation to 6,000 ha in the North
Sadang area. Following completion of the project, the increase in paddy
production is expected to total 130,000 tons and the net incremental value
of production would be Rp 6,500 million.
7.02      Assuming a 30-year project life, prices for rice and fertilizer
based on the Bank's commodity price projections through 1985, and seasonally
adjusted shadow prices for labor, the economic rate of return would be 33% for
the tertiary developmnent component and 20% for North Sadang (Annex 13).
7.03      The sensitivity of the rate of return to variations in the im-
portant assim'ptions in the economic analysis was tested (Annex 13).  The
rates of return are most sensitive to delays in achieving benefits and the
failure of yields to reach projected levels. This underscores the import-
ance of government authorities ensuring that the farmers receive the neces-
sary agricultural inputs and extension assistance. However, in none of the
tests was the rate of return below 12% for North Sadang or 17% for tertiary
development.



- 27 -
7.04      Expanded agricultural opportunities under the tertiary development
component would create permanent labor opportunities equivalent to 12,000
man-years (Annex 12). Although this would not fully utilize the labor force
projected to be in the area at full development, it would provide an additional
source of income to small farmers and sharecroppers, and would tend to dis-
courage migration to the already crowded urban areas. The North Sadang
component would provide permanent labor opportunities equivalent to nearly
3,000 man-years. This would employ the entire local labor force during
much of the year and might encourage permanent migration to the area from
labor surplus areas elsewhere in Indonesia. It would also produce temporary
employment for migrant seasonal laborers.
7.05      A substantial majority of the beneficiaries of the project would
be small farmers (0.15-2.0 ha) and sharecroppers whose average income would
still be considerably less than the national average even at full project
development (para 6.05). Landless labor would benefit from increased em-
ployment opportunities, as well as from increased yields, as harvest wages are
paid as a percentage of the crop. Finally, some benefits would accrue to
landlords, many of whom are also small operators farming their own plots. Pre-
sumably, a few of the landlord beneficiaries have substantial income from
other sources; however, little is known about these people. In any event,
only a small portion of the benefits are expected to accrue to them.
7.06      At full project development, gross foreign exchange savings on
rice imports would amount to US$22.2 million per year at the projected world
market price cif Jakarta. After deducting the incremental cost of fertilizers
and chemicals, the net foreign exchange savings as a result of the project
would amount to about US$19.0 million per year.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on
the following points:
(a) Consultants acceptable to the Bank would be engaged within
eight months of Loan signing on terms and conditions approved
by the Bank (para 4.12);
(b) Separate accounts would be kept by PROSIDA, Jatiluhur
Authority, P3SA and P4S, and the Government auditors would
submit audited financial statements and comments to the
Bank within six months of the close of each financial
year (para 4.24);
(c) Within 14 months of Loan signing, GOI would submit the
training program to the Bank for consultation before com-
mencing the program (para 5.03);



- 28 -
(d) Adequate and timely O&M funds would be allocated in future
years for all Bank-assisted irrigation systems; the Central
Government will take the necessary steps to ensure that
adequate and timely O&M funds are at all times made available
to the Provincial Government; and GOI would submit the
proposed annual per hectare 0 & M budget and staffing
requirements to the Bank for review by November 30 of each
year, and by June 1 of each following year, the approved 0 &
M budget and staffing requirements (para 5.10); and
(e) Through IPEDA, GOI, in consultation with the Bank, would
establish and collect charges on all irrigated land served
by the systems rehabilitated and constructed under the proj-
ect, at levels consistent with the beneficiaries' capability
to pay, to cover the full operation and maintenance costs
of the systems and recover a reasonable portion of capital
costs during the projects useful life; and GOI would submit
to the Bank, for review every two years the IPEDA rates es-
tablished and collected for different land classes (para 5.15).
8.02      The employment of consultants to design and supervise construction
of the North Sadang irrigation system would be a condition of effectiveness
of the loan (para 4.12).
8.03      The engagement of local consultants for the preparation of desigr
and construction drawings in the first year of tertiary construction would
be a condition of disbursement for tertiary systems (para 4.23).
8.04      The project would be suitable for a Bank Loan of US$33.0 million,
with a 25-year maturity and a grace period of six years. The Borrower would
be the Government of Indonesia.



IRRIGATION PROJET VII
kverage Month4. Rainfall Within Project Areas (1968-73)
(Millimeters)
Nov   Dec   Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   Jun   Jul   Aug   Sep   Oct   Total
Way Seputih               224   333   313   289   332   251   206   106   111   118    91   176   2,550
(Kotabumi)
Ciudjung                  187   206   293   240   209   254   200   231   103    98   241   182   2,444
(Cisalak Baru)
Cisedane                  168   143   268   341   208   160   162    79    72    87    79   105   1,872
(Tangerang)
Jatiluhur                 191   189   303   234   207   159   118    72    56    37    45   106   1,717
(Karawang)
Rentang                   349   367   501   338   484   268   244    76    63    24    66    67   2,847
(Jatiwangi)
Pemali-Comal              104   198   412   243   262   130   157   114    77    47    87    43   1,874
(Brebes)
Glapan Sedadi             237   280   306   308   206   152   177    64    80    46    69   151   2,070
(Sedadi)
Sadang                    211   327   354   126   220   137   115   115    84    46    99    90   1,809
(Pare Pare)
North Sadang              168   200   202   263   209   298   251   157   113    75    81   137   2,004
(Pinrang)
1/  Monthly records for each of the rehabilitation projects for a period of 5 years.  Records are
available for 1920-1940 and 1956 to the present within project areas at many locations.
r r



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Present anid Projected Cropping Patterns and Production
General
1.        The Irrigation Program Survey (Report No. 705-IND) and the apprai-
sal reports of previous irrigation projects in Indonesia have described in
some detail the soil, climate, and cultural practices for paddy planting on
Java; this information will not be repeated here. However, agricultural
conditions in Sulawesi where the North Sadang project is located differ
somewhat from those on Java; therefore, a more detailed discussion of the
area is presented in this Annex.
2.        Climatic data for the project areas are shown in Annex 1. The soil
and climate of all areas are considered suitable for growing paddy as a main
crop in the wet season, and paddy and/or a variety of secondary crops in the
dry season.
Present Cropping Pattern and Yields
3.        Tertiary Development Areas  All 100,000 ha of the tertiary de-
velopment areas are planted to paddy during the wet season. Where suf-
ficient water is available in the dry season, paddy is also grown. The
present cropping intensity in these areas averages 145%, ranging from 113%
in Glapan-Sedadi to 190% in Jatiluhur. As a result of the agricultural
extension efforts and improved water control provided by previous Bank
projects, high yielding varieties (HYV) are grown on about 75% of the
project area. Some of these varieties have proved susceptible to virus
diseases and/or insect damage. Therefore, seeds of new varieties, such as
IR-20, IR-26, IR-28 and IR-30, which initial tests have shown to be more
resistant to disease, are being multiplied and have been distributed and
planted in some areas. Research centers in Bogor, Sukamandi, and several
substations have been actively involved in this breeding and testing pro-
gram. HYY yields average 3.2 ton/ha in the wet season, and 3.0 ton/ha in
the dry season.
4.        Local unimproved and improved varieties are grown on 25% of the
cultivated area. Despite lower yields, averaging 1.8 ton/has many farmers
prefer these varieties for flavor, ease of harvest, and resilience under
flooded conditions. As water control improves and yields increase beyond
the levels needed f'or consumption in farmers' immediate households, the
percentage of local variety paddy is expected to diminish.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Secondary or palawija crops such a tobacco, red onions, maize
and groundnuts are planted extensively in much of the project area during
the dry season. In some areas, two secondary crops, or a secondary crop
and a dry season paddy crop, are harvested during the dry season. Average
yields are soyabeans 580 kg/ha, maize 800 kg/ha, groundnuts 630 kg/ha,
green peas 540 kg/ha and onions 3,200 kg/ha.
6.        North Sadang - Soil survey results indicate that about 6,000 ha
of the 8,000 ha gross project area are suitable for rice production. This
area consists of 2,000 ha of semi-technical and village irrigated rice
land (most of which is double-cropped), 800 ha of low-lying uncultivated
swampland and 3,200 ha of rainfed rice land. About 250 ha of the latter
is currently double-cropped with palawija in the dry season.
7.        Much of the wet season rice area is subject to flooding.  Farmers
in some areas usually replant 2 or 3 times to obtain a crop. Even in rela-
tively good years, yields are low because there is little incentive to use
cash inputs in the absence of water control. Current average yields are
estimated at 2.0 ton/ha for irrigated areas and 1.8 ton/ha for rainfed areas
in the wet season, and 1.8 ton/ha for irrigated areas and 1.5 ton/ha for
rainfed areas in the dry season.
8.        Road communications are very poor and obtaining access to markets,
agricultural services, and inputs is almost impossible during the rainy
season. Unlike Java, labor is short in some areas; although it is surplus
in others, mobility is apparently restrained by poor communications and
transport.
9.        Because of the above constraints, the BIMAS program, which has
achieved fairly extensive coverage on Java, is utilized by only a few farm-
ers in the North Sadang area. There is also only one BUWD servicing the
area, and problems are encountered with rice drying, storage, and marketing.
Future Cropping Patterns and Yields
10.       Tertiary Development Areas.  Even in the absence of the project,
fairly substantial increases in paddy yields are expected in the proposed
tertiary development areas after the completion of the four Bank Group as-
sisted irrigation rehabilitation projects. The coverage of HYV paddy in
the wet season is expected to increase to 80% of the total area, as part of
the need to plant low-yielding rainfed paddy would be eliminated by some
improvement in water control. HYV paddy would continue to be planted in
the dry season. Wet season yields of local variety paddy are expected to
increase to 2.1 ton/ha, and yields of HYV's might reach an average of 3.8
ton/ha. Dry season HYV yields are also expected to increase to the same
3.8 ton/ha average.
11.       Following completion of tertiary and quaternary channels and
structures, and using inputs and extension advice, it is estimated that
about 85% of farmers would grow HYV's, and the rest would continue to plant



ANNEX 2
Page 3
local or national improved varleties,  Due to a better regulated water sup-
ply, the cropping intensity may increase somewhat. However, in the absence
of an increase in the supply of water, such an increase in the area culti-
vated could only be small; therefore, for the purpose of the economic
analysis, the cropping intensity is assumed to remain at 145%. Because
of differing topography, soil fertility and land tenure in the project areas,
full production yields will vary; however, yields of HYV's should, on average,
be at least 0.7 ton/ha greater than yields obtained through rehabilitation of
the primary and secondary systems alone. Thus, it is expected that HYV yields
would average 4.5 ton/ha. Local variety paddy, for which the potential yield
increases are less, would average around 2.3 ton/ha.
12D       North Sadang,  Only nominal increases in yields can be expected
in the North Sadarng area without the project. The supply of inputs and
credit will increase, but, without guaranteed access to water and improved
drainage, farmers will have little incentive to use them. Indeed, with-
out the project, the area may continue to suffer the population losses it
has experienced in recent years as families leave to seek better employment
opportunities elsewhere and escape the flooded conditions many of them en-
dure throughout the rainy season,  By aggravating the existing shortage of
labor, such a population decline might actually result in the areas' total
agricultural production falling. Cropping intensity would be unchanged,
and, assuming some increases in agricultural inputs, rainfed paddy yields
might average 1.9 ton/ha in the wet season, and 1.6 ton/ha in the dry
season. Paddy irrigated by village irrigation systems would yield around
2.2 ton/ha in the wet season and 2.0 ton/ha in the dry season.
13.       With the project, cropping intensity would increase substantially
from the present 126%, to 190%. The improved drainage would permit cur-
rently swampy areas to be converted to paddy production and the reduction
in the risk of flooding and the assurance that water would be available
year-round would eancourage farmers to farm other uncultivated land. Paddy
yields are expectedi to average 3.8 ton/ha.
Extension and Agricultural Inputs and Future Production
14.       The realization of the project's benefits is highly dependent on
concurrent improvenments in extension, transportation, seed supply, fertilizer
and insecticide distribution, and storage and drying facilities at the vil-
lage level.  The agrIcultural services available to farmers and the efforts
being made by the governnent and the Bank to improve them are described in
some detail i'n Annex 3.
Pests and Diseases
15.       Major pests are stemborers, leaf and plarLt hoppers, gallmidges,
army worms and paddy bugs. Chemicals and sprayers are supplied through



ANNEX 2
Page 4
the extension service and BUUD/KUD's to combat them. The chemicals used
have changed frequently in recent years as more effective compounds have
become available, and as some insect species have developed resistance to
older types. Blast, bacterial leaf blight and brown spot are the most
important bacterial and fungal diseases, and, as discussed above, the
Ministry of Agriculture is multiplying and distributing new varieties of
seed resistant to them. In many areas, rats are also a problem, causing
serious field damage and occasionally reaching plague proportions. In
some places, such as the Sadang rehabilitation project area, locally ad-
ministered rat control programs have been successful in reducing the
serious losses suffered in earlier years.
16.       Notwithstanding the government programs, certain pest and di-
sease problems continue to reduce yields. The types of pesticides sup-
plied through the BIMAS program often vary, causing confusion among the
illiterate farmers who are unable to read the instructions on the bags.
Thus, the chemicals which could alleviate the disease problems are often
applied at the wrong time or in the wrong quantities. There is also some
preliminary evidence that the growth of double cropping through improved
irrigation is contributing to the incidence of pests and diseases. With
paddy being grown continually, there is no period during the year during
which the insects' reproductive cycles are interrupted. Research is cur-
rently underway in an attempt to assess the magnitude of this problem.
Harvesting, Drying, and Storage
17.       Farmers harvest the rice using ani-ani (small knives) or sick-
les, and usually thresh the crops by treading on the panicles or beating
them on a threshing floor. A few pedal threshers are also present in the
project area. The paddy is normally sun-dried, on whatever suitable sur-
face is available. Often this surface is a roadway near the fields and
losses due to continually moving the drying rice to avoid traffic can be
heavy. Rainfall during the harvest season also contributes to losses. The
lack of adequate drying facilities is thus a serious constraint on higher
production in many areas. To alleviate this problem, the government has
initiated a program to build a large number of drying floors in areas where
they are needed.
18.       Farmers usually store bagged grain or dry stalk paddy in their
homes or on racks in small out-buildings until it is sold or consumed.
Some villages also have small communal paddy barns. Grain losses dur-
ing harvesting, drying and storage have been estimated to be between 15
and 20%. Harvesting, drying, and storage practices are discussed in de-
tail in the Irrigation Program Survey.
Marketing and Transport
19.       Typical marketing and transport methods and problems are de-
scribed in the Irrigation Program Survey. Problems which the farmers
have in receiving the government-established floor price for their pro-
duction are explained in the main body of this appraisal report.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Summary of Cropping Pattern and Production
Tertiaa Development Areas
Cropped Area                             Paddy Production
Future TWithout   Future with              Future Without   Future with
Present       Proect _    Project          Present        Project         Project
--------- ha) --------                  -------- -      (tons)-----------
Wdet Season
Rainfed e5,,000                                                    7,500           -
Local Variety          20,000         20,000          15,000      36,000         42,000          34,500
HYV                    75,000         80,000         85,00o      240,000        304,000         382,500
Sub-Total        100,000       100,000         100,000      283,500        346,ooo         417,000
Dy)eas on
HIYV                   45,000       j45, 00          45,000      135,000        171,000         202,500
Sub-Total         45,000        45,000          45,000      135,000        171,000         202,500
Total           1 45,000       145,000         1L5000       418,500        517,000         619,500
Cropping Intensity    145%           145%            145%
In
,   r



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Summary of Cropping Patterns and Produiction
North Sadang
Cropped Area                                   Paddy Production
Future Without   Future With                    Future Without   Future With
Present       Project            Project         Present       Project           Project
- (ha) ----------------                          -------------- (tons) ----------------
Wet Season -                3,150          3,150                _            5,670         5,985
Irrigated                1,950          1,950              5,800          3,900         4,290            22,040
Swamp Uncultivated         700            700                -              -              -                -
Sub-total              5,800          5,800             5,800           9,570        10,275           22,040
Drv  Season 11                250            250                -              375            400
Irrigated                1i95           1,950              5.200          3.510         3.900            19.760
Sub-total             2,200           2,200                -            3,885         4,300            19,760
Total              7,300          7,300            11,000          13,455        14,575           41,800
Cropping Intensity          126%           126%               190%
1/ Palawija crops (275 ha wet season and 250 ha dry season) included as rainfed rice for analytical
purposes.
wx
(D >'3



ANNEX 3
Page I
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Agricultural Support Program
Organization
1.        The existing agricultural supporting services in irrigation areas
of Indonesia have been described in detail in the Irrigation Program Survey
(Report No.705-IND) and in the appraisal reports of the previous irrigation
projects. Available services are described only briefly in this Annex. The
most important Government organizations and programs which support farmers in
agriculture include the following:
(a) BIMAS and INMAS: These programs provide farm input
packages and credit programs. These programs are dis-
cussed in more detail below.
(b) BRI - The Peoples Bank of Indonesia provides credit to
farmers and finances the BIMAS program.
(c) BUUD/KUD's: These are government-sponsored farmer co-
operatives which purchase paddy at the government-
established floor price, sell agricultural inputs, mill
rice and provide some extension services. They are de-
scribed in more detail below.
(d) Ministry of Agriculture - The Ministry has extension
staff at the provincial and district level to advise
farmers both inside and outside the BIMAS program.
(e) Provincial Irrigation Services - These services operate
and maintain the irrigation system down to secondary
canal turnout.
(f) Ministry of Interior - Local staff of this ministry ad-
minister the tertiary and quaternary canals through the
village headman and his staff.
(g)  Irrl'gation Committees - These committees are established
at the District, subdistrict and village levels and co-
ordinate all of the above organizations.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
BIMAS/INMAS, Extension, and Research
2.        The BIMAS program provides eligible farmers with subsidized fer-
tilizers, pesticides, credit, cash allowances for seeds, cost of living,
pesticide applications and extension advice. The INMAS program provides
subsidized fertilizers and pesticides but no credit, cash allowances or
extension services. The village head and BRI representatives determine
each farmer's eligibility for BIMAS, evaluating his farm size (5 ha or less)
and credit worthiness (not more than 2 years overdue with BIMAS repayments).
BIMAS programs are available for paddy, maize, soyabeans, groundnuts, green
pea, sorghum and sugarcane. Provincial agricultural officers determine
fertilizer and pesticide application rates, which vary according to local
requirements.
3.        Within the tertiary development areas, between 60 and 70% of the
farmers now use BIMAS or INMAS. With the organization of the farmers, ade-
quate extension and the completion of this project, virtually all the
farmers in the tertiary areas are expected to use at least the smaller
BIMAS package. In North Sadang, where BIMAS/INMAS coverage to date has
been minimal, it is expected that about 90% of the farmers would be using
BIMAS at the time of full project development.
4.        Extension is currently provided through the five Directorates
General of Agriculture (Agriculture, Estates, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries,
and Forestry). Under a proposed Bank supported National Food Crops Extension
Project, existing Rural Extension Centers (REC's) would be improved, and a
large number would be established. Densely populated paddy-growing areas
would have one REC for each 10 village units. Lower-level extension workers
(PPL's) would make contact with farmers through about 20 key farmers and some
100-150 progressive farmers. PPL's would be supervised by middle-level
extension workers (PPM's) and the Head of their REC's. Subject matter spe-
cialists (SMS's) would support both PPL's and PPM's with technical advice and
would assist in a continuous training program.
5.        Research for paddy and secondary crops is conducted at the Suka-
mandi National Research Centers for Paddy and Secondary Crops and at a
number of field stations under the direction of a newly established Agency
for Research and Development (ARD) within the Ministry of Agriculture (Loan
1179-IND). Outside these research establishments, little adaptive re-
search is carried out and there is a distinct need for verification ex-
periments for all crops.  In the future, SMS's will conduct local experi-
ments in conjunction with other extension staff to identify the agri-
cultural practices best suited for each locality, to determine the most
suitable varieties of all major crops and to propose workable pest-
control programs.
Fertilizer
6.        Domestic fertilizer production has grown rapidly with the assist-
ance of the Bank Group (Credit 193-IND and Loan 1089-IND). An additional



ANNEX 3
Page 3
fertilizer project is being considered for possible Board presentation in
FY77. The increased production from these projects will be used to replace
imports which have been at substantial levels in recent years.
7.        Distribution of the domestically produced fertilizer is being
aided by the Bank-supported Fertilizer Distribution Project (Loan 1139-IND).
Two large and six small importers distribute the imported fertilizer. In
the past, the distributors supplied farmers through private kiosks in each
area. However, in October 1974, the government took over fertilizer dis-
tribution and now all fertilizer is supplied to farmers through local BUUD's
and KUD's.
8.        Supplies of fertilizer are adequate at present throughout the
project area. Local shortages may occur, however, due to transport prob-
lems in isolated areas and/or lack of storage within villages. The prob-
lem of late deliveries is compounded by a government policy which in
effect requires one planting season to be completed before shipment for
the next season can begin. Some of the shortages and late delivery prob-
lems are being alleviated by a government program to increase storage
space at the BUIJD's and KUD's.
Pesticides
9.        Most pesticides are imported, and as result were in short supply
in 1974 due to aL world-wide shortage. Some firms are now able to formu-
late the chemicals in Indonesia, which has improved the supply situation
somewhat. Pesticides are distributed through the same system as fertilizers,
with farmers obtaining them mainly through the BUUD/KUD's.
Seed
10.       Certified paddy seed is produced by the National Seed Corporation
at Sukamandi (Credit 246-IND) and is distributed through BUUD's, KUD's and
local kiosks at about double the commercial paddy price. Supplies of this
seed are limited. Most Districts have one or more local seed farms which
are run by District agricultural personnel. Seed from Sukamandi, supple-
mented with local seed, is multiplied and sold to growers at about 150% of
the commercial paddy price. Due to the increasing occurrence of "grassy
stunt" virus disease, it has become necessary to increase the resistant
variety, IR-26, rapidly. This varietyr, introduced from IRRI in the Philip-
pines, is resistant to the direct sucking damage of the brown plant hop-
pers which spread' the virus. All available seed of IR-26 was multiplied
in Java during the 1975 dry season and the resulting seed will be dis-
tributed throughout the disease-affected areas in Java, Bali and Sumatera.
It is imperative that new disease-resistant varieties continuously be de-
veloped since a breakdown in resistance to the disease is a distinct pos-
sibility. Two other resistant varieties, IR-28 and IR-30, are also being
multiplied at present.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Credit
11.       Credit is handled by BRI through branch offices in most village
units. It is expected that all village units within the project area will
be serviced by a local branch or by a mobile unit by the end of the 1975/
76 season. BRI credit is now also available to each BUUD and KUD for the
purchase of five mistblowers to control pests in members' fields. Some
medium-term credit is available to the same organizations for the purchase
of threshers and rice mill equipment. A Bank project to assist BRI in im-
proving the agricultural credit system is currently being prepared.
Farmers' Organizations
12.       BUUD's/KUD's.  BUUD's are pre-cooperatives which convert to
farm cooperatives, or KUD's, when proven viable. It is the aim of GOI to
establish one BUUD/KUD per village unit. In many paddy-growing areas the
number of cooperatives have almost reached this target, with considerable
growth recorded in 1974 and 1975. In 1975, there were more than 1,800
KUD's and about 1,400 BUUD's registered. The cooperatives distribute
farm inputs and process and market farm outputs. Some extension advice
is given where trained staff are available. They are agents for the dis-
tribution of fertilizer and agro-chemicals and also provide threshing,
cleaning and milling facilities.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
The Project Works
Tertiary Development
1.      i Tertiary development would be carried out on 100,000 ha of
the Jatiluhur and PROSIDA systems being rehabilitated under Credits 127,
195, 220 and 289-IND (Table 1). The works would include tertiary, sub-
tertiary and quaternary canals and structures, inspection roads and ter-
tiary and quaternary drains. The above works would require the acquisition of
about 2,400 ha of rights-of-way for some 7,000 km of distribution canals,
9,000 canal structures, 4,000 km of drains and 1,500 km of inspection roads.
Farmers in the tertiary areas would do about 11.0 Mm3 of canal excavation and
embankment construction. Further details are developed in Table 2 on a
per-hectare basis and for the 100,000 ha development.
2.        Accuraite 1:5,000 scale maps, with contours drawn at 0.25-0.5 m
interval, would be prepared for the tertiary areas. Standard photogrammetric
methods, supplemented with ground surveys to obtain the desired accuracy,
would be employed to produce the maps. Aerial photographs rectified by the
ortho scanning process would constitute the photomosaic of each tertiary area.
A diapositive (sepia) of the photomosaic would be produced to enable the
printing of any number of maps desired. Survey parties supplied with these
maps would identify ground features readily and would thus be oriented quickly.
In developed areas where bunds have been laid out, the elevations of the
centers of paddy fields would be obtained and marked directly on the maps. In
undeveloped areas, where ground features are not well defined, elevations
would be obtained by cross-sectioning the field. After enough elevations have
been obtained, contours would be drawn on the maps before leaving the area and
any gaps in the data, which become apparent as the contours are drawn, would
be supplied.
3.        PROSIDA and the Jatiluhur Authority, with the assistance of con-
sultants, would design the tertiary systems. Each tertiary canal included in
the project would start at the end of the 50 m canal constructed by the
Government. The tertiary canals would cover about 150 ha and quaternary
canals serving 10-15 ha would deliver water down to 6-10 individual plots on a
field-to-field basis. The tertiary units would be arranged to suit, as far as
possible, the topography, existing irrigation, road and drainage networks and
village wand ownership boundaries. The water surface in the quaternaries would
be designed to be 10-15 cm higher than field level.  Tertiary and quaternary
9ianal lengths would be kept within 2.5 km and 0.5 km, respectively.  Water
would be drawn exclusively from quaternary canals through plastic or bamboo



ANNEX 4
Page
pipes, except in cases where strict adherence to this wou}d resu .- 1-.
provision of multiple parallel channels. Field-to-field irrigation would be
limited to 6-10 fields and no field would be raore than 300 m from a quaternary
turnout. Wherever practicable, the drainage water would be collected and re-
distributed to lower parts of the system. The internal drains would be
designed to prevent flooding for more than 72 hours, based on rainfall
that would not be exceeded in four out of five years. The supply canals
would be designed to deliver the peak dry-season requirement of about 1.3
1/sec/ha. Current designs of canal structures, about 9,000 of which would
be needed in the project, would be carefully reviewed to determine the pro-
totypes which would give satisfactory hydraulic performance at reasonable
cost and a minimum amount of maintenance during operation. Particular em-
phasis would be given to outlet transitions which, in pilot tertiary proj-
ects, have been observed to require frequent maintenance due to undercutting
of soil behind the masonry lining. A transition with slightly flared
and tapering vertical wingwalls, which was developed by PROSIDA and model-
tested at the hydraulics laboratory in Bandung with favorable results,
would be field-tested thoroughly in the project and adopted extensively
if proved satisfactory.
4.        To facilitate design and construction and to promote good water
management during operation, the tertiary systems would be constructed
in blocks of at least four units each (about 600 ha). Wherever possible, even
larger blocks would be constructed. The location of the blocks within the
seven systems would be determined by irrigation engineers from the exe-
cuting agencies with the assistance of local agriculture and irrigation of-
ficers who, during field inspection, would assess: (a) water supply and
control in the secondary canal; (b) farmers' willingness to join water user
associations and construct tertiaries at reduced wage rates; (c) suscepti-
bility of the area to flooding; (d) presence of topographic constraints which
make field-to-field irrigation virtually impossible but which could be over-
come with the construction of tertiaries; and (e) availability of agricul-
tural supporting services, namely, extension, BIMAS (inputs), BRI (credit)
and BUUD/KUD (cooperatives). After the development priorities are set,
the Provincial District Heads (Bupatis) would be informed of the selection
of specific areas for imDlementation in their respective jurisidctions.
They, in turn, would instruct the village chiefs (Lurahs) to form water user
associations. In this the Lurahs would be assisted by MOA lower-level exten-
sion officers (PPL's).
5.        After the formation of the water user associations, a preliminary
plan of each tert ary system would be prepared in accordance with the criteria
described in para 3, This plan would be brought to the field and, in consul-
tation with farmers, checked for workability and practicability. The farmers'
constructive suggestions would be considered before finalizing the layout of
the system.
6.        The acquisition of rights-of-way for canals, drains and inspec-
tion roads would commenCe after the layouts of the systems are finalized.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
To expedite land acquisition5 the executing agencies would work closely
with the responsible agency, the Directorate of Agrarian Affairs in the
Directorate General of Government and Local Autonomy. Although the area
of land taken up by canals and drains is small, the loss to small landowners
could be substantial. For this reason, some minlimal arrangements for right-
of-way compensation would be made.
7.        The village chiefs would organize farmers and landless laborers
willing to undertake construction of the tertiaries at reduced wage rates.
To facilitate construction and to avoid crop loss, construction would be
done in the dry season. Since there would be little opportunity for em-
ployment during this period, the consensus among provincial officials
interviewed during appraisal was that the Lurahs would be able to organize
farmers and landless laborers to work on a rotation basis.  The farmers
would excavate the tertiary and quaternary canals and drains and fill and
compact the canal embankments. The executing agencies would supervise
the work done by farmers and construct the structures either by force
account or small local contracts. The volume of earthwork involved in a
tertiary system of 150 ha would be about 16,000 in3, while the available work
force would be about 350 farmers and landless laborers. Assuming that half
of this force works each day and, assuming further that each man could exca-
vate or fill and compact 1.0 m3/day, the earthwork involved could be ac-
complished in about 90 days. It would, therefore, be physically possible to
construct in one dry season tertiary systems for which funds and drawings are
available.
8.        Water user associations organized as a prerequisite to the con-
struction of tertiaries would assume responsibility for 0 & M of the ter-
tiary systems. Rules and regulations defining the rights and obligations of
the beneficiaries would be patterned after those of the pilot tertiary units.
The association would obtain 0 & M funds by collecting about 40-50 kg of dry
paddy gabay 1/ per ha from all beneficiaries. The amount of paddy collected
would be evaluated and adjusted by the association from time to time to suit
its needs. The paddy collected would be stored in the village bin and from
this, a certain amount would be drawn to pay the permanent employees of the
system. The balance would be used to pay farmers and landless laborers
designated, on a rotation basis, to perform required maintenance work. This
is currently being practiced on a number of pilot tertiary units with en-
couraging result. In nearly all cases, the tertiary systems are well
maintained.
North Sadang Irrigation System
9.        Works for this 6,000 ha system would include:  (a) rehabilitation
and upgrading of the existing intake at Benteng barrage; (b) widening of about
12 km of existing main canal and upgrading of 25 existing canal structures
to permit double cropping of the service area; (c) construction of 7 km of
1/   Unhusked rice, unit of yield used throughout this report.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
remaining main canal and 6 canal structures, 46 km of secondary canals
and 50 canal structures, and 74 km of primary and secondary drains and
25 drainage structures; (d) upgrading of 54 km of existing access roads; and
(d) tertiary development over the entire service area to the same standards
adopted for the tertiary development areas. About 240 ha of rights-of-way
would be acquired for the canals, drains and inspection roads. Table 3
presents details of the above works; Table 4 develops the cost of works/ha.
10.       The canals would be unlined and constructed with side slopes of
1.5:1. A silt trap installed at the head of the intake canal would
strip material bigger than 1.0 mm (approximately D 50 size). The various
canals would be sized to satisfy peak water requirements under the rota-
tional irrigation scheme adopted for the project, which are 1.35 1/sec/ha
at the farmers' field, 1.60 1/sec/ha at the tertiary gate, 1.75 1/sec/ha
at the secondary gate and 1.85 1/sec/ha at the main canal intake.
11.       Drainage within the project area would be improved by providing
safe passage for floods of 10-year return period in streams flowing through
the area. The natural channels would be dredged to increase their flood
discharges. A dyke would be constructed along the project boundary which is
susceptible to flooding during high stage flows of the Sadang River. At
points where the dyke crosses the natural channels, gated control structures
would be constructed to permit regulation of stream flows. Collector drains
emptying into the natural channels would be constructed along the inner
toe of the dyke. The crest of the dyke would serve as an operation and
maintenance road.
12.       Existing access roads to the project area would be upgraded by
raising stretches subject to flooding, widening where called for, and pro-
viding a gravel or crushed stone base course to permit all-weather use.
Studies and Detailed Engineering
13.       Consultants would be engaged under the project to:  (a) undertake
studies and detailed designs on the Kedungombo dam and on the flood control
and drainage schemes downstream; (b) prepare a drainage project for about
40,000 ha of low-lying coastal lands in Ciujung, Cisedane, Pemali-Comal and
Sadang; and (c) prepare a feasibility study for developing tidal lands for
smallholders settlers in the provinces of Jambi and South Sumatera.
14.       The structure on the Serang River would be a sand and gravel-
fill dam with a clay core. It would have a maximum height above stream-
bed of 50 m, a crest length of 775 m, a fill volume of 2.5 Mm3 and an esti-
mated cost of US$70 million. At maximum conservation level the reservoir
would have a surface area of 3,300 ha, a gross storage of 490 Mm3 and a usable
storage of 450 Mm3. Feasibility studies for the dam were undertaken by
consultants (NEDECO), whose site investigations included 20 exploratory



ANNEX 4
Page 5
drillings to 60 m depth, geologic mapping of the dam and reservoir sites and
exploration of the sources of fill materials. Two damsites on the Serang
River at Kedungombo and Ngrambat, about 1.5 Km apart, have been proposed. The
two sites have similar hydrologic characteristics and would produce almost
identical benefits. Major differences which could materially influence the
cost of the dam lie in the geological structure of the foundation rocks.
The works to be carried out under the project would include improvement of
access roads to the damsite and quarries, temporary offices and quarters for
GOI personnel, detailed investigations to determine the most suitable damsite,
design of project features and preparation of tender documents. The works
would also include studies and detailed engineering on downstream flood
control and drainage schemes which would benefit about 30,000 ha of the
Glapan-Sedadi, Juana, Welahan and Serang coastal areas.
15.       Under the project the telephone communications network in existing
systems would be further upgraded, primary canal gates and structures would be
modified to permit gate operation with motor drives and additional measuring
devices in primary canals and major bifurcations would be constructed. These
project features would improve the operation of the systems and provide better
water control and management.
16.       Vehicles and equipment for construction, operation and main-
tenance would be procured under the project. The equipment list is shown
in Table 5.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Tertiary Development on Systems Covered by First
Four Irrigation Rehabilitation Projects
Tertiary
Service Area      Development
(ha)             (ha)
I. First Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 127-IND)                                   40
Cisedane                                         h2,Oo0             6,000
Glapan-Sedadi                                    47,400             4, 500
Rentang                                          92,000
Way-Seputih                                      25,000           __-
Sub-Total, I                          206,4oo            10,500
II. Second Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 195-IND) 2/
Jatiluhur                                       202,000            25,000
III. Third Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 220-IND) /
Ciujung                                          24,300             6,000
Pemali-Comal                                    123,000            21,000
Sadang                                           54.,600            7,500
Sub-Total, III                        201,900            34,500
IV. Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 289-IND) 1/
Pekalen-Sampean                                 229,000            30,000
Total, I-IV                           839,300          ? O. 4
1/ Being implemented by PROSIDA.
2/ Being implemented by Jatiluhur Authority.
3/ Tertiary development to be carried out under Loan 1100-IND.
y/ Tertiary development on seven systems with total service area of 722,300 ha
to be implemented under present project.
2/ Clearing of half of service area still underway.  Excluded from project.



0 S--;0000 .. t::D0-:0 0 ...ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDBESIA
: IRIGATICE: PROJECT VII
TERTIARY D;VELOPMENT
Work Items and Quantities
For 1.0 ha            For 100.000 ha
; Quantity                          Quantity
Earthwork
Tertiary Canals               5.5 a    4   x         550 km        0.4 Mm
Sub-tertiary Canzals         1 0   m   10    m3     1,000 km       1.0 Mm3
Quaternary Canal's           55   n   22    m3      5,500 km       2.2 Mm3
Tertiary & Quaternary        4      0  4    m3      4.,000 km      4.0 Mm3
Drains
:~~~~~~ 3
Inspection Roads                  m   30    m3      1.500 km       3.0 Mm
Sub-Total         125.5 m  106    m3    12,550 km      10.6 Mm'
Structures
Tertiary Division Boxes       -        0.02 Box      -         2,000   Boxes
Quaternary Division Boxms     -        0.04 Box      -         4,000   Boxes
Other Structures              -        0.03 Box    3-000   Boxes
Sub-Total           -        0.09 Box      -        9,000   Boxes
Rights-of-Way
Canals & Drains               -      240   m2      _          2,400   ha



ANN17 4
Tab>s >
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
NORTH SADANG IRRIGATICN SYSTEM
Work Items and Quantities
Works                         Quantity            Length
Rehabilitation & Upgrading
Intake                                          1
Main Canal                                          3           12 km
Rock excavation                           5,000 m
Rock hauling                              9,000 n
Common excavation                        20,000 "
Earth fill                               45h,000 "
Structures                                   25
Access Roads                                                    54 km
New Construction
Main Canal                                         3             7 km
Rock excavation                          30,000 m
Rock hauling                             60,000 l
Common excavation                        25,000 "
Earth fill                               80,000
Structures                                    6
Secondary Canals                                   3            46 km
Common excavation                        59,000 m3
Earth fill                            1,200,000 "
Structures                                   50
Primary & Secondary Drains                          3           74 km
Common excavation                     1,400,000 m
Structures                                   25
Tertiary Development                        6,000 ha
Tertiary canals                          24,000 m3            33 km
Sub-tertiary canals                      60,000 if           60 It
Quaternary canals                       132,000 "            330 "
Division boxes                              540
Tertiary & quaternary drains            240,oo0 m3          240
Inspection roads                                              90 "



ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Irrigation Facilities Cost
USM a
I. Tertiary Development (100,000 ha)
Canals                                                 38
Structures                                             37
Drains                                                 33
Inspection Roads                                        18
Total 1/                                    126
II. North Sadang Irrigation System (6,000 ha)
Primary & Secondary Canal System 2/                   559
Primary & Secondary Drainage System                    405
Road System                                             94
Tertiary Development                                  126
Total 3/                                  1,18)4
j   Not including contingencies (15%) and engineering, super-
vision and administration (10%). Farmers' labor for con-
struction of canals and drains valued at Rp 150/day
(US$0.36/day).
2/  All new except 12 Ian of primary canal which would require
upgrading.
3/ Not including contingencies (20%) and engineering, super-
vision and administration (10%).



ANNEX 4
Table 5
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Equipment List
Description                  Quantit-  Unit   'Rate          Amount
I. Tertiar1 Development (PROSIDA)
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles                15        No      6,ooo        90,000
1Motorcycles                             25        No      1,000        25,000
Bicdcles                                100        No        150        15,000
Hot-Dip GalvanizingT Bath x               7        No     10,000        70,000
Accessories
Steel for Gjates                        350       Tons       500       175,000
Zinc for rGalvanizing                    36       Tons     1,000        36,000
Office Equipment                        L.S.       -          -         43,000
Hydrological Equipment                  L.S.       -         -          42,000
Telephone Communications Equipment    L.S.         -         -,000
Sub-Total                                                 1,296,000
II. Tertiary Development (Jatiluhur)
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles                10        No      6,000        60,000
Yotorc,cles                              30        No       1,000       30,000
Bicycles                                 30        No        150         4,S500
Sub-Total                                                    94,500
I'II. North Sadang Irrigation
Office Equipment                        L.S.       -          -         14,000
811 Dredge with Pipes                     1        No    250,000       250,000
Draglines (3 cu. sd.)                     2        No     80,000       160,000
Stone Crusher                             1        No     20,000        20,000
Station Wagons                            4        No      8,000        32,000
Motorcycles                              12        No       1,000       12,000
Bicjcles                                 30        No        150         4,500
Sub-Total                                                   492,500
Total                                                     1,883,000
Rounded                                                  1.9 Million



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Consulting Services
Tertiary Development
1.        PROSIDA and the Jatiluhur Authority would undertake tertiary
development on 75,000 ha and 25,000 ha of their respective project areas.
GOI would engage local consultants under terms of reference (TOR) and
conditions acceptable to the Bank to undertake detailed designs and as-
sist in the supervision of construction of the tertiary systems. Draft
TOR for local consultants are presented in Attachment I. The consultants
would be engaged for four years and it is estimated that a total of 2,000
man-months of consulting services would be required, of which 1,200 man-months
would be for design and construction engineers while 800 man-months would be
for draftsmen.
North Sadang Irrigation System
2.        Consultants have been engaged under Loan 1100-IND to undertake
detailed engineering and prepare tender documents suitable for competitive
bidding. Subject to the consultants' satisfactory performance, their tenure
would be extended under the project to provide assistance in the supervision
of construction.
Kedungombo Dam and Downstream Improvements
3.        The consultants would review the feasibility studies prepared by
Dutch consultants (NEDECO), undertake additional geological investigations, if
required, and prepare designs and cost estimates of comparable structures on
the two possible damsites (Annex 4) before making a final selection of the
most suitable damsite. After site selection, detailed designs of the appro-
priate project features would be made and tender documents suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding would be prepared. In addition, the consultants
would review NEDECO's studies on the Serang floodway and other flood
control and drainage schemes for the coastal areas downstream of the dam.
Subsequent to this review, the consultants would undertake detailed engineer-
ing on the appropriate flood control and drainage works for the Glapan-Sedadi,
Juana, Welahan and Serang coastal areas. Draft TOR for consulting services
are shown in Attachment II. P3SA, an executive body within DGWRD, would
supervise the consultants' work. In line with the Government's policy of
upgrading the capability of local consultants, foreign consulting firms would
be encouraged to associate with local firms. The consultants would be re-
tained for two years and, out of the estimated total of 800 man-months of
consulting services required, 400 man-months would be for expatriates and home
office staff; 400 man-months, for local consultants.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Drainage and Inspection Roads
4.        In the coastal plains of the Ciudjung, Cisedane, Glapan-Sedadi,
Pemali-Comal (Java), and Sadang (South Sulawesi) irrigation systems, some
40,000 ha of low-lying lands presently suffer from flooding, and are in-
accessible in the wet season, and part of the dry season due to the poor
quality of the roads and paths. As a result, crop losses are high and fish
and farm products are marketed at great expense and difficulty. To remedy
the situation, PROSIDA undertook a feasibility study on the coastal drainage
works and inspection roads for these areas with the intention of including
them in the present project. Due to the incomplete preparation of surveys
and engineering designs, however, these works were excluded from the project.
PROSIDA is currently completing the studies. Consultants to be engaged under
the project would review PROSIDA's studies, undertake detailed engineering and
prepare the works for execution under a forthcoming project. Draft TOR for
consulting services are presented in Attachment III. The consultants would be
supervised by PROSIDA and would be engaged for a period of 18 months. It is
estimated that out of the 400 man-months of consulting services required, 100
man-months would be for expatriates and home office staff, and 300 man-months,
for local consultants.
Tidal Swamp Lands Development
5.        The Government of Indonesia plans to develop one million hectares
of tidal swamp lands in Sumatera and Kalimantan under the second and third
five-year plans, of which about 250,000 ha would be developed under Pelita II.
Some 35,000 ha of pilot projects at five locations have been developed to
date and transmigrants from Java and Bali settled on farms of about 2 ha
each. GOI has asked Bank assistance in preparing a feasibility study for de-
velopment under Pelita III of a gross area of 200,000 ha in South Sumatera
province and 100,000 ha in Jambi province of Sumatera. Because of the com-
plex relationships of soils, topography, tidal ranges and salinity, the study
would be conducted over a 24-month period of which the first half would be
devoted mainly to collection and interpretation of physical data and es-
tablishment of physical parameters for development.
6.        Foreign consultants would be employed to assist the DGWRD in execut-
ing the study, coordinating study inputs and strengthening P4S, the executive
body within DGWRD that will implement the study, by building up its capability
in engineefing design and preparation of projects for further development of
tidal swamp lands. The bulk of the investigations to be carried out under
the study, however, would be carried out by contract with local consultants.
The consultants would inventory a gross area of 300,000 ha, prepare a master
plan and feasibility study for a net area, probably in the order of one-third
to one-half the gross area, and prepare detailed engineering designs suitable J
for tender or start of force account construction for some 20,000 ha best
suited for initial development. About 500 man-months of consulting services
would be required, of which 100 man-months would be for foreign consultants,
office staff; 400 man-months, for local consultants. Additional details are in
Annex I5.



ANNEX 5
Attachment I
Page 1
TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT
Draft Terms of Reference for Local Consultants
Introduction
1.        PROSIDA and the Jatiluhur Authority would undertake tertiary de-
velopment 1/ on 75,00 ha and 25,000 ha of their respective project areas.
Tertiary systems would average about 150 ha while quaternary units would be
10-15 ha each. Below the quaternary canals, water delivery would still
be on a field-to-field basis. Tertiary systems would be constructed in
areas where there is a reasonably good supply and water control in the
secondary canal, no flooding occurs, the farmers agree to the construction
of tertiaries at reduced wage rates (aided self-help), agricultural sup-
porting services would be available, and the potential for double cropping
exists. To facilitate design and construction and to promote good water
management during operation, tertiary systems would be constructed in blocks
of at least four tertiary units each (about 600 ha). Wherever possible,
even larger blocks would be constructed. Farmers in these blocks should
be willing to joinl water-user associations and construct tertiaries at
reduced wage rates.
2.        GOI would engage the services of local consultants under terms
of reference and conditions approved by IBRD to design the tertiary systems
and assist PROSIDA and the Jatiluhur Authority in supervising construction.
The services of consultants would extend over a 4-year period.
Scope of Services
3.        The consultants' duties shall be as follows:
(a) review and modify, where necessary, standard designs and
working drawings for tertiary and quaternary canals, drains,
division boxes and inspection roads;
(b) determine size and select contiguous areas over which
tertiary development would be carried out in each sub-
project;
(c)  prepare map layout of on-farm works on selected areas,
identify ownership of plots of land traversed and, in
consultation with farmers, check workability of system
before finalizing the scheme;
1/   Tertiary development consists of the construction of tertiary and
quaternary canals and drains and inspection roads.



ANNEX 5
Attachment I
Page 2
(d) assist in supervising field layout and construction of
canals and structures, including earthwork undertaken by
farmers;
(e) investigate the additional telephone communication re-
quirements of the PROSIDA sub-projects and prepare pro-
posals for suitable networks; and
(f) prepare designs of water measuring devices for main canal
intakes and major secondary canal bifurcations and modify
designs of major gates and structures to facilitate the
raising and closing of gates with motor-driven devices.
4.        Particular emphasis shall be placed on the design of tertiary and
quaternary division boxes and other canal structures, about 9,000 of which
would be constructed in the project areas. These structures should give
satisfactory hydraulic performance at reasonable cost and a minimum amount
of maintenance during operation. Current designs of outlet transitions
adopted for canal structures in pilot tertiary projects, which were observed
to require frequent maintenance due to undercutting of the soil behind the
transitions should be able to adapt to changes in the regime of the canals
they serve without being damaged. A transition with slightly flared and
tapered vertical wingwalls, which was developed by Prosida and model-
tested at the hydraulics laboratory in Bandung with promising results,
should be field-tested thoroughly and used extensively in the project areas
if found satisfactory.
5.        The tertiary systems shall be arranged to suit, as far as possible,
the topography, existing irrigation, road and drainage networks, and village
and ownership boundaries. The water surface in the quaternaries shall be
designed to be 10-15 cm higher than field level. Tertiary and quaternary
canal lengths shall be kept within 2.5 km and 0.5 km, respectively. Water
shall be drawn exclusively from quaternary canals through plastic or bamboo
pipes, except in cases where strict adherence to this would result in the
provision of multiple parallel channels. Field to field irrigation shall
be limited to 6-10 fields and no field shall be more than 300 m from a
quaternary turnout. Wherever practicable, drainage water shall be col-
lected and redistributed to lower parts of the system. The internal drains
shall be designed to prevent flooding for more than 72 hours, based on a
rainfall that would not be exceeded in 4 out of 5 years. The distribution
canals shall be designed to deliver the peak dry season requirement of about
1.3 liters per second per ha. Inspection roads on canal embankments shall
be designed for motorcycles and three-wheeled vehicles. The filling and
compaction of canal embankments by hand methods shall be thorough enough
to allow passage of these vehicles without sloughing.



ANNEX 5
Attachment I
Page 3
6.        The preliminary layout of each tertiary system shall be checked
for workability and practicability with farmers in the system concerned. The
constructive suggestions of farmers shall be considered before finalizing
the layout of the system.
Services to be Provided by GOI
7.        Services and facilities that would be made available to the con-
sultants would include the following:
(a) counterpart professional and clerical staff, as may be
required, for the proper execution and coordination of the
consultants' duties;
(b) suitably ifurnished office spaces near the project areas and
reasonably furnished quarters or compensation therefore;
(c) service vehicles including drivers and the cost of maintenance
and operation required in the conduct of official duties.
Consultants would import duty free the vehicles and equipment
required for start-up after prudent shopping;
(d) all available studies, data, photographs, surveys, maps,
drawings and other information pertinent to the execution
of the consultants' work; and
(e) telephone, telegraph, postal expenses, printing and repro-
ductions required by the consultants in the performance of
the work.
Procedure for Submitting Proposals
8.        Consulting firms invited to submit proposals are requested to
provide in detail the following:
(a) description of the firm, including its background and ex-
perience in the work described above, list of past and
present contracts for work of similar nature with a brief
description of each, the scope of consultancy services
undertaken and qualifications of key personnel;
(b) composition of the team to be assigned to the project,
indicating the positions and detailed job description
for each of the names, qualifications and professional
experience of each expert to be assigned to the positions;
(c) terms and conditions under which the duties and responsi-
bilities describod in paragraph 3 through 6 above would be
carried out;



ANNEX 5
Attachment I
Page 4
(d) proposed schedule of personnel assignments and an estimate
of the number of man-months;
(e) category and number of counterpart personnel desired to
be provided by GOI to assist the consultants; and
(f) list of vehicles and equipment anticipated to be required
in carrying out the consultants' responsibilities.
Reporting
9.        The consultants shall prepare and submit a progress report at the
end of each quarter giving a description of the team's activities during the
reporting period and a brief description of the proposed employment of the
team during the subsequent reporting period (20 copies to GOI; 5 copies to
IBRD).



ANNEX 5
Attachment II
Page 1
KEDUNGOMBO DAM AND DOWNSTREAM IMPROVEMENTS
Draft Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
Introduction
1.        The Directorate General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) has
programmed the construction of a storage dam on the Serang River which would
regulate flood flows and provide water supply to permit double cropping of
about 35,000 ha of the service area of the Glapan-Sedadi irrigation system in
Central Java. The project feasibility report was prepared by GOI with the
assistance of Consultants (NEDECO), whose site investigations included 20
exploratory drillings to 60m depth, geologic mapping of the dam and reservoir
sites and exploration of the sources of fill materials for a sand and gravel-
fill dam with a central core. Two damsites on the Serang River at Kedungombo
and Ngrambat, about 1.5 km apart, were investigated. The two sites have
similar hydrologic characteristics and are capable of producing almost identi-
cal benefits. Major differences which could signficantly affect the cost of
the dam lie in the geological structure of the foundation rocks. Additional
geological investigations, design stutdies and comparative cost estimates
would be required to determine the most suitable damsite.
2.        The project features are summarized below:
Dam
Type                          Sand and gravel-fill with central core.
Max. height                   51.5 m
Crest level                   89.5 m
Crest length, dam            775 m
Crest length, dike           280 m
Total volume                   2.5 Mm3
Reservoir
Catchment area               607 Km2
Max. conservation level       85.0 m
Gross storage at El. 85.0  490 Mm3
Area at El. 85.0           3,300 ha
Estimated 30-year siltation 60 Mm3
Hydrology
Annual Runoff (avg.)         725 Mm3
Spillway Design Flood
Peak Discharge            3,900 m3/sec
Volume                  127.5 Mm3



ANNEX 5
Attachment II
Page 2
3.        GOI would engage the services of Consultants under TOR and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank to determine the most suitable damsite. After
the selection of the damsite, detailed designs would be made and tender
documents suitable for international competitive bidding would be prepared.
In addition, the consultants would undertake detailed studies of the Serang
floodway and other alternative flood control and drainage schemes, which
would benefit about 25,000 ha in two valleys below the dam. The studies
would be supervised for the DGWRD by the Directorate of Irrigation (DOI).
The Consultants' services would extend over a 2-year period.
Data and Studies Available to the Consultants
4.        The DOI will make the following studies and data available to
the consultants:
(a) Ngrambat Dam Feasibility Study Report (NEDECO), 1975;
(b) Basic data used in preparing the report; and
(c) Technical Evaluation of Feasibility Studies for
Jragung Dam and Ngrambat Dam (Tudor Engineering Co.)
May 1974.
Selection of Most Suitable Damsite
5.        Additional geological investigations, design studies and cost
estimates would be undertaken to determine the most suitable damsite. Con-
sideration would be given to the most appropriate structures consistent
with the geological and hydrological features of the two sites when costs
of development are compared. The results of these studies would be pre-
sented in a Project Design Report, which would be due nine months after
the consultants commence work.
Design Studies
6.        The following studies would pertain to the design of the dam
and appurtenant works and the safety of the reservoir:
(a) review design of structures proposed in 1975 report and
modify structures where necessary to ensure safety or
achieve savings in cost;
(b) institute and supervise a program of site investigations
designed to remove all major uncertainties regarding the
adequacy of the foundation for all major structures and
provide an adequate basis for final design;
(c) establish earthquake design criteria for the major structures
and determine the need for special provisions in their design;



ANNEX 5
Attachment II
Page 3
(d) investigate sources of construction materials and determine
available quantities, physical and chemical properties and
processing requirements; and
(e) review geological mapping of reservoir site and undertake
any additional mapping required to assess and study remedial
measures required to protect potentially unstable slopes and
possible leakage paths.
Hydrologic Studies
7.        The following studies would pertain to the hydraulic design of the
spillway, diversion tunnel and flood control and drainage schemes downstream
of the dam:
(a) review.and modify, where necessary, the spillway design
flood, construction flood and design floods for the
flood control and drainage schemes downstream, taking
into account the appropriate return periods consistent
with the function and type of construction of the structures
involved;
(b) undertake flood routing studies to determine the required
capacity of the spillway, diversion tunnel and other
downstream river improvements;
(c) review the volume of reserved flood control storage in the
reservoir (available up to March 1) and its effect on the
design capacity of the flood control and drainage schemes
downstream and on the filling of the reservoir at the end
of the wet season of each year;
(d) review the reservoir sedimentation studies and the estimate
of the rate of storage depletion due to reservoir sedumenta-
tion;
(e) review the adequacy of the proposed reservoir outlets to
draw down the reservoir in emergencies, and propose modi-
fications where necessary;
(f) prepare a program for hydraulic model tests on the spill-
way, and assist GOI in supervising the tests; and
(g) determine area of periodically flooded land which would
benefit from proposed flood control and drainage down-
stream of the dam and present and projected states of
agriculture in the benefit area.



ANNEX 5
Attachment II
Page 4
Detailed Design and Tender Documents
8.        After GOI's concurrence with the recommended damsite and the flood
control and drainage schemes for the Glapan-Sedadi, Juana, Welahan and Serang
coastal areas, the consultants would prepare contract designs, specifications,
bills of quantities and tender documents suitable for international competi-
tive bidding. The consultants would assist GOI in the prequalification of
bidders, invitations to tender and in the evaluation of bids received. Some
of the above design and hydrologic studies would be continued where necessary
to provide additional information needed for design purposes. Cost esti-
mates would be developed in more detail to provide GOI with an "Engineer's
Estimate" prior to the receipt of bids.
Consulting Services During Construction
9.        Depending upon the satisfactory execution of the above services,
it is GOI's policy to extend the tenure of the consultants under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank to prepare the construction drawings,
supervise construction and prepare as-built drawings.
Services to be Provided by GOI
10.       Services and facilities that would be made available to the con-
sultants would include the following:
(a) counterpart professional and clerical staff, as may be
required, for the proper execution of the consultants'
duties;
(b) suitably furnished office space in Semarang including
adequate office equipment and supplies that may be re-
quired for the proper execution of the consultants' work.
Temporary office space would be provided at the site;
(c) housing at or near the damsite for personnel assigned to
the field. Reasonably furnished living quarters or com-
pensation, therefore, would be provided for the consul-
tants' personnel in Semarang;
(d) service vehicles including drivers and the cost of main-
tenance and operation required in the conduct of official
duties. Vehicles and equipment required for start-up would
be provided by consultants;
(e) all available studies, data, photographs, maps, drawings,
reports and other information pertinent to the execution
of the consultants' work;
(f) such available laboratory facilities, drilling equipment,
testing devices, apparatus, instruments, etc., that may be
required by consultants in relation to studies and tests; and



ANNEX 5
Attachment II
Page 5
(g) telephone, telegraph, cable and postage expenses required
by consultants in the performance of the work.
11.       GOI will exempt or bear the cost of any taxes, duties, fees, levies
and other impositions imposed on the consultants' personnel (other than
personnel who are citizens or permanent residents of Indonesia) under the
laws and regulations of Indonesia or any political subdivision or agency
thereof in respect: of:
(a) any payments made to the consultants' personnel in con-
nection with carrying out the agreed services; and
(b) any equipment, materials and supplies brought into Indo-
nesia for purposes of carrying out the services and which,
after having been brought into Indonesia, will subsequently
be withdrawn therefrom. Such importations shall include
personal and household effects of the consultants' per-
sonnel, but shall be exclusive of foodstuffs, beverages
and autolmobiles.
12.       GOI will also:
(a) facilitaite prompt clearance through customs of any equip-
ment, malerials or supplies required for the services and
of the personal effects of the consultants' personnel;
(b)  ensure that the consultants' personnel and their dependents
are promptly provided with any necessary entry and exit
visas, re!sidence permits, exchange permits and travel docu-
ments required for their stay in Indonesia; and
(c) issue all necessary permits and authorizations for carrying
out the services.
Procedure for Submitting Proposals
13.       Consulting firms invited to submit proposals are requested to
provide in detail the following:
(a)  description of the firm, including its background and
experience in the work described above; list of past
and present contracts for work of similar nature with
a brief description of each and the scope of consultancy
services undertaken; and qualifications of key person-
nel;
(b)  composition of the team to be assigned to the project
both in the field and in the home office, indicating
the positions and detailed job description for each
and the names, qualifications and professional experi-
ence of each expert to be assigned to the positions;



ANNEX 5
Attachment II
Page 6
(c) terms and conditions under which the duties and responsi-
bilities described in paragraphs 5 through 8 above would
be carried out;
(d) proposed schedule of personnel assignments and an estimate
of the number of man-months;
(e) category and number of counterpart personnel and other local
staff desired to be provided by GOI to assist the consultants;
(f) arrangements consultants will make to utilize local expertise.
The policy of GOI is to utilize the services of local consul-
tants to the maximum degree in project planning, design and
supervision. The degree to which expertise will be utilized
will be a factor in the evaluation of the proposal; and
(g) list of vehicles and equipment anticipated to be required in
carrying out the consultants' responsibilities.
General
14.       The following general remarks are given for the consultants' con-
sideration in the preparation of his proposal:
(a) in all aspects of the work the consultants shall make the
greatest possible effort to initiate transfer of knowledge
and experience and provide on-the-job training to Indonesian
project personnel;
(b) the consultants shall provide all translation services
necessary to accomplish the required engineering services;
(c) the consultants shall provide calculators, drafting equip-
ment and reproduction facilities for their own use;
(d) the consultants' expatriate project personnel should adapt
themselves as quickly as possible to the local living and
working conditions;
(e) the metric system shall be exclusively applied in all design
works, drawings and calculations. Technical reports shall be
submitted in English and Indonesian. Descriptive letterings
in drawings shall be printed or written in English and
Indonesian;
(f) proficiency in English is essential for all members of
the consultants' team; and



ANNEX 5
Attachment II
Page 7
(g) periodic inspection visits to Indonesia should be made by
senior officials of the consulting firm during the course
of the assignment. One of them should be designated as the
project sponsor.
Reporting
15.       The consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports,
identifying the source of information and data and stating the countepart
contribution:
(a) a progress report at the end of each quarter, giving a
description of the team's activities during the reporting
period, a summary of interim findings and brief descrip-
tion of the proposed employment of the team during the
subsequent reporting period (20 copies to GOI, five copies
to IBRD);
(b) a Project Design Report due nine months after commencement
of work, presenting his findings, recommendations, justifica-
tion for htis choice of the damsite and the appropriate struc-
tures at the chosen damsite; and
(c) a Project Design report on the flood control and drainage works
downstream of the dam, due 12 months after the consultants
commence work.



ANNEX 5
Attachment III
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
COASTAL DRAINAGE AND INSPECTION ROADS
Draft Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
Introduction
1.        In the coastal plains of the Ciujung, Cisedane, Glapan-Sedadi,
Pemali-Comal (Java) and Sadang (South Sulawesi) irrigation systems, some
40,000 ha of low-lying lands are subject to flooding, are inaccessible in
the wet season and are hardly accessible even during the dry season due to
the poor quality of the roads and paths. As a result, inspection and main-
tenance of the irrigation and drainage works as well as the marketing of
fish and farm products has proved extremely difficult. To remedy the situa-
tion, PROSIDA has initiated studies on the additional coastal drainage works
and inspection roads required in these areas.
2.        GOI would engage consultants under TOR and conditions approved by
the Bank to review the studies made by PROSIDA. Particular emphasis would be
placed on the benefit areas, the present state of agriculture in these areas,
the drainage schemes and their estimated construction costs. Subsequent to
this review, the consultants would undertake detailed engineering designs and
prepare tender documents for the execution of the works. The consultants
would be retained for a period of 18 months under the direction of PROSIDA.
Data and Studies Available to the Consultants
3.        GOI would make available all maps, surveys, geological and hydro-
logic studies and reports pertinent to the work prepared by PROSIDA as well
as its consultants under previous rehabilitation projects.
Scope of Services
4.        The following would be required to verify the economic viability of
the proposed works:
(a) review of all existing data, surveys, reports and studies;
(b) collection of additional data, if required;



ANNEX 5
Attachment III
Page 2
(c) review of design discharge of proposed drainage works
taking into account the appropriate return periods consistent
with the type of structures involved and the benefits derived;
(d) review of the benefit areas, the present state of
agriculture in these areas and the projected state of agri-
culture after the construction of the proposed works;
(e) review of preliminary design of structures and cost
estimates; and
(f) review of economic justification of the proposed works.
5.        Following review by the Bank and subject to the economic justifica-
tion of the proposed works, the consultants would undertake the following
services:
(a) prepare detailed designs of the coastal drainage works and
inspection roads in each sub-project;
(b) prepare tender documents for the works; and
(c) develop cost estimates in more detail to provide GOI with
an "Engineer's Estimate" prior to the receipt of bids.
Services to be Provided by GOI
6.        Services and facilities that would be made available to the con-
sultants would include the following:
(a)  counterpart professional and clerical staff, as may be
required, for the proper execution of consultants' duties;
(b) suitably furnished office space in Jakarta including ade-
quate office equipment and supplies that may be required
for the proper execution of the consultants' work;
(c) housing at or near the project areas for personnel assigned
to the field. Reasonably furnished living quarters or com-
pensation, therefore, would be provided for the consultants'
personnel zin Jakarta;
(d) service vehicles including drivers and the cost of maintenance
and operation required in the conduct of official duties;
(e) all available studies, data, photographs, maps, drawings,
reports and other information pertinent to the execution of
the consultants' work;



ANNEX 5
Attachment III
Page 3
(f) such available laboratory facilities, testing devices, ap-
paratus, instruments, etc., that may be required by con-
sultants in relation to studies and tests; and
(g) telephone, telegraph, cable and postage expenses required by
consultants in the performance of the work.
7.        GOI will exempt or bear the cost of any taxes, duties, fees, levies
and other impositions imposed on the consultants' personnel (other than per-
sonnel who are citizens or permanent residents of Indonesia) under the laws
and regulations of Indonesia or any political subdivision or agency thereof
in respect of:
(a) any payments made to the consultants' personnel in connec-
tion with carrying out the agreed services; and
(b) any equipment, materials and supplies brought into Indonesia
for purposes of carrying out the services and which, after
having been brought into Indonesia, will subsequently be
withdrawn therefrom. Such importations shall include the
personal and household effects of the consultants' person-
nel, but shall be exclusive of foodstuffs, beverages and
automobiles.
8.        GOI will also:
(a) facilitate prompt clearance through customs of any equipment, ma-
terials or supplies required for the services and of the personal
effects of the consultants' personnel;
(b) ensure that the consultants' personnel and their dependents are
promptly provided with any necessary entry and exit visas,
residence permits, exchange permits and travel documents re-
quired for their stay in Indonesia; and
(c) issue all necessary permit and authorizations for carrying out
the services.
Procedures for Submitting Proposals
9.        Consulting firms invited to submit proposals are requested to pro-
vide in detail the following:
(a) description of the firm, including its background and experi-
ence in the work described above; list of past and present
contracts for work of similar nature with a brief description
of each and the scope of consultancy services undertaken; and
qualifications of key personnel;



ANNEX 5
Attachment III
Page 4
(b) composition of the team to be assigned to the project both in
the field and in the home office, indicating the positions and
detailed job description for each and the names, qualifications
and professional experience of each expert to be assigned to the
positions;
(c) terms and conditions under which the duties and responsi-
lities described in paragraphs 4 and 5 above would be carried
out;
(d) proposed schedule of personnel assignments and an estimate of
the number of man-months;
(e) category and number of counterpart personnel and other local
staff desired to be provided by GOI to assist the consultants;
(f) arrangements consultants will make to utilize local expertise.
The policy of GOI is to utilize the services of local consult-
ants to the maximum degree in project planning, design and
supervision. The degree to which such expertise will be
utilized will be a factor in the evaluation of the proposal;
and
(g) list of vehicles and equipment anticipated to be required in
carrying out the consultants' responsibilities.
General
10.       The following general remarks are given for the consultants' con-
sideration in the preparation of his proposal:
(a) in all aspects of the work the consultants shall make the
greatest possible effort to initiate transfer of knowledge
and experience and provide on-the-job training to Indonesian
project personnel;
(b)  the consultants shall provide all translation services neces-
sary to accomplish the required engineering services;
(c)  the consultants shall provide calculators, drafting equipment
and reprocLuction facilities for their own use;
(d)  the consultants' expatriate project personnel should adapt
themselves as quickly as possible to the local living and
working conditions;
(e) the metric system shall be exclusively applied in all design
works, drawings and calculations. Technical reports shall
be submitted in English and Inrdonesian. Descriptive letter-
ing in drawings shall be printed or written in English and
Indonesian;



ANNEX 5
Attachment III
Page 5
(f) proficiency in English is essential for all members of the
consultants' team; and
(g) periodic inspection visits to Indonesia should be made by
senior officials of the consulting firm during the course
of the assignment. One of them should be designated as the
project sponsor.
Reporting
11.       The consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports,
identifying the source of information and data and stating the counterpart
contribution:
(a) a progress report at the end of each quarter, giving a
description of the team's activities during the reporting
period, a summary of interim findings and a brief descrip-
tion of the proposed employment of the team during the sub-
sequent reporting period (20 copies to GOI, five copies
to IBRD); and
(b) a Project Feasibility Report due eight months after com-
mencement of work, presenting their review findings, recom-
mendations and justification for the proposed works.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
Page l
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Estimated Consulting Requirements
Man-Months
1/
I.  Tertiary Development (100,000 ha)-
Team Leader                                                     45
Design Engineers (20)                                          90C
Draftsmen (20)                                                 800
Construction Engineers (7)                                     255
TotaL Yanpower Requirements&/                       2,000
II. North Sadang Irrigation System
A.  Expatriates
Team Leader                                                 18
Planning Ehgineer                                            8
Hydrologist                                                  5
Flood Control Engineer                                      10
THydraulic Engineer                                          6
Irrigation Engineer                                          7
Home Office Support                                          6
Sub--Total                                              60
B. Local Consultants
Design Engineers (5)                                       100
Draftsmen (6)                                              140
Sub-Total                                              240
Total Manpower Requirements2/                          300
1/  Consultants will prepare design and construction drawings for about 150,000 ha
to enable implementing agencies to select development priorities according to
criteria in para 4.02.
2/  Presented for estimating purposes only.  GOI or the consultants may vary
these figures.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
Page 2
Man-Months
III.  Kedungombo Dam & Improvements Downstream
A. Expatriates
Team Leader                                                 26
3ngineering Geologist                                      19
Planning Engineer                                           24
Design Engineers (4)                                        92
Hydrologist                                                 24
Flood Control Engineer                                      26
Hydraulic Ehgineer                                          26
Irrigation Engineer                                         36
Specifications Engineer                                     15
Cost Estimator                                              25
Home Office Support                                         87
Sub-Total
B. Local Consultants
Design Rigineers (10)                                      240
Draftsmen (8)                                              160
Sub-Total                                             4O0
Total Manpower R1quirementol/                         800
1/ Preseffted for estimating purpose. only. GOI or the consultants may vary
thes. figures.



A1UNEX5
Table 1
Page 3
Man-Months
IV. Drainage & Insection Roads, PROSIDA
A. Expatriates
Team Leader                                                18
Planning Eagineer                                          12
Geologist                                                   8
Drainage Bagineer                                          16
Hydrologist                                                12
Design Engineer                                            12
Specifications Engineer                                     8
Cost Estimator                                             8
Home Office Support                                         6
Sub-Total                                            100
B. Local Consultants
Deaign &igineers (8)                                      130
Draftsmen (10)                                            170
Sub-Total                                            300
Total Ymanpower Requirements,!/                      400
1/ Presented for estimating purposes only. GOI or the consultants may vary
these figures.



ANNEX 6
Table 1
InDC?IEsIk                              Page 1
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Cost Estimate 
Foreign
Echange
Local   Fbreiln  Total    Local  Foreiz   Total   Componan
(Rp Milnion) ------ --T                ion            ----(7X T-
I.Tortl~ar Devel2pment. PROSIDA
Civ'il W6brks (75,000 ha):
Earthwork V,/               1,030      260    1,290    2.5      0.6     3.1         20
Structures                    540      540    1,080    1.3      1.3     2.6        50
Mapping & Surveys              160     63       790   20.4      1 .5    19          80
Sub-Tbtal             1,730   1,430    3,160    4.2       3.4     7.6        45
Land Acquisition W               955     -        955    2.3       -      2.3          0
0&M During Construction           85      40      125    0.2      0.1     0.3         30
Administration & Supervision    140       25      165    0.3      0.1     0.4         15
Consulting Services /730                 185      915    1.8      0.4     2.2         20
Sub-Total             3,640   1,680    5,320    8.8       4.0    12.8        31
Vehicles & Equipment  /          -       205      205      -      0.5     0.5        100
Base Cost             3,640   1,885    5,525    8.8       4.5    13.3         34
Physical Contingencies, 15%      550     280      830    1.3      0.7     2.0         34
ixpected Price Increases Z/   1.205      620    1,825    2.9      1       h..         34
Tbtal                 5,395   2,785    8,180   13.0       6.7    19.7        34
fI. Tertia  Devel pgeut, Jatiluhur
Civil Works (25,000 ha):
Earthwork 2/                   330      85      415    o.8      0.2     1.0         20
Structures                    190      185      375    0.5      0.4     0.9        50
Mapping & Surveys  /           175     695      870             1.7     2.1         80
Sub-Tbtal               695      965    1,660    1.7      2.3     4.0        58
Land Acquisition  /              330     -        330    0.8       -      0.8          0
O&M During Construction           30      10       40    0.1       _      0.1         30
Administration & Supervision      25      15       40    0.1       -      0.1         15
Consulting Services  0/                   LO      250    0.5      0.1     o.6         20
Sub-Total             1,280   1,040    2,320    3.2       2.4     5.6        25
Vehicles & Equipment                      44 -  40  0      -      0.1     0.1        100
Base Cost             1,280   1,080    2,360    3.2       2.5     5.7        44
Physical Contingencies, 15%      210     165      375    0.5      0.4     0.9         44
Expected Price Increases 1/   JL.    350          790    1.1      0.8     1.9         44
Total                 1,930   1,595    3,525    4.8      3.7      8.5        44



ANNEX 6
Table 1
Page 2
Foreign
E2xabange
Local   Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Component
--- (p 7Mllion) -      -      -7    MilionF -   -    -
III. North Sadana Irrigation System, PROSIDA
Civil Works (6,OCO)t
Preliminary Woriks              30      10        40    0.1      -       0.1        30
Main Canal                     145     145       290    0.4     0.3      0.7        50
Secondary Canals               435     190       625    1.0     0.5      1.5        30
Irrigation Structures          105     105       210    0.2     0.3      0.5        50
Tertiary Development           230     100       330    o.6     0.2      0.8        30
Primary & Secondary Drains    310      310       620    0.7     0.8      1.5        50
Drainage Structures            125     125       250    0.3     0.3      o.6        50
Inspection Roads                                 210    0.      0.2      9*    5   40
Sub-Total              1,505   1,070    2,575    3.6      2.6      6.2        42
Land Acquisition V               165     -         165    0.4      -       o.4         0
O(M During Construction           55      25        80    0.1     0.1      0.2        30
Administration& Supervision    105        20       125    0.3       -      0.3         15
Consulting Services 21           100   J           290    0.2     0.5      -7        65
Sub-Total             1,930   1,515    3,235    4.6       3.2     7.8         41
Vehicles & Equip snt g           -       210       210     -      0.5      0         100
Base Cost              1,930   1,515    3,445    4.6      3.7      8.3        45
Physical Contingenicies, 20%     410     335       745    0.9     0.9      1.8         45
Expected Price Increases 7/      685   __16      1.245    1.6     1.4     3.0         45
Total                 3,025   2,410    5,435    7.1       6.o    13.1         45
IV. Studies & Detailed ]hgineering
Associated Works, P3SA            80      85       165    0.2      0.2     0.4         50
Consulting Services:
Kedungombo Dam Ac Down-
stream Improvements,
P3SA                      500   1,160    1,660    1.2      2.8      4.0        70
Drainage & Inspection
Roads, PROSIDA            190     350       540    0.5     0.8      1.3        65
Tidal Reclamatic, P4S         920     615   j          2.2      1.5   3.7           40
Base Cost              1,690   2,210    3,900   4h1       5.3      9.4        56
Physical Contingencies           110     140       250    0.3      0.3     o.6         56
Expected Price Increases         40      510   9 10  1.0           1.2     2.2         56
Total                  2,200   2,860    5,060    5.h      6.8    12.2         56



A2NNl   6
Table 1
Page 3
Foreign
Exchange
Local   Forei-n  Total    Local  Fr.rei.  
--- (Rp- N5ll-ion) ---        7U4 -=i3aoT -- (%- -    M --
V. Niacellaneous Works & Services
Civil Works s
Gate Modifications, PROSIDA      175     405       580    0.h     1.0      1.4        70
Mbauuring Devices, PROSIDA       200                 ,   0.5      1.1      1.6        70
Sub-Total               375      870    1,245    0.9      2.1     3.0         70
Training:
PROSIDA                           50     115       165    0.1     0.3      0.4        70
Jatiluhur Authority               40      85       125    0.1     0.2      0.3        70
Sub-Total               465   1,070    1,535    1.1       2.6      3.7        70
Telephone Conmmunications
Equipment, PROSIDA             85     330       41     0.2     0.8      1.0        80
Base Cost                550   1,400    1,950    1.3      3.4      4.7        72
Physical Contingencies              60     150       210    0.1     0.4      0.5         72
Expected Price Increases              O    222              2.      092    _.3i          72
Total                    760   1,940    2,700    1.8      4.7      6.5        72
GRAND TOTAL           13.310  11.590   24o    32.1    27.9    60.0
/  Based on end-1975 prices updated to mid-1976 prices.
B Based on paying farmers Rp 150/day.
/  Photogrammetric mapping being done under Loan 1100-IND.  Photo mosaics and ground surveys
on 580,000 ha to be done under the project.
/ Land valued at Rp 50/m2 ($1,200/ha).
J/ Based on preparing design and construction drawings for 150,000 ha at billing rates of
$1,500/man-month for local engineers and $450/man-month for local draftsmen, and includes
consultants'specialized equipment and miscellaneous expenses.
f See Annex 5, Table 4.
7/ See Table 2.
W To be done under the project on gross area of about 250,000 ha.
2/  Includes services based on billing rates of $6,000-$7,000/man-month for expatriates,
$1,200-$1 ,500/man-month for local engineers and $450/man-month for local draftsmen;
vehicles and specialized equipment to be procured by consultants; and miscellaneous
expenses,



ANNE 6
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
sEcted Price Increases
Indonesian Fiscal Year            Tbtal
1976-77   1977-78   1978-79   1927-80   cost
_____________- __(%) --_____________
Annual Inflation Rate1i/
Civil Works                                     13        12        12        11
Equipment & Services                             9         8         8         7.5
----------------(S$ Million)----------
I. Tertiary Development, PROSIDA
Civil Works                               0.1        0.8       1A4       1.6       3.9
Equipment & Services                       -         0.1       0.2       0.2
Total                           0.1       0.9        1.6       1.8      4.4
II. Tertia 7Development, Jatilubur
Clvi  Works  -                       -         0.3       0.5       0.9       1.7
Equipment & Services                        -         -        0.1       0.1       0.2
Total                            -         0.3       0.6       1.0       1.9
mI. North Sadang Irrigation System, PROSIDA
C Workis   -                              0.1        0.5       1.0       1.2       2.8
Equipment & Services                        -        0.1        -        0.1       0.2
Total                           0.1       o.6        1.0       1.3      3.0
IV. Studies & Detailed Engineering
Civil Works                                -          -        0.1        -        0.1
Equipment & Servicies                       -        0.8       1.3        -        2.1
Total                            -        0.8        1.4        -       2.2
V. Miscellaneous Works & Services
Civil Works, PROS A                       0.1        0.2       0.3       0.4       1.0
Equipment & Services                       -         0.1       0.1       0.1       0.3
Total                           0.1        0.3       0.4       0.5      1.3
GRAND TOTAL                     0.3        2.9       5         4.6     12.8
/ Calculated by compounCing estimated rate of price increase in prior year and one-half
the rate of increase in year concerned.



ANNEX 6
Table3
INDONESIA                             Page 1
IRRIGATIOI PROJECT VII
Proposed Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Cost         Loan
Total  Foreign   Amount
-(Uoi----- 
I. Civil Works for Tertiary Networks:
PROSIDA 2/                          6.5      2.1      4.6
Jatiluhur Authority                 1.9      o.6      1.3
Physical Contingencies              0.5       0.2      -
Expected Price Increases            1.0    0.3
Sub-Total                   9.9       3.2     5.9  /
II. Other Civil Works:
PROSIDA g/                           9.4      5.3     6.9
P :WSA                              0.4      0.2       0.3
P%ysical Contingencies              1.1      0.5       -
Eiected Price Increases             1.2       .
Sub-Total                  12.1      6.5      7.2 h
III. Vehicles & Equipmentt:
PROSIDA                              1.0     1.0       1.1
Jatiluhur Authority                 0.1      0.*1     0.1
Physical Contingencies               -         -        -
Expected Price Increases            0.1       0.1
Sub-Total                   1.2      1.2       1.2
IVY Consulting Services:
Tertiary Development, North Sadang
& Drainage Project, PROSIDA     4.2      1.7      3.8
Tertiary Development, Jatiluhur     0.6      0.1      0.5
Kedungombo Dam & Dowstream
Improvements,, P3SA            4.0       2.8     3.6
Tidal Reclamation Project, P4S      3.7      1.5      3.3
Physical Contingencies                -       -        -
Expected Price Increases            1 .5     1 .0 
Sub-Total                  14.0      7.1    11 .2 /
V. Mapping & Suareys:
PROSIDA                              1.9      1.5     2.0
Jatiluhur Authority                 2.1      1.7      2.2
Physical Contingencies              0.4      0.3       -
Expected Price Increases            0.8      0.6
Sub-Total                   5.2      4.1      4.2 11



ANEX 6
Table 3
Page 2
Cost          Loan
Total   Forei     Amount
US$-    NillionT
VI. Training:
PROSIDA                               0.4      0.3      0.3
Jatiluhur Authority                   0.3      0.2      0.2
Physical Contingencies                 -        -        -
Expected Price Increases                        -
Sub-Total                    0.7       0.5      0.5  /
VII. Unallocated:
Balance of Physical Contingencies    3.8       1.7       0.9
Balance of Expected Price
Increa!ses                       8.2      3.3      1.9
Land Acquisition                      3.5       -         -
O&M During Construction               0.6      0.2
Administration & Supervision          _        0.1        -
Sub-Total                    16.9      5.3      2.8
Total                       60.0       2 .9      ,
1/  Includes tertiaries in PROSIDA systems and in North Sadang.
/ Includes North Sadang, gate modifications, measuring devices and
telephone oomDminications network on PROSIDA systems.
/ Disbursements will be 60% of total expenditures.
y/ Disbursements lwill be 60% of total expenditures.
5/ Disbursements will be 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported goods and equipment, 95% of ex-factory costs for locally
manufactured equipment, 65% of total expenditures for locally
procured importled goods and equipment, excluding vehicles, and
40% of total exqpenditures for locally assembled vehicles.
f/ Disbursements wll be 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of
total expenditures.
7/ Disbursements will be 80% of total expenditures.
./ IDisbursements w.L2. be 100% of foreign expenditures. During nego-
tiations, representatives of the concerned agencies agreed to
share training funds as follows: PROSIDA, US$0.25 million;
Jatiluhur Authcrity, US$0.15 million; and P3SA, US$0.10 mllion.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Schedule of Ependitures
Indonesian Fiscal Year                   Total
Item                          1976-77      1977-78       1978-79      1979-80      Cost
__                    (J-----(US$ Million)--
I. Tertiary Development, PROSIDA                  2.2           5.6          6.3          5.6         19.7
II. Tertiary Development, Jatiluhur                0.9           2.2          2.9          2.5          8.5
III. North Sadang Irrigation System, PROSIDA        1.3           3.7          4.0          4.1        13.1
IV. Studies and Detailed Engineering               0.7           6.3          5.2           -          12.2
V. Miscellaneous Works & Services                 0.8           2.0          2.0          1.7          6.5
Total                                ___         i2A           2h            13.2 9



ANNEX 7
Table 2
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Schedule of Expenditures
Indonesian Fiscal Year             Total
1976-77   1977-78  197-79   1979-80   Cost
-- -         --(U s$ Million)----------------
I. Tertiary Development, PROSIDA
Civil Works                                  0.8        2.2        2.5        2.1      7.6
Land Acquisition                             0.5        0.8        0.7        0.3       2.3
O&M During Construction                        -         -         0.1        0.2      0.3
Administration & Supervision                   -        0.1        0.1        0.2       0.4
Sub-Total                          1.3        3.1       3.4        2.8      10.6
Consulting Services                          0.4        0.7        0.7        0.4       2.2
Vlehicles & Equipment                        0.2        0.3         _          -        0.5
Base Cost                          1.9       4.1        4.1        3.2      13.3
Physical Contingencies, 15%                   0.2       o.6        0.6        0.6       2.0
Expected Price Increases                      0.1       0.9        1.6        1.8       4.4
Total                              2.2       5.6        6.3        5.6      19.7
II. Tertiary Development, Jatiluhur
Civil Works                                  o.4        1.1        1.3        1.2       4.0
Land Acquisition                             0.2        0.2        0.3        0.1       0.8
O&M During Construction                        -         -          -         0.1      0.1
Administration & Supervision                   -         -         0.1         -       0.1
Sub-Total                          0.6       1.3        1.7        1.4       5.0
Consulting Services                          0.1        0.3        0.2         -       0.6
Vehicles & Equipment                           -        0.1         -          -       0.1
Base Cost                          0.7        1.7       1.9        1.4       5.7
Physical Contingenc:ies, 15%                  0.2       0.2        0.4        0.1      0.9
Expected Price Increases                       -        0.3        0.6        1.0      1.9
Total                              0.9       2.2        2.9        2.5       8.5
,ic



ANNEX 7
Table 2
Page 2
Indonesian Fiscal Year             Total
1976-77   1977-78   1978-79   19C9-80   cost
--Tus$ Million)-----
lI. North Sadang Irrigation System, PROSIDA
Civil Works                                  0.6        1.7        2.0        1.9       6.2
Land Acquisition                              0.1       0.1        0.1        0.1       0.4
O&M During Construction                        -          -        0.1        0.1       0.2
Administration & Supervision                   -        0.1        0.1        0.1       0.3
Sub-Total                          0.7        1.9       2.3        2.2       7.1
Consulting Services                          0.1        0.3        0.2        0.1       0.7
Vehicles & Equipment                          0.1       0.3         -          -        0.5
Base Cost                          1.0        2.5        2.5       2.3       8.3
Physical Contingencies, 20%                   0.2       o.6        0.5        0.5       1.8
Expected Price Increases                      0.1       o.6        1.0        1.3       3.0
Total                              1.3        3.7       4.0        4.1      13.1
IV. Studies & Detailed Ebgineerlng
Associated Works                              0.1       0.2        0.1         -        0.4
Consulting Services                          o.5                                        9. o  0 - 
Base Cost                          0.6        5.2       3.6         -        9.
Physical Contingencies, 10%                   0.1       0.3        0.2         -        o.6
Expected Price Increases                       -        0.8        1.4                  2.2
Total                              0.7        6.3       5.2         -       12.2
V. Miscellaneous Works & Services
Civil Works, PROSIDA                          0.3       0.9        0.9        0.9       3.0
Training                                       -        0.2        0.3        0.2      0.7
Equipment                                     0.3       0.5        0.2         -        1.0
Base Cost                          0.6        1.6       1.4        1.1       4.7
Physical Contingencies, 10%                   0.1       0.1        0.2        0.1       0.5
Expected Price Increases                      0.1       _          0          2 05      1.3
Total                              0.8        2.0       2.0        1.7       6.5
GRAND TOTAL                         _        12_8      20.4       13.9      60.0



ANNEX 7
Table 3
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year        Accumulated
& Semester          Disbursements
(US$ M)
1977
1st                     0.2
2nd                     0.8
1978
1st                     1.2
2nd                     349
1 979
1st                     5.0
2nd                    11.9
1980
1 st                   14.0
2nd                    24.4
1981l
1st                    26.7
2nd                    32.4
L9Es 2
1st,                   33.0



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Training
1.        There is a shortage of trained and experienced personnel in almost
all agricultural and irrigation activities in Indonesia. Those trained prior
to World War II are either retired or nearing retirement and there is a
shortage of qualified personnel to replace them and to fill new positions
created to bring the number of staff to the level required to meet the needs
of the various systems. Inspite of the training program started under earlier
Credits, some deficiencies still exist. The present project would continue
the training program to help correct the remaining deficiencies.
Overseas Training
2.        O&M In-Service Training.  Some 20 section and sub-section irriga-
tion engineers would be sent to Malaysia for three months each to work on
selected systems with counterparts of equivalent level. In addition, a
similar batch of irrigation engineers would be sent to Taiwan. Malaysia
and Taiwan would be suitable training countries because of the similarity
of cultural practices and the high standard of O&M activities in these
countries. Slots for about 24 engineers would be allocated to PROSIDA and 16
to the Jatiluhur Authority.
3.        Study Tours.  Six PROSIDA and four Jatiluhur Authority senior irri-
gation engineers would be sent on study tours of two months each to neighbor-
ing countries. The study tours would take place in the early years of project
implementation and the countries covered would be Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia and
the Philippines.
4.        Post Graduate Training.  Six PROSIDA and four Jatiluhur Authority
senior and middle level planning and design engineers would undergo post
graduate training of 12 months each in their particular fields of speciali-
zation in the home offices of selected foreign consultants. Wherever possi-
ble, the training would be supplemented with theoretical courses offered by
nearby universities.
Local Training
5.        O&M In-Service Training.  Training for about 250 irrigation fore-
men and sub-foremen drawn from the PROSIDA and the Jatiluhur Authority
systems would consist of one month of classroom training using audio-
visual systems and equipment, which would be supplied to the Surabaya In-
stitute under Loan 1100-IND, and two months of actual field work, which
would be supervised by O&M experts engaged under Loan 1100-IND.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
6.        Construction Supervision Training.  Training for about 150 con-
struction foremen and sub-foremen nominated by PROSIDA and the Jatiluhur
Authority would include one month training at the Surabaya Institute, using
audiovisual systems and equipment, and two months of actual field work under
the supervision of consultants for the various on-going projects.
7.        Planning and Design In-Service Training.  All contracts for con-
sulting services under the project would contain a clause enjoining the ex-
patriate personnel to train their local counterparts. This practice, which
had been carried out under previous projects, had proved effective in up-
grading the capability of the Indonesian staff.



ANN X'
Table 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Operation and Maintenance
Current Allocation of 0 & M Funds
1.  Civil Works (Repairs done by contract)                           960
2.  Salary Incentives                                                160
3. Purchase of Materials                                             320
4.  Surveys and Design                                                48
5. Miscellaneous                                                     112
Totall/                                             1,600
j/ Given to personnel of executing agencies. Salary incentives are
withdrawn after rehabilitated system is turned over to Provincial
Government.
2/ For estimating extent of maintenance required (desilting, embankment,
reshaping, etc.) and design of damaged structures, if required.
J  From Central Government.  In addition, Provincial Government allocates
Rp 900/ha to cover salaries of personnel above irrigation supervisor,
for a total of Rp 2,500/ha.



Annex 9
Table 2
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Operation and Maintenance
Estimate of Currently Required 0 & M Funds
RD/ha
1.  Salaries, Irrigation Supervisors and below                         873
2.  Annualdesilting                                                    500
3.  Canal repairs, trimming and sodding                                125
4. Maintenance of headworks, structures, gates,
masonry linings, etc.                                          1,115
5.  Transport                                                           50
6.  Administration                                                       37
7. Housing & Office                                                     13
8. Workshops                                                           150
9.  Inspection roads                                                   133
10.  Communications                                                       28
11.  Hydrological Stations                                              110
12.  Maintenance of 'Drainage works                                     670
Sub-Total                                              3,804
13e  Contingencies                                                      196
TotalE                                                4,0002/
1/  Supplied by PROSIDA.
J From Central Government. In addition, Provincial Govermnent allocates
Rp 900/Aa to cover salaries of personnel above irrigation supervisor,
for a total of Rp, 4,900/ha.
3/  May vary by + Rp 500 depending upon size and shape of system.



INDONSIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
OPEaATICNI AND MAINTENANCE
1976/77 Budgetary Allocation for Bank-Assisted ProJects2/
PROSIDA SYSTEMS                      JATILUHUR SYSTEM                  Total
Status of Systems Covered        Area            Allocated Funds       Area             Al3ocated Funds          Fmids
(ha)        (Rp/ha)  (Hp Million)    (ha)         (Rp/ha)   (Rp Million)   (1$ Mili)
Rehabilitated Up to FY 75/76         4 467,935     3,200       1,497.4    218,000         3,800        828.4         2,325.8
Being Rehabilitated in FY 76/77 i/   113,345       1,223         138.6       17,743       1,600         28.4           167.0
Awaiting Rehabilitation              2 221.07L     1,366         302.0       620 O Z/       245         12.2         _     .
Total                      802,354  /                1,938.0     297,743  /                  872.0         2,810.0
/ From Central Government (does not include Provincial Government budget).
g Includes about 67,000 ha outside the Bank-assisted systems.
21 Includes about 45,000 ha outside the Bank-assisted systemw.
ibl Would require full 0&iM funds.
,  Would require operating funds until they are shut down for rehabilitation.
/ Would require operating funds plus funds for urgent repairs to keep systems functioning until they are rehabilitated.
/ Village irrigation systems in the Jatiluhur Extension area whose works would be comnpletely rebuilt.  Low level of funds
to cover relatively small operating cost.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Marketing Prospects and Prices
Market Prospects
1.        One of the basic goals of Government agricultural policy is to
attain self-sufficiency in rice. Although the underlying data are limited,
the Central Bureau of Statistics estimates that rice production grew at an
annual rate of 4.8% from 1968 (11.7 million tons) to 1974 (15.5 million
tons). The government forecasts similar growth during Pelita II (The Second
Five-Year Plan (1974-79), with rice production equalling 18.2 million tons
in 1978/79. The Government has not published an estimate for rice demand
during Pelita II, but local officials estimate that demand will grow at
4% to 18.8 million tons in 1978, the last year of the plan, from a 1971
base of 14.3 million tons.  If this estimate is correct, 600,000 tons of
imports would be needed in 1978 and substantial imports would continue to be
required in subsequent years. Thus, no difficulties are foreseen in market-
ing the additional rice from the project areas.  Much of the incremental
production will be consumed at the farm level, while the remainder wlll be
transported to the rice deficit areas traditionally fed through imports.
Prices
2.        Stabilization Efforts.  Fluctuating seasonal rice/paddy prices are
a major Government concern. Fluctuations are caused by an uneven seaonal
supply plus poor transport facilities between surplus and deficit regions
on the one hand, and a constant demand throughout the year on the other.
Since 1968 the Government Agency, BULOG/DOLOG (Board of Logistics Affairs/
Logistics Depot), has operated a price stabilizatiorn scheme for rice and
paddy. By buying paddy and rice at the village and mill level, and by stock-
piling and/or selling this and imported rice at the wholesale level, BULOG/
DOLOG has maintained a price floor for producers and a price ceiling for
consumers. The Government regulates the floor price to encourage produc-
tion, and the ceiling price to control inflation.
3.        As discussed in the main body of this report, BULOG/DOLOG has a
major problem insuring that farmers receive the floor price for paddy,
particularly during the wet season harvest.  The large volume, excessive
moisture ccntent and/or impurity of the paddy, and insufficient storage
slow down or impede BUUD/KUD purchases. Receotly BULOG/DOLOG and the De-
partment of Cooperatives have taken a number of steps to speed up the
buying of farmers' paddy. These include slightly lowering paddy quality
requirements; buying rice and paddy, reversing an earlier decision tc buy
only paddy; expanding godown building programs at the village, village



ANNEX 10
Page 2
unit, district, and provincial levels; and beginning to construct drying
floors at the village and village unit level. They have also improved the
reporting of prices and stocks to headquarters, made loans for moisture
meters and other equipment to BUUD/KUD's and rice surveyors working for
DOLOG and increased the payment to DOLOG rice surveyors to Rp 100 per ton.
Other changes BULOG/DOLOG has made to increase its efficiency include es-
tablishing a Bureau of Stocks and Preservation to maintain grain stocks
which are now held for an average of six months and establishing a Bureau
of Research and Development to reduce paddy/rice losses after harvest.
Rice Price
4.        Subsidy.  By selling imported and locally procured rice on the
domestic market at below cost, the Government has maintained both the price
floor and ceiling below world market levels since 1968. As a result it has
subsidized consumers in urban and rural deficit areas. Although the govern-
ment has moved to raise domestic prices to world market levels in the last
two years, some subsidy remains. The subsidy in 1976 can be roughly cal-
culated as follows: the Bank's commodity analysts estimate the 1976 price
for Thai rice 5% brokens at $400/ton and 25%-35% brokens at around $190/
ton. Weighting the rice produced by the quality generally produced by Indo-
nesian rice mills and by the Bank analysts' estimated prices results in an fob
Bangkok price of $285/ton. Adding $27 ocean freight and handling charge gives
a price to wholesalers of $312. Assuming the government sells to wholesalers
at Rp 120 (US$0.29) per kg, the subsidy per ton is approximately $23.
5.        Assumptions.  The following assumptions have been used to estimate
present and future farmgate prices in the economic analysis. Because the
Bank projects the world market price of Thai rice to fall at constant 1976
prices, the price of rice of the quality produced by Indonesian mills has
been projected to fall from $285 at present to $250 a ton in the 1980-85
period. The corresponding farmgate prices would fall from Rp 73,700/ton to
Rp 65,000/ton in North Sadang. Urea and phosphate fertilizer prices are also
assumed to fall, in accordance with Bank projections. It has also been
assumed that between 1976 and 1985 the Government would be successful in
raising agricultural prices to a level which equates them and the world
farm gate price. However, because it is expected that the government would
continue to reduce price fluctuations by maintaining floor prices which
apply nationwide, financial farmgate prices may vary slightly from the
economic farmgate price in some areas. Thus, it is estimated that in 1985,
the financial farmgate price in North Sadang will be $157/ton and the eco-
nomic farmgate price will be only $151/ton (in 1976 prices). Tables 1 through
3 show the present and projected price structures for rice, urea, and phos-
phate used in the economic analysis.
Shadow Price for Foreign Exchange
6.        During the analysis of the proposed project, a foreign exchange sha-
dow rate was calculated. The difference between the calculated rate and the
current financial rate is less than 3%. Because the determination of shadow
rates is necessarily imprecise, and since, in this case, the shadow rate had
an insignificant effect on the economic rate of return, the official exchange
rate has been used throughout the analysis.



IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Rice Price Structure, 1976 and 1985
Tertiary Development Areas                    North Sadang
1_976              1985                1976
Rice                            RD2ton   US$/ton   R on          USt   RP /ton   US$/ton   Rp/ton   US$/ton
Export price Thai 5%-1h2% brokens mix fob Barxk      118,275      285    103,750     250    118,275      285    103,750      250
Ocean freight & insurance                              8,700       21      8,700      21       8,700      21       8,700      21
Port handling, storage & transport to wholesalers       2,500       6      2,500        6      2,500       6       2,500       6
Transport mill to wholesaler                           (2,500)     (6)    (2,500)      (6)   (11,600)    (28)   (10,400)    (25)
Rice price ex-mill, project area                     126,975      306    112,450      271    117,875     284    104,550      252
Paddy equivalent price (63% rice recovery)             80,000     193     71,000      171     7h,300     179      65,900     159
Milling costs less value of by-products                 3,000       7      3,000        7      3,000        7      3,000       7
Handling & transport costs, farm to mill                3,300       8      3,000        7        900        2        800       2
Farm-gate paddy price                                  73,700     178     65,000      157     70,400     170      62,100     150
(Financial farm-gate price)2/                   (67,500)   (163)   (65,000)   (157)   (67,500)   (163)   (65,ooo)   (157)
1/  Assumed rice quality:  10% of production, 5% brokens; 60% medium grade, 25%-35% brokens; and 30% lower grade, 42% brokens.
Prices assumed in 1985 (in constant mid-1 976 prices), 5% brokens US$355/ton, 25%-35% brokens US$240/ton and h2% brokens
US$230/ton.
2/ Financial prices lower than economic prices for rice in 1976 reflect the Government's former policy of keeping prices low
internally compared to high world-market prices. As world-market prices fall in real terms, according to Bank commodity
price forecasts, and as the Government raises domestic prices, distortions between internal and world prices are expected
to be eliminated.
MCD



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Urea Price Structure, 1976 and 1985
Tertiary Development Area                       North Sadang
1976                 1905                                 1R
Urea                   Rp/ton    US$/tonq   Rpton           US$/tqn    f/ton    US$/ton    Rp/ton U7 /tm
World export price                    83,000      200      70,550       170      83,000      200      70,550      170
Ocean freight & insurance              8,300       20       2,900        7        8,300       20       3,800        9
Unloading & distribution costs to     14,500       35      14,500        35      15,800       38      14,500       35
BUUD kiosk
Transport, kiosk to farm               3,000        7       3,000        7       1,200         3         850        2
Farm-gate urea price                 108,800      262       90,950      219     108,300      261      89,700      216
(Financial farm-gate price-/    (80,000)    (193)    (90,950)    (219)    (80,000)    (193)    (90,950)    (219)
/ Export price 1976 fob Tokyo; 1985 fob Palembang.
2/ Financial prices lower than economic prices for urea in 1976 reflect the Government's former policy of keeping food
prices low internally compared to high world-market prices. As world-market prices fall in real terms, according
to Bank commodity price forecasts, and as the Government raises domestic prices, distortions between internal and
world prices are expected to be eliminated.
0



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT V[I
T.S.P. Price Structure, 1976 and 1985
Tertiary Development Area                        North Sadang
1976                 1 955C               7179769
T.S.P.                   1  tRp/ton    US$US$/ton   _j/ton    US$/ton  MS$/ton
World export price                     66,400      160       59,000      142      66,400       160      59,ooo       142
Ocean freight & insurance               8,300       20        8,300       20       8,300        20       8,300        20
Unloading & distribution costs to      14,500       35       14,500       35      15,800        38      1h,500        35
BUUD kiosk
Transport, kiosk to farm                3,000        7       3,000         7       1,200         3         850         2
Fariv.T.S.P. price                     92,200      222       84,800      204      91,700       221      82,650       199
1/
(Financial farm-gate price):-   (80,000)    (193)    (84,800)    (20h)    (80,000)    (193)    (84,800)    (204)
1 Financial prices lower than economic prices for T.S.P. in 1976 reflect the Government's former policy of keeping
food prices low internally compared to high world-market prices. As world-market prices fall in real terms,
according to Bank commodity price forecasts, and as the Government raises domestic prices, distortions between
internal and world prices are expected to be eliminated.
0D



ANNEX 11
Page I
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Crop and Farm Budgets
1.        Annex 2 contains the present and projected cropping patterns.
This Annex shows separately for the tertiary development and North Sadang
areas:
(a)  Production costs for types of paddy now planted, and in the
future "with" and "without" the project (Tables 1 and 2).
Present costs and input utilization rates are based on inter-
views with farmers and government officials. In the absence
of the project, little change in the level of inputs is ex-
pected in the North Sadang area. Inputs would increase sub-
stantially in tertiary development areas even without the
project because of the rehabilitation of primary and second-
ary systems now going on under the first four Bank Group
assisted irrigation rehabilitation projects. The input levels
for future "with project" conditions are based on levels
recommended for the BIMAS program, and on the assumption
that some increased mechanization will occur in the North
Sadang area.
(b)  Monthly labor requirements based on cropping calendars for
the wet and dry seasons (Tables 3 and 4). With or without
the project, there would be no change in the labor require-
ment for land preparation or planting in tertiary develop-
ment areas. Labor required for crop management, including
such activities as weeding, fertilizer and pesticide appli-
cation and harvesting would increase even without the project
as a result of rehabilitation. With the project, labor
requirements for these activities would be around 10% above
the amount required without the project. In North Sadang,
labor requirements should increase slightly without the
project, primarily because of improved crop management tech-
niques. With the project, labor requirements per hectare
are expected to be above current levels, but slightly below
the levels required without the project, because of an ex-
pected increase in mechanical cultivation. Total labor
requirements for the area would increase, however, because
of the increased hectarage brought under cultivation as a
result of the project.
(c) Crop budgets at present, and with and without the project
(Tables 5 and 6).



ANNEX 11
Page  2
(d)  Farm budgets for typical family farms of 0.15, 0.30, 0.75,
and 1.5 ha (tertiary development areas on Java) and 1.0 ha
and 2.0 ha (North Sadang) (Tables 7, 8 and 9). Because
sharecropping is common throughout the project areas, share-
cropped farms have been analyzed independently. Crops other
than rice are excluded from the tertiary development analysis
because they are relatively unimportant in areas meeting the
criteria for tertiary development and will, presumably, be
eliminated in the future when double cropping of rice is
possible. To the extent palawija is grown in the project
area, present farm incomes and incomes without the project
are understated. Secondary crops have been considered in
the North Sadang analysis, being estimated at 275 ha rice
equivalent in the wet season and 250 ha in the dry season.
Labor costs include only hired labor, not farm family labor,
and were determined for non-harvest periods by calculating
the excess of total monthly labor requirements over an es-
timated maximum of 40 man-days of family labor per farm
per month. Families were assumed to provide 20% of harvest
labor. Land taxes, payable by landowners only, were esti-
mated in accordance with IPEDA procedures.  A table sum-
marizing Tables 7 through 9 is contained in paragraph 6.05
in the main body of the text.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Rice Croo Production Cests/
Tertiary Development Area
Present                                                  Future Wiithout Project                                   Future with Project
Wet Season                           Dry Season                 Wet Season                   DySaO               ~            esnDySao
Rainfed            1V ieVrigated                      Irrigated                   lrriiy ated                 Irrigated                   Irrigated                   Irrigated
Loa Vrey          E2L~ kVmLcal Var~yre   ________            Y            a     iety             HTV       YV                     LclVritIYV                               lIly
Cash Inputs (Rp/ha A"
Cultivation               13,500             13,500            13,500             13,500            13,500             13,500             13,5o0             13,500            13,500             13,500
Seed                   3,100  (2,800)    3,100  (2,800)    2,200  (2,000)    2,200  (2,000)          2,700              1,950              1,950             2,700              1,950              1,950
Fertilizer             1,000    (800)    7,900  (6,800)   13,600 (11,600)   13,600 (11,600)          9,450             18,350             18,350             13,800            23,850             23,850
Agro-chemicals           400    (300)    3,250  (1,700)    6,500  (3,400)    6,500  (3,400)          4,550              7,200              7,200              6,500             9,600              9,600
Harvesting             3,300  (30,000     4,000  (3,600)    7,100  (6,500)    6,600  (6,100)    4'12  (,4100)    7,400  (7,40)    7,400  (7,400)    4,500  (4,500)    8,80o0  (o40)    8,8oo (L,500)
Other                       1,000             2,000             2,000              2,000             2,000              2,000              2,000             6,000              6,00               6,000
Interest                 -    (1,100)       -    (1,600)    -       (1,900)      -    (1 .900)    -_   (1,900)        -    (2,600)       -    (2,6          -       300)        -  (3,100)            (3.100)
Total Cash Inputs     22,300 (22,500)   33,750 '32,0o0)   44,900 (40,900)   44,400 (40,500)   36,300 (38,200)   50,400 (53,000)   50,400 (53,100)   47,000 (49,300)   63,700 (66,800)    63,700 (66,800)
Labor Inputs (man-
day/ha)
Land preparation              48                53                 53                50                 53                53                 5                 53                53                 53
Planting                     40                 40                40                 40                 40                4o                 4o 40  40  40
Crop managexent              42                 62                79                 82                 67                87                 90                 72                97                 97
Harvesting                   40                 45                58                 58                 50                60                 60                                   70                 70
Total Labor Inputs          170                200               230                230               210                240                240                220               260                260
i/  Economic prices based on world market prices for rice and fertilizer for use in economic analysis.  Figures in parentheses are financial prices.
/ Based on the following assumptions:
(a)  Cultivation    Animal 60% @ Rp 800/day
Hand Labor 40%
(b)  Seed Rate      Local Variety 35 kg/ha; HYV 25 kg/ha
(c) Fertilizer      Present: Urea 1D Rp 108.8/kg (Rp 80); T.S.P. @ Rp 92.2/kg (Rp 80)
Future:   Urea O Rp 91.0/kg; T.S.P. @ Rp 84.8Ag
(d) Agro chemicals - Lump sum for fiazanon, spraying and rat control
(e)  Harvesting     - Threshing and drying 0 3% of production value                                                                                                                                        H
(f)  Other          - Includes 08M charges for tertiary and quaternary units, on the average 45 kg paddy/ha
(g)  Interest       - 0 1% per month for 7 months on production credit (assumed to be 90% of all cash inputs except harvesting, canal maintenance and land tax payments).



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Rice Crop Production Costs -
NorthSadau Area
Present                                                Future Without Proiect                                  Future with Project
2/                   Wet Season                    Dry Season                         Wet Season                   Dry Season                Wet Season         Dry Season
Cash Inputs (Rp/ha)               Rainfed             Irrigated           IrriRated               RainfPed           Irrigated           T-i4ated                 I-i a3-d Xri   te"
Cultivation                    19,950               20,750              20,750                 20,350              20,750              20,750                  21,200              21,200
Seed                       3,000   (2,800)      3,000  (2,800)      3,000  (2,800)          2,600  (2,700)      2,600  (2,700)      2,600  (2,700)         1,900  (1,950)      1,900  (1,950)
Fertilizer                 2,960   (2,400)      4,930  (4,000)    4,930  (4,000)            2,800  (2,850)    4,150  (4,100)        4,150  (4,100)        17,430 (16,900)    17,430 (16,900)
Agro-Chemicals              1,250      (500)     1,250    (500)    1,250       (500)        1,250    (500)      1,250    (500)      1,250    (500)         5,670  (2,350)       5,670  (2,350)
Harvesting                12,670  (12,150)   12,700 (12,150)   11,800 (12,150)             11,800 (12,350)   13,650 (14,300)   12,400 (13,000)            23,600 (24,700)   23,600 (24,700)
Other                           1,000                2,000               2,000                  2,000               2,000               2,000                   6,000               6,000
Interest                            (1,600)             (1,800)             (1,800)                 (1,700)             (1,800)             (1,800)           -    (2,700)        -    (2,700)
Total Cash Inputs       40,830  (40,400)   46,010 (45,350)   44,630 (44,000)           40,800  (42,450)   44,400 (46,150)  43,150 (44,850)              75,800 (75,800)   75,800 (75,800)
Labor Inputs (man-days/ha)
Land Preparation 3/              56                   60                  60                      58                 60                   60                     24                  24
Planting                         25                   31                  31                     27                  35                  35                      48                  48
Crop Management                  29                   38                  40                     30                  41                  43                      53                  53
Harvesting 3/                    32                   42                  42                     34                  44                   44                     50                  50
Total Labor Inputs            142                  171                 173                    149                 180                 182                     175                 175
1/   Economic prices based on world market prices for rice and fertilizer for use in economic analysis.  Figures in parentheses are financial prices.
21   Based on the following assumptions:
Present & Future Without Project                                       Full Development
(a)  Cultivation       Mechanized    - 50%/O @ Rp 8,750/ha                                     807. @ Rp 14,000/ha
Hand Labor    - 50% @ Rp 200 day x # of days                           20% @ Rp 300 day x 24 days
(b)  Seed Rate          Local Variety - 35 kg/ha;  HYV 25 kg/ha                                Local variety 4 35 kg/ha
(c)  Fertilizer         Irrigated      - 50 kg Urea                                            170 kg Urea,  40 kg TSP
Rainfed        - Present 30 kg urea;  future 35 kg urea                           --
(d)  Agro-chemicals    - Lump sumu.
(e)  Harvesting         - Cutting by hand and threshing at 10% of farmgate value.
(f)  Other              - Includes 04M charges for tertiary and quaternary units.
(g)  Interest           - 4 1% per month for 7 months on production credit (assumed to be 90% of all cash inputs except harvest, maintenance and land tax payments).
3D
3/   Labor costs included unider cash inputs. 



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJET VII
MonthL, labor Requirements for Various Paddy Crops (man-days/ha) 1/
Tertiary Developmcent Areas
Jan  Feb  Mar Apr Ma   June  July   u   Sept Oct Nov  Dec    Total
Wet Season
Rainfed Paddy
local VarietY' P   3t   30    7   21   20   16                             14   30      170
Irrigated Paddy
Local Variety  P   37   35   10   25   25   20                             16   32      200
W   38   36   11   28   28   21                             16   32     210
W   38   36   12   31   30   24                             16   33     220
HYV            P   42   40   36   35   26                                  17   34      230
i  44   42   37   37   28                                   17   35     240
w   46   44   43   42   32                                  17   36     260
Dry Season
Irrigated Paddy
HYV            p                    9   28   57    38    34   50    14                  230
;W                   9   28   59    40    37   52    15                 240
w                   10   29   61    41    42   59    18                 260
1/ P = Present; W   Future without project; and W - Nture with projeoct.



IRRIGATION FiROJECT' VTI
Monthly Labor ReqEirements fcr Various PRada  Crops (man-days/ha) 1/
NorthSaan
Jan   Feb   Mar   Ar   May   Jun6    uly            Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec    Total
Wet Season
Rainfed     F                         11    45    31    19       4    22                                        142
12    46    33    19      15    24                                        149
Irrigated   P                        12    49    37    25    i.9   29                                           171
W                        12    50    41    26       20    31                                       180
5    28    49    35      23    35                                        175
Dry Season
Rainfed     P                  4      26     3                                 4     55    23   20        7     142
W                  5     27     3                                 4      59    23   21       7     149
Irrigated   P                  5      34     4                                 5     62    25   28      10      173
W                  6     35     4                                 5      65    26   30      11     182
w                  6     40     5                                 3     48    23   37       13     175
1/ P = Present, W = Future without project;  and W = Future with project.



rADC 1A
IRRI=TION PROJECT VII
Rice Crop Budgets
Tertiary Develowmt Az.a2
Preeent                          _         atr. Without Project                      Future dith Project
,wet 80axona                  Dry Seaen           wet seascia          Dry Sasam            wet IaRaonDr  s
Rainfed              IiRated              IrriRated                                 Irrigated            I    ated
Local Varle  Loco______Variety,al VRiey                                                                     EY       ____
Loa   att  os   aity         HIV        Irri        Local variety      HIV       --V          Lovcal Variety      LYV          IY
Yield (ton/ha)                              1.5              1.8           3.2         3.0             2.1           3.8         3.8            2.3            4.5         4.S
Fanm-Gate Price (Hp/ton)               67,500          67,500         67,500      67,500         65,000         65,000      65,000         65,000         65,000      65,ooo
Gross Value of Production (Rp/ha)     101,250          121,500       216,000     202,500        136,500        247,000     247,000        149,500        292,500     292,500
Production Costs Excluding Labor       22,500          32,000         40,900      40,500         38,200         53,000      53,100         49,300         66,800      66,800
(Rp/ha)
Net Value of Production Excluding       78,750          89,500       175,100     162,000         174,100       194,000     193,900        100,200        225,700     225,700
Labor (Hp/ha)
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)          170              200           230         230             210           240         240             220           260         260
e/ Financial costs and prices are used based on Annex 11, Table 1.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
RICE CROP BUDGETS
NORTH SADANG AREA!'
Present                         Future Without Project                   Future With Project
Wet Season         Dry Season             Wet Season           Dry Season        Wet Season   Dry Season
Rainfed   Irrigated    Irrigated          Rainfed   Irrigated       Irrigated         Irrigated    Irrigated
Yield (ton/ha)                                  1.8         2.0             1.8            1.9         2.2             2.0             3.8            3.8
Farm Gate Price (Rp/ton)                  67,500      67,500          67,500          65,000      65,000         65,000           65,000        65,000
Gross Value of Production (Rp/ha)        121,500    135,000          121,500         123,500    143,000         130,000          247,000       247,000
Production Costs Excluding
some Labor (Rp/ha) 2/                 40,400    45,350            44,000         42,450       46,150         44,850           75,800        75,800
Net Value of Production
Excluding Labor (Rp/ha)               81,100    89,650            77,500          81,050      96,850         85,150          171,200       171,200
Labor Requirements (man-days/ha)              142        171              173            149         180             182             175            175
Labor Requirements for Planting
and Crop Management (man-days/ha)         54          69               71             57          76             78              101           101
1/ Financial costs and prices are used, based on Annex 11, Table 2.
2/  Includes labor costs of land preparation and harvesting.
I-.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Farm Budgets
Tertiary Development Area
0.15 ha Farm                                                                0.3 ha Farm
Present           Fut.  W/out Proj-       Fur. With Proj.                   Present             Fut. W/out Proj.        Fut. With Proi.
Unit      Own-Oper. Sharecr.    Own-Oper. Sharecr.               t  Shareer.            Own-Oper- Sharect.    Own-Opee. Sharecr.    Own-Oper.  Sharecr.
Cropped Area
Wet Season
Rainfed Local Variety              ha            .01        .01          -          -           -         -                    .02        .02         -          -              -           -
Irrigated Local Variety            ha            .03        .03          .03        .03         .02       .02                  .06        .06         .06        .06            .05         .05
Irrigated HYV                      ha            .11        .11          .12        .12         .13       .13                  .22        .22         .24        .24            .25         .25
Dry Season HYV                     ha            .07        .07          .07        .07         .07        .07                 .14        .14         .14        .14             .14        .14
Total Cropped Area                          ha            .22        .22          .22        .22        .22        .22                  .44        .44         .44        .44            .44         .44
Cropping Intensity                           %         145       145          145        145         145        145                  145        145        145        145             145         145
Total Paddy Production                         tons           .63        .63          .78        .78         .93        .93                1.26       1.26        1.55       1.55           1.86        1.86
Gross Value of Production                    Rp'000         42.5       42.5         50.7       50.7        60.5       60.5                85.1       85.1       100.8      100.8          120.9        120.9
Sharecropper's Payment to Land Owner!/    Rp'OOO              -        19.6           -        23.3          -       27.8                   -        39.1           .       46.3              _        55.6
Production Costs3/                           Rp'O0O          8.5        4.3         11.2        5.6        14.3        7.2                17.1        8.5        22.4       11.2           28.6         14.3
Hired Farm Labor Costs
Harvest 2/                      Rp'000          3.4        3.4          4.1        4.1         4.8        4.8                 6.8        6.8         8.1        8.1             9.7         9.7
Other                           Rp'000           -          -            -          -           -          -                   -          -           -
Net Value of Production                      Rp'OOO         30.6       15.2         35.4       17.7        41.4       20.7                61.3       30.7        70.3       35.2            82.6        41.3
Land Tax (IPEDA)                             Rp'000           .34/       -            .8         -          1.1         -                    .6         -          1.7         -             2.1         -
Net Crop Income                              Rp'OOO         30.3       15.2         34.6       17.7        40.3       20.7                60.7        30.7        68.6       35.2           80.5        41.3
1/ Landlord and sharecropper share equally gross production less harvesting costs,
and production costs, Landlord pays land tax.
2/ Non-family labor at 8% of Gross Production.
3/ Include 081 for tertiary and quaternary units, table 1 annex 11.
4/ Land tax rate before any irrigation rehabilitation is conmenced.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
FARM BUDGETS
Tertiary Development Areas (2)
0.75 ha Farm                                                    I. 5ha F7a r-m
Future without        Future with                            Future without        Future wit
Present              Project             Project            Present               Project             Project
Owner    Share-    Owner    Share-    Owner    Share-    Owner    Share-    Owner    Share-    Owner    Share-
Unit    Operator cropper   Operator cropper   Operator cropper   Operator cropper   Operator cropper   Operator cropper
Cropped Areas
Wet Season
Rainfed                               ha         .04       04        -        -          -         -          .08      .08        -         -         -         -
Irrigated Local Variety               "          .15      .15        .15      .15        .11       .11        .30      .30        .30       .30        .23      .23
Irrigated HYV                         "          .56      .56        .60       .60       .64       .64      1.12      1.12       1.20      1.20      1.27      1.27
Dry Season HYV                           "          .34       .34       .34       .34       .34       .34        .68      .68        .68       .68        .68      .68
Total Cropped Area                          "         1.09      1.09      1.09      1.09      1.09      1.09       2.18      2.18      2.18      2,18       2.18      2.18
Cropping Intensity                          %       145      145        145       145       145       145        145      145        145       145        145      145
Total Paddy Production                     tons       3.14      3.14      3.88      3.88      4.66      4.66       6.28     6.28       7.76      7.76       9.32      9.32
Gross Value of  Production                Rp'000   212.0    212.0       252.2    252.2      302.9    302.9       423.9    423.9      504.4    504.4       605.8    605.8
Sharecropper's Payment to Landowner 1/    "            -      97.5         -      116.0         -     139.3         -     195.0         -      232.0         -     278.6
Production Costs                            "         42.5    21.5       56.0      28.0      71.5      36.0       85.0     42.5      112.0      56.0       14.3     72.0
Hired Farm Labor Costs
Harvest 2/                                      17.0     17.0       20.2      20,2      24.2      24.2      33.9      33.9       40.4      40.4      48.5      48,5
Other 3/                                          . .3      .1        .5        .2        .6        .3       16.6      8.3       20.4      10.2       24.8     12.4
Net Value of Production u                           152.2     75.9      175.5      87.8     206.6    103.1       288.4    144.2      331.6    165.8       389.5    194.3
Land  Tax (IPEDA)                 -                   1.5        -        4.2        -        5.3        -         3.0        -        8.5        -        10.5        -
Net Crop Income                             "       150.7     75.9      171.3      87.8      201.3    103.1      285.4    144.2      323.1    165.8       379.0    194.3
1/  Landlord and sharecropper share equally gross production, less harvesting costs, and production costs.  Landlord pays land tax.
2/  Non-family labor at 87. of gross production.
3/  Based on 40 man-days per month maximum availability of family labor.
00 H



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
FARM BUDGETS
NORTH SADANG
1.0 ha Farm                                                 2.0 ha Farm
Future without        Future with                           Future without        Future with
Present              Project             Project            Present              Project             Project
Owner   Share-      Owner   Share-      Owner   Share-      Owner   Share-      Owner   Share-      Owner    Share-
Operator cropper   Operator cropper   Operator cropper   Operator cropper   Operator cropper   Operator  cropper
Cropped Area
Wet Season
Rainfed                  ha         .54      .54        .54      .54        -        -        1.08      1.08       1.08     1.08        -          -
Irrigated                "          .34      .34        .34      .34      1.00      1.00        .68      .68        .68       .68      2.00       2.00
Dry Season
Rainfed                  "          .04      o04        .04      .04       A         -          .08       .08       .08       .08       -          -
Irrigated                           .34      .34        .34      .34        .90      .90        .68      .68        .68       .68      1.80       1.80
Total Cropped Area                      1.26     1.26       1.26     1.26       1.90     1,90       2.52      2.52      2.52      2.52      3.80       3.80
Cropping Intensity            %      126       126        126      126        190      190        126      126        126       126       190        190
Total Paddy  Production      tons       2.32     2.32       2.52     2.52       7.22     7.22       4.64      4.64      5.04      5.04     14.44      14.44
Gross Value of Production  Rp'000   156.6    156.6        163.8    163.8      46973    469.3      313e2    313.2      327.6    327.6      938.6      938,6
Sharecropper's Payment to
Landowner 1/                                  78.3                81.9               234.6               156,6                163.8                469.3
Production Costs              "        53.8     26.9       55.6     27.8      144.0     72.0      107.6      53.8     111.2      55.6     288.0      144.0
Hired Farm Labor Costs        "          -        -          -        -         2.1      1.1        1.6        .8       3.6       1.8       38.1      19.1
Net Value of Production               102.8     51.4      108.2     54.1      323,2    161.6      204.0    102.0      212.8    106.4      612.5      306.2
Land Tax (IPEDA)              "         4.0       -         4.0        -       10.5       -         8.0        -        8.0        -        21.0       -
Net Crop Income                        98.8     51.4      104.2     54.1      312.7    161.6      196.0    102,0      204.8    106.4       591.5     306.2
1/ Landlord and sharecropper share equally gross production less harvesting costs,  and production costs.  Landlord pays land tax.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Farm Labor Analysis
Labor Supply
1.        Comprehensive, reliable statistics on population and labor force
in the tertiary development areas do not yet exist. Using data from local
government officials, the 1971 population census, and the 1963 agricultural
census, the rural population of the tertiary development area is estimated
at around 2 million. This consists of about 220,000 farm families and 110,000
families of landless laborers. The estimated population of North Sadang is
27,000, based on District census data and a recent agricultural survey. The
number of families is estimated at 5,400; there is no landless labor. Assum-
ing each family supplies two full-time workers, the total number of farm
workers is 10,800 in North Sadang and 440,000 in the tertiary development
areas. 220,000 landless laborers would also be available to work in the
tertiary development areas. If each worker is available to work 240 days
per year, or 20 days a month, the total annual labor supply is 158.4 million
man-days in tertiary areas and 2.6 million man-days in North Sadang. The
labor supply available each month would thus average 13.2 million man-
days in the tertiary development areas ar.d 216,000 m-ran-days in North Sadang.
2.        The rural labor force is estimated to be growing at a 1.8% annual
rate in tertiary development areas. Continued growth at this rate would
mean that a rural labor force of 775,000 would be available at full project
development in 1985. This is equivalent to 186 million man-days a year, or
15.5 million man-days a month. The population of North Sadang has declined
in recent years, as f-amilies have moved to other areas to escape the flooded
conditions and seek better employment opportunities elsewhere. It is ex-
pected that this decline would cease if the project were implemented and,
for the purposes of the analysis, it is assumed that the labor force
stabilizes at current levels.
Labor Demand
3.        Estimates of average monthly and annual labor requirements per ha
for different rice crops at present, and in the future "with" and "without"
the project are shown in Annex 11, Tables 3 and 4. The reasons for the
expected changes in labor demand are discussed in paragraph I (b) of the
same annex.  Estimates of total monthly and annual labor requircr2?'p  are
given in Tables 1 and 2 of this annex. The present annual requiremetni in
tertiary development areas is around 32.5 million man-days, or only about
20% of the estimated supply.  Although the data  s admittedly limited, this
indicates the current massive underemployment in Lhe area. With full de-
velopment, the labor required would grow 14%, or 4.5 million man-days, to
37.1 million man-days, still only 20% of the projected labor force.  Thus,



ANNEX 12
Page 2
even with the project, no progress can be claimed in reducing the rural
unemployment. However, without the project, the situation would be worse,
with only 18% of the labor available being utilized.
4.        In North Sadang, present labor requirements are estimated at
around 1.5 million man-days annually, and the labor utilization rate is 44%.
With the project, labor requirements would grow 65% to 1.9 million man-
days or 75% of the available labor.
5.        The demand for labor in both project areas has a pronounced
seasonal pattern, with peak season requirements in tertiary areas being
some eight times those of lower demand months. In peak months, only 28%
of the available labor is utilized in tertiary areas; however, in North
Sadang, labor demand in the peak month (March) actually exceeds available
supply by almost 15%. With the project, potential demand will exceed
supply in at least three months of the year, and approximate full employ-
ment in several others. The likely result will be a reduction in the
number of the local population migrating to the timber concessions in East
Kalimantan for work in the off season, an increase in the number of days
worked by family members and an in-migration of transient labor to North
Sadang in periods of peak demand, growth in the permanent population of the
area, and/or increased mechanization. Given these probable occurrences, it
is expected that there will be sufficient labor available in the project area
to meet demand at full production.
Economic Cost of Farm Labor
6.        Detailed information on wages actually paid in the project areas
is limited. Even if it were available, wages paid probably would not reflect
the true cost of labor to the economy, for much of the work is done by unpaid
family labor or in exchange for work done by other farmers. Also, in some
cases, wage rates may be set by custom rather than market forces, and labor
mobility is limited. Therefore, the economic cost of labor can only be
roughly approximated. In North Sadang, the peak agricultural wage rate is
around Rp 300/day without meals. Because the local supply of labor is insuf-
ficient to meet demand during this period, this wage is believed to accurately
reflect the wage rate needed to attract labor from other areas. The peak
wage varies among the different tertiary areas, ranging from Rp 150 to Rp
500/day (for the most difficult labor), with the average peak rate being
around Rp 225/day. However, unemployment is substantial even during this
peak season, and it is unlikely that this rate reflects the economic cost of
labor. Rather, it may be that social custom and a recognition by employers
of the laborers' subsistence needs support wages at this level. Data on non-
peak season wages and on wages available from alternative types of employ-
ment are also limited; generally, however, these wages are lower than peak
season wages, and undoubtedly, the cost of labor to the economy is lower
during these periods than during the periods of higher employment.
7.        Despite the data limitations, the following analysis attempts to
estimate an opportunity cost of labor in the project areas, taking into
account generally prevailing rural unemployment and the large seasonal



ANNEX 12
Page 3
fluctuation in labor demand. It does not attempt to adjust for intertem-
poral or interpersonal income distribution effects nor to value leisure.
The marginal opportunity cost of farm labor in the project areas can be
approximated by S-shaped curves (Charts 15116R and 15114R). The opportunity
cost is positive at all levels of labor demand and increases as more farm
labor is employed. The increase is slow at high levels of unemployment, but
becomes faster as the labor supply becomes fully used. At full employment
in the project areas, the opportunity cost is assumed to be equal to the
market wage. As labor demand increases beyond this level, the opportunity
cost continues to rise until it is some 10% to 15% above the prevailing
full employment wage. At this level, it remains constant for subsequent
demand increases, indicating that wages of this level would attract large
numbers of farm laborers from other areas.
8.        Three straight-line segments can reasonably approximately each
S-shaped curve and three points determine the curves' position. Point A
on each chart represents the minimum opportunity cost of farm labor and
includes the economic value of alternative employment (casual non-farm
labor, fishing, house repairs), plus the value of additional food required
because of the more strenuous farm work with the project. The mission
estimates this opportunity cost at Rp 120 per man-day for North Sadang and
Rp lor par man-day in the tertiary development areas.  Point B indicates
where the opportunity cost equals the market wage and rural labor is fully
emplo,ed.  The point is at Rp 260 per man-day for North Sadang and Rp 210
per man-day for tertiary development areas. Point C indicates the point
at xAhich the wage rate is suffIciently hig-h that laborers are attracted to
meet any increases in demard, thus, to the right of this point, the opportunity
cost and market wage remain constant. For North Sadang, this wage is estimated
at Rp 300 per day; for terliary areas, Rp 230 per day.
91-       The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
the curve at the corresponding level of labor demand.  With the project,
the opportunity costs vary from Rp 121 per man-day to Rp 300 per man-day
in North Sadang, and from Rp 101 per man-day to Rp 106 per man-day in
tertiary development areas. The total economic cost of labor is the area
under the curve at each level of employment. The economic cost of labor
in 1985 without the project and with full project development is calculated
for each project area in Tables 3 and 4. These tables can be summarized
as follows:
Future Without    Future With        Incremental
Project           Project             Costs
--------------------(Rp M) ------------------
Tertiary areas         3,492            3,796              304
Ncr:h Sadang             167              299              132
Tnese arc 2quivalent to pricing the incremental employment at a shadow
wage rate of Rp 103 per man-day in tertiary areas, and Rp 185 per man-day
in Ncrth Sadang.



INDONES IA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Total Monthly Labor Requirements ('000 Mandays)-I
Tertiary Development Areas
Area               Jan        Feb       Mar        Apr        May       Jun        Jul        Aug       Sep        Oct        Nov        Dec        Total
(ha)
Present
Wet Season
Rainfed                                  5,000                160       150         35        105       100         80                                                    70        150         850
Irrigated Local Variety                 20,000               740        700        200        500       500        400                                                   320        640       4,000
Irrigated bYV                           75,000             3,150      3,000      2,700     2,625      1,950                                                            1,275     2,550       17,250
Dry Season
Irrigated HYV                           45,000                                                405     1,260      2,565      1,710     1,530      2,250        630                            10,350
Total                                                        4,050      3,850      2,935      3,635      3,810     3,045      1,710      1,530     2,250        630      1,665      3,340       32,450
Future Without Project
Wet Season
Irrigated Local Variety                 20,000               760        720        220        560       560        420                                                   320        640       4,200
Irrigated HYV                           80,000             3,520      3,360      2,960      2,960     2,240                                                            1,360      2.800       19,200
Dry Season
Irrigated HYV                           45,000                                                405     1,260      2,655      1,800      1,665     2,340        675                             10,800
Total                                                         4,280     4,080      3,180      3,925      4,060     3,075      1,800      1,665      2,340        675     1,680      3,440       34,200
Future With Pro ject
Wet Season
Irrigated Local Variety                 15,000                570       540        180        465       450        360                                                   240        495        3,300
Irrigated HYV                           85,000             3,910      3,740      3,655      3,570     2,720                                                            1,445      3,060       22,100
Dry Season
Irrigated HYV                           45,000                                                450      1,305     2,745      1,845      1,890     2,655        810                             11,700
Total                                                        4,480      4,280      3,835      4,485      4,475     3,105      1,845      1,890      2,655        810     1,685      3,555       37,100
1/ Data from Annex 11, Table 3. Totals may not add due to rounding.
d P



INDONES IA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Total Monthly Labor Requirements ('000 Man-days) 1/
North Sadang
Area             Jan        Feb        Mar        Apr        May         Jun        Jul       Aug         Sep        Oct        Nov        Dec        Total
(ha)
Present
Wet Season
Rainfed                          3,150                         35        142          98         60         44         69                                                                  447
Irrigated                        1,950                         23         96          72        49          37         57                                                                 333
Dry Season
Rainfed                            250                1         7           1                                                      1         14          6          5          2            36
Irrigated                        1,950               10        66           8                                                     10        121         49         55         20           337
Total                                                  11        131        247        170        109         81        126         11        135         55         60          72        1,153
Future Without Pro ject
Wet Season
Rainfed                          3,150                         38         145        104         60         47         76                                                                  469
Irrigated                        1,950                          23         98         80         51         39         60                                                                  351
Dry Season
Rainfed                            250                1          7          1                                                      1         15          6          5           2           37
Irrigated                        1,950               12        68           8                                                     10        127         51         59         21           355
Total                                                  13        136        252        184        111         86        136         11        142         57          64         23        1,212
Future With Project
Wet Season
Irrigated                        5,800                          29        162        284        203        133        203                                                                1,015
Dry Season
Irrigated                        5,200               31       208          26                                                     16        250        120        192          68          910
Total                                                  31        237        188        284        203        133        203         16        250         120        192         68        1,925
1/  Data from Annex 11, Table 4.  Totals may not add due to rounding.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Economic Cost of Farm Labor At Full Project Development
Tertiary Development Area
Jan        Feb        Mar        Apr        Ma         Jun         Jul        Aug        Sep        Oct        Nov         Dec           Total
I/
Labor Requirement               w2/       4,480      4,280      3,835      4,485      4,475       3,105      1,845      1,890      2,655         810      1,685      3,555           37,100
('000 man-days)                W-        4,280       4,080      3,180      3,925      4,060      3,075       1,800      1,665      2,340        675       1,680      3,440          34,200
Marginal Opportunity Cost    W              106         106        105        106        106        104        102         102        103        101        102         105
(Rp/man-day)                   W            106        105        104        105         105        104        102        102         103        101        102        104
Economic Cost of
Farm Labor                   W            461        441        393        462        461         317        186        191        269          81        170        364            3,796
(Rp million)                   W            441        418        324        402        416         314        182        168        238          68        170        351            3,492
Incremental Economic
Cost of Farm Labor           W-W           20         23         69          60         45          3          4         23          31         13          0         13              304
(Rp million)
11 W = Future with project.
2/ W = Future without project.
)                           ax



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Economic Cost of Farm Labor at Full Project Cost
North Sadang
Jan       Feb      Mar       Apr       May       Jun       Jul       Aug       Se        Oct       Nov       Dec     Total
Labor Requirement              W-/      31       237       188       284       203       133      203        16       250       120       192        68    1,925
('000 man-days)                W-/      13       136      252       184       111        86       136        11       142        57        64        23    1,212
Marginal Opportunity Cost    W         122       285       225       300       244       156       244       121      300       139       229       124
(Rp/man-day)                   W       121       159       300      219       127       124       159       121       166       123       123       122
Economic Cost of Farm
Labor                          W         3.8      39.7      27.2      53.6      30.8      16.7      30.8       1.9     43.4      14.8      28.1       8.3    299.1
(Rp million)                   W         1.6      17.2      44.0      26.3     13.6      10.5      17.2       1.3      18.2       6.9       7.8       2.8    167.4
Incremental Economic Cost
of Farm Labor                  W-W       2.2      22.5    -16.8       27.3      17.2       6.2     13.6         .6     25.2       7.9      20.3       5.5    131.7
(Rp Million)
1/ W = Future with project.
2/  W = Future without project.
> ?
4:^ 



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Economic Analysis
Benefits
1.        Expected paddy yields are shown in Annex 2.  Annex 10 explains ex-
pected prices as derived from Bank forecasts, Annex 11 details production
costs, and Annex 12 labor requirements. Tables 1, 2, and 3 of this Annex
show the net value of production of the project areas at present, and in the
future without and with the project, before costing labor. The value of
production at full development is compared with the value of production
without the project in Table 4 to determine the incremental value of the
project at full development.
Investment Costs
2.        Investment costs were calculated in mid-1976 prices.  Total
investments costs included in the analysis were $28.2 million for the
tertiary development areas and $10.0 million for North Sadang. These
costs are as explained in Annex 6, and include price contingencies but
not inflation. Annual 0 & M costs of the North Sadang system are ex-
pected to average around Rp 5,500/ha at full development, while main-
tenance costs for the tertiary and quaternary systems in tertiary devel-
opment areas are estimated at Rp 750/ha per season, or Rp 1,500/ha a
year.
Development Period
3.        Tertiary development areas:  Under the project's implementation
schedule, 6% of the project area will be improved in 1977, 33% by 1978,
70% by 1979, and 100% by 1980. Benefits from an area will commence one
year after tertiaries are constructed, and the maximum projected yields
should be achieved by 1985, nine years after construction commences.
4.        North Sadang.  Primary and secondary works are scheduled to be
completed by 1979; the full system including tertiaries is expected to be
finished by the following year. In the analysis, it-was assumed that in-
creased yields would not commence until the system is linked with Bentang
barrage in 1979; however, some increases may occur sooner as roads and drain-
age are improved and support services begin to flow into the area in antici-
pation of the project. Crops are assumed to achieve the maximum projected
yields by 1985.



ANNEX 13
Page  2
Economic Rate of Return
5.        Using the foregoing assumptions and discounting project benefits
and costs over a 3CI-year period, the economic rate of return is 20% for
North Sadang and 33% for the tertiary development component (Table 5).
The economic rate of return on all project components combined would be
about 30%. Feasibility studies reviewed by the mission during appraisal
show that the economic rate of return from the development of the Kedungombo
damsite for irrigated paddy production would be 16%.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.        Several of the basic assumptions made in the economic analysis have
been varied in order to examine their impact on the rate of return. These
factors were chosen to test the project's sensitivity to delays in the realiza-
tion of benefits, cost overruns, failure to achieve projected yields, increases
in the price of rice, and a higher than projected opportunity cost of farm
labor. Some of these tests and the resulting economic rates of return are
summarized below:
North Sadang         Tertiary Development
Two-vear delay in the realization
of benefits                           16%                      23%
Construction costs overrun estimates
by 20%                                18%                      28%
Construction costs overrun 25%, and
benefits are delayed two years        14%                      20%
Yields fall below projected levels
by 25%                                14%                      23%
Yields fall below projected levels by
25%, and benefits are delayed
two years                             12%                      17%
Farmgate paddy price increases 25%         26%                      42%
Farm labor valued at market wages           19%                     30%
Project benefits cease after 20 years    19%                        33%
7.        As the figures indicate, the rates of return are most sensitive
to delays in the reaLization of benefits. Lower than expected yields also
affected the rates fairly significantly, while increases in construction and
labor costs or a decrease in the period over which benefits are received have
relatively little effect. Therefore, government authorities must insure that
construction delays are minimal and that the farmers receive the necessary
a-ricuItural inputs and extension assistance.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Value of Present Production
Cropped                                Farm Gate      Gross Value       Production        Gross Costs         Net Value
Area       Yield       Production       Price       of Production          Costs        of Production       of Production
(ha)     (ton/ha)      (tons)         (Rp/ton)      (Rp million)       (Rp/h;)          (ftp million)       (Rp million)
Tertiary Development Areas
Wet Season
Rainfed paddy                 5,000        1.5         7,500           73,700             553           21,300                102                 446
Local variety paddy          20,000        1.8        36,000           73,700           2,653           33,757                675               1,978
HYV paddy                    75,000        3.2       240,000           73,700          17,688           44,900              3,368              14,320
Dry Season
HYV paddy                    45,000        3.0       135,000           73,700           9,950           44,400              1.998               7.592
Total                  145,000                  418,500                          30,844                                6.148              24.696
'gerth SadanR
Wet Season
Rainfed paddy 1/              3,150        1.8         5,670           70,400             399            39,830                125                 274
Irrigated paddy               1,950        2.0         3,900           70,400             275            44,010                 86                 189
Dry Season
Rainfed paddy 1/                250        1.5            375          70,400              26            37,700                  9                  17
Irrigated paddy               1.950        1.8         3,510           70,400             247            42,630                 83                 16_
Total                    7,300                   13,455                              947                                  303                644
1/  Palawija crops (275 ha wet season and 250 ha dry season) included as rainfed rice for analytical purposes.
0 |



INDONESI.
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Value of Futuire Production without Project
Gross Value              Gross Costs  Net Value
Cropped                         Fe ma te    of           Production       of          of
Area      Yield    Production    Price    Production      Costs      Production   Prodiction
(ha)   Ttons/ha)    (tons)    (Rp/ton)       (Rp M)      (Rp/ha) _ -    _     ______Rp M)-- m
Tertiary Development
Areas
Wet Season
Local variety paddy    20,000      2.1       42,o00      6b,u0oo      2,730       36,300          726       2,004
HYV paddy              80,000      3.8      304,000      65,o00      19,760       50,400        4,032      15,728
Ory Season
FTYV paddy             45,000      3.8      171,000      65,ooo      11,115       50,400        2,268        8,847
Total              145,000               517,000                  33,605                     7,026      26,579
North Sadang
Wet Season
Rainfed paddy -         3,150      1.9        5,985      62,100         372       38,800          122          250
Irrigated paddy         1,950      2.2        4,290      62,100         266       42,400           83          183
Dry Season
Rainfed paddy -            250     1.6          400      62,100          25       36,900            9           16
Irrigated paddy         1,950      2.0        3,900      62,100         242       41,150           80          162
Total                7,300                14,575                     905                       294         611
1/  Palawija crops (275 ha wet season and 250 ha dry season) included as rainfed rice for analytical purposes.
N,



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Value of Future Production with Project
Gross Value              Gross Costs Net Value
Cropped                         Farm Gate      of       Production      of          Of
Area      Yield    Production    Price    Production     Costs     Production  Prodmction
(hM)          a      (tont)     (RpAton)    (0pM)       (Rp/ha)       (Rp M)      FRp )
Tertiary Development
Areas
Wet Season
Local variety paddy    15,000     2.3       34,500      65,ooo       2,243       43,, 00-/      645        1,598
HYV paddy              85,000     4.5      382,500      65,ooo      24,863       59,700-      5,075       19,788
Dry Season
HYV paddy              45,ooo    4.5       202,500      65,ooo      13,163       59,700_/    2,687        10,476
Total             145,000              619,500                  40,269                    8.407       31,862
North Sadang
Wet 9eason
HYV paddy               5,800     3.8       22,040      62,100        1,369      69,800         405          964
Dry Season
HYV paddy               5,200     3.8       19,760      62,100        1,227      69,800 B /     363          864
Total              11,000               41,800                                              768        1,828
1/ Excluding funds for tertiary maintenance.
2/  Excluding funds for operation & maintenance.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Incremental Value of Production
(Rp Million)
Tertiary Development Areas                  North Sadang
Future           Future              Futu-re           FutIUre
without           with               without            with
Project          Project             Proiect           Project
Total Net Value of Production before
Costing Labor                                 26,579            31,862               611              1,828
Less Imputed Labor Cost                          3,492             3,796                 18                38
Total Net Value of Production                   23,087            28,o66                593             1,790
Net Incremental Value of Production at
Full Project Development                                         4,979                                1,197
/ To avoid double counting the figures for North Sadang, exclude the cost of hired labor for cultivation
and harvesting included in the costs of production.
d >3



INDONES IA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Economic CostS And Benefits
(US$ '000)
Project Component                          Year                                Project Cost                                   Incremental
CapitaT           0 & m-            Total                 Project Benefits
Tertiary Development Area                     0(1976)                 3,635               25              3,660                           0
1(1977)                10,045              110             10,155                         675
2(1978)                 9,010             230               9,240                       3,410
3(1979)                 5,535              325              5,860                       5,930
4(1980)                                    360                360                       9,675
5(1981)                                   360                 360                      11,300
6(1982)                                   360                 360                      11,550
7(1983)                                   360                 360                      11,750
8(1984)                                   360                 360                      11,900
9-29(1985-2005)                                300                 300                     11,998
Economic Rate of Return = 33%
North Sadang                                  0(1976)                 1,220                5               1,225                           0
1(1977)                 3,185               20              3,205                           0
2(1978)                 2,975               45              3,020                            0
3(1979)                 2,630               65              2,695                       1,177
4(1980)                                     77                  77                      1,752
5(1981)                                     77                  77                      2,139
6(1982)                                     77                  77                      2,515
7(1983)                                     77                  77                      2,727
8(1984)                                     77                  77                      2,827
9-29(1985-2005)                                 77                  77                       2,884
Economic Rate of Return = 20%
>



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Cost and Rent Recovery
1.        The cost of the tertiary system amounts to US$330/ha.  Out of this
total, GOI would contribute US$250/ha and farmers US$80/ha in the form of
labor at reduced wages and donation of land. There would be no increase in
the 0 & M cost of the main system as a result of the project but maintenance
expenditures on the tertiary system would amount to US$7/ha (Rp 2,900/ha).
These costs would be borne by the farmers (para 5.08). In addition, as a
result of increased rice production following completion of the tertiary sys-
tem, IPEDA rates in the project area would be raised by about US$4/ha
(Rp 1,600/ha) over what they would have been without the project. When dis-
counting these costs and payments by the farmers at a 10% discount rate over
a period of 30 years, the cost recovery index would be 49%.
2.        A further analysis of cost recovery was carried out, taking into
account past investments in rehabilitating the main irrigation system. These
costs, expressed in mid-1976 unit prices, amount to approximately US$300/ha.
Incremental 0 & M costs as a result of these works are US$4/ha (Rp 1,600/ha)
while incremental IPEDA rates would be US$7/ha (Rp 3,000/ha). Assuming that
rehabilitation of the main system is completed in year one and that construc-
tion of the tertiary system is completed in year four, and discounting the
costs and payments associated with both systems at 10% over 30 years, the
cost recovery index would be 31%.
3.        For the North Sadang Project, construction costs, including the
tertiary system, amount to US$1,700/ha, while incremental 0 & M costs would
amount to US$15/ha (Rp 6,100/ha) for the main and tertiary systems. Farmers'
contributions would amount to US$80/ha for construction of the tertiary sys-
tem (para 1), US$7/ha (Rp 2,900/ha) for maintenance of the tertiary systems
and US$16/ha (Rp 6,500/ha) in incremental IPEDA payments. When discounting
these costs and payrnents by the farmers at a 10% discount rate over a period
of 30 years, the cost recovery index would be 13%.
4.        Rent recovery indices were estimated for representative farm models
in the tertiary and North Sadang areas. The assumptions made in carrying out
this analysis are presented in Table 1.  Since many of the assumptions made
in deriving this ind'ex are subjective, the results are no more than a rough
indication of the farmers' ability to pay project charges.
5.        Incomes at full development for four different model farms (Annex 13)
were compared with the Critical Consumption Level (CCL) for rural Indonesia,
which is estimated at US$88 per capita in mid-1976 prices. With an average
family size of six, the CCL per household is approximately US$530 (Rp 239,000).



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Even after making allowances for some off-farm income (paras 3.06 and 3.07),
the income of nearly 90% of the households benefiting from the project would
still be below the CCL at full development. Considering the imprecise nature
of the data, the fact that only 10% of project beneficiaries would be in a
position to pay somewhat higher project charges, and the administrative and
political difficulties of introducing a special tax to capture the relatively
small surplus income of this group, an increase in the level of the prevail-
ing project charges would be inappropriate.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Rent Recovery
(Rp '000)
Tertiarv Development                          North  Sadang
0.3 ha              1.5 ha             I ha                 3 ha
Owner-   Share-    Owner-   Share-    Owner-   Share-    Owner-    Share-
Operator  cropper  Operator  cropper  Operator  cropper  Operator  cropper
Incremental - gross value of incremental farm productl?n    20.1         10.1       101.4    50.7        305.5    152.8      916.5    458.4
- less incremental cash production costs -          7.8       3.9       43.5    21.8         90.5     45.3      271.5    135.9
Sub-total                            12.3       6.2        57.9    28.9       215.0    107.5      645.0    322.5
- less imputed family labor value 2                 2.0       2.0         2.1     2.1        33.9      33.9     161.4    161.4
- less imputed farmers management 3/                1.0       0.5         5.1     2.5        15.3       7.6      45.9      22.9
- less imputed return on own capital 4/             0.6       0.6         3.0     3.0         2.5       2.5        7.5      7.5
- less allowance for                                4.0skuncertainty -  4,0  2.0  20.2    10.1  61.2   30.6     183.6      91.7
- less miscellaneous -1                             3.0       0.5        15.2     2.5        45.8      22.9     137.4      22.9
Rent Surplus                                      1.7       0.6        12.3     8.7        56.3      10.0     109.2      16.1
Incremental - water charges  (O&M)                               0.9      0.4         4.4      2.2         2.9       1.5       8.7       4.5
- additional land taxes (IPEDA)                     0.4        -          2,0      -          6.5        -        19.5       -
- total direct charges / (10) + (11)_/              1.3       0.4         6.4     2.2         9.4       1.5       28.2      4.5
Rent Recovery / (12)   (9)_/ (%)                                  76        67          52      25          17        15        26        28
1/  Assumes no depreciation costs.
2/ At market wage rates. Tertiary Development Areas @ 225 Rp/day, North Sadang @ 300 Rp/day.
3/  At 5% of Gross Incremental farm production.
4/ Total Rp 20,000/ha for tertiary area, and Rp 25,000/ha for complete rehabilitation and North Sadang, at 10% annual.
5/ At 20% of Gross Incremental farm production.
6/ At 15% of Gross Incremental farm production, including 10% as taxes for village administratbn and 5% for storage losses;
sharecroppers would not pay any incremental village taxes.
r-



ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Feasibility Study for Development of Tidal Swamp Lands
Introduction
1.        The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has identified some 5 million
ha of tidal swamp lands, mainly in Sumatera and Kalimantan, and constructed
pilot tidal reclamation projects totalling some 35,000 ha betweern 1969 and
1974 (Pelita I). The pilot projects have been used to settle transmigrants
from Java and Bali on small holdings mainly for growing paddy. These proj-
ects were established at minimum cost, without fixed water control struc-
tures in the tidal areas where drainage is effected by a network of canals,
which also provide the only means of transport in much of the area. Under
Pelita II the Government plans to develop 250,000 ha primarily by force
account construction with excavating equipment on hand or to be provided
under bilateral agreements. Pelita III beginning in April 1979 calls for
developing another 750,000 ha.
2.        Having given high priority to development of tidal swamps and to
their settlement by transmigrants, GOI has asked for World Bank assistance
in preparing a feasibility study for development under Pelita III of a gross
area of 200,000 ha (Karang Agung) in South Sumatera province and 100,000 ha
(Lagan) in Jambi province adjacent to lands to be developed under Pelita II.
Pilot projects developed in the vicinity total about 25,000 ha. The amount
of spontaneous development mainly by the Buginese from South Sulawesi is
not precisely known, but is several times that developed under the pilot
projects. Experience on the pilot projects and the soils surveys carried
out to date on other lands in the vicinity have identified potential prob-
lems from deep peat soils and underlying acid sulphate soils (catclays). In
the case of catclays, water levels would have to be closely managed to pre-
vent their drying out. Deep peat soils may subside considerably during
early years through compaction and oxidation and may be better suited to
growing crops other than paddy. Additionally, little is known of vertical
tidal ranges and salinity intrusion in the many coastal streams and estu-
aries during low rainfall periods. While initial development aims at
single cropping during the rainy season, salinity may be a constraint to
growing a second crop during the dry season over parts of the area.
Objectives
3.        Making full use of experience from work already done, the feasi-
bility study would prepare a plan, complete with estimated costs, for de-
velopment of a low cost project for small-holder farmers (2 ha) with minimum
civil works to produce a single crop during the rainy season. The study



ANNEX 15
Page 2
would inventory a gross area of 300,000 ha, including areas of spontaneous
development, prepare a master plan and feasibility study for development
of a net area of 100,000 to 150,000 ha, and prepare detailed engineering
design suitable for tender or start of force account construction for about
20,000 ha. Specifically the study would:
(a) prepare an inventory of the land and water resources of
the gross area;
(b) collect and analyze information from on-going pilot projects
and experience of spontaneous settlers;
(c)  establish the physical parameters and agronomic and other
constraints to development;
(d)  delineate areas suitable for growing paddy and for other
crops;
(e)  determine the minimum services to be provided such as
schools, domestic water supply, transport, health services,
etc.;
(f) determine the agricultural input and extension services
package to be provided to project settlers and to the
adjacent spontaneous settlers and how it should be carried
out;
(g) assess the technical and economic feasibility of developing
the net area (estimated to be one-third to one-half the
gross area) and prepare a full feasibility report; and
(h) prepare detailed engineering designs ready for tender or
force account construction for about 20,000 ha (10,000 ha
in each province).
Implementation
4.        The study would be carried out over a 24-month period, from June,
1976 through Mtay, 1978, by P4S, a special unit of the Directorate of Swamps in
the Directorate General for Water Resources Development (DGWRD), with consult-
ant assistance. Several components of the study would be carried out by
contract with local consultants, and foreign consultants would be employed to
assist P4S in executing the study, coordinating study inputs and strengthening
the Directorate of Swamps by building up their capability in engineering
design and preparation of projects for further development of tidal swamp
lands. The feasibiLity report would be completed in May, 1978. An interim
report and a master plan for the project would be prepared by October, 1977.
It would be reviewed with the Bank prior to preparation of detailed engineer-
ing design for those areas to be developed initially (paras 11 and 13). The
study components would be carried out as follows:



ANNEX 15
Page 3
(a) aerial photography and topographic surveys - by contract
with commercial firms;
(b) soils surveys - by contract with the University of Bogor
as local consultant;
(c) hydrographic surveys - as part of broader survey and train-
ing program under Netherlands bilateral assistance;
(d) agro-economic surveys and settlement studies - the Agro-
Economic Surveys of Indonesia (SAE), an inter-ministerial
research organization, would carry out the agro-economic
surveys by contract and the settlement studies would be
carried out by DGWRD with foreign consultant assistance;
and
(e) engineering design - by contract with University of Bandung
as local consultant.
5.        The Netherlands bilateral assistance would build up the capabi-
lity of the Institute of Hydraulic Engineering (a directorate under the
DGWRD) to carry out, among other things, the essential vertical tide and
salinity measurements. The study would build up the capability of the
University of Bogor to carry out the soil surveys particularly as a part of
coordinated planning. More importantly it would build up the capability of
the Directorate of Swamps to carry out the planning and engineering design
for tidal swamp land development. The work to be done under the study by
contract with the University of Bandung should be carried out in Jakarta.
6.        Because of the complex nature of tidal swamp development, the fact
that the study inputs would be carried out under several separate contracts
and the need for close coordination with on-going programs of other govern-
ment agencies in the project areas, a Steering Committee would be established
to coordinate the preparation activities. With the Director General of
Water Resources Development as chairman, the committee would be comprised
of representatives from the ministries of agriculture, transmigration and
forestry; BAPPENAS; and the universities at Bogor and Bandung. The com-
mittee would meet at intervals of about six months to check progress of the
feasibility study and to coordinate the preparation with the related gov-
ernmental programs.
Terms of Reference
7.        Topographic Surveys.  Aerial photography would be carried out to a
scale of 1:20,000 from which rectified photomosaics, scale 1:10,000, would
be prepared. The necessary horizontal and vertical controls would be es-
tablished and cross-jungle leveling would be done at 1 km intervals with
levels taken at 100 m intervals along each traverse cut through the jungle.
Permanent bench marks would be set at 1,000 m intervals to an accuracy of



ANNEX 15
Page 4
+ 2 cm and temporary pegs set at 100 m intervals to an accuracy of + 10 cm.
These levels would be plotted on the photomosaics as a basis for contour
lines and topographic maps to be prepared as needed in engineering design
and layout of water control facilities.
8.        Soils Surveys.  Soils surveys would be carried out along the
cross-jungle traverses required for the topographic surveys. To minimize
recutting, soils surveys should be conducted immediately after topographic
surveys and in no case later than 2 months after the original traverses
are cut. Soil saLmples would be taken at 500 m intervals at the topographic
survey pegs or the bench marks, recording the depth of peat and other soil
layers and water level below ground surface. Laboratory analyses of samples
taken would be limited to pH, conductivity and organic matter to determine
the amount and type of organic matter and the presence or absence of poten-
tial acid sulphate layers. Where the survey indicates deep peat (one meter
or more) or potential acid sulphate soils at less than 50 cm depth, samples
should be taken at 250 m intervals. Soil maps would be prepared at a scale
of 1:10,000 showing the agriculturally significant soil types and delineat-
ing potential problem areas i.e. deep peat and/or acid sulphate soils.
Areas where these potential problem soils exceed 30% of the total would be
excluded from the project.
9.        Hydrographic Surveys.  Automatic water level recording stations
would be established at a total of 30 locations on the streams and estuaries
of the two project areas. These stations would measure vertical tide ranges
and water samples would be taken over a 12-month period from September 1976
to establish water level parameters and would be continued thereafter through
the 2-year study period. Water samples would be collected and measured for
salinity at surface, mid-depth and full depth at appropriate time intervals
to establish the saline tidal zone.
10.       Agro-Economic Surveys and Settlement Studies.  The standard agro-
economic surveys conducted would identify present farmer income in the area,
marketing and production costs, agricultural practices and constraints to
increasing production. Questionnaires would be designed for transmigrant
farmers on the pilot projects and for spontaneous settlers in the study areas.
Two surveys would be made, one in the rainy season and one in the dry sea-
son on about 250 farms in each of the two provinces (Jambi and South Sumatera)
and further divided as appropriate to cover both transmigrants and spon-
taneous settlers. Agronomic information would be collected and analyzed
from the two operating test farms (Puding and Upang). Settlement studies
covering community development aspects (transportation, schools and health
facilities, etc.) and how to provide domestic water would be carried out
over a 12-month period at 4 test centers of about 100 ha each. These test
centers would be established on existing transmigrant pilot projects in the
two study areas to determine the minimum services to be provided transmi-
grants and to test several water control regimes (para 11).
11.       Planning and Design.  The physical data of paras 7-10 would be
interpreted and a development plan would be prepared for the net area. This
would include construction and testing of alternative minimum water control



ANNEX 15
Page 5
systems on the 100 ha test centers (para 10) and their manipulation to dis-
pose of excess rainfall and maintain tidal inflow at desired levels. From
the soils, topographic and hydrographic data, areas suitable for development
would be delineated and an engineering plan would be tailored for the
particular water regimes; water control systems would be designed and cost
estimates prepared for the total net area. The plan would provide water
control for a single crop during the rainy season on 2-ha size farms, but
would recognize in project layout that a later stage would provide water for
a second crop in the dry season where possible. Detailed engineering de-
signs and specifications would be prepared ready for tender or force account
construction for some 20,000 ha (10,000 ha in each province) covering those
portions of the study area best suited for initial development.
Consultants Services
12.       The DGWRD would select a consulting firm to assist them with
directing and coordinating the study components and in preparing the develop-
ment plan and the feasibility report suitable for financing decision. These
services are expected to amount to 100 man months of foreign consultant
time. Additionally, about 435 man months of local consultants services would
be utilized in the contracts for study components. Table 1 presents the
breakdown of consultants services by specialists and man months.
13.       A major objective of the study is to build up GOI capability in
conducting a feasibility study for tidal swamp land development, and detailed
terms of reference for foreign consultants would stress training of GOI
counterparts in the required specialities. The consultants would assist
DGWRD in monitoring and directing the work of local consultants in soils
surveys, topographic mapping and agro-economic surveys; in interpreting
data; in designing water control systems; in preparing a project de-
velopment plan; and in preparing the detailed engineering designs and the
feasibility study. The interim report and master plan for development would
be reviewed with the Bank before proceeding with the detailed engineering
designs. Among other things, the consultants would review what crops other
than rice could be grown; determine the required level of agricultural sup-
porting services; recommend minimum infrastructure to be provided, speci-
fically as regards tranportation, schools, health and domestic water supply;
and review settlement schedules, the role of the Directorate General of
Transmigration and when the project should be turned over to normal govern-
ment apparatus.
Costs and Financing
14.       The study is expected to cost US$6.7 million including the US$3.0
million hydrographic survey assistance to be carried out by the Netherlands
government. The remaining US$3.7 million (foreign exchange US$1.5 million)
is included in the total costs of Annex 6 and a breakdown of study component
costs is shown in Table 2 of this annex.



ANNEX 15
Table 1
1NDOESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
Tidal SMp Lands Development
Consultants Services for Feasibility Study
Foregn Ccsultants                          Man- -nths
Co-study leader                                 23
Topographir                                      6
Soil scienitist                                 10
Agronomist                                       9
Agro-economist                                   6
Domestic water supply specialist                 3
Settlement specialist                            6
Senior design engineer                          10
Design engineer                                  6
Plant engineer                                   9
Unallocated                                     12
Sub-Total                            100
Local Consualtants
Soil surve:ys                                  180
Agro-econoinic surveys                          35
Planning & engineering design                  220
1kb-Total                            435
Tobtall/ 'jl
j/  Presentled for estimating purposes, composition of
teams and man-months to be determined by GOI and con-
sulting firms.



ANNEX 15
Table 2
INDCKESIA
IRRIGATICN PROJECT VII
Tidal Swamp Lands Development
Feasibility Study Costs
Total       Foreign
Component                         Cost j/      Exch=e
(US$ W OT   (U5$  T000)
1. Topographic surveys                                    330            70
2. Soil surveys                                         1,200           340
3. Agro-economic surveys                                  150            20
4. Planning & engineering design                          870           250
5. Settlement studies j/                                   60            10
6. Foreign consultant services  /                       1,090           810
Total                                      3.70         1.500
(exclusive of hydrographic surveys)        -              -
Hydrographic surveys  /                             (3,000)       (2,400)
1/  To be ca: ied out by foreign consultants.
2/ Includes foreign consultant costs only and US$250000 of specialized
equipment to be purchased by the consultant. Local consultant costs
are included under items 2, 3 and 4 (see Table 1).
3/ Broader in scope and longer time (36 months) than the feasibility study
and includes training component.
hi Cost estimates are based on US$6,500/man-month for foreign consultants
and US$1,000 to US$1 ,200/man-month for local consultants.



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIl
PROSIDA SUB-PROJECT ORGANIZATION
FOR TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT AND SADANG (NORTH SADANG)
-a1/
SUB-PROJECT      uiu.uu...m...ua.m.nu.uuu.m..muu.hu.u..umJ   PROVINCIAL
MANAGER                                              ADVISORY GROUP
I           7
CONSULTING     *Ium.iu.m.uhuma..msm.ufuuu..muunhmuwummum   DEPlJTY SUB-PROJECT
ENGINEERS                                                MANAGER
2/         c       L7                  ~ECMTRLE2
_ _ _ _ ___ _ __ __~~~DPUT    -                                                                  DFPUT
DEPUTY O & M   rhENGINEERING                                                                                     ADMINISTRATION]
O & M SECTIONS
CONSTRUCTI ON SUPERV ISORS
1/ PROVINCIAL STAFF
2/ PROSIDA STAFF                                                                                                           World Bank-8964



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIl
ESTIMATED OPPORTUNITY COST CURVE FOR FARM LABOR
NORTH SADANG
300                                       i        C
250  -
E  200
0
8C/.
25 150
A
c
C-      -
C-
0
_  100
50
50_
0              0.1             0.2              0.3             0.4              0.5             0.6
Farm Labor Demand (Million Man-days/month)
World Bank-15114(R)



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIl
ESTIMATED OPPORTUNITY COST FOR FARM LABOR
TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT
300 -
250   -
E                                                                                                                        B-
"a
a    200
0
t    150
t!
0
C-
0.
*a   100
50 _
0     1.0    2.0   3.0    4.0    5.0    6.0    7.0   8.0    9.0   10.0  11.0   12.0   13.0  14.0   15.0   16.0   17.0  18.0  19.0   20.0
Farm Labor Demand (Million Man-days/month)
World Bank-15116(R)



1 5    INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIl
0 & M ORGANIZATION (IRRIGATION) OF JATILUHUR AUTHORITY
irrigation Department
Director              |                                                                       Above this level, see insert
;Office of Director |
Secretary, Admin. &|
Finance|
Agricultural Develop- '                                                                  & M   ivision                                                              Developmevt & Con-
ment Division                                                                                                                                                      struction Division
Deputy-Director       '                                                            Deputy-Director                                                                   Deputy-Director
When appropriate the    %                                                                                I
Section will be made a Division
Agriculture                      West District                     Middle District                     East District                     Curu_ istrict
Section                            O&M                               O&M                               O &M                               O&M
Chief of Section                District D & M Engr.               District D & M Engr.               District 0 & M Engr.              District 0 & M  Engr.
Sub District                                             Organization below this for each
D & M                                                  district is same as for West District
Mioatrd of Dirtetors
ElectricPowerEDeptmy,rrigatinc  DprIrdentr                       Amnstainyet
<                            1                   \    h_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DirgIecAthor                    Dirt1e            $5'ectorhetr    Direto
I' "FWater Master" aperaeting gates and ether serantrarr an the main and secnedarn cnavls and drains.                Nt:Atelyseada   ietr  eetrPeietOina  n  h  he   htes
"/ Field Dperater" in charge af the alincatien aof inrinatien water ta tertiary canals,                            hedn  th  Auhrt' he   errwns
WarIf sank-1s5h30



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIl
ORGANIZATION OF SERVICES FOR IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE
IRRIGATION SERVICES                                                  ADMINISTRATION                                                          AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
MllTYOF ECONIOMICS,                          MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS   .                                             MINISTRY OF INTERIOR                                                   MNSROFAIC.TE
'I                                                                                                                                                                   MIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISTRY OF ITRO  UT.. A(3RICULTUR
FINANCE B INDUSTRY                                 & ELECTRIC POWER
j~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ +                             ------------                                   ri   - j- - - - - - - --+                                          
--RAFCOAtS                                                                                             j                                                                                              |d- = = 1Ti / ,
f           L                                 j                                                    _ |       |                       /~~~~~~~~-                                                  |          ottyo           AScOOURO,|  ~~  ~~  
Internal~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~vl, u,,clela            ._
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                           I           L                       -
1------ -W - -                                                                              H.-                 o .1
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                                                              / L
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE RTAFF                                                0
I        Iutr  /y                                                                              FodcesacAII |~ ~
3X40~~~~~~~~~- F a                                                               Wtod Vnk Sb3



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT ON PROSIDA SYSTEMS
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
WORKS                                1976-77             1977-78             1978-79              1979-80
July 1           11 -f1                                       1
Mapping and Design                                     -    -         -    -               -
Earthwork                                                                 (17,000 ha)         (28,000 ha)           (30,000 ha)
Tertiary and quarternary canals                                               m    m   - _    _    m    -         -         -
Tertiary and quaternary drains                                      -                    -    - _ _ _              -
Inspection roads                                                    -    -              - _        - _            - _
Structures
Ma 1
Tertiary and quaternary boxes                                                      a -   i    -   -    -    -           -
Other structures
Land Acquisition                                            Oct. 1
Vehicles and Equipment                                         _       a
Gate Modifications
Measuring Devices                                                 ___
Agricultural Support Program                                 -         -    - _                                       -   -
World Bank-1 5534



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIl
TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT ON JATILUHUR SYSTEM
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
WORKS                               1976--77         1977-78         1978-79          1979-80
Mapping and Design                                   _t1
Earthwork                                                      (11,000 ha)     (1 1,000 ha)      (3,000 ha)
Tertiary and quaternary canals                            Apr. 1
Tertiary and quaternary drains                            _        mu                       N
Inspection roads                                                       -   _           -
Structures
Tertiary and quaternary boxes                                          _ av  I
Other structures                                           U  -        -   - l
Land Acquisition                                         -  -|-   -   -
Vehicles and Equipment
Agricultural Support Program                         _       -  -- _              mu           N
World Bank-15535



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION  PROJECT VII
NORTH SADANG IRRIGATION SYSTEM
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
WORKS                              1976-77             1977-78           1978-79              1979-80
Preliminary Works
Mapping and Design                                     Oct. I
Upgrading of Intake & Main Canal                                  -         - _ _         _
South Block Construction (2,000 ha)
Irrigation canals & structures                                 -    -   -   -
Drainage channels & structures                                 -         -   -   -
Inspection roads                                                         -   -   -    m
North Block Construction (4,000 ha)
Irrigation canals & structures                                                    Apr. 1noun
Drainage channels & structures                                                     -    -         -    -    _         -
Inspection roads                                    I                                        -   -
Communications                                                                        - _- -
Vehicles and Equipment
Agricultural Support Program                        .                                 -    --    -                       -
World Bank-15536



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
PRELIMINARY WORKS KEDUNGDMBD DAM
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
WORKS                                    1976-77          1977-78          1978--79         1979-80
Dam                                                      July 1
Additional Site Investigations                         Jl 1
Damsite Selection Studies                                  Nov. 1
Detailed Engineering Designs                                       Apr 1
Preparation of Tender Documents                                                J   1
Civil Works
Improvement of Access Roads                               Oct 1
Construction of GOI's Camp                                     Jan. 1
Downstream River Improvements
9        1                .                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nov. 1
Flood Control & Drainage Schemes                                - _      _   -
Feasibility Report                                                         July 1        -   m
World Bank-15537



INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIl
WATER RESOURCES ORGANIZATION CHART
[ MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND ELECTRIC POWER
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF
WATER RESOURCES
DEVELOP'MENT
DIRECTORATE OF           DIRECTORATE           tDIRECTORATE OF           DIRECTORATE            DIRROATION                RESEARC   OF
CONSTRUCTION              OF RIVER                 SWAMPS               OF IRRIGATION            EQUIPMENT             WATER PROBLEMS
P3SA                                            P4                               PROSIDA
World Bank-16017



INDONESIA IRRIGATION PROJECT VIl
PROSIDA
MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION
DIR. GENERAL
WATER RESOURCES
.1    DEVELOP.
EXPERTS   |_ _  i  GEN. MANAG.          AD
~~iIIIfm m           PRCSIDA              3      GRU
CHIEF                                   CHIEF           r    CHIEF 
ENIErING                           o p. & MAI N .|        ADrMiNSTR .|
DEPUTY. CHiEF       I DEPUTY CHIEF
ENGCONSTRUC.          ENG./SURV.-DES.
ASST. TO THE         ASST. FOR                ASST. FORFOR                                     ASST. FOR
GEN. MANAG.          SUPER V. CONST.                                         SURVEYM.          FINANCE
i ASST. FOR  l    n    ASST. FOR   l          li  ASST. FOR
| BUILDINGIFAC. |    7    DESIGN   l         7    HYDROLOG.             DEN. AFFAIR
iASST. FOR               AST FORAST  O    l                           rAST  O 
j     MECH. EQUIFM. |     BUDAGICLTET/REFSICAFAI
ASST. FOR
BUDGET/REPORT.
CONSULTANT        SUB.PROJECT        SUB. PROJECTS      SUB PROJECTS       SUB. PROJECT        SUB. PROJECT       CONSULTANT
FOR MADIUN r   5(E-SERIES)         A-SERIES              B-SERIES          C-SERIES             D-SERIES          FOR CERIBON
0rESR  BANG
World Bank-16008



IBRD 3627R3
lORdE                                                          llOnE      INDONESIA                                            116-E                                                          FEBRUARY 1976
IRRIGATION PROJECT VII
LOCATION MAP                                                                  M a k a s s a r
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT 1 -V Extouted bY Jetiluhur Authority                S
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT I )                                                Strait                           SU LAW E S I
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT Lt , Executed hE Preside
BAN::A ':'ITUNG                                                                    *i>V-V-< IRRIGATION REHABILITATO  PROJECT IV
BANGKA                   BELITUNG                                                  1111111   I IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT VI
0Polteiboeg                                                                                              %     JATIGEDE DAM PROJECT - Executed under iD-ect-a,te of lrWigetexe
. GROUNDWATER EXPLORATION PROJECT
M'U    PFUTURE MAOIUN IRRIGATION REHABILITATION                                                                      NOR II ;. 1.
S U M  A          T E R A                                                                                            RAILWAYS                               KALIMANTAN                                                        SADANE  E,OOJr
SUB- PROJECT    (h
- ddE   WAY SEPUTIH                                                                                                NOTE Irei,atox peoi,ex  VII includes teeeinex dexeomp-ent on                                                 54,60 PRO -ET                     4
SUBJPROJECT                                                                                                       00ECH le,of -for Kdb-peje bt S NpltorhxSEdEe nd                                                    TD.z7,500 hop,       o _0
\<\  \ Menggulo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pepe
25,000 no                                                                                                         ee eie-,e -xkn, eoe Kedue,otebo On..
- 7  R                                                                     cl v a    Sea
Eenduljnyx-        t
N7w,
G-g,,ghu      0         T.D. 6,000 ha
Sku-   EudonE    CIUJUNG                                                                                                                                                                                              Oboe PandEnE 
*    SUB-PROJECT t. e60 00ha   TO, 25,000he
Te ikbeoendgO            24,300 ha      CS ;ENE       JATILUHUR PROJECT
008U-PROJECT   /253,000 ha
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 42,0005ha                                    h.
Mera o                                92,000 l          D TD  2I1,000hi     S GLAPAN-SEDADI
Lbe    B 3                               Iedmu |20 hSUB-PROJECT          47,400 h.
L.b.h:n.,     t-hu><       3     3 f - -    CIREBON 1 00 ha                                            GROUNDWATER STUDY AREA  2,500 km
iT   l;  Bogo    f)            y>-  /4 P5RB,OOO Be   I      cektod f                      /
Telu P.IbJ  I R. A                             ClebnMADURtAIo~n 
Inclion   Oceon                                                                                                      S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Eunnj  AMPEAN BARU
In di a n   O     eaGf n                                           H         A   Aceocbo             -el>                                           IRIEGATION SCHEME
T71 h*z/darEcs h Rs in Illj ,pp n(r  Pomungptuh   7 -         \_<>S ~urr.k.,f idi             =         <> J                             T D .30,000 ha
O, O,l.leleno le~~~ne,lqll-,e~ ~~, ~,,  Pomnuegytuk                  Odiufl      ~        ~                              PEKALEN-SAMPEAN PROJECT
-B-S lr elVerrel  e-rple- b, 101 tycop                                                                                 'AA                                            229,000ho                                                                            SS-
I                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bwel-wngi
'toe-            ,AOLAra UdBd  '     . PEILIPPINES
ALAY SIA5RONAL I
\-, ELATEr lAzyi ;SW                 PoCifie  .o...                                                                                                                             LOMBOK                                                          FLORES
t 't. nIenPut E . e2I.1S U MB AW A
'KALIMANTAN                                                                                                                                                                       S
-p                      E ',SULAWESI                     -0                      50        IqO         1E0 2y
Joev  Sep                            eIR.AN JuAYA                                  MI LES
nd) :n Oceon i N D  O N E S I A                       O                                  100           2q0           3qO
JAVA Kdn  u  OILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                                                       SUMBA
TIMOR    -. <AUSTRALIA                                                       1I2-E                                                          I16-E                                                           120'E



:          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KJU    IND^ONE'SlAW                       <  E  H
0  30  0 4020:'080'0  0 0 t04 0:  \   48  ; 0 xi--2-+   |    i  0 8xrongoK.-  IRRIGATION PROJECT VIl
- X~~~~~7,440-'o K~".                                        ;>SrcI`re  KEDUNGOMBO DAM SITE
-   A t      A
WE0IJNGTNAN  SRAGRMr- D.
|  /   X          g                                  t  :           K            Yi^,! S Dro ts~~ w6l 
10,500 'h' o' ~ \   ,,   .    ' ^   untJr Weir  nre il.  f  LOMETF
_~~~~~~~~~
'z
<.'',A56bS ~ ~ N NEF i  ; >  KLADJS iNDON7SA
\              ng ./  .TuntSnB9 Jgrrgung                                         ( 
Power~ ~  ~  ~ ~  ~ ~ ~~PLYAAh           """Ne ->         Structurej
KEDZNGJ              ,                    A       KDN MB   DAM SITE
J~~~~~~~~~~I.k   P-  stwi- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Goo   SddI'ioinSytnfR'2'IS
Pos.b e Aligiroreot of Main Sea



V-                                                  a
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ )!Y                                      KA LI MANTA N t9--              SULAWESI
PaIemrang~, 
I \ .    . /                             s SUMATERA                        -andiermasin   .         oja.F
ill/                                       5    Tanjung|Karang                                Ujung Pandang
! j/                                                                      oJokarta
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 .                               --        JAVA    oSernarang ~ bSaby a~0FOE
/  ;  !    t>  .                                  -- . Jogiakarta     ~~~~~~~~~~BALI LOMBOK   FLORES
-  t   .                            - -I0    1,05            1100               115p   SUMBAWA  120
J    --,  "/   r  1                                      INDONESIA
IRRIGATION PROJECT VIl
NORTH SADANG IRRIGATION SYSTEM
I           X      /            \        |  ,1                                :  - ~ --~  Existing Main Canals and Structures
N , -  -- )  jX    |    X   /                                             - - New Main and Secondary Canals
>/<'       i  1                .                                                       - New Tertiary and Quaternary Canals
a>-|- E-- - Drains
/    _ N. - -                                                      =---i=   Barrage
Existing Primary Roads
------|-   Existing Secondary Roads
Proposed  Roads
Rivers
N
0     1      2      3     4      5     6
| I/ i                ',                                 --\-\         /          KILOMETERS  I      I      I     I      I      I
Xo __    1\t 9    /  /   S    ,,   ..   y    0  ......0  1         2          3         4
MILES 1          I                                          BENTENG
BARRAGE
9
F--
Ujung Pandang       Ujung Paindang           -



________________________________________                                                                                 IBRD  11957R
.~~DiA'V OCEAN  ~~~~~~INDONESIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... t..........  ....  ....MRH17 
,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                         ,. . . . .   .   . . .. . ..  h0, o A
IRRIGATION  PROJECT Vil
TYPICAL TERTIARY DEVELOPMENT
JAVA
Proposed control structure
Proposed tertiary and
...,..   '.',    ','',',','.''' ..''' ."". ''... '''
quarternary drains
_________________---_____________________________________________                                        Proposed quarternary canals
Proposed tertiary canals
Existing secondary canal
Existing control structure
t      '>.                       \                                                -         Existing roads
I~~I      Existing Railroad
SAAMP-                " K\                                                                   9 .i       Built-up areas
|.                                           ____X _       River
. Lip''             --                  /
'<--0tw   ;      <           /   :-          .d -: z            :    {K~~P. PALAWAD
_P ~~PBABAKANGEBANG _  
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



