Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Re""r Nr. P-3915-1A
REPORT A"D RECO4MMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDELNT O)F THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUN-T EQUIVALENT TO US$6.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
December 17, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onoy in the performance of
thdr official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units                        -        MaLavi Kwacha (fK) and
Tambala
US$1.00                                        M MK 1.33
MK 1.00                               -        US$0.75
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I cubic foot (cu ft)                  =        0.0283 cubic meters
1 cubic meter (m3)                    =        35.3 cubic feet = 264 US gal
1 kilometer (km)                      =        1,000 meters = 0.621 miles
I hectare (ha)                        =        10,000 square meters = 2.47
acres
GLOSSA%Y OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADMARC    -              Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
FID       -              Forest Industries Division in the Ministry of
Forestry and Natural Resources
GTZ       -              Agency for Technical Cooperation of the Federal
Republic of Vest Germany
INDEBANK  -              Investment and  Development Bank of Malawi
KfW       -              Kreditstanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MDC       -              Malawi Development Corporation
NhRDP     -              National Rural Development Program
ODA       -              British Overseas Development Administration
PPF       -              Project Preparation Facility
TPL       -              Timber Products (Malawi) Ltd.
VIPCOR    -              Viphya Pulp and Paper Corporation, Limited
WICO      -              Wood Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUWMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Malawi.
Beneficiary,         Wood Industries Corporation (Malawi) Limited (WICO).
Amount:              US$6.4 million equivalent, including front-end fee.
Terms:               Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
with standard variable interest rate.
Relending            US$5.1 million equivalent onlent to WICO, payable in
Terms:             10 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
rate at 12 percent, WICO to bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project              The projecr would assist Malawi in meeting its demand
Description:       for wood products, managing and optimizing forest
resources. increasing industrial productivity,
encouraging privitization, and developing institutions
in the sector. Specifically it would provide: (a)
technical assistance to WICO to enable it to operate
profitably as a private company, restructure its
Mazamba and Dedza sawmills and rehabilitate its Zomba
Mill, purchase critic,'l spares and equipment,
establish training programs and carry out feasibility
studies for new processing facilities, product
development and quality control; and (b) technical
assistance to the Government for developing
alternative uses for forest resources, mainly the
large Viphya Forest.
Benefits and         The project will substantially increase output from
Risks:               WICO's mills, improve product quality, and lead to
more efficient use of forestry resources, which in
turn would generate significant long-term returns to
the economy. It would also identify additional
economically viable investments for Malawi's extensive
wood resources. The project faces no special risks,
although realization of the expected benefits will
depend mainly on the pace of managerial improvements.
The incremental economic and before-tax financial
rates of return for the project as a whole (including
the technical assistance costs) are 25 percent and 23
percent, respectively. The after-tax financial rate
of return is 15 percent.
Tbis document has a rescd sturibttion and may be used by recipients only in the perforance of
their offxid duties. Its contents may not othrwise be discosed witbout Wodd Bank authoriztio.



- ii -
USS Million
Local Foreign Total
Estimated Cost:      (a)  Restructuring and Technical    1.8   4.1    5.9
assistance to WICO
(b)  Technical assistance to        0.1    1.0    1.1
Government
Total Base Cost                     1.9    5.1    7.0
Physical Contingencies              0.1    0.5    0.6
Price Contingencies                 0.2    0.8    1.0
Total Project Cost                  2.2    6.4    8.6
IBRD Front-End Fee ($15,960)        -      0.0    0.0
Total Financing Required            2.2    6.4    8.6
Financing Plan:                                             USS Million
Local Foreign Total
wICO                                2.1    -      2.1
Government                          0.1    -      0.1
IBRD                                 -     6.4    6.4
Total                               2.2    6.4    8.6
Estimated
Disbursements:
US$ Million
Bank FY:                         1985  1986  1987  1988  1989   1990
Annual       0.3   1.4   2.4   1.6  0.5    0.2
Cumulative   0.3   1.7   4.1   5.7   6.2    6.4
Ecouomic Rate        25 percent.
of Return:
Appraisal Report:    No. 5063-MAI (December 12, 1984).
Map:                 IBRD 18115R.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOHMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Malawi for the equivalent of US$6.4 million to help
finance a Wood Industries Restructuring Project. The loan would have a
term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with a variable interest
rate. Of the loan, US$5.1 million equivalent would be relent to the Wood
Industries Corporation (WICO), formerly the Forest Industries Division of
the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources (FID) for 10 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 12 percent per annum. WICO
would bear the foreign exchange risk. In parallel, IFC is proposing an
investment of US$2.1 million equivalent in a wood processing plant at
Chikangawa (Chikangawa Project).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled 'Malawi: Growth and Structural Change, A Basic
Report- (Report No. 3082a-MAI) dated February 8, 1982, was circulated to
the Executive Directors on March 9, 1982. Annexes to the report were
distributed on June 26, 1981. Annex I contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about 6.6
million people in 1983) landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a
climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        Although Malawi has a GNP per capita of only US$210 and has been
identif4ed by the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries,
its progress since independence in 1964, measured against its natural
resources, has been significant. Up until 1979 there was mostly steady
growth. In 1980 and 1981 major economic difficulties were encountered, but
a recovery appears to have begun in 1982 and 1983. GDP at constant prices
grew at an average annual rate of 6 percent between 1964 and 1979. During
the same period, real growth of estate agriculture and manufacturing
exceeded 10 percent per annum and export volume grew at 4.5 p-rcent per
annum.  A steadily increasing investment rate (rising from 9 percent of GDP
at independence to 33 percent in 1979) has been supported by heavy inflows
of official and private external capital as well as by a significant
increase in domestic savings (from virtually nil in 1964 to 14 percent of
GDP in 1979).
5.        Malawi's past development success has been due largely to the
realistic and purposeful policies of the Government. Public investment has



been intended primarily to support private initiative in the directly
productive sectors by providing infrastructure, public utilities and
support services. The Government has emphasized smallholder agriculture,
as about 90 percent of the population lives in the rural areas and depends
on agriculture for its livelihood. The Government has thus undertaken a
number of integrated rural development projects and, in the late 1970s,
embarked on the National Rural Development Program (NRDP), an ambitious
20-year program for extending services to smallholders countrywide. The
Government's decision to emphasize directly productive sectors and
infrastructure has resulted in relatively slower development of social
services. Over the past 1n years, 7 percent of the Government's
development budget has been spent on health, education and community
development, compared to 22 percent on natural resources and 39 percent on
communication.
6.        Malawi's economy is heavily dependent on three primary commodity
exports (tobacco, tea, and sugar) and is highly vulnerable to international
price fluctuations. Since 1974, there have been periodic balance of
payments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a) rapid
escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate and
capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, sugar and
tea; and (c) significantly higher costs of transport for exports and
imports owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in
Mozambique, and disruptions of overland transport.
7.        While the Government successfully steered the economy through
balance of payments crises in the past, the deterioration in the balance of
payments since 1978 has been less manageable. For reasons mostly outside
Malawi's control, the deficits in both the trade and non-factor services
grew rapidly until 1980. Between 1977-80 Malawi's terms of trade fell by
40 percent. While export prices declined by 16 percent (due mainly to
falling tea and tobacco prices), import prices rose by 39 percent, partly
because of the steep increase in prices of petroleum products. The
petroleum import bill more than doubled, raising its share in total imports
from 8.5 percent in 1977 to more than 16 percent in 1983. In 1980 and
1981, agricultural production suffered from recurring drought, reducing
export volumes and necessitating large imports of maize, a commodity in
which Malawi had been self-sufficient during most of the 1970s. Finally,
disruptions of the rail transport system through Mozambique have forced
Malawi to use more costly alternative routes as principal means of
transport for exports and imports. As a result of these developments
Malawi's current account deficit deteriorated sharply. From an annual
average of about 8-9 percent of GDP in the mid-1970s, it rose to 18 percent
in 1978 and 23 percent in 1979 before falling to 19 percent in 1980, 12
percent in 1981, 8.3 percent in 1982 and 11.5 percent in 1983. Capital
inflows did not cover current account deficits and foreign exchange
reserves fell from the equivalent of over five months of imports to less
than two months between 1977-83.
8.        Malawi's fiscal position also seriously deteriorated.  From
independence through 1977/78, government expenditures and revenues expanded



roughly in line with the increases in GDP, and deficits rarely exceeded
eight or nine percent of GDP. In the past four years, expenditure growth
has outstripped the increase in revenues and the share of government
deficits in GDP averaged 15.6 percent in 1978-81. The underlying cause of
these deficits was the increase in government expenditure to around 35
percent of GDP compared to an average 26 percent for the previous six
years. Increases in domestic borrowing, mainly from the monetary system,
and in foreign borrowing, partly on commercial terms, were required to
finance the rising budget deficits. Inflationary pressures grew and prices
rose at an average rate of 13 percent per annum in the first four years of
the 1980s, well above the average of 9 percent from 1973-79.
9.        Because of the Government's limited ability to mobilize
resources, the appreciable expansion of Malawi's development program over
the past decade has been financed in large part by increased public capital
inflows. The net contribution from foreign official sources to the
financing of public investment increased from US$17 million in FY68, to
about US$105 million in FY82, o' which about US$48 million were grants.
However, borrowing on commercial terms accounted for about 50 percent of
total horrowing from 1979-81.
10.       The Government and the IMF agreed to a new standby program for
SDR 22 million in August 1982. A fi:st phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aimed at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involved phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on government external commercial borrowing. The standby was
implemented satisfactorily, and the Government and the IMF concluded a new
multi-year program, and a three year Extended Fund Facility was approved in
September 1983 and has been implemented successfully so far. As part of
the Extended Fund Facility, the Government devalued the kwacha against the
SDR by 12 percent in September 1983 and switched to a basket of currencies
on January 1984.
11.       These measures are complemented by a medium-term structural
adjustment program on which the Government embarked in 1981. The program's
principal objectives are to diversify Malawi's export base, encourage
efficient import substitution, adjust income policies, improve the public
sector's financial performance and strengti.on economic planning and
monitoring. The Bank's first structural adjustment loan for U;;$45 million
was made in June 1981. After initial difficulties, good progress was made
in implementing the Government's adjustment program: additional funds were
allocated to the agricultural sector, agricultural prices were adjusted,
public utility tariffs increased and the budget for 1982-83 was trimmed,
with sufficient resources provided for major development sectors. The
second tranche was released in April 1982. However, during 1982 the
country's efforts were set back by increased disruption of the traditional
transport routes and continued depressed demand for Malawi's export
products. Nevertheless, the country was able to hold its current account



deficit to 11.3 percent of GDP in 1983, reduce the budgetary deficit for
FY1983 to 9 percent of GDP, and meet its IMF standby borrowing ceilings.
GDP growth recovered to 2.6 percent, auid 4.4 percent, respectively in 1982
and 1983. External grants and net capital inflow continued to fall and
despite a rescheduling of its external debt, net asset transfers have
fallen sharply since 1980. Malawi's economic performance and
creditworthiness are expected to continue to improve in the medium term if
the structural adjustment program is implemented successfully, the external
transport and terms of trade conditions do not deteriorate further, and the
fall in foreign asset flows is reversed.
12.       In December 1983, a second structural adjustment operation was
approved by the Board. The program supported by SAL II builds on the
progress made under SAL I and strengthens areas not covered in the first
program or where implementation was not completely satisfactory.
Implementation of SAL II moved well in many facets such as the
strengthening of agricultural marketing, setting agricultural prices, the
price liberalization program, budgetary allocations, revenue measures and
development of an estate credit project. After initial delays, the
Government has now taken satisfactory steps in developing a rationalization
plan for Press Holdings, projecting revenues and expenditures, and
developing a three year investment program, and revising the 1984/85
development budget. The second tranche was released on November 21, 1984.
13.       By the end of 1983, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$705 million. In late 1982, Malawi rescheduled both
its official and commercial debts. Otherwise its debt servicing, including
repayments to the IMF, would have amounted to over US$130 million,
equivalent to over 40 percent of exports of goods and services. This
compares to a level of about 10 percent in the mid-1970s. A second year of
rescheduling was agreed to in October of 1983, keeping the debt service
ratio to 26.7 percent in 1983. Although the Government has indicated that
it will not be asking for any further rescheduling, the debt service ratio
is expected to remain at 25-30 percent over the next few years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
14.       Over the past 18 years, Malawi has received 31 IDA credits and
one Special Fund credit totalling about US$414 million and seven Bank loans
totalling US$93 million, of which two were on third window terms. Of the
Bank Group assistance, some US$123 million (24 percent) was for
agriculture, US$108 million (21 percent) for education, US$114 million (22
percent) for roads, US$100 million (20 percent) for structural adjustment,
US$39 million (8 percent) for power, US$11 million (2 percent) for water,
for housing finance and the balance of USS12.0 million (2 percent) for
health, development finance and technical assistance. The first Bank loan
to Malawi was made on third window terms in June 1976 and the first
standard Bank loan in April 1977. The most recent operations were a
US$13.1 million equivalent credit, a US$13.8 million equivalent Special



-5-
Fund credit and a USS18.0 million loan for a fiftk highways project; a
US$55.0 million equivalent credit for a second structural adjustment
project and a US$1.5 million equivalent credit for a related technical
assistance project. In addition, a US$15.0 million credit for an Urban
Project was approved on November 27, 1984. IFC's investment in Malawi
consists of a loan of US$10.8 million for a textile mill, another of US$9.9
million for a sugar mill, a US$0.6 million equity investment in the
Investment and Development Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK) and a US$2.0 million
loan to Malawi Motels Limited for tourism. A US$300,000 equity investment
and a loan of US$1.9 million for the production of ethanol from molasses
were approved in July 1980, and a US$0.5 million equity subscription and
US$1.8 million loan investment in the Viphya Plywoods and Allied Industries
United were approved in August 1984. A Summary Statement of Bank Group
Operations is provided in Annex II.
Bank Lending Strategy
15.       During the next five years, Bank Group assistance to Malawi will
continue to be designed to help Malawi restructure its economy, especially
to help improve agricultural productivity, dealing with the transport
problem in order to improve the balance of payments and strengthening the
effectiveness and efficiency of government and other development
institutions. A longer run but equally urgent need is to help Malawi
develop its human resource potential by addressing the problems of
population growth, health and education. The remainder of the 1980s are
likely to be a difficult time for land-locked Malawi which will need to
continue its adjustments which it began with its two structural adjustment
programs in the early 1980s. Investment and savings levels will need to
increase as a proportion of GDP, the current account and budgetary deficits
will have to be further reduced, export promotion and diversification will
need to go forward and recurrent expenditure levels in key development
agencies will have to be raised if past investments are to be utilized
fully. These measures should be complemented by policy reforms in
agriculture and industry to further increase the production and industrial
incentives. A third structural adjustment loan embodying these reforms is
planned for FY1986. It will help the Government increase the efficiency in
the productive sectors, better mobilize and manage resources and improve
development administration and the capacity for policy formulation.
16.       Experience to date in Malawi has demonstrated that a combination
of appropriate policies and sufficient external assistance channelled into
productive investments can generate sustained growth rate in per capita
income. The Government's medium-term public investment program requires
further support in agriculture, transportation, education,
population/health and water supply as well as a second line of credit to
INDEBANK to provide medium-term finance for diversification and
agro-industrial investment. These Bank-financed investments will
complement the Government's structural adjustment program providing the
necessary technical, financial and institutional support to enable Malawi
to further increase the productivity of the smallholder, maximize the
effectiveness of its external transport routes (particularly the northern



- 6 -
route), rationalize and prioritize investments in the education and water
sectors and address the single most pressing issue Eor Malawi's long-term
future, the very high rate of population growth. All of these programs
will be co-financed thereby helping Malawi to obtain some of the additional
external financing it needs to reach its modest GDP growth targets.
17.       The Bank Group's economic sector work will continue to build an
analytical base for discussions wi.th Government on the key development
issues that it must address. The major points of focus will remain: how
to increase productivity in the economy; how to improve the financial
performance of the public sector; how to improve the management of the
economy and how to slow the rate of population growth. In agriculture, we
will conclude the study on diversification and the steps needed to help
broaden the export base of the economy; we will study the whole question of
land utilization and what can be done to improve the productivity of this
scarce resource; and we will finance studies on livestock, smallholder
irrigation and management and training in the Agriculture Ministry. We
will bring together these studies on agriculture in a sector memorandum in
FY87. In the transport sector, we will complete the current study on
external transport this year and also carry out an updating of the
situation in this critical sector in FY87. In the social sectors, we will
complete this year a study of the dynamics of population growth, its
implications of the economy and the recommended development assistance
strategy for the sector. In education, we will carry out over two years an
indepth study of the training needs in the economy with special emphasis on
the agriculture, health and transport sectors. These studies will provide
the basis for mobilizing external assistance.
18.       During the next three years we will complete two Country Economic
Memoranda and a special study on the institutional aspects of development.
The CEM, which is now under preparation, will focus on the medium-term
resource needs and availabilities including recurrent cost requirments.
The CEM planned for FY1987 will update our knowledge of the economy and the
implementation of the SALs. The special economic study will look at the
shortcomings in the Government's institutions and bureaucratic system which
have led to some of the structural weaknesses in the economy. This study
is expected to be finished in FY1986.
External Debt
19.       The Bank Group's share of Malawi's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of 1982 was about 36 percent (IBRD: 11 percent,
IDA: 25 percent), and its share in debt service was about nine percent.
Because Malawi is one of the least developed countries, many other donors
give aid on grant terms. Other major donors have been the United Kingdom,
the Federal Reptiblic of Germany, the European Economic Community ani the
African Development Bank.
Disbursements
20.       Disbursements of Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi generally
have kept close to schedule and compare favorably with other countries in



-7-
the region and even on a Bank-wide basis. During the period FY80-83, the
disbursemen,. rate on loans and credits to Malawi (excluding the effect of
non-project lending) averaged about 28 percent per annum, significantly
higher than the Eastern Africa Regional average of 19 percent and the
Bank-wide average of about 21 percent.
Project Implementation
21.       Overall, implementation of Bank projects continues to be good.
However, the third NRDP project has recently been classified as a problem
project-the first ever in Malawi-due to inadequate budget provision,
fertilizer shortage and lack of marketing and input infrastructure. The
Government has agreed to reassess its FY84 development budget so that it
can allocate sufficient budgetary resources for the project, to commence
construction of marketing and input facilities and to ensure timely
delivery of fertilizer. With these corrective actions, the project is
expected to regain lost momentum.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR, FORESTRY AND WOOD PROCESSING
The Industrial Sector
22.       Malawi's industrial sector is relatively important, accounting
for around 17 percent of GDP in 1982, and growth has averaged more than 10
percent a year since independence in 1964. The leading manufacturing
industries in Malawi are food processing (mainly sugar), beverage
production (26 percent of manufacturing), tobacco processing (15 percent),
building materials (12 percent), and textiles, footwear and clothing (15
percent). Tea processing and other export industries account for another
18 percent of total manufacturing sales. The manufacturing subsector is
dominated by three major holding companies: the Agricultural Development
and Marketing Corporation (ADMARC), the Malawi Development Corporation
(MDC), and Press (Holdings) Limited and a development bank: INDEBANK.
Foreign firms are major partners in beer, textile and vegetable oil
production. Small enterprises play an important role in such activities as
baking, garments and furniture.
23.       Malawi's outward-looking policy has been successfully
complemented by a market-oriented economy in which the private sector is
the primary engine for growth. Relatively low tariffs and judicious use of
quantitative import restrictions have discouraged inefficient
import-substitution. The Government's wage-control policy has helped to
keep erports competitive and to expand employment. In particular, this
policy has encouraged a relatively high level of labor-intensity in
manufacturing, the 40,000 Malawians employed in the sector representing
about 12-13 percent of the wage-earning labor force. Industrial management
in Malawi is generally good, and considerable attention is paid to
maintenance.



- 8 -
24.       From independence through the late 1970s, manufacturing activity
in Malawi was buoyant. Starting from a very low level, its vigorous
growth, which averaged over 10 percent per year during 1970-78, or twice
the rate of GDP growth, raised the sector's GDP share to around 12
percent. Initially, food, beverages, and the processing of tea and tobacco
crops accounted for the bulk of manufacturing operations, but over the
years the range of goods produced expanded to include textiles, clothing,
footwear, pharmaceuticals, soap, packaging materials, and wood and metal
products. After a slow-down during 1978-82, when growth of output averaged
just over one percent per year, manufacturing value added grew by more than
15 percent in 1983, the lead coming from agricultural processing and food
and beverages.
25.       The potential industrial use of coal deposits in the North of
Malawi and relatively large bauxite ore bodies in the Mulanje area merit
further investigation, but prospects are not very promising because these
products, given their low value per unit volume, are generally only
exploitable in large operations. Forests and some agricultural products
are in practice the only resources available for industrial development in
the near future. The Government and the Bank have discussed a relatively
large project to manufacture fertilizer (120-140 tons daily of ammonium
nitrate) but the Bank does not consider it economically justifiable at
present. An IFC-assisted project for the manufacture of ethanol from
molasses is underway (para. 14).
Forestry: Regional Imbalances and Reforestation Policy
26.       Fuelwood.  Currently, Malawi consumes 8.8 million m3 annually of
wood. Around 40 percent of the land area (about 3.7 million ha) is
forested. Wood is not only the main household fuel but also supplies
traditional building poles for 90 percent of the population and is the
primary fuel for tobacco processing, tea curing and brick making. This
demand for wood is met from a variety of sources, by far the largest of
which consists of indigenous forests on natural wood lands, for which wood
is generally removed free, or at a nominal charge, and without restriction
by the rural population for domestic and agricultural use. Other sources
of fuelwood, such as managed forest reserves on government and private
plantations, supplement the supplies from natural wood land, but aggregate
consumption from all of these sources still exeeds the level of sustainable
yield on a national basis by around 50 percent. The difference is met from
the continuing diminution of Malawi's natural forest cover, which not only
represents a fuelvood loss to future generations but precipitates serious
environmental damage in the process, i.e., erosion which has compounding
effects on future land productivity.
27.       However, these national figures conceal important regional
variations in the pattern of fuelwood supply and demand. A very serious
imbalance exists in the densely populated south between the rate of forest
production and exploitation, with the demand for fuelwood and timber
outstripping regrowth of wood resources by a substantial margin. However,
the continued availability of accessible unprotected forests leads to



-9-
untrawmelled scavenging, which keeps fuelwood and charcoal prices low and
provides insufficient economic incentives for landholders to replant trees
on a systematic basis. The relative sparsely populated and less developed
nortbern region has an excess supply of fuelvood relative to the effective
regional demand. Accordingly, woodfuel price differentials are growing and
are expected to become much sharper within the decade as absolute scarcity
is experienced in the heavily populated central and southern regions with
rapidly depleting wood stocks.
28.       Partly in response to the emerging fuelwood crisis and as a
result of the policy initiatives proposed by the Bank, the Government is
tackling the fuelwood problem with a three pronged strategy to increase
fuelwood supply. The first aims at building up long-term supply by
providing fuelwood seedlings for sale nationally to the public, accompanied
by a complementary program of extension services to enable them to grow
their own supplies of wood. The second involves an intensive afforestation
program by the Government in the areas of localized wood shortages and high
population density. The third is to improve the management of the natural
woodlands by the District Councils. The first two aspects of this strategy
(seedling production and reforestation) are being addressed with the help
of the IDA assisted Wood Energy Project (NRDP II) which is establishing
12,900 ha. of fuelwood plantations and 88 nurseries. The management of
natural woodlands will be a major focus of the proposed second Wood Energy
Project which the Government is currently preparing.
29.       While the main thrust of the Government's strategy to tackle the
fuelwood problem has largely been comprised of measures to increase the
supply of the resource, some headway has been made on the demand side as
well, particularly with regard to more efficient use of fuelwood by the
tobacco industry. Under the IDA financial Second Technical Assistance
Project, the Tobacco Research Association is carrying out the first phase
of a program which could lead to a 40 percent savings in fuelwood
consumption by the tobacco industry.
30.       While the direction of the strategy is clear and reflects
substantial agreement between the Bank and the Government, two difficult
issues remain, i.e., (a) to what extent subsidized tree-planting programs
are justified in the face of low market prices on the one hand and
substantial excess supplies in remote, high-transport cost locations on the
other; and (b) how Government revenues from wood utilization can be raised
to allow substantial cost recovery for forest management and development.
Neither of these policy issues is amenable to easy solution. However, the
Bank/UNDP Energy Assessment Report and the more recent Forestry Sub-Sector
Study have made a series of practical recommendations on both accounts for
which the Technical Assistance II and Wood Energy II Projects are providing
support. Results of this work will contribute to the development of a
medium-term strategy and investment plan which the Government is
preparing. However, considerable Bank support will be required in helping
the Government develop a strategic overview which would relate supply and
demand on a regional basis.  The proposed Wood Industries Restructuring
Project will make a modest contribution to the underlying technical issues



- 10 -
related to fuelwood supply strategies through the component for the study
of alternative wood uses. The proposed project does not compete wi-'1
scarce fuelvood supplies.  on the contrary, by stimulating tree pla.,Iing
for conversion to high-value lumler and by providing substantial quantities
of waste wood, it creates additiorial potential fuelwood supplies.
Wood Processing Industry
31.       Although the Government is aware of and has recently developed a
program to deal with the fuelvood problem, since the 1950s it has pursued a
forestry development policy which has led to the establishnent of about
73,000 ha of industr__ plantations as follows:  (a) Government and private
plantations for sawnwood, plywood, and poles for transmission and telephone
lines; (b) the Viphya Plateau plantations in the northern region planned
for pulpwood; and (c) fuelwood plantings. In addition, there are about
20,700 ha of private commer-ial plantations and farmers' and other
non-industrial woodlots. Seventy percent of the plantations are located in
the northern region, mostly on the Viphya mountains in the least populated
part of the country. The demand for industrial wood, including the
projected increases, can be met by existing plantations beyond the turn of
the century, but the geographical distribution of supplies does not match
regional demands. The pole demand for housing and fencing is well catered
for by plantations and farmer woodlots and, as current sale prices
stimulate private tree planting, demand will be met fully over the next few
years.
32.       The Viphya plantation estate of some 50,000 ha of fast growing
pine was begun in the mid-1960s with technical and financial assistance
from the 3ritish Overseas Development Administration (ODA). Its original
purpose was to provide raw material to a mill to produce pulp for export,
but an economically acceptable project could not be developed because of
the difficulty of achieving economy of scale, the high capital and
transportation costs and the slackening of international Aemand for paper.
Alternative uses for the wood, which grows in an area of more than 600 km
from the potential major market, have been difficult to find. Only
7 percent of the potential wood yield in Viphya will be used by the
existing sawmill at Mazamba and at Chikangawa under the project recently
approved by the IFC and the German Development Bank. As part of this
project, commercially oriented tests on alternative use of forest
resources, such as production of charcoal, pine resins and turpentine, if
successful, would lead to eventual better utilization of Viphya's resources
and alleviation of the fuelwood scarcity in the South (para. 27).
Eventually, up to one third of Viphya's resources could be used provided a
low-cost paper mill is established following feasibility studies now under
way.
Institutions
33.       Sector. All plantations, except for several small private ones,
are owned by the state through the Forestry Department in the Ministry of
Forestry and Natural Resources, which also has overall responsibility for



- 11 -
forestry development, protection, conservation and utilization. The
Department is headed by the Chief Forestry Officer who oversees the work of
four divisions: (a) Management of Timber Plantations and Protected Forest
Reserves; (b) Management Service, responsible for education, research and
technical services; (c) Viphya Plantations; and (d) the Wood Euergy
Division, responsible for present and future fuelwood plantings. To
enhance private participation in wood industries and to facilitate the
expansion of the sub-sector under the proposed project, a fifth division of
the Forestry Department, namely, Forest Industries (FID), has been
converted in April 1984 into an autonomous private company: the Wood
Industries Corporation (Malawi) Limited (WICO).
34.       The decision to convert FID was officially approved by
Presidential Directive on April 16, 1984. The new WICO was registered
under the Malawian Companies Act as a private corporation with limited
liabil:.ty in June 1984 and started operations on July 1. The Board
comprises five members, among whom the Principal Secretary of the Ministry
of Forestry and Natural Resources is chairman. Other government nominated
members are the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, the Chief Economist of
the Office of tLe President and Cabinet, and the Chief Forestry Officer.
In addition, there is a representative of the private sector. Should
ADMARC, INDEBANK or MDC (para. 22) acquire an ownership interest, the Board
would probably expand to accommodate nominees from those entities. The
General Manager of WICO will be the Chief Executive Officer. VICO's
operating facilities at the date of transfer consisted of the sawmills at
Blantyre, Zomnba, Dedza and Mazamba (para. 35) and depots at eight
locations.  A technical committee for timber products -  with participation
by the main producers and users - has been proposed by WICO and is
expected to be established in the near future. The financial position of
WICO is presented in paras. 75 to 79.
Wood Processing Facilities
35.       Primary Industry: The most important industrial activity
utilizing forest resources in Malawi is sawmilling. Eight sawmills are now
in operation, 5 of which account for 90 percent of the total production of
about 38,000 cubic meters (m3). Four (Mazamba, Dedza, Zomba and Blantyre)
are operated by WICO (para. 34) and the fifth and largest, also in
Blantyre, belongs to Timber Products (Malawi) Ltd. (TPL), a subsidiary of
the UK Imperial Group Ltd., which operates another plant in Blantyre making
plywood and flush doors. The Blantyre and Zomba sawmills are obsolete and
ill-located. The Mazamba sawmill was designed mainly to process thinnings
for future constructi:-u work in the area and is inadequate for handling and
processing lumber of the size and quality now needed. WICO's Blantyre mill
has a separate furniture and box making unit as well as a treatment plant
for poles. These activities have expanded substantially in recent years
and now account for over 40 percent of the Blantyre mill's revenues. The
Dedza sawmill, though relatively new, is handicapped mainly by insufficient
drying capacity and the lack of mature sawlogs. Conversion efficiencies
(i.e. the volume of sawn wood obtained from a given volume of logs) at the
mills have fallen steadily in recent years due to aging facilities and



- 12 -
equipment, deficient log supply, inadequate or non-existent log sorting and
debarking facilities to improve the quality of the feed to the sawmilling
operations. Conversion averaged 50 percent in 1980 but had fallen to 44
percent in 1984. The Dedza dill has fallen to below 40 percent, while the
Zomba and Blantyre mills, which had experienced efficiencies of up to 60
percent in the mid- to late-1970s, are now running at about 46 percent.
The Mazamba mill has been struggling to reach the 45 percent level and is
currently running below that rate. The TPL mill operates efficiently but
has difficulties in obtaining log supplies due to depletion of indigenous
forests and the limited yield of the company's own eucalyptus plantations.
36.       The main users of timber are dissatisfied with the present
quality of sawn softwood because of poor grading, insufficient or
non-uniform drying, inadequate treatment, and scarcity of larger cross
sections and longer lengths needed for construction and lack of
joinery/furniture grade timber. Eucalyptus sawn wood is used mainly for
boxes and tea chests and indigenous species for furniture where no grading
is applied.
37.       Future Production. Overall, significant increases in production
by the mills are feasible with modifications and improvements in timber
supply. The Mazamba mill is not expected to produce more than 5,000
m3/year in the near future because of design and log supply deficiencies.
However, with substantial improvements in design, log supply and technical
management, this mill is expected to reach an output of at least 10,000
m3/year by the mid-1990s. The Dedza mill's capacity could be increased to
20,000 m3/year; with substantial upgrading and better log supply, its
output is expected to reach 16,000 m3 in the late 1990s. It is assumed the
Zomba mill will stop operating in the mid-1990s. The WICO's Blantyre mill
is likely to stop operating by 1990, although the associated furniture,
pallet and pole making activities will continue and expand. The purchase
of logs for the TPL mill from the Forestry Department will allow the mill
to maintain output (possibly increasing it to 20,000 m3 annually by 1990)
with the product mix gradually shifting from hardwoods to a higher share of
softwood. Output from TPL's plywood and blockwood mill is estimated to be
maintained at about 5,000 m3 annually. The increased output from the
existing mills, combined with the projected output from the Chikangawa
project, should give the country a relatively balanced supply/demand
situation for mechanical wood products through 1990.
38.       Secondary Industries.  Most sawmills are integrated to some
degree with further conversion operations. The Dedza sawmill makes some
furniture and also mouldings, woodwool/cement boards and sawdust pellets.
The Blantyre nill has a separate unit to manufacture furniture and also
produces pallets, boxes, crates, etc. These conversion activities are not,
however, strongly promoted. TPL makes tea chests, tobacco cases, boxes and
doors using its own plywood and sawnwood. In addition, there are 10 firms
specialized in joinery and furniture production (of which three employ more
than 50 people) and many artisans or cottage operations, whose output is
under-reported.



- 13 -
Consumption
39.       Consumption of sawnwood grew at an average rate of 6.7 percent
annually from 1968 to 1973 when it reached 49,400 m3. After a series of
fluctuations, consumption declined sharply during the 1980s to about 40,900
m3 in 1982 due to the world-wide recession and the Government's measures to
curb inflation and public investment expenditures. More than half of the
demand is for softwood, and this share is increasing. Sixty-one percent of
the sawn softwood is used in construction and 27 percent in packaging,
whereas 55 percent of the sawn hardwood is used in packaging and 32 percent
in construction. Demand is projected to increase by four percent annually
between 1982 and 1995, reaching a level of 68,000 m3 in 1995. The IFC
financed Chikangawa project, together with the increased output under the
proposed IBRD project, would substantially equate supply and demand until
the end of the decade. The growth of demand in the South (including
Blantyre) is expected to be lower than in the other regions, because of
previous high growth in the South, but the South will remain the major
consuming area. Production from Chikangawa and Mazaimba will initially
serve the Central and Southern regions, but by 1995 the North is expected
to consume about half of Viphya's sawnwood output. It is expected that
exports to neighboring countries would absorb any surpluses.
40.       Policy Issues.  The major policy issues confronting the wood
industries sub-sector can be sumnarizel separately: (a) the pricing of
sawuwood products; (b) privatization of wood processing industries;
(c) improving the capacity utilization and management of the existing
mills; (d) developing viable alternative commercial/industrial uses for the
industrial wood resources; and on a broader sectoral basis; and
(e) strengthening the institutional framework for policy analysis and
investment programming. On all of these issues there is general agreement
between the Government and the Bank.
41.       Pricing.  In the past, prices of wood products, i.e., sawn
lumber, poles, etc., were influenced strongly by the Government's dominant
position in the market and its control of the raw material resources.
Nearly half of sawnwood has until now been produced by the Ministry of
Forestry and Natural Resource mills at artificially low prices. In July
1983, largely through Bank and German Government efforts, the Government
raised prices substantially and then, in December 1983, decontrolled wood
product prices as part of the SAL II pricing reform agreement (para. 12).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that sawnwood and panelboard
products would continue to be on the decontrolled list (Section 3.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
42.       Prices for domestic sawnwood in Halawi are less than one half of
current border prices. Because of high customs duty,l/ domestic prices of
imported panel products, of qualities similar to those which would be
1/ Customs duties and taxes on all imported goods average 15-25 percent,
plus a 25 percent surcharge.



- 14 -
produced by the Chikangawa mill, are significantly higher than current
import parity, whereas domestically produced panel products, largely of
poorer quality for tea chests only, are considerably lower than import
parity. Domestic prices are assumed to increase but to continue to be
depressed in relation to border prices for imported products because of the
well established marketing practices for domestic products and the
likelihood of consumer resistance to higher prices. However, sufficient
competition is expected to prevent a monopoly price situation from
developing. By 1987, there would be three major companies producing
sawnwood and two companies making panelboard while traders would be able to
import products freely.
43.       The northern region will have a surplus of large trees suitable
for sawnwood and panelwood (and also a large volume of surplus pulpwood)
even after the proposed Chikangawa mill is installed. Consequently, a
stumpage f0e 2/ of US$3.75/m3 to be maintained for five years has been
agreed by the Government and IFC with regard to Viphya forest resources for
the Chikangawa project. This corresponds to the estimated economic
opportunity cost for timber in the Northern region. On the other hand, for
the southern plantations, where demand for mature trees is considerably
higher, current stumpage fees are running about US$18-26/=3, which
corresponds to the market value and/or replacement cost for such trees.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the stumpage fees at
Mazamba be maintained at the same level as for any other user of the Viphya
forest resources (Section 3.01(f) of draft Loan Agreement). The Government
and the Bank also discussed the level of stumpage fees for all other wood
industries and agreed that the present government policy of setting the
level at either market value and/or the replacement costs would be
maintained.
44.       Privatization of Wood Processing Industry   It is the
Government's policy that private initiative should develop an efficient and
profitable industry to provide the wood products required by the market.
The recent conversion of the Forest Industries Division into the Wood
Industries Corporation to be operated as a Government-owned commercial
enterprise was an essential step in establishing a healthy forest
industry. The Government will continue to maintain and manage the existing
industrial wood resources expanding them as necessary to meet market
demand. Harvesting of these forest resources would either be carried out
directly by the Government or through concessions given to wood processing
industries. Both the Government and the Bank hope that once the forest
industries are operating on a profitable basis, private equity partners can
be attracted.
2/ Stumpage fee is a royalty on standing trees levied by the owner of the
forest, in this case the Government, and in economic terms represents
cost of producing (or replacing) one m3 of their wood at harvesting.
It also includes a 10-12 percent opportunity cost of capital.



- 15 -
45.       Improving Capacity Utilization and Management of Existing Mills.
The mills previously run by the Forest Industries Division in the Ministry
of Forestry and Natural Resources were poorly managed and inefficiently
run. There was a shortage of skilled professionals. Moreover, too little
effort had been made to establish a diversified secondary wood industry
such as furniture production, joineries or prefabricated houses, etc.
Improving the capacity utilization and management of existing mills by
providing needed technical and-managerial support, training and critical
spares and equipment is essential if the mills are to be operated
profitably. In addition, the rehabilitation program is designed to
establish a modern furniture factory at Blantyre and glue lamination
operation to meet the demands of the secondary wood industry. These
improvements will help to increase output from WICO's mills, improve
product quality and lead to more efficient and rational use of forestry
resources. By the end of the project period, WICO should be in a position
to attract private equity partners and enable WICO to operate fully as a
private commercial enterprise.
46.       Developing Alternative Uses for Malawi's Wood Resources. The
proposed project is the outcome of many years' efforts to find industrial
uses for the large forest resources on the Viphya plateau, a process in
which the Bank Group has been directly involved. When the large-scale
export-oriented pulv and paper mill was found uneconomic because of high
infrastructure and transport costs, attention immediately turned to
developing wood processing industries for domestic consumption together
with a program for technical assistance to aid rehabilitation of the
Government-owned sawmilling sector and for studies of alternative uses of
the forest resources. The German Government (GTZ) agreed to carry out a
prefeasibility study to identify those investments which were likely to be
viable economically in landlocked Malawi with its difficult transport
routes. After two years of investigations, the GTZ identified a number of
small-scale possibilities including charcoal, pine resins and turpentine
and possibly a low-cost paper mill. Other proposals, including gasoline
and fertilizer production, remain unproven. The proposed project will
bring to project readiness those proposals which appear to be viable as
well as investigate other less certain alternative industrial uses.
47.       Strengthening the Institutional Framework for Policy Analysis.
Coordination of energy policy and management is a particularly important
problem in Malawi. The Government needs to develop policies, including
pricing policies for wood fuels (firewood and charcoal) to improve the
efficiency of supply, conversion and marketing of wood fuels and timber
products, and to update and elaborate its projections of future supply and
demand for wood and related biomass resources. To improve energy planning
and coordination, the Government is strengthening the Energy Unit in the
Economic Planning Division of the Office of the President and Cabinet. The
Bank (through the Technical Assistance II Project) has agreed to finance an
energy economist/planner, in-service and overseas training to build up the
institutional capacity for policy analysis and investment planning and the
development of a biomass fuel development strategy, including compilation
of the required basic cost and resource data.



- 16 -
Government' s Strategy
48.       The Government's strategy in the wood industries sub-sector is to
privatize the industry, rationalize investments, develop primary and
secondary wood processing and strengthen the institutions responsible for
policy formulation and planning. The Wood Industries Restructuring Project
provides a mechanism for the Government's achieving its objectives. The
decontrol of wood prices and setting of reasonable stumpage fees will help
promote economically viable projects. The improvement in the efficiency of
existing forest industries by restructuring FID as a private corporation
through WICO's creation will enable it to operate orofitably in the market
place. Some or all of WICO's mills can eventually become joint ventures
with private investors. The feasibility studies will identify viable
longer term investments to tap the potential of the Viphya forestry
resource.
Bank Group's Role and Strategy
49.       Forestry and forest utilization are important elements in
Malawi's economic growth. The Bank has been involved in the sub-sector for
more than a decade and will continue to ensure the optimal development of
the Government's scarce forest resources and achievement of its
reforestation policy objective of creating an adequate supply of fuel wood.
50.       From the earliest stages, the Government looked to possible Bank
assistance for financing the infrastructure associated with the Viphya pulp
mill project. In 1972, the Bank acted as an executing agency for a
UNDP-financed prefeasibility study which concluded a pulpmill would be
economic, and in 1974 made a US$2.0 million credit for more detailed
studies of costs, engineering, financing, etc. Early in 1980, the
Government commissioned studies, financed by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(KfW), by a firm of Finnish consultants, to investigate alternative uses
for forestry resources. These and other consultant studies eventually led
to the identification and joint appraisal with the KfW of the Mechanical
Wood Products Project at Chikangwa. In addition, the Bank has recently
completed a Forestry Sub-sector Study which helped the Government indentify
a forestry strategy and the policy actions and possible investments needed.
51.       The Bank Group's strategy in the industrial sector is to assist
existing enterprises to attain substantial improvement in performance and
to encourage continued manufacturing expansion based on Malawi's
agricultural, forestry and livestock resources through economically
justifiable projects. The long-term prospects for such modernization and
expansion are moderately good, and promising agro-industrial projects, with
considerable export potential, have been identified with the assistance of
Bank and other studies. The Bank's main lending in the sector in the
medium-term is expected to be to INDEBANK because of its position as the
main local source of long-term finance for enterprises in the sector. The
proposed project is the Bank's first direct intervention in
agro-processing, and has important long-term implications for the use of
forest resources apart from the more immediate impact from mill



- 17 -
restructuring. Other improvements in the sector are being brought about
through structural adjustment lending: reform of incomes, prices and
incentives policies, and the promotion and diversification of exports. A
Bank study of agricultural diversification has recently been completed (and
is being reviewed by the Government). The Bank Group (including IFC) will
continue to work actively with the Government, VIPCOR, WICO, and others, to
identify and fund viable investment opportunities which are consistent with
the Government's strategy towards the sub-sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
52.      Both the proposed Bank-financed project and the IFC-financed
operation were developed over the past three years, in cooperation with the
Government and KfW, to support the Government's efforts to develop
northern Malawi and, in particular, identify industrial uses for the Viphys
and other forest resources. Both projects were jointly appraised by the
Bank and KfW in November 1983. When it became clear that there would be
significant private sector involvement in the saw mill on the Viphya
plateau, IFC was asked to undertake the wood industries complex at
Chikangawa as a separate project. The Bank's appraisal was updated by IFC
staff in April 1984 and the IFC project presented to the Board in August.
The appraisal of the Bank-financed project, consisting of the
restructuring, rehabilitation and technical assistance for the balance of
the wood processing industry, was completed in May 1984, following the
Government's decision to create WICO a year earlier than originally
expected. Negotiations were held in Washington between November 12 and 16,
1984. The Malawi delegation was led by Mr. J.R. Phiri, Undersecretary,
Ministry of Finance.  Supplementary project data are provided in Annex ilI.
The IFC-Assisted Chikangawa Project
53.      In parallel with this project, IFC is investing US$2.3 million
equivalent in a wood processing plant at Chikangawa (IFC Appraisal Report,
IFC/R84, dated July 26, 1984). The Chikangawa project has a capacity of
6,500 m3/year of sawnwood and 15,000 m3/year of panelboard utilizing about
12 percent of the Viphya forest. It will be owned and operated by a joint
venture between Viphya Pulp and Paper Corporation (VIPCOR) and a private
technical/equity partner, Rai Plywoods (Kenya) Limited (the Partner).
VIPCOR is a wholly-owned government corporation, established in 1973 to
promote commercial development of the Viphya forest. The Partner has
experience in operations similar to those required for the proposed
Chikangawa mill as well as in marketing wood products. Financing required
for the Chikangawa project is estimated to be US$23.5 million equivalent
and will be pr: -ided by KfW (US$13.1 million equivalent), VIPCOR and the
Partner (US$5.2 million equivalent each), with IFC and INDEBANK providing
the balance. KfW is making a grant to the Government that will be passed



- 18 -
on to the project in a combination of loan and quasi-equity. The European
Investment Bank is providing ECU 4.0 million of equity funds for VIPCOR
through a loan to the Government on concessional terms.
Project Objectives
54.      The Bank project would assist Malawi in meeting its demand for
wood products by improving management of prime natural resources and
increasing industrial productivity through restructuring and rehabilitating
mills and strengthening their management. It would encourage privatization
and strengthen institutional development in the sectnr and further the
country's efforts to promote regional economic balat.-. In addition, by
providing technical assistance to investigate alternative industrial uses
for forest resources, the project would have important long-term
implications for developing the sector.
Project Description
55.       The proposed project provides:
(a) Technical assistance, management and equipment to the newly
created Wood Industries Corporation (WICO) to help it:
(i)  restructure its sawmills at Mazamba and Dedza and
rehabilitate its Zomba mill;
(ii) purchase critical spares and equipment for all mills;
(iii) establish training programs for technical, management and
maintenance staff;
(iv) carry out feasibility studies for new processing facilities,
product development and quality im?rovements;
(v)  operate as a private company, hiring experienced key staff
and supporting consultancies.
(b) Technical assistance to the Government for the development of
alternative uses for its forest resources, mainly in the Viphya
area.
Detailed Features
56.       Support to WICO:  Restructuring of Mazamba and Dedza Mills and
Rehabilitation of Zomba Mill. The Mazamba sawmill would be restructured
through the addition of an improved log-handling system, improvements to
the band-saw mill, purchase of log transport equipment and rehabilitation
of existing vehicles. Once the initial phase of restructuring has been
completed and the mill's production has reached at least 5,000 m3/year,
kiln drying capacity would also be installed if justified by a detailed
feasibility study carried out by the technical assistance consultants to



- 19 -
WICO to confirm that Mazamba can successfully reach an output of 10,000
u3/year in one shift operation.
57.       The Dedza sawmill would be restructured through purchase of saw
doctoring equipment, saws, modernization of the log-handling system, and
purchase of log/timber transport equipment. In addition, the Dedza
sawmill's drying facilities would be modified and their capacity Increased
following completion of a feasibility study by WICO's consultants that
would assess Dedza's long-term potential. This study would be carried out
possibly in conjunction with a study of glue laminating facilities
(para. 61).
58.       The Zomba mill's rehabilitation comprises saw doctoring, overhaul
of critical equipment and purchase of spares to maintain the mill's
productive capacity and prolong its life through 1992, when decisions
regarding future use of the Zomba forest resources would have been reached.
59.       Critical Spares and Equipment.  The project would finance
purchase of: (a) critical operating spares for all mills, including
Blantyre, to ensure proper maintenance of existing equipment throughout
their remaining useful lives; (b) equipment to establish a modern furniture
and joinery plant at Blantyre, following a feasibility study to be carried
out by WICO's consultants and technical assistance staff; and (c)
equipment to install glue-laminating operations at the one or more mills to
make better use of small sawnwood pieces and produce large size timber.
These major investments would be decided following completion of
feasibility studies (para. 6:).
60.       Establishment of Training Programs.  Training programs would be
established:  (a) for mill maintenance personnel in saw doctoring
techniques and other maintenance practices; (b) management traineeships for
up to six key WICO local managerial staff, consisting of both academic
training in relevant technical fields and job training for a brief period
in suitable mills abroad before return to Malawi to complete on-the-job
training under the respective technical assistance personnel; and {c)
short-term training programs for other personnel, including plant visits to
sawmills in other African countries, with a view to improving technical
knowledge and gaining relevant additional experience in new techniques.
61.       Feasibility Studies.  Consultant services would be provided for
feasibility studies of: (a) glue-laminating facilities; (b) furniture and
joinery plant; (c) establishment of a major wood processing complex, using
the Zomba resources; and (d) installation of an unused 5,000 m3/year
sawmill at Mulanje, including a comparative study of the transportation
system to be used.
62.       Operation of WICO as a Private Company.  The heads of WICO's main
functional areas - Operations, Marketing and Finance, as well as the
maintenance chief -- would initially be expatriates, who would be recruited
under the project. The position of Mazamba Mill Manager would also be
filled by an experienced expatriate to be recruited under the project.



- 20 -
An Operations Manager acceptable to the Bank has been appointed, and
recruitment of other key managerial staff is under way. The Government and
the Bank agreed most funds available under the Technical Assistance I
project, up to about US$95,000 equivalent, would be used to provide an
early start to the main technical assistance activities, including
establishment of accounting and financial control systems and preparation
of spare parts lists. An engineering consultant to procure critical spares
for its mills has been recruited to ensure that essential maintenance of
equipment is carried out expeditiously enabling the sawmills to continue to
operate at current levels. Terms of reference for the technical assistance
and consultant services have been agreed with WICO.
63.       Promising Malawian professionals are being recruited and will be
trained under the project to fill gradually the key managerial positions.
Following the untimely death of the previous head of the Forestry
Industries Department (FID), who functioned as WICO's first General
Manager, the Government has appointed an experienced professional as the
General Manager. Major activities such as marketing and cost accounting
were neglected as FID functioned as a government department and the mills
sold their output below market rates to those customers who came to the
mill yards or to the closest timber depots to purchase their requirements.
As part of its commercial reorientation, WICO will now appoint selling
agents as a complement to its own direct marketing efforts and also seek to
develop a modest export market for quality sawnwood in neighboring
countries.
64.       Technical Assistance to Government.  To address the significant
regional imbalance in the supply and demand of forest resources, a second
component of the project would finance technical assistance for developing
additional uses for forest resources, mainly in Viphya. The recently
completed study by the Agency for Technical Cooperation of the Federal
Republic of Germany (GTZ) and the Bank's Forestry Sub-sector Survey form
the bas. - for this work. Management and technical consultant services and
about US$225,000 for demonstration equipment would be provided for: (a)
installing industrial-sized demonstration ovens for the production of
charcoal (and/or pelletized wood), and evaluating the technical and
economic aspects of utilizing the wood fuel under actual commercial
operating conditions (in particular, in the existing cement plant); (b)
carrying out small commercially-oriented tests on the viability of
extraction and distillation of pine resins and turpentine and substitution
trials using producer gas from wood as fuel in vehicles powered by gasoline
engines; (c) studying the viability of using producer gas from wood as a
substitute for stationary (diesel) power generating plants; and (d)
evaluating other possible uses of surplus wood.
Costs and Financing
65.       The project's total costs, including contingencies, are estimated
at US$8.6 million, of which US$6.4 million is foreign. The WICO component
represents US$7.24 million of total project costs. Taxes and duties on the



- 21 -
WICO component (US$0.8 million equivalent) are estimated at an average rate
of 21.6 percent of the c.i.f. value of imported equipment and spares.
Costs for the government components do not include estimates for studies
that may be required for other longer-range uses of surplus forest
resources for which the Government may seek additional financing from
bilateral agencies such as GTZ and ODA in the form of grants and
concessionary credits. The WICO project component costs are based on
studies carried out by FID, the Forest Industries Advisory Group for
Africa, and Jaakko Poyry/GOPA (consultants) in conjunction with the
development of the proposed Chikangawa project. They were updated with the
help of WICO following a post-appraisal of the project in May 1984. A
total of 134 man-months of technical assistance and 18 man-months for
teasibility studies has been provided for WICO and 85 man-months of
technical assistance to the Government. Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 10 percent of the base cost estimates, whlich is considered
adequate as no major consti.ction/erection work is foreseen. Price
contingencies for the foreign components have been taken at 3.5 percent in
1984, 8 percent in 1985, 9 percent in 1986-88 and 7.5 percent in 1989.
Price contingencies for local costs have been calculated on the basis of
expected increases of 12 percent in 1984, 11 percent in 1985 and 10 percent
thereafter. The total contingencies on the WICO component amount to 26
percent of base costs, and to 30 percent on the Government component. The
difference arises due to the procurement by WICO of its core restructuring
equipment and spares during the early years of project implementation.
66.       The proposed Bank loan of US$6.4 million would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with a variable interest rate. The
Government would onlend US$5.1 million (80 percent) to WICO for a term of
10 years, including four years of grace with a 12 percent interest rate
which is positive in real terms. WICO would bear the foreign exchange
risk. The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between WICO and the
Government is a condition of disbursement of the WICO component (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(b) and Schedule 1, para 4). WICO's internal cash
generation would finance the local costs of the WICO component (estimated
at US$0.6 million equivalent) and all the estimated taxes and duties on the
project. The Government would finance the estimated local costs of the
technical assistance program for development of alternative uses of surplus
forest resources.
Project Implementation
67.       WICO.  The proposed project would be implemented over a period of
about six years and 'La expected to be completed by June 30, 1989 for the
WICO component and September 30, 1990 for the technical assistance to the
Government. WICO would implement the restructuring program with the aid of
the technical assistance team to be recruited under the project
(para. 64). WICO would employ the services of an engineering consultant to
assist ia all phases of procurement particularly in the search for suitable
manufacturers or other sources of spares and compatible equipment. Much of



- 22 -
this work would start through the funding from the Technical Assistance I
Credit. The consultant would also assist in recruitment of individual
technical assistance personel. Implementation of the restructuring
investments would proceed in a staged manner: WICO and its technical
assistance team would first conduct a thorough review of the physical
condition of the plant at each mill; and priorities for rehabilitation,
restructuring, and main overhaul would then be assessed and set. Prior to
undertaking any capital investments individually exceeding US$300,000
equivalent, WICO would carry out a feasibility study with the aid of
consultants and would review the results with the Bank. This was confirmed
during negotiations. Terms of reference for the proposed feasibility
studies would be agreed with the Bank, and consultants selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines. In view of the importance to the success
of the WICO restructuring program, WICO has already selected and appointed
a Project Operations Manager whose qualifications and experience are deemed
satisfactory by the Bank.
68.       WICO would select suitably qualified and experienced personnel
for management training under the project. The scope and content of the
individual study-cum-training programs would be developed by the technical
assistance personnel and WICO for each of the main functional areas. The
management trainees would be initially sent overseas, but would, upon
return to Malawi, work Ps counterparts to the individual technical
assistance team members, with a view to taking over the functional
responsibilities within six to twelve months. WICO may employ a short-term
expert to review other company-wide training needs and develop appropriate
programs. In order to monitor project progress and keep the overall
schedule in control, WICO would prepare, with the aid of the technical
assistance staff, a detailed master schedule of project implementation and
submit to che Government and the Bank by September 30, 1985 for review and
comments, and thereafter finalize and implement such schedule (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (b).
5.       Technical Assistance to the Government.  The program for studying
additional uses of forest resources would be carried out by experienced
consultants on terms of reference and conditions of employment acceptable
to the Bank. Terms of reference for the various studies have already been
developed. The Government would employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and conditions of employment are satisfactory to the Bank (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The Government has made the Forestry
Department responsible for coordinating the technical assistance
component. A project manager with broad experience in forest industries
and energy uses will be appointed to be directly in charge. The program
manager will report to a steering committee comprised of WICO, MDC,
INDEBANK, VIPCOR and the Ministry of Finance. Appointment of a project
manager whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank, and
on terms of reference and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(d) and para. 4 of Schedule 1) is a
condition of disbursement of the proposed loan allocated for the technical
assistance component. The Forestry Department would prepare by
September 30, 1985 and submit to the Government and the Bank for review and



- 23 -
comenmts, a =aster schedule of project activities and thereafter finalize
and implement such schedule (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(d)).
Procurement
70.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Method
(USS '000)
Method of Procurement
Limited
Internatl. Consultant Total
Project Element                        ICB    Shopping    Services   Cost a/
Equipment & Spares
Proprietary Spares                     -       300          -        300
-      (225)         -      (225)
Other Spares                         500         -          -        500
(375)        -          -      (375)
Compatible Equipment                   -       950          -        950
-      (713)        90      (713)
Computer Hardware/Software             -         -         (80)       90
-         -          -        (80)
Vehicles/Transport Equipment         450         -          -        450
(338)        -          -      (338)
Major Capital Investments          2,078         -           -         -
(1,546)        -          -         -
Total Equipment & Spares        3,028     1,259         90      4,368
(2.,259)    (938)       (80)   (3,277)
v                                  71        29          -        100
Consultant Services/Technical Assistance
To WICO                                -         -      2,049      2,049
-         -     (1,823)   (1,823)
To Government                          -         -      1,106      1,106
-         -       (995)     (995)
Demonstration Hardware                   -       289          -        289
-      (289)         -      (289)
Total Project a/                3,028     1,539      3,245      7,812
(2,259)   (1,227)    (2,898)   (6,384)
Z                                  35        20         45        100
a/ Excluding taxes, duties and front-end fee.
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the amounts to be financed out of
the proposed Bank loan.



- 24 -
71.       Consultant services and technical assistance would be procured
following Bank guidelines, and all consultant contracts will be reviewed by
the Bank prior to signing. Spares would be procured through limited
international shopping  including original manufacturers.  Replacement and
upgrading equipment csting individually less than US$300,000 equivalent
would be procured through limited international shopping to ensure
compatibility with existing equipment and technology. Vehicles a- I
transport equipment would be procured through international competitive
bidding through established local dealers representing major manufacturers,
in order to ensure availability of service and spare parts. Major capital
investments for which f-.tsibility studies would be ca-ried out, would be
procured through international competitive bidding. Demonstration hardware
would be procured through limited 1nternational shopping. Computer
hardware and software would be procured loca-ly through established dealers
and manufacturers' representatives. Since all are imported, the local
preference does not apply. All contracts and bid evaluations greater than
US$300,000 equivalent would be approved by the Bank prior to signing.
Disbursements
72.       Disbursements would be for 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and 70 percent of local expenditures for equipment and spares (including
installation and erection) (USS3.3 million); 100 percent of foreign
expenditurez for consultant services (US$2.8 million); 100 percent of total
expenditures for demonstration hardware (US$0.3 million). Disbursements
would be made against full documentation. A Special Account (Revolving
Fund) would be opened by UICO to facilitate disbursements under Part A of
the project of small contracts and payment of consultant monthly fees. The
initial deposit into this account would be US$300,000. Opening of the
Special Account is a condition of disbursement of Part A of the project.
The disbursement forecast is based on the standard profiles for industrial
projects in East and West Africa regions.
Auditing and Reporting
73.       All expenditures financed uuader th  project would be audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited financial statements
would be submitted to the Bank for review not later than three months after
the close of the fiscal year (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02 (b)). A
project completion report would be prepared by the Government and WICO and
submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the loan's Closing
Date (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 (d)).
Environmental Impact
74.       The prcect poses no environmental hazards.  The sawmill
operations are relatively pollution free. Solid wastes are burned for
product drying, converted to briquette (fuel wood) or sold directly as fuel
wood.



- 25 -
WICO's Financial Position
75.       The Government has decided that a debt-free opening balance sheet
would be set up at the start of operations of the Wood Industries
Corporation so that at project completion a debt/equity ratio of not
greater than 60:40 would be reached (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.04
(a)). Agreements were also obtained that WICO shall not incur any
additional debt prior to project completion without prior Bank approval
(draft Project Agreement Section 4.03(a)); and that VICO would not declare
or pay any dividend that would reduce the current ratio below 1.5 (draft
Project Agreement, Section 4.03(b)). WICO's audited opening balance sheet
would be submitted for Bank review and comment prior to disbursement of the
portion of the proposed loan allocated to the RICO restructuring component
(draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4). At negotiations, the
Government and UICO reviewed with the Bank the proposed capital structure
and debt projections on the basis of preliminary valuations and recorded in
a memorandum of negotiations the principal aspects of the capital structure
and its future evolution toward privatization.
76.       The Government's intended final ownership structure for WICO is a
51/49 publiclprivate split with the further possibility of selling all of
the individual mills totally to the private sector and/or establishing --w
projects as joint ventures with private partners. All of WICO's equity
capital would be initially held by the Government. It is likely that
organizations such as ADMARC, INDEBANK or MDC would be invited to acquire a
stake in the new corporation. This would facilitate the later sale of
WICO's capital stock to private parties.  WICO's draft Memorandum and
Articles of Association do not preclude such divestiture and agreement has
been obtained that neither the Government nor WICO would materially change
or modify the Memorandum and Articles of Association of WICO without the
Bank's prior consent (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.01(c)).
77.       FID's accounting systems are based on accrual accounting
methods. However, frequent changes in accounting staff, and lack of cost
accounting systems and procedures, have resulted in inadequate financial
information and records for cost control and financial planning. Financial
reporting from year to year has been inconsistent and in some years not
fully allocated to mill operations resulting in overstatement of
profitability. FID's financial statements do, nevertheless, provide some
measure of the financial worth of the various operations, although they do
not properly reflect the financial position and the true earnings capacity
of the capital being employed. The detailed valuation exercise now
underway is expected to set right this aspect of the FID's balance sheet,
so that future total or partial divestiture or formation of joint ventures
could be made on the basis of the fair market value of performing assets.
78.       WICO's imediate need is for the establishment of reliable
enterprise-oriented accounting and financial information and control
systems to be set up not later than the end of the current financial year:
March 31, 1985 (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.01). This requirement
would be met as the work is already under way with the aid of an accounting



- 26 -
firm with terms of reference to design and set up the systems and train
WICO staff. The services of the accounting firm were funded through the
Technical Assistance I Credit. The accounting system to be set up would
take into consideration a gradual computerization of the accounting and
financial functions, as well as related aspects of inventory control,
financial planning, cash flow forecasting, client records and budgeting.
Under the Project, assistance (both hardware and software) for the
introduction of simple management information systems would be provided.
Coopers and Lybrand (Malawi), whose qualifications and experience are
suitable to the Bank, have been appointed WICO's auditors.  WICO's
financial year runs from April 1 to March 31.
79.       Projected financial performance analysis assumes that, with the
introduction of a strong technical assistance program at WICO, particularly
at Mazamba, and with repair and rehabilitation of existing equipment, as
well as the restructuring efforts, the declining trends of the past few
years will be rapidly arrested and that WICO operations will show a modest
growth in 1984185 and begin to improve substantially in subsequent years.
Benefits and Risks
80.       The project's major benefits would be the significant increase In
sawmill output and improvement in product quality, leading to more
efficient management and use o, invested resources, increasing industrial
productivity and generating productive capital to the economy.
Institutions will be strengthened, and a significant foundation laid for
privatization of wood industries. The project would also investigate
enhanced utilization of one of Malawi's most substantial resources - its
forests. The incremental economic and before-tax financial rates of return
for the project as a whole (including technical assistance costs) are 25
percent and 23 percent, respectively. The after-tax financial rate of
return is 15 percent. Through the feasibility studies, the project would
have an important impact on sector development.
81.       The project faces no special risks, although realization of the
expected benefits will depend mainly on the pace of managerial
improvements. Should the expected managerial improvements take as much as
three years longer to achieve than forecast, the sensitivity analysis on
the rehabiltation programs indicates favorable economic and financial rates
of return would still be achieved. The provision of technical assistance
would facilitate these improvements.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Malawi and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between WICO and the Bank, and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.



- 27 -
83.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of disbursement are: (a) for the WICO component:
(i) the signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
WICO, (ii) the opening of the Special Account, (iii) the submission of an
audited opening balance sheet for WICO; and (b) for the Government
component: the appointment of the Project Manager.
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOEfENDATIONS
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 17, 1984
washington, D.C.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3%                                         Page I of 6
NAIIIY                -WSOCIAL IDOKCAToS DATA SWEET
kAIAlE                                       GROP (WEIGIT  AVERaGES) la
S                  C (MOS?T RECET ESTUATE) lb
ECEUr      LOW Ilo0  AFRICA        lIIDIILCM E
i,sa      I9b tmLk     s    rTaTX  wSOm oF sAM         AFRICA S. OF SAHAR
AU      s CunImS. MO)
TOrAL                               118.5     116.5      Its-.
AmIClTURAL                          37.9       39.5       41.6
CG  vim CTW  Coss)                     50.0       70.0      2t0.0            249.1                 IL2.9
:11c  ousnT    mm_ uns
(KULOtAIS OF OIL QUITALIU)            ..       35.0       46.0              2.3                 529.0
V0wUAhI0 A  WITAL STATI
ruLATllou.MIl2-TEAR (TROsAM)       3419.a    4513.0    6452.0
MRA  FUPULATIGE CZ OF TorAL)         4.4        6.4        9.6             19.2                  29.7
PuULOATIOS PRO3ECWMOES
POPMATWIS IS TWAR 2000 CHILL)                           11.7
STATNART POPULATIOIN (PILL)                             47.9
POPULATON  .M0II3                                        1.9
POPULATION DESSIlY
USA 9Q. IN.                        26.9      33.1       5z.7              32.5                 55.6
wPE SQ. Rl. AGE!. LASO            90.2      114.3      150.0             119.2                111.5
POPIZATtg AGE STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 RS                           45.5      44.6       47.0             45.6                  45.4
15--4 lRS                         52.1       S0         49.3             51.5                  51.7
65 AND AIM                          2.4       2.4        3.6              2.9                   2.9
uPULTAOAT    GRIWM RATE CZ)
TOTAL                               2.4       2.8        3.0              2.8                   2.S
uRBA                               *.5        4.6        7-0              6.Z                   5.2
OIWDE SI    TE C(M  TU)              56_1      56.1       5.2              48.0                  47.0
C2IDE DEATH RATE (PM TOWS)          27.1       23.2       22.9             17.7                  15.,
GROSS REPOOOCTKO  RATE               3.4        3.4        3.5              3.2                   3.2
FANILLT PLANING
AC:EPr0S. ANUAL CYITUS)             .-
USERS CZ OF HIED ...                 ..        . ..
IMEX OF   M PRWD. PER CWITA
(199-71-100)                        9.O        91.0       99.O             8s5.                  91.6
PER CPITrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES t2 OF M6CRDGNES)          95.0    iO.O         94.0             36.4                  96.2
TElli  (GRAMS MP  DAY)            65.0       72.0       65.0             49.9                  56.7
OF WKICI ANIML AND PUSE          14-0      19.0       19.0 /c          13.3                  17.0
C-LD CAGES 1-4) DEATE DATE          56.0       42.0       29.0             23.8                  18.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT SILRT CTEAM)        36.5       40.5       44.1             4.4                   51.7
IAMAT NOR. RDATE (PER THOIIS)      206.0      173.0      137.0            117.5                 102.7
ACCSS To SAF WATER (OPr)
TOTAL                   -.                     .        33.0 Ia          21.8                  35.6
ORB"                                 ..        ..       70.0 Ia          61.5                  54.1
RURAL                                .         .        29.0             14.2                  27.3
ACCESS TO ED=A DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPIfL.TIOR)
: ork TI0
TAL                                 ..         ..          ..             32.0                   .
ORB"A                               ._         ,,       15.0 Id          69.2
RURAL                                .         ..         ..             24.8
POPUATION PER PHICIA             35250.0   38430.0    40950.0 to          477.8               11968.3
POr. PER NURSC PERSON             12940.0 If 9050.0     3B30.0 7T        339.2                 2248.9
POP. P  HOSPITAL  ED
TOTAL                             870.0     650.0      740.0 I.        1089.0                 986.9
U133A                             120.0 If  140.0        0. 7o          395.2                 368.7
RUAL                             1310.0    900.o     1480o. 77         3094.0               4012.1
491s1O05 PE HOSPITAL IED              ..       3z.1       39.0 /I
Ucm
AVERAGE SIZE OF NO5EILO
TOTAL                                ..        ..
uA                                   ..       3.4..
ERIRL                                ..       5.0 7        .
AVERAGE MO. OF PERSONS/200N
TOTAL                                ..        ..
URSUI                                ..       1.7fh       .
RURAL                                ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF UAELLIS)
TOAL                                 ..        ...
a33AM                                ..      16.0         *
RAL                                  ..        ....



- 29 -                                          AIR= I
TASLL 3                                        Pje 2 of 6
HM.AVI                  SOCIAL   -CATESDATSHEET
MAJAMI                   EFEEEHCE GR~~~    ~    ~~OMP (KGEDAVERA*Es) _/a
HMST               (MOST RECET ESTDTE) lb
ECEINt        LOW INCOE AFRIA        KIDD1O;ykIIN
m&!    Im- o!             isTiNAT!!  soon Of SAHAR      AFUCA S. oP SAHARA
ADJUSD ENROLEIIT RATIOS
PIWUI:  TOTAL                        ..      36.0        62.0             69.2                  91.0
HALE                      ..       45.0       73.0             75.8                  90.5
EMALE                     ..       26.0       51.0             57.6                  73.6
SECOUDAXY: TOTAL                    1.0       2.0         4.0             13.1                  17.4
MALE!                    1.0        3.0        5.0             17.6                  23.7
FUIALE                   0.3        1.0        2.0              9.3                  14.8
VOCATTOUL tS OF sECOHUAB)            23.6       2.9        4.9               7.2                  5.3
PUPIL-TEACNE RArTO
PRIKAR                             41.0      44.0        65.0            4".1                   38.6
SECWMIRY                           14.0      16.0        21.0             25.9                  24.3
ADULT LrTERACY RATE (1)               ..       22.1 h/    210               44.3                  35.6
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP           1.9       2.2        2.4 i            3.8                  20.7
RADIO RXCEIWES/TWUSAND POP           21.6      23.5       45.6              41.9                 100.8
TV ECEIVETROUSAND POP                 1.8        ..          ..              2.0                  18.5
EliSPAPRU (CDAILT GEERAL
INhEREST) CIRCULATION
PER 7TOUSAND POPULAZO                ..          .        5.3 1            5.4                  17.2
CINEIA AMIUAL ATTENM  4CAPITA         0.3        ..        0.3 7W            1.4                   0.3
TOrAL LA= FORCz (TROV)             1570.0    1981.0      2656.0
FENALE (PERCE)                     38.7      38.1        37.1             36.5                  33.8
AGRXCULTE (PERCENT)                92.0      89.0        86.0             77.4                  57.1
INDUIST  (PERCENT)                  3.0       4.0         5.0              9.8                 17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT
TOTAL                              45.9      43.9        41.2             41.0                  36.3
WALr                               57.5      55.3        52.5             52.1                  47.6
FMLE                               34.8      32.9        30.2             30.2                  25.1
ECOlKaC DEPENMENCY RATIO              1.0       1.1         1.2              1.2                   1.4
DEEU DIsSziOU
PErsN  OF PIVATE INCOME
RECED  BY
HIwGST 5Z310   S                     ..      32.6 D L  32..
HIGEST 202 OF OSENODS                ..      50.6 7        ..
LOEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOD                ..      10. il
LOCKST 40Z 0F HoUSEoOLDS             ..      21.5          . 
ESTIMATED ABSOLTE POVRTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
UIRA                                 ..        ..       123.0 Ic         168.3                 525.3
RURAL                                ..        ..        99.0 7           90-.8                249.0
ESTIMATD RElATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                          ..        6S.0 IC         107.7                 477.4
RURAL                               ..         ..        52.0 7;          65.0                 186.0
ESTILATED POP. Bi   ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URAN                                 ..        ..        25.0 IC         34.7
RURAL.                               ..        ..       85.0       %     65.4
NOT AVALABLE
NOr APPLICABLE
NOrES
/a  Tbe group averages for each indlcator are populatiow-weighted aritbeetic mena. Coverage of countries a*ong the
lndicators depends on availabilLty of data and is not unifom.
lb  Unlesa otherwise ooted. -Dta for 1960e refWr to any year between 1959 and 1961; -ata for 1970 between 1969 and
1971; and data for Moet Recent Eatl at- between 1980 and 1982.
/c  1977; Id 1976; /I 1979; If 196Z; LL 1967; /h 1972; IL 1966. African popolation only;  L L1978; /k 1975.
JUUE. 1984



-30-a                                                   .ANNIEYI
scIAn togtCs:V5O                                           Page  3  of  6
go-, 4li.tek tie tie  to   nato  .-.ro.t Srotro  ts         d o     i. cot oota.fttoLo  ohd Aota      . ii  1ol  at.. to t.to  slat slap ay -  to tat-oil..iI
cosaclot  IwoweS  .1  % ito  oile  01tedisdlo    dttottln aS taco.- not by Luartoot ti-osoot. tc  iloni.g te dSo..  tie tea oo   -o.ttoooo.  -I.LI.ts
doeVttie mV&n or otiliod. Xgsaoto iroAt..a  otenoti.tona. mat- 49itooa.o %tesm.e.al
a   oost.po  o  It) io0-  ant.,v MPEo  it .e -00J.0   -totry aol (R3I a  oot-    n   ot 8-   tob    o  tI-r                  C%-o.    teht,  -cti  ro-o of tie
tojatott   0fo    or- h1a. tot. oct I   eooe  oep .r   mS. togg  ftot atroes ore "Ladta teor to at.... la .o 4 .t.o.a.  .e0-oto
dttl t. I tie roftanot dIraq dtao tot mot.. ar p.iohtlecio oiditiSd  rlItttIf ooga. tot ntl toitMWo set ioto  -IVp oe  -ijorttt 09 Ito  aoiohrtao to a
VoeS tatLeo for stat totOta.  b     ate socg f.-ooat                   t tie It.htos      dapood  -   W  -1aittottitty of tt ad Lt -   -d.oto     a.oria    o  t
Wao-?et ott o.  n. e.rtt.u tad  tot004totL-  -ato  tOtS.                      teij.stttIt r.. -toa  ateot   oti-a.-tlp boot.
iU  a   OO dl.                                                                   NfkttlrpfPtO      iopttttoa .I det -i .. t r a  rrocatato
tl-l-I-sate t.  tgteori  raoo  aooora -a .      "         tanoO-"loaEf li                            itrls.atorotne  go_atoo   _...* ad
,Oro..d 108 .. o.ott  dtiteten.. .tota  a t.;tIt orloo". len
5ee aete  tottoato at otot attpoo..                                   vottte I"Prnt ragaiN   aroOttoa  laoPtai-
tugs. torn, asdic  tao.                                                                    tw   lanaEP -   abtyol-ta  ftsbiatttto        ptaLdtag rt-etpttty itd
EEVh ea  atoetdid.  Mtto%oltoptlotlo. tnoet  toeod  toit ad
gamy  moan.. t oo  an  - Scttapaot  oaaaotte  at aecoorto1 ethe                                        IIIar   to  s 3reo It d ottt   .y rttoioa   Cka tV a seatI
t.tt.Oy.ootifIsoil  d tisote.   aet.   oaooo em  ad t7dt. -  ta                      lOtOO    too, .l.ttt  ot.) ottatIf oto  to siot E.tothoglatle m
ad  mietetat rieslrteisy   I tiofoe  .9 ott aoglooao  Woe aIpia  tIc.               toott  a t1oitad -oq.of .   tie    tooitt.tlo.
Ot.  d"U  tao.                                                                      !Iog r               W       - Thoat  -ola. .9 ad"leot  - a   tiner
!iuv=                                              M      ..WM             1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t oat. at teto.
- soe ofJo, 5; tOo1l, ogo. ed SO?                fltt
oacc osae-tioit t      tOt  d  Ot t4 mdos-                                                i    atl totd ott SIotSai 0-IoeO..
C.-    P".t   1- P_J~~~~g-                     ooat -rd0  aoattwtrot   gsl V=to.                     roto  ooooor A    t
tordo - a w       topojoi. tz     - it "ftoot-   i              f  onttrtott  alt nt.,adl rookooto   oo tn
Volig.    J. .   ..iggo   ad stettr volatt,  adL lor titil                       tatqo   Oottto,Poioq    tttitraoottooa
loath  EEValIM ita. O-  .7 -  Mi%tt botoahtog  &ut o-oortt*  Pot-t   oOotttotnoto  .tie      oa    toa   oo 
t,sob      tank. oa tab. air. aqooseo  atotill.tlo  at 11.1                        toooloo-  iitotl   to  os   tIltg0050        oe
ato"t.  inpttotttttlo   omaatesr.    roo   otot .. a    tare   1A.lotowosooy
sttqdEttotM to fottiile, ooeodLo  to ti.CIE toni as poat taut7
tttl   p1foct. toot  -tes 7r to It.-  -eoa  on of tlIo t- ol                    -Al
sooe    or fl1ttt ad fatilt, oI oro    to. Ppao5ot-t patpo-.                   ftotoa  tarot o.tt otto
ti.aloatt ttatote- to  n to  tiat      ~   o-o-otfs E-toettsa                Priar-  oot.t -                                  -t.i  a    oto-  o. o. oak  -1 tai
ros  aO        totttoe    tot torsd. ate.oaoasl teo-titlo                         oa.olin  ato  oi"P.       ierOio   ..       acnoo   9toot
ro =osem-i).  te ooo o potili. ietIt-.                t aoto                        ente  ojoto  t.  too.o teste ot Pitney odere; ot-
adtit o  t dwoost 000.  t.. ao   tistoI   toaaa.a   i                                  srse5th Iatto-  --oo t--- ----to--    ti - ooo  tot P-n
tt-.sm  tac  .. 005 Wt  ttoo.rtlae.   is   a  it.oda   totn iapoSi. an tote -  at.  t otoa  o .t oo.
toe  f ito aojo,m11 otoroeoalooa   ftt  pioil   -.                                                          ----r totosote      .0 ft  -ad -aoLa-  ta-et"aoa.   oatr
Poptiota flotf   to at. toodoog   ot tioottoes  aoeoO so aonla                        oooot. e.ot1.ooaittotoottrl.tctros
toe   00es  slat oat -oisto   ft tortiit  ta   ie  ain  se                          ott    at  at I2 -o I?  noo   t;anor.                      o.o
to  to    Io tie. no r-oroatti  r-ottrotdtio    t                                      oh    al
aoo.cd.tool co..                                                      atr l-.-.o.f rafl  - -olor.  .O  oa4..dr.    -   tool.co-.toa   oooI
t'no  .s   1-att                                                                       yr or.  4  ootoota  looSaOtottoa- oote  it a-tro  0 
oro.       -4 eic Clos.  t-  aao      o   -. to  ocE. lo.t  .                    0 p_ oraona  at-  mi   ..ttpooi_a   t ona    o
PEv-JEis-;   lt".t it".l Itomo..                                                                                  "
to-tt     - cac  tO   tq.oc-co    -   attt-noftoa  otd.                             tlsety ntietoi
popotlogotoe      "*o-MS Oef.a   itO. agig                                                         oeoo   oanrt  a   orona   tgorol   f tat
osaitboterlrd      ta   intnep~toodo  t                                                  t.-t ott.,rtat. for rIsoe  mete, -  to otnoot  oi    o
poaota.. fta.  09V.  ad iS!  t ta.                                                     gootot oo- to -    tbot- a.-f   -toeto  toti  ottotdI=tsl
Costtatatla,last- 50000  A-er . dootiigoort a        ilti tdeot tot  iorea   opor                              orntot   fIt oat in to oftoa.
tal  Sse,               Eotot. -ais -fie et .5     et00t  9aootnt  o  dtyi  It dSpoooi a                                                  3a0as ,lo - e
tlutf.                                                              a                    som. alt oo     o t  o-"V   .-R  -earP ootsi   Soot. no troo  000crP
fo.ti, Skin - ri.0 tpor4a  of att.   .oAo     -I - o.ooaa  of 00t00                 akIb       v c tto. gp~-lot t                 t-.
a  VgofoEi-orn0    oonot  -sts- o w .*eoo ttodi
snrt,  eooioaooooOtlococoi oroter-   cooo                                        tot..  d co-to. toF..iodro  oIoIo.~   cooaoP-. oct1-oo.-tog--
io-o~~~~~~  -W  1-   -." F.,                                         W-Doooeeaofot ooo ltiotelo1 Si n_t-. nosO .conn
icoogo.. t.t00  5 toted 0040 eta a(tova tict P-ri0-i  tC.-E.                 j.Jg fl              . t F tore to -toohoocoto                siOf ol dOgad
nets  a   d c . o    ce,Wt  OhtftoooW to  noio   fo  -r-aott  to%.1 ai otv   Lno  ad fe                           .  ttaoto  o to-testttfnt  iS    i
teat o. toslent e.nreo toaaaot ono   towll.s;  Ott1-at tt.  adM t- t MIt set tao
taO.                                                             Poosic~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t tata a too to-tral  --taI:t at. ad to-to - ttaatfl.a 10 a
ft,  ttotroi   ool    ooo f               ro1-oot-   -c4  oecotoe  t                                       Wo      MLtnott I o  tast ate, ad tr-t  tt. rFt.-
wr~ ootoahaoec notat oottsoetoto  1  ntyr-  oec  -                                 p.ooelof taat  oots ttF-1. t               -o nobie  Itoi IN-t aior
tap.   itittta  aoetsa rerle    ac t roo.".. to.  ant tot                      tilt. tat'! ot   do.         ooo   aSo   wo  oietok   c
000..a   4so- to tott. tot oceilo   -I0." ate  f-ed. oa.&.                         rfeio   00.OtO              r oft-ttcoi.a   gotC toe  -to.0
qoetitto  as 10 tad `-oooolo. adSee  5o dtotoieoio-   tt-otr                             too oo1-aoo  an tro  noca  ao-o.
_0a    .tatlaeao   .ttsi.a  ailoo_totvC   IS .riO td -o.. -.oot.W                                                              I-4a
so t-a~ttel  too.t; tO t.,tOta   tIn tote.                                     s toiW---tintt
no oeoto not. ot   9otote.   atm too 24     - Obotectane  gtop4cOt .SIOeR atttIttbo    th5  oo     O.                                        ftoim   tto
at aqtty  2at o  to.g,t to oopp- 4of faIt-  dito --  etoc. to-H                           sOrN,t ittt2 pro    toooo  20Proo.  SP.fl-s 5                      .%-f a
tolPto tot eti    N,.oo   ooth"i.to   VEE  [ Ot.eroose for 5d                      teoaotettt.
ott     of tosr.  0   ft., olootele po 4r do   d  0 jon et etnta
itdtoo   tes~co   o   of VI goe  of so,t.; rraet adR e                Is            o to- -ago oolee-      r cr   -etesoi  Ot-      o  of rooty 1.-oL.. at4
eas?pooalet o. a anth nor gti  arId, tipoo  my Pta.t fte                            00.ottotottooo    It  dooltt chstgo-
tirtlt004  VWa" 5-,; tOtoti0. toset-  od ti  dor.tooaoetttorysre   niltoatit).toodrto-
ta   o    .o aoot  ott  to   aettt adoti   f- E.tol tot, . ofad                   aotaap-sO   oo  .a  t  o = 0M M          Iao-e 1.01 tobo ob=     * 0010
-fot..o 4550 4ortoot tn  I ito totlo.; tOtO. 0000 o-1 St dot..                           -ooat to-t ofte  o, ttote. 1tan  to dootod P-s ..e taro
toi et  dasc  Sot toI-s0 *0  Itoto  i0 ots on-
toatnot too-ale ttoo  toooa  tioon  boo   -al  paoc  - cte
flu-~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~.   PoI. ~Lho                                                                                     
-14     m q      ot       ct   ai        f     ftor  9alorealgoiort-riao   t  otoa  ct.  drrtiaaoloeto
ohEE  opl,  2-RA. 'ootd o~f     tin  roco.a"b. saat   r                                                              itoantott  ad  oo IotIo
oools e1toI ooo Mo-oth      sta  tre1 pyototeootte.  rS.ot   dtel
oottt  ntI  eMt  ro-.2oo   S et        W anonetiot.a't
ot  .-a  07 tott  tIdts" -  oSto  toie    O  o  ta   -i
t  Ze.ot  a,  to inloo         t`oiog ototl  L, coetle otof %oftot.
atar. of tif Agageshgmde    I to at tat . it it  .  toototaotflagce pats C
af dir to totobtl  iU. NANAo0-o  cda
th  tt.. =i al iewe.ot-osi   pasitl.,  -tocro          oraeo- a,-tootod
ad INRoe.ooo  Op hiet-btaVO  iyaon or af  -  Cpit *oose, ad
olottor teallel.



-31 -
I *da 6
or hr CAN= 512 - (19W
- q    tSSZD -  t
at amt t ldc)
1             1979     191      19111    192      195             29195    196   196            19on
Q_tS   pb6da                   135.9         5.4       0      -0.3       2.6     4.4             3.3   34      3.7    3.8       4.1
_v*sd-             B49L1                   9.2      -5.4      3.6      5.9       2             3123.4        3.6   3.7        3.8
1n y                          22.1        -28        0       4        -3.7    11.0             3.2   36      40    4.4        4.8
S _V                            S.2       LO        7.5    -L2        2.0      2.8            3.2  3.4    3.6    3.8         41
CdANmCI-                       UILZ UI24               4.1    -2.6      -.1       6.4            9   -0.6    2.1    2.3         L.S
QS  f_                          32a         11.8     -3    -17.         -LI      1.32          -16.2    Si 5.'S                S.?
dR ccG                   250         19.7      2.0   -25.        -L8      9.0             9.8  6.4    4.7   4.            8
lno  dt Gs                      36L3         1.3    -10      -4A       -11.3      635           10.4  -3.2    1.5   LA         1.7
Qa. om L uav1                    52.0       50.3    -28          4      569 .4  -  -47.          -    -        -
or   aur (1979110)                     100.0   12.5    13.0    1W9.2    174.0              191A  210.5   2.  4 6 A4.
M!!gm& 1                                  1.231    1.119    O.95O    OISI            O.O 0.750   0.70  0.73D    0.730
3.t of (  at Ibimt Mlc. (2)                                  a^mo TJ. (2)
(at      ,dca)b                                   cat it 1979 Plm)
1975   190   1915  1990                             1975-95    1960-5    195
em _d0.0 r-.   1m0.   mu0.0                                                                           5.6          2.9       4.1
-:                                             37.5   39.6  41.7   4.2                               5.8         3.9       3.8
rrAmay                                         19.4    .4   16.   17.                               4.7          2.6       4.7
uim                                           43.1  43.0       8   41.7                              S9          25        4.1
_NOM M                                           lS.4   89   92.3  87.2                               5.0         43         2.8
_a 1mm                                           31.6  25.9  19   32.3                               4.3        -4.         5.6
a       GES                                     2B.8   30.9   7.0   3.0                               8J          1.1        4.8
1ttu @US                                        50.9  42.7   32    35.4                               3.2         2.4        2.4
t md,WmL amlau                                I26.  13.4    -      -          _     _ _
s 2 of CO
19/10   197V76  2961192  29/84
RE Z
Ouialmv                                                         15.5      16.5     U.2     17.8
0r,, tu       mw                                                16.5      15.     19.1    17.4
aplu C+)) ar dedt (-)                                           -LI        1.1    -0.9      0.4
Cwq4za  *      a 8                                              2Z4       12.9    10.2      9.0
2btat. tf4                                                      11.2      8.8      2.6      4.6
1975h-    19D-4M  195.9
onim DWII;
Cm  a     mo (C2)                                         5.8      3.2     4.3
F pwr cmwd     .itS s(2)                                  1.9      0.3     1.5
o_w  wUmd             raft (2)                            6.1      2.0     2.8
n                                                         6.4     &.       4.8
tIhqlm  SIq   =t                                          0.1    -0.4      0.4
]4elt oustiity                                           -0.2     0.8      0.6
br Pao ng                   p smn                                                                                i m  o
b/ aeoj.   Mm  St ox== 19ftr  Afz1b 24 aD
'f*t         195g pdw                                                                                             IDW  24. 19o



- 32 -                                             AGO
-S tt 6
pdktl        : 6M32 - (Cdd495,  )unia)
or          : wr : 0 - (MM
PIZGM - MinrA Tca.
1mL  hA  ue Cx)
(at cm e 19|0 prm
6111015                      kZau
Zzd1uw                             at aguat prcesa)
191         1979   1910  1g9   197   190                    i9SP    915   1986   17    S1I
IWEL TOM
1Agdomaft -1m                                212.2      29.5  2L9  -4.2   -9.4   6.2                      75    6.7   4.    4.6    4.7
Punu?                                     2)2.8       32.0   17.3  -3.7  -7.1    8.5                   7.9   7.0   4.6   4.6    4.7
_bifac                                      9          8.S  137.8   0.0  -27.3  -ULI                   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.5    5.0
1hdm    loom                                 325.8       0.1  -9.7  -17.1  -1.7    0.1                    3.9   7U4   2.9   3.0    3.2
rai                                         8.5      1l.5   35.0  57.2 S6h3   4L4                      M .J 2.5   0.8    Lo    13
1tcr n                                     MA506      DJ.3   -A.    -.0  -W       1.7                  2A6   2.7  z2    2.9    3.1
!Kh1zw  md a                                 65.6    -33.0   11.9  4L.3  -19   -3.8                    4.6   5.9   Si    5.7    5.9
thim                                      ZO1.1        6.   -24.5  -6.4  -8.6    2.5                   3.5    L6    2.2   2.3    Z.3
PM=a (MDlW)
bcat pe1m 5r                                  -         -9.9    3.4   29.9   9.9   -.4                    8.6    40    0.2   8.9  a9
TWC pc1s 1                                    -         14.0   21.8  16.9   7.6   9.9                     2.2   7.2   9.1    9.4    9.4.
7a1  GE      __               -iJ.9  -15.1  ILI  2.2  -16.7                                              6.2    Z      1.0   4.5    0.4
GmVcadlo oE iazduzdiin Tta  CZ)                               Ae g AmNal rcem  CZ)
(at -amms wlc)                                        (ac    h   1979 pk)
1975   1980   195   3990                                  975-10    50-X5    393
imaum                                     mu0    0.   I0.0  100.0                                     9.6        -1.1       4.7
.-any                                   92.6  89.7   89.8  89.5                                    8.3        -O0        4.6
mwmfm_t~                                 7.4  10.3   10.2   103                                    17.8       -3.5       S.2
-0 i0.0o  10Lo  1OA   1.0 0                                                                          -1.4          0         .2
Ibal                                     49    7.3   6US    6.1                                    -0.9      43.0        L7
pd1am                                    9.1   13.9  15.6   L5                                     8.3        46         3.0
Fhddi. ad atdw                          245   34.4  20.7  23.4                                      1.0      -42.8       Lo
OtImm                                   61.5   e4L   57.2  55.0                                    -4.5       -1.3       2.4
Shun iE Tm  vidt                Ewre of Trod udtE                  9E   iE TA. ulth
1D&t&W1 Camtcde (l)            Ibwlaplz  Ca.tdag (2)             Clgtat Sazphu 011 EIFateu 1,Z)
1970    1975    1960            1970     1975    1960            1970        1975         198)
D1lE1 Q mmI
pEW.                                       65.3   76.2    69.0            11.3     10.3    7.0              3.4        U.5          24.0
Fdacnu                                    -      -        -              _        _       -               _           _            _
rat                                        56h7   66.8    75.0            4.2      14.5    6.0             19.0       J.7           19.0
11 bclmft ctww driecoLig cmm=fts                                                                                     TAM= 2E4 19 iam
Oclbi 24 198



- 33 -                                                                     I
.- 0dB
ftp.ial.      I 6452 MK98Z.  ctaui)
bfC Uqa I 2210 - (198(n
2A1*4!- LUAU W  PASG  t=EFL UmAL ASD MM
611mu 15 at amwo  p1cm)
1979   19ND   1961  198t   191                             1984    1985   1986   19B7   19M
3UJNM W-
E C                eeVlA                   274.1  353.6  318.8  302.6  277.8                           314.0  347.6  31L8  4S3.7  66l.1
CE1 dtA : 2bado    f.a.b                  222.4  23L5   267.7  2.2.6  212.6                           248L2  2751  317.1  361.1  5360
Xqota G pria  mt __m              S          255  6S .6i5065        .3  49.6                           453.45 .4   540.6  -94   W52.L9
GE 'lddi. r_rduarn fob.                   309.9  342.9  2.8   214.   2D9.0                            222.1   223.8  273.6  36.   430.4
Ibt truBin                                 -0.4   -6.4   -1.5   -L7    9.9                            -[0.   -IL6  -t14  -13.2  -16.2
Can     cam   bcm                         -251J  -238.4 -159.2 -110.4 -151.7                          -103 -1U.4 -215.2.- 9 IJSID
dvue Airec 1nsmwee                          -       -      -      -       -                              -      - -    -       -      -
on"d1 M aid                                  46.6   50.1   463   36.3   29.5                             35.0   42.0   50.0   535   65.5
t1 3m  (Mt)                                  96.8  13L2   87.8   43.5   37.7                             27.4   24.9   833   7L2  104.5
df1l g                                     818A  "9.1   723   58.6   49.9                             S.9   55.3  104.S   8.2  119.7
vm                                         15.0   29.1   15.5  -1.   -I.2                             -31.5  -30.4  -21.2   -9.0    1.2
_Lum;                                       97.1   42.1   40.1   -0.7   38.2                            77.9   85.5   30.4   33.0   -6.7
m In unnz(- - *ncmr)                         11.3   IbO   -15.0   31.3   46.3                            10.0   -S.0   -5   -.8  -12.3
-agcmam ed                                   645   71.5   49.0   22.1   19.8                              9.8   14.8   24.3   33.1   6.LL
d tiCald                                    -      -      -       -      -                              -       -       -      -
lhm   - mz  lq_                              L7    LS    1.2    0.7    0.6                                0.2    0.4    0.5    0.7    1.0
E    SIL aWPL AN10
(nk                                           l 171.9  211.3   D3. S t9.5   96O                        112.7  13D.1   87.9  1SD.1  252S
Ofldal QU                                  4.6   50.1   46.3   36.3   29.5                             35.0   42.0   50.0   53.5   6S.5
CA5nMBIOML TM=                             43.1   60S   46.1   42S    4L9                              *9.0   483   55.1   63.3   87.6
-                                        16.8   17.7   11.6    5.4    18                              5.9    6.2   100   12.1   16.1
;am  -                                           -       _      -      -                               _      _      _       _      _
mIL                                      14.4   15.1   21.0   27.1   32.3                            .22   3.8   35.9   41.1   57.0
-:tt r                                   11.9   27.8   M35  10.3   14.8                             14.8   11.3    9.2   10.1   14.4
lam   _uSm,   [mr.                         82L2  100.7   81.1   30.4   17.6                            2.7   2a.8    MS    633   99.4
0fi L  tt Cmt e                           8.9   2LZ    3.4    L2    6.7                               5.3    L.I   12.3   15.3   3a.1
no                                       12.8    7.6   26.8   21.0    L.5                             1.0   10.6   N52    22.7   3L9
Ottur ilelml                              5.1    6.9    3.0    0.7    2.0                            16.1    3.5    6.3    9.6   19.8
_"ivm                                    55.4   57.9   47.9    7.6    7.3                             6.3    7.6   11.8   15.6   27.6
Emme1a 1Db
Of_t OgmutwA48                           718.s  638.6  7266  770.1  807.8                            85.2  8o00  963.3 1018.6  134.0
*ffl"                                   547.1  413.4  485.6  514.2  594.1                           65L9  71.2  12.7  896.9 1213.5
1dm                                     271A   25.4  241.9  225.9  2137                              2    15.8   3.6  121A.6  140.5
UmdLoburAd Dc              t171.4  171.2  23.8  186.   225.6                                          263.3  335.6  412.0  5l.1  747.8
Dlbt bovk
Tca Srnzlm P9I    .                       -43.5 '67.6  -MS  -61.7  -5a3                               -809  -0.3 -103.4 -l01    134.6
Izmw                                    -24.3  -34.6  -49.3  -32.0  -9B.6                           -306  -33.2  -401   -37.9  -51.0
rF 0u4ine ad ftum                        -60   -6.   -13.5  -19.9  -ZL7                             -27.6  -25.9  -34.2  -37.2  -3L9
r.      a n  bpqmtu                       1L9   19.1   25.4   2D.4   21.0                              2sa   25.3   25.9   224   20.1
li rmmt barn  m    3m  (2)              83    58    6.6    4.0    2.4                               8.4    84    7.3    7.5    8.4
OEfl
Pdm
limz81e lba{dtY e    m m (year)              1S4   23.3   29.9   30.7    .7                              22.2   22.2   263   25.7   22.4
An S of Debt Outstanding
at End of December 31. 1983
aturity structure af debt outstanding
taturitlee due Within 5 years                       29.0
Hatuities due within 10 years                       44.1
lateret structure of debt eatstandleg
Xnterest due  vitbin first year                      3.6
Eatam AMm1  I1
&mb 24 . 198



- 34 -                            ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1984)
Bank
incl.
Loan or                                                      Third              Undis-
Credit No.  Year    Borrower        Purpose                  Window    IDA      bursed
-  (US$ MilTlion) -
Five loans and 16 credits have been fully disbursed          73.96a/  131.63
711-MAI    1977    Malawi       Water Supply                           7.00      0.61
857-MAI    1978    Republic    National Rural
of           Development
Malawi       Program I                            22.00      4.53
910-MAI    1979                 Education III                          14.50     1.91
992-MAI    1980                 National Rural
Development
Program II                           13.80     5.44
1099-MAI    1981                 Highway IV                            33.00      2.69
1123-MAI    1981                 Education IV                          41.00    15.78
2027-MAI    1981                 Technical Assistance         1.00                0.15
1183-MAI    1981                 National Rural
Development
Program III                         7.30      4.05
1272-MAI    1982                 Lilongwe Water Supply
Eng. Project                         4.00     2.03
1330-MAI    1983                 Fifth Education Project               34.00    30.26
1343-MAI    1983                 NRDP IV                               10.60      9.61
1351-MAI    1983                 Health Project                         6.80      5.22
1352-MAI    1983                 Smallholder Fertilizer                 5.00      0.63
1423-MAI    1984                 Fifth Highway                         26.90b/  24.36b/
1427-MAI    1984                 Structural Adjustment II              55.00    23.57
1428-MAI    1984                 Technical Assistance II                1.50      1.40
2363-MAI    1984                 Fifth Highway               18.00               17.95
TOTAL                                           92.96    414.03
of which has been repaid                       3.32       4.92
Amount sold
of which repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                  89.64    409.11
TOTAL undisbursed                               18.10    132.09   150.19
a/ Less cancellations.
b/ Includes Special Fund.



- 35 -                             ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. IFC INVESTMENT IN MALAWI
September 30, 1984
Total
Investment                            Type of                            Held    Undis-
Number     Year   Obligor             Business   Equity   Loan  Total  by IFC  bursed
- - ---- -(US$ Million)-           -
326-MAI    1976   David Whitehead    Textiles        -     10.8  10.8    4.7       -
& Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-HAI    1977   Dwangwa             Sugar          -      9.9   9.9    8.8       -
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MAI    1978   Investment and      Development  0.6       -    0.6    0.6       -
Development        Finance
Bank of Malawi     Company
502-MAI    1979   Malawi              Tourism        -      2.0   2.0    2.0      1.6
Hotels
Limited
542-MAI    1980   Ethanol Company    Manufactur-
Limited of         ing Alcohol
Malawi              from
Molasses      0.3   1.9    2.2    2.1       -
TOTALS     0.9  24.6   25.5   18.2      1.6



- 36 - 
- 36                    ~~~~~~ANNEX III
Page I of 2
MALAWI
WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  30 months.
(b) Prepared by: Government with assistance from the Bank and
consultants.
(c) Initial discussion with the Bank Group: April 1981.
(d) First IBRD mission: November 1981.
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: November 1983.
(f) Negotiations: November 12-16, 1984.
(g) planned Date of Effectiveness: May 1985.
II. Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
III. Special Conditions
(a) WICO would, by September 30, 1985, submit to the Goverr.-ant and
the Bank a master schedule of project activities for the WICO
component and, upon receipt of their comments, finalize and
implement such a schedule (para. 68).
(b) The Government-appointed agency would, by September 30, 1985,
submit to Government and the Bank for review and comment, a
master schedule of project activities and thereafter, f_:.alize
and implement such a schedule (para. 69).
(c) The Government would, for the technical assistance component,
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 69).
(d) The Government would maintain sawnwood and panelboard in the list
of products whose prices have been decontrolled in December 1983
(para. 41).



- 37                              ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e)  Special conditions of disbursements are that:  (i) no withdrawals
for category 1 of Schedule 1 (technical assistance to Government
for alternative use studies) shall have been made unless the
project manager is employed (para. 69); and (ii) no withdrawals
for Part A of Schedule I (wood industries restructuring
component) shall be made unless the subsidiary loan agreement
with WICO shall have been signed and WICO shall have submitted to
Bank its opening audited financial statement (para. 75).



8  rXChIPO  P.dIS\J  \ "~                                                WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
onwo
Ut  ;!P Existing principal wood processing plants
* Karonga                                          S      Chikanoawa prolect sile
-10 ,,                                                                   wb>/Vpyzpollo                                                                                         1 01
KILOMETERS         20   40    hO     80                                                                                              Road under design
0-----.L ------ L-- 2    4                                                                                        -.  -Rood under conslvuclion
MILES 0         20        40        60                                                                                         Pavod roads
Chilumba                                        Principal groavel and earth roads
0          /                          *'........ Roads being studied
?1 .                      - i---_ _-_--  Railways
/    livingstaniao                                        .-_  --_   Rail*oy under construction
[NKArA          Mlowe                                           Steamer routes
N/ORIT                              |     9Ai                         Airports with scheduled services
>,r    X    R U M pAwl   X                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rtyers
.           RUMP    I    -    ~~ ~  /                                   @      Nationnl capital
Rumphi                 Rurwe                                         Disirict administrative conters
VI nf C           O/lr   AUsisy                                             District boundaries
j                   hwwc t7JREnIV  OUSIsya                                    Regional boundaries
wz ndeni                                                    . International boundaries
ANkhato Bay                                    . . . 
M Z I M A             Zor Q aShJ/' N-en
VIPH~Y         f::% b
MiOUN1^S    8.tphoyo/J
Z    A   M   B   I  A                            MOimaN    * *mpoyaw 
anXJ zna    .,\:ikna
/4~sbrS  }'? t       _     Dwangwa
INKHIOTAKOt|
_Nkhotalto
K A SU  G U    ,                                                  M
ivngu                                               M 0Z A M BIQ  E-
Vilo Cabral
-  '~- Ntsi                 Ing
/<sr          '~~R 6,   t A                                          \  



A,  C  E {NJ  R  A  'l                                               Vila Cabral
f/ . - /               8           Ntchisi     '       Bongo
Chipotat         MCH I NJ I         8         0   0          A           S  LIMA
Mchinji w X                                                        SengowMakanja
14.                                                                                   ILO,OWE,\'             X  Chipoka/                                                                                    14'
Li un         ILO       Ej                             A     keGCy                       \
tot the co.'vwen.nceore f! the                                                                                              / M koyn g         Machinga   -
bieadt r and as excA,s,vu* to M Iha                                         I e                                    _ B    Q     U    E  ch                   _
Vetanal use dt The Wbo>f Iht* flay                                                                              J         J i i i
ano the hitrona b tnal Frunce a                                                                                                                     eis
Ca'o,'ation rhe detonwpt.ms
used and gme bowyghirma shown                                                                                J M W A N Z A .                            A
on ttis map do not ir, on tha                                               |.                                     rbb    /                         BA                                                      1 t
pail ot rtw FoFkSlBank and f                                                                                       0h    \p           f             / v             -.tV...,"
inrernasorFienance CPO141tekon.                                              |                                   >       vrANY             hvrodiulu               J
anyv pUrwnt onr fJn Va @rl status                                     Mwaa A?.. 
of any felirtory of any                                                                                iwS            \   Cheti  g {CHIRADZULU
tortafrenl Ofacceptancrolg,- Bety of                                                                                                       0    M  AN  
32h'oncao                                                                                                                                !MULANJ~ 
16'                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~Chtkwaw 
T, rANZANIA
ZAIRE
,  ANGOtA                                                                                                     H  I K W        AWA'   YOL
'.) <-  t fA  AV(I
ZAMI    \
MBAIWE    AMIOE 
  ~~|> F.W-    ff)MBADWt MOMl(yt,                              .                                                 \b                    )iromno                       \
\ NAMIBIA
_ AFRICA






