Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ReoR  No. 8744
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2486-MAI)
JUNE 13, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This dmnt has a restricted ditibution and may be used by recipients only In the performac of
their officia duties Its contents way not otherwise be diclosed witout World Bank authorization



EXCHANGE RATE HISTORY
Currency Unit:  Malavi kwacha (MK)
MK/
1982                          1.06             Appraisal
1983                          1.17
1984                          1.41             Negotiations
1985                          1.72             Disbursement started
1986                          1.86
1987                          2.21
1988                          2.56
1989      Quarter I           2.66
1989      Quarter II          2.79
1989      Quarter III         2.82             Loan closed
1989      Quarter IV          2.77
ANCRONYMS
ERR     -    Economic Rate of Return
FID     -    Forest Industries Division
OED     -    Operations Evaluation Department
PCR     -    Project Completion Report
SAR     -    Staff Appraisal Report
TA      -    Technical Assistance
WICO    -    Wood Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIL US ONY
THE WORLD BANK
Washmgton,D.C. 20433
UIlA.
01K.e of om.c4tw4al
0POsrata Ivalutwaln
June 13, 1990
HEMORAMDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND TEE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malawi
Wood Industries Restructuring Project
(Loan 2486-MAI)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a repqrt entitled "Project
Completion Report on Malawi - Wood Industries Restructuring Project (Loan
2486-MAI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No eudit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
77
Attachment
I This document has a rstriced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance |
of th&t official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ibnk authoration.



]FOR OffCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COPLEON RRT
WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2486-HMA)
TABLE OF COtTEMTS
Paot No.
PREFACE  i................*e*******ee************ee*******e***                 i
EVALUATION SUMIRY *............................,              .iii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANR'S PERSPECTIVE .......... .....               1
A.  Project Identity o ........................... o.....oooo ........... lo 
Bo  Background  I.............................. 
C.  The Company .                                                           2
D.  Sawnvood Market *...........**....                                      2
E.  Changes in Project Scope ...3............................               3
F.  Project Implementation             4..................... ...**         4
G.  Project Results .................................                       5
Project Objectives ....         5..................... ....e         5
Project Costs ........ ..........***********************              5
Financial Performance ...5.............................               5
Economic Performance           ..................................    6
H.  Lessons Learned ...........7..        ..........................        7
PART IIs  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE o ..........             8
I.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION PREAPPEAISAL AND APPRAISAL .o.....              14
II.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT ... oo ................          15
(a)  Project Scope .....         .................................    15
(b)  Project Management ...................... ...........             16
(c)  Use and Performance of Consultants           .................   17
(d)  Performance of Contractors and Suppliers          ...........    17
(e)  Procurement .....................................                 17
(f)  Implementation Schedule ............................              18
(g)  Capital Cost ....        ....................................     18
III.  PROJECT OPERATING PERFORMANCE             ...........................  20
(a)  Commissioning and Start-up            .........................   20
(b)  Manpower Developments .......          ......................    20
(c)  Borrower's Ownership and Organization Structure ....              21
(d)  Environment Effects ....          ...........................     22
(e)  Build-up of Production and Capacity .................            22
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in thd performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without Word Bank authoriaon.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)
Page No.
IV.  MARKETS .................................................                           24
V.   FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE  ......................                         25
(a)   Sale, Performance  .2........5.................... . .                       25
(b)  Production Costs                            ............. . . ..  ,           25
(c)  Overall Financial Results                  .........................          25
(d)  Financial Rate of Return for the Project  ..... ......                        26
(e)   Economic Benefits                ..................................          27
VI.  BANK'S PERFORMANCE                 ......................................           27
VII.  CONCLUSION ..............................................                            29
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION                  ............................           37
A.   Related Bank Loans/Credits                   ..............................        37
B.   Project Timetable ....................                                             37
C.  Loan Disbursements  .........3...7. ............... ...  .                          37
D.   Project Cost and Financing  ..............................                         38
E.  Project Results ...................................................                 39
F.   Status of Covenants  ......               ...............................          40
G.  Staff Inputs .....................................................                  41
ATTACHMENT
Comments Received from the Borrower                    .....................       43



PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRU%URING PROJECT
(LOAN 2486-IAI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Wood
Industries Restructuring Project in Malawi, for which Loan 2486-MAI in the
amount of US$6.4 million was approved on March 19, 1985. The loan was
closed on August 1, 1989, 5 months ahead of schedule. The last
disbursement was made on July 15, 1989, and an undisbursed balance of
US$1.5 million was cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Division
of the EMENA Technical Department (on behalf of the Industry and Energy
Operations Division of the Southern Africa Department) and the project
sponsor who prepared Part II.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in June 1989, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement,
supervision reports, and financial reports of the company.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for their review, and their comments
have been taken into account in finalizing the report and are reproduced as
an attachment.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NLAW
WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2486-MNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiei as
The objectives of the project were: (i) to mod&aiize and increase
the production capacity of the state-owned sawvills, (ii) to improve the
operating skills and management in these plants, (iii) to encourage
privatization in the industry, and (iv) to develop alternative uses for the
Viphya forest in northern Malawi. These objectives have been partly achieved.
As discussed in Part I, section E, the failure of the domestic
demand for sawvwood to increase as anticipated in the SAR meant that the
project scope had to be changed. Therefore, wiile modernization of the mills
took place, the objective of increasing savnwood production became redundant
and instead, the rehabilitation of the mills was directed more towards
vertical integration rather than merely increasing production.
Training of operating crews and management was achieved largely as
expected, and a computerized accounting system has been put into place.
However, most of the overseas training for middle management staff was
curtailed by the Government's reluctance to use IBRD funds for oversees
travel.
Privatization of WICO has been much discussed throughout project
*     implementation, and a study by consultants financed by UNDP of the alternative
means to achieve privatization has been completed. Also, IFC has been
introduced to the client and have had some initial discussion,s about possible
participation. However, at project completion, WICO remains a government
owned and controlled company.
Only small advances have been made in the utilization of the
Viphya forest. The IFC supported VIPLY project is now utilizing about 9,000
ha of the 45,000 total plantation to supply its new plant producing plywood
and sawnwood. Also a demonstration charcoal unit has been established which
now sells charcoal for household use. However, full utilization of the
forest in an economically supportable industrial development continues to be
an elusive objective (paras. 1-13).
Implementation Experience
Once the change in project scope was agreed, implementation
proceeded smoothly. The client made full use of the special account facility
provided for in the loan (paras. 14, 15).



Although the originally defined objectives were not fully
achieved, WICO ls now a more efficient producer with a better trained
management and operating staff. The company now regularly earns foreign
exchange through export of furniture components (paras. 16-23).
SustaanabL=LL
At the present time, WICO is not profitable, mostly due to its low
capacity utilizatLon. This appears to be partly due to insufficient and
irregular supply of logs to the Blantyre mill. If the log supply problem can
be solved WICO has medium and long term potential for considerably increasing
its earnings through domestic and export furniture sales - - demand in both
markets considerably exceeds WICO's current output, and improvements to WICO's
manufacturing line have been made under the project to allow it to supply more
of this demand.
The problem of log supply is currently under discussion and it is
expected that a formal log supply agreement between the Forestry Department
and WICO will soon be finalized. This will hopefully lead to a more consistent
supply of raw material to allow WICO to fully utilize its new productive
capacity (paras. 18-21).
Lessons _Learne
The main lesson learned in this project, as discussed in Part I,
section H, is to be wary of too much optimism during the project appraisal --
in this project, the market projections were totally misleading.
Because of a major devaluatLon of the local currency during the
period of project implemAntation, the company is unable to service the
subsidLary loan. This suggests that in countries where the Bank is advocating
major economic reforms which will inevitably lead to devaluation, the impact
of exchange rate fluctuations on financial viability needs to be more
carefully evaluated during project appraisal.
One positive lesson learned is the value to the project and the
councry of the Bank being responsive to changes in project scope and
reallocation of funds to more appropriate categories to meet such changes.
The lesson is that Bank supervision missions slhould be alert to the need to
modify project scope and react quickly to requests for reallocation.
Finally, the matter of raw material supply should be carefully
considered during appraisal, and thte project designed with suitable safeguards
to ensure supplies on a long-term basis and at economic prices (paras. 24-28).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ALAWI
WCOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 2486-MAI)
PART I. PROJECT REVWEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Pro1ect: Identity
-Project Name:  Wood Industries Restructuring Project
-L4an Number:   2486 MLI
-RVP Unit:      Africa Regional Office
Southern Africa Department
-Country:       Malawi
-Sector:        Industry
-Subsector:     Forest Industries
B. Backeround
1.          The utilization of the substantial forest resources of the Viphya
pine plantations in the northern part of Nalavi has been studied by many
international agencies and private interests over the last 15 years. While it
is the stated intention of the Government to establish a large export pulp
mill all efforts to define a such major industrial development to fully
utilize the resource have been frustrated by the poor economic prospects
stemming from high capital investment and crippling transportation costs for
imported inputs and exported outputs.   In 1983 the Bank, together with IFC,
at the request of the Government, examined the prospects for at least a
partial utilization of the forest by establishing a smaller industrial plant.
A project to produce mainly plywood and blockboard, but utilizing only 9,000
ha of the available 45,000 ha, was subsequently defined. At the sam time, to
satisfy the domestic demand for sawnwood, a complementary project to
restructure the existing sawmills operated by the Forest Industries Division
(FID) of the Ministry of Forests was developed, although this latter project
was intended to use only the forest resources of the southern part of the
country.
2.          It was agreed that because of an expected  participation of the
private sector in the northern green-field project, which became known as the
Viply Project, IFC would support that development, and the Bank would deal
with the restructuring project in the south. The Viply mill, with assistance
from IFC, was completed and went into operation in May, 1989. The plant has
been built to an excellent technical standard, but for at least the immediate
future it will suffer from the low demand in the domestic market. At present
the company plans to export 80Q of its product, principally through the
northern corridor into Tanzania and to the port of Dar es Salaam. The
difficulties already faced by Tanzanian exporters at this port is not
encouraging for Viply.



- 2 -
3.          The smaller Bank project, in addition to rehabilitation of the
existing sawmilla, included a TA component to examine possible alternative
uses of the Viphya resources. The Bank project, involving an IBRD loan US$6.4
million was approved by the Executive Directors in December. 1984, and it is
this project which is the subject of the present PCR.
C. The Comganv
4.          The  Wood Industries Corporation (WICO), which implemented the
project, is a company spun off from FID as a first stop towards privatization.
The creation of VICO as a separate entity responsible for the operation of all
5 of the FPD mills was a key step leading to appraisal of the rehabilitation
project as it was visualized by both the Bank and the Government that once its
mills were modernized and made efficient producers, the Company would become
attractive to private investors. However, at present, WICO is in no sense a
private sector company: it is entirely Government owned with a board of
directors appointed by the Government and is under the control of the
Department of Statutory Bodies within the Office of the President and Cabinet.
5.         Throughout the implementation of the project, the privatization of
WICO was a frequent topic of discussion and analysis, but only at the end of
the implementation period were any positive steps taken. In late 1988, the
Government undertook a study with the assistance of consultants financed by
UNDP, to place a value on VICO's assets and to investigate privatization
alternatives.  This study is currently being finalized.   Also, IFC has had
some exploratory discussions with a view to possible participation in WICO
together with other private sector interests, perhaps a foreign firm. In the
meantime, WICO suffers from an inadequate equity base stemming frcm the time
of its incorporation when the Government provided no nbe# funds to launch the
company, leaving WICO to finance from its limited cash flow all the local
costs of the rehabilitation project, as well as its incremental working
capital.
p). Sawnwood Marsket
6.          The Bank appraisal was based on the market projections of
consultants which at the time were considered conservative. In fact, the
projections have proved to be excessively optimistic. To illustrate, domestic
demand for sawnwood is currently about 20,000 m3/yr, compared with a
projection for 1989 at the time of appraisal of more than 50,000 m3/yr.
7.          The over-optimistic demand projection seems to arise from two
basic assumption errors. It was assumed that annual growth in domestic demand
for sawnwood would proceed at a steady rate of 4X into the 1990s. This did
not happen. In fact, recent Bank studiesl/ have shown that in the industrial
world, consumption of sawnwood is scarcely growing at all, and in developing
countries demand has an income elasticity close to one. As Malawi' s actual
I/ Ewing, Andrew J. and Raymond Chalk, Th Fgorest Industiesi Sector, World
Bank Technical Paper Number 83, 1988.



annual GNP growth is only 1.4X, the 41 growth rate projected at the time of
appraisal was clearly too high.
8.         Another and more important factor leading to the optimistic
estimate of demand is the assumed projection base of 40,900 m3 demand in 1982.
While this was presumably the a_zual consumption in that year, the level was
probably inflated from the norm by the surge of construction activity in
Lilongwe while the new capital was being built in the late 1970s. Although it
was recognized that a drop in domestic demand had occurred from a peak of
49,000 m3 in 1975 to 40,900 in 1982, it was assumed that this declining trend
had stopped and that steady growth would begin.
9.         A further factor which influenced WICO's donestic market potential
was unexpected competition from pit sawyers. While there had always been some
production of sawnwood by this traditional hand method, in 1986 the Forestry
Department, now free of its manufacturing interests following the formation of
WICO, made sawlogs more easily available to private individuals, and this
caused a surge in manufacturing by pit sawyers. Although the quality of the
pit-sawn material is low, so is the cost and price, and pit sawyers became an
important influence in the market.
E. Changes in Prolect Scope
10.        With the Increased competition from pit sawyers apd the imminent
start-up of the Viply project which would capture the entire northern market
for sawnwood, and with the realization that the market projections were too
optimistic, WICO was quick to realize the need to alter the project scope to
avoid investing in unneeded assets. During the second Bank supervision
mission in October, 1986, about one year after the loan became effective and
before any major equipment had been purchased, WICO presented their proposed
reduction in project scope, and the Bank was able to agreed immediately --
thus, all procurement was subsequently undertaken within the changed project
scope and no unnecessary equipment purchased. The physical components planned
at appraisal and those actually implemented, are summarized below:
Planned at Annraisal                         Actual
Mazamba Sawmill:
-add debarking and sorting line                 cancelled
-improve band-sawmill                           cancelled
-purchase log handling equipment                cancelled
Dedza Sawmill.,
-purchase saw doctoring equipment               cancelled
-install new framesaw                           moved to Blantyre
-purchase log handling equipment                completed
-expand capacity of kiln dryer                  cancelled
-install glue-laminating facilities             cancelled
ZombA Sawmill:
-rehabilitate sawmill including headrig         completed
-purchase spare parts                           completed



-4-
-purchase log handling equipment                 completed
lanl er Sawmlil:
-install furniture and jotnery equipment         completed and expanded.
-framesaw installed
11.         Although it was originally expected that the WICO mill in Blantyre
would eventually be closed after the rehabilitation program, it in fact becaais
the main focus of the project. This was due to the move of WICO's head office
from Lilongwe (from where the mills had formerly been administered by FID) to
Blantyre, which is the commercial center of the country and the major sawnwood
market area for the southern region. Wlth the installation at Blantyre of new
equipment under the project. WICO's entire domestic market share for sawnwood
could easily be manufactured at this single site, and WICO therefore
recommended that all the other mills be closed, and that Blantyre become the
sole manufactur..ng center.
12.         Bank supervision missions analyzed the alternatives of singli
plant operation compared with multiplant operation and agreed with WICO's
contention that. concentrating all production at Slantyre made good financial
sense. However, in spite of the Bank's support of the WICO recommendation,
the Government, through WICO's board of directors, instructed WICO management
to continue operating two other plants, at Dedza and Zomba. This decision was
presumably based primarily on social considerations. In any case, at project
completion, WICO co tinues to operate Blantyre, Dedza, and Zomba mills,
although the scope of physical rehabilitation was much reduced from the
appraisal plan at Dedza and Zomba and increased at Blantyre.
13.         UICO's  increasing awareness of the developing imbalance between
sawnwood production capacity and domestic demand, lead it to explore vertical
integration into higher value-added products, specifically furniture, knocked-
down furniture kits, and furniture components. Initial response in the
domestic and exports market was strong and WICO discussed with the Bank
further changes in project scope, to which the Bank agreed, to allow increased
furniture manufacturing capability at the Blantyre mill. The manufacture of
furniture by WICO is a departure from the original project scope only in the
sense of magnitude and timing -- it was intended in the original project that
studies would be undertaken to investigate such a possibility, but it was not
expected that furniture would immediately replace a large portion of sawnwood
as a major output.
F. Proiect Imnlementation
14.         The project was in two parts: Part A covezed the rehabilitation of
WICO and related TA, and was implemented by WICO; Part B covered TA to the
Government to explore alternative uses of the Viphya forest resource and was
the responsibility of the Ministry of Forests. In fact, the activity
visualized for Part B, after only initial studies were completed under the
Project, were transferred to a nw IDA Wood Energy Project. Consequently,
Part B of the Project is referred to only briefly in this PCR.



15.         Once WICO had settled on a revised project scope and cleared the
changes with the Government and the Bank, implementation proceeded smoothly
with no unusual difficulties.   There were no significant procurement
disputes. WICO made full use of a special account--virtually all payments to
suppliers were made directly by WICO from this account.
G. Project Rgsults
Proiect Objectives.
16.         The original objective to rehabilitate the existing Government.
owned sawmills has been achieved, although not in the form visualized in the
appraisal report (para 8 to 11). The TA centering on training of operating
crews and middle management has also been largely completed and the plants are
now operated and managed entirely by Malawians. Some of the training
objectives requiring overseas travel were cut back because the Government was
reluctant to use IBRD loan funds for this purpose. The objective of using TA
to the Government to identify alternative uses of the Viphya forest was only
partially successful -- a demonstration pine charcoal production unit has been
established near the Viply plant and is selling charcoal for household uses.
However, large-scale utilization of charcoal for industrial purposes, eg.
tobacco curing, have not yet taken off.  Furthermore, none of the more
esoteric alternative uses identified such as silva-chemicals production are
financially or economically attractive. At this writing, the utilization of
the Viphya forest r; sins an enigma.
xroject Costs.
17.         Because of the change in project scope it is not particularly
useful or even valid to compare appraisal cost estimates with actual costs.
However, as would be expected with the reduced level of physical
rehabilitation undertaken, actual total cost was only 65X, and the foreign
portion 771, of the appraisal estimate. Approximately US$1.5 million of the
loan was therefore cancelled.Z/
Financial Performance.
18.         Compared with expectations at the time of appraisal, WICO's
financial performance has been poor. In addition, the Government did not live
up to its legal commitment to make WICO financially viable. Despite the
efforts of several supervision missions which discussed the subject of capital
structure and financial restructuring, WICO at present stands 10O debt
financed, is unable to pav interest and principal on the subsidiary loan
onlent by the Government from the IBRD loan which financed the project, and is
thus technically bankrupt. Another contributing factor to WICO's financial
/  It should be noted that Malawi is now an IDA country, and this is one of
the last IBRD loans. Caneiellation of the outstanding amount, rather than
reallocation to some other purpose, was considered appropriate to reduce
Malawi's debt service.



- 6 -
distress has been the substantial devaluation of the Malawi Kwacha, which more
than doubled the debt service costs in local currency without a corresponding
increase in selling prices.
19.        From the time of its incorporation, WICO has been short of cash.
The Government provided no equity when the Company was formed, and WICO had to
finance all the local costs of the project and its incremental working capital
from its meager cash flow. The change in project scope required by the lack
of domestic market share for sawn wood has kept WICO's sales at a relatively
low level. Entry into the export market for furniture has required
substantial d rounts.
20.           -her major cause of poor sales has been low production because
of erratic Ih: - ?pplies.  In early 1989, because of the shortage of lop, WICO
was forced to purchase sawnwood fron the VIPLY mill to keep its furniture
factory operating. The problem with log supply is expected to be solved
shortly when a formal log supply agreement specifying volume requirements and
prices is finalized between WICO and the Forest Department.
21.        During the period 1986/87 to 1988/89, sales grew from MK 3.5
million to SK 5.4 million while cost of sales increased from HK 3.8 million to
MK 5.6 million. After fixed costs, including interest and depreciation,
accumulated losses for the period totaled MK 8.9 million or about 62X of
sales. Forecasts prepared by WICO through 1993/94 show increasing sales
volume and revenues, and the company making an operating profit of about 12 to
15S of sales. However, WICO projects continuing losses because of interest
and exchange losses.
Economic Performance.
22.        Because of the change in project scope comparison between the
appraisal and actual estimates of the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) may not be
particularly valid, but in any case the current estimate is 7X compared with
25X at appraisal. The main reason for the sharp decline is the much lower
revenue currently received, due in large part to lover prices for sawnwood.
At appraisal, the financial price of sawnwood was taken as the economic price.
This was seen to be a conservative approach as the estimated equivalent import
price, less duties and taxes, was more than double the domestic price. As
prices of sawnwood in Malawi had been decontrolled (and continue to be) it was
reasoned in the SAR that prices would increase as quality improved from the
rehabilitated WICO mills. Therefore, in rhe financial projections, upon which
the ERR was based, prices were allowed to increase 51 per year. In the
sensitivity tests it was noted that if this price increas% ',r quality was
excluded, the ERR dropped from 251 to 191. Furthermore, if sales volume was
decreased by 101 the ERR dropped to 141. It follows that if sales price
dropped by the same 10, the ERR would drop even lower. Thus the SAR clearly
demonstrated the sensitivity of ERR to price. In fact, the price has dropped
much lower than the 10 tested in the sensitivity analysis: the domescic price
at appraisal was 200 MK/m3, which in 1989 terms is equivalent to 442 Mk/m3,
while at project completion, the actual 1989 price is 265 MK/m3, a reduction
in real terms of 402.



-7 -
23.         The argument in the SAR that the financial price was a
conservative proxy for the economic price was supported by the estimated high
price of equivalent imports. The import price was based on supply from a
major world supplier, in this case Canada, by adding to the fob west coast
Canadian price, ocean freight and local transport through Mozambique to
Blantyre. This may have been a valid argument at the time, when reasonably
large volumes were being considered. However, the actual situation at project
completion is that the small volume of sawnwood being sold, if not produced by
WICO, would be supplied by other domestic producers. Had this situation been
foreseen at the time of appraisal, a more cautious approach would no doubt
have been taken. The fact that it wasn't is a direct reflection of the over
optimistic market projections.
H. Lessons Learned
24.         WICOs major and continuing problem in planning and executing its
operational strategies is the insecurity of the raw material supply. The
lesson learned from this experience, which is applicable to any natural
resource processing project, is that in such projects, the matter of raw
material supply should be carefully considered during appraisal, and the
project designed with suitable safeguards to ensure the long term supply of
raw material at economic prices.
25.         It is clear that the original design of this project suffered from
too much optimism during appraisal, particularly regarding the market
projections. However, in spite of the fact that market realities forced
significant modification in the project scope, the broad objective of
rehabilitating the government owned mills was still achieved, and WICO is a
more efficient company than it was before the project.
26.         The local currency was devalued from 1.3 Kwacha per US dollar at
the time of appraisal to 2.8 at project closing, thus more than doubling the
company's debt service obligations under the onlending agreement with the
government. The company is unable to service this debt. This appears to be a
problem in other of the Bank's industrial projects, particularly in countries
where major economic reforms are being advocated. The lesson learned is that
appraisals need to pay more attention to the sensitivity of the project's
financial viability to exchange rate fluctuations.   Had the effects of a
major devaluation been tested in this project, up to the level which actually
took place, the project might not have proceeded.
27.         Privatization has not yet taken place.  While a study has been
completed, and many discussions have been held with various potential
partners, nothing concrete has developed, and there does not appear to be much
enthusiasm to privatize. The lesson might be that governments, when faced
with the final dectsion to sell their assets after going through the process
of improving them have second thoughts: "Now that it works well and has the
potential of earning revenue for the state, why should we sell?"



28.         Perhaps the most important lesson for Bank staff and management is
to be flexible when faced with the need for project redesign. It would have
been foolish to proceed with the full rehabilitation project as described in
the SAR and in the legal documents, and the flexible attitude of the Bank in
allowing reallocation of loan funds, within the broad objectives of the
project, proved to be most beneficial to the company and the country. Perhaps
the Bank would better serve its clients and ach.lieve its development objectives
if it were more general in its allocation of loan funds as specified in the
legal documents, and more flexible and responsive to borrowers requests for
reallocation.
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROUER'S PERSPECTIVE
The following contribution was prepared by the client prior to the
date of the new PCR format. The client was responding to questions in a
guideline given to him during a previous supervision mission. Certain
questions have cryptic answers which are meaningless unless read in parallel
with the questionnaire. Therefore a copy of the questionnaire follows
immediately and minor editorial comments have been added in the text of the
client's pages where reference to the questionnaire is required to clarify the
response.
Also, as the client's portion was originally prepared almost a
year before the final supervision/PCR mission, certain of the tables became
outdated, and updated pages, prepared by the client, have been added.
Other than this, Part II which follows has been prepared entirely
by WICO.



-9-
TRE 1      SA    -         LUM ?='OJECTS DE?AR=1
PR=   CCWlE?TO=  REPORT
ThO0*TO REOUIt3E
t.  wuW.nPROJE=  MENTZTCAflOMI  M RISAL & APPRAISAL
(a) Comparison between the projeet scops as orig  a.ly e.visage
by the Company and as finalLy agreed with, the  ank. Discuss
the origin ad evolution of project scope.
(b) Role of Bank and borrow.r in. fosaLing project scope and
project implemencation amgements. What alterative
compo5ents or arg ts wee o           lly considd.
(c) t^ho prpared the project?  If prepared by consultants, what vas
tha exent of the bo     es Input In the feasibilit  study?
What was tha Bank. Involvement in the proces?
(d) How long it tookl for the borrow  to prepare  the project? .
Which were the steps involve in project preparation.
(e) Comment on the Bank's involvemet and performance during
tha process of project identification, preparation, appraisa,
aesotiations and Loan siin.
T2I.  PROJECT '"La=1-ATT=. & MANAGOWT
(a) Project Scone
(i)  Comeent on the appropriateness of the project scope,
configucation and technology, in view of developmens
duxing 4ipiuaenution.
(IL)  Discuss major changes in scope during project exeution
ad the reasons for it. Who iitiated or           s
these changs.
(b) Proiect Kaasemeut
(I)   Describe the project management systea used to pla  ad
mitor the iWLemantationof the proj   .
(Ii)  D"ecribe tha rlationships during implbetween
the borrower, consultants, technicaL advisors, caetoA
and suppliers.



- 10 -
(M)  CM  on ahe app rpriateness of the abde
43d what vent wrong with thea. Wght ceU  ham ben don
to avoid th  problem.
(*)  W"as ce Bank icolved Ia tha desip of ths project L-4"e
Meatiog               and rerlosbl" bemeam the
borrower, cotus, eC Ca adViso   n  cos.
(c) Use ald Perfaorance of Consultats
(i)    Assess the coultant's perfcrmnce la prjec desig
e anieig, construction supervisiom, IaSXsL opuratio
(IL)   Pravide with specific ea  Ian that Iuaaze amy indicated
lack of perforzance by canauLtasts.
(d) Perforgance of Contractors and Sut1liers
(1)   Asse the contractors' and supplirs' v   n
regardin  quality of se8vice and wz s dLasq quai 
of eaquipm    and delve   tla, and              a aci;i
(IL)    mdi ajor problems or uie               n cth  cOeCR
nd supplLers atI          a" whetr and bar the  could
hae bee avoided.
(LU.) Prvide with specific examplea that iuain. -lak of
performance by contractors and supplim.
(e) Procuremec
*(i)   Describe the procuremec procedures ucr4ted for the project..
(S1)  Did the borrower hsv difficuLties In foUZnwIg the Bank's
Pro eIc guideline.
(LIi)  ftet problem. or constraints occurreed l g prject
ImpLensucatlon that were due to p -         & 0suppis.
(Uv)  that specific beefits did Int.                itius blddiAg
provide to the borrower.
(f)  I.plementation Schedule
(1)   Comparison btween appraisaL and a dma L
schodples, as a whole and for the ads PhysicaL Componets-
(Li)  Tudicate the  ajor works and co_pooee       were ca opLeted
by the origiala target date.



- 11 -
(it)  What wer the major factors causing deLas or advances
Inwork.?  When did they occ     Cml ttey itave bee
forese  anA avoitdd.
(Lv)  W6at wer the effects and izpact of th  delay on project
benatits?
(v)    6hat actions wave takan by the borrowet and coutractors
to avoid or remedy delays. Ho appropritat were thase
actions?
(g) Casital Cost. Financing & Disbursements
(i)    Protvd a breakdown of actual and esetjd project cost
by major equipment, works and sevices in a tabular fou,
d±stiog±sh±ug foreign and locaL costs.
(1) 4Iicate reasons for cost overns or uuderms (suc  as
des4p change, quantit7 change, price Incrases, curren
rssliuucs, atc).
(iLL)   nicte remedial measures ad actis takn by the
borrower and the contractor to avoid or mIn4izis cosr
(iv)   Discuss the project financig pla, and provi  a co_parLson
between tha original and actuaL shares of fi;nancing fzm  tte
variou sources.
(v)    nd4icata the follw-up systm used by the boroe to
mosior sources ad amount of finacing received.
(vi)   How did actual disbursements copare with appraisal esai-
macas.  aaesons for dviations and delays.
(vii)  Deisuss any significant problems witk lank procedurs
for timeLy disbursements ad extent of dlays by the Bank.
(viLL) Discuss the performance of other leders.
(1n    Espeditur schadula for the project, local   d foreig,
over the whole project period, by quater, dLseggeaced
by plant and activity.
Lz. O, 0T?~?O PEMM4&AC
(a) Coissionuin  and Start-tio
CL)   Discuss major problem  in, start-up ad caomssioning
(CL)   Explain the extent to which perfoauce guaences were neo
a" actoon  takan by the borroer to ensure copUlLae
with guarteJs.



- 12 -
(IlL)  tadicac  the  shar of rasponsibiliLtes- among the bor=e,
441uMsLtants and contractors ia starz-up and, commssioning.
(b) Manover CavelaMuneS
ti)   dIndcate adequacy of staff racrotimc, traiuing, and
aspover develospn programs. Describe thase programs,
in particular the use of foreign facilities. Provide
nuber of professionals and operators (by category)
tFaind nderi tte various training program. Indicate
major obstaclas fol staffing.
(c) Borrowr's Ortanization'
(I)   Indicate changes made La tha borrower's organization and why.
i)  Impr       llemnts that hav  taeakn pla  In the borrower's
Managemt Infortion System, incluIn  financial system=,
budgetary controls and procedures, cost accounting, inventory
control, plat operation and  azetaasncae program, etc.
(d) Buld-tm of Production and Cavacito
(I)    Psrovide wit zmost recent   on monthly production
and capacity achievements.
gL)   Discuss major delays and problemsaffecting production
build-up since camrcial start-up, and measurs taken to
rmedy the problem, and tha rasons for the problems.
(MA) Projected outpuc, by product, on an uanul basis, for next
5 years.
IV.  FINNCIAL AND ECOMONIC PERFORMANCE
(a) Revenues
Provid  statistics on past and eapcted future sale
volumes, revenues, ad es-factory prices for the project's
products.
(b) OPrat±nt Costs
(I)    Provide specific consumptions for ics ad utilties,
and delvery prices for inputs and  UtilSie.
(W)   Provide cost data for aU  project nputs and utitiaes
and dactibe contractual supply arrangements.



- 13 -
£c) Financial Statement
Provide latest financial statements for the company.
(d) Environment Effect
(i)    Assess the envisonmental effects of the project and lessons
for the future.
(ii)   Discuss pros and cons of alternative pollution control
equipment and effluent disposal.
(i) Other Benefits           .                      _
Indicate other economic benefits of the project.
V3,   BANK ROLE
Discuss the overall role that the Bank played in project
design, appraisal, obtaining co-fituacing, and during
project implementation.
TABLES:  PROVIDE FOLOMG TABLES:
Provide a bar chart comparing actual-vs-original project
Implementation schedules.
Sumary of Project Capital Cost
Disbursement schedule for the project as a whole
Organization chart of the company and of Project Team
Organization chart of consultants and contractors for the Project
Tabular chronological history of significant event over
entire design, engineering, procurement, construction,
corissioning and early operation period of project
indicating original date for the event and actual date.
7.     Table of equipment procurement by size of purchase order
and country of origin



- 14 -
MM   INDUSTRIES  CORPORATION  LIMITED
! IECT COMPLETON REPO
I. OPUWECT IDENTIFICATION PREAPPRAISAL AND APPRAISAL
(a)   Th original project scope emphasised on increasing production to
met an unsatisfied demnd. The Wood industries Corporation (WICO)
started with an agreement between the Goverwuent of Malawi and the
World Bank that efficient utilisation of Malawi's Forest resources is
a high priority to endeavour in the development of the country. It
was proposed that the project would concentrate on the restructuring
nd rehabilitation of WICO's Sawmills to assist MalaOW in meting its
deomnds for Wood products, managing and optimizing forest resources,
increasing industrial productivity and encouraging privatization.
(b)   The scope and rrangement of the project as agreed between the Bank
no  Malawi 3overnment was that the Sank would provide funds for
technical assistance to WICO to enable it to operate along coinreial
lines and through a restructuring programue to rehbilitate the
existing Sa"mllls operating at Mazamba, Dedza and Zomba. The
programe covered purchase of critical spares and equipment,
establishing training program_s, carrying out feasibility studies
for new processing facilities, and upgrading marketing activities and
anagement capabilities.
(c) The Project appraisal started in November, 1983 by a iorld Bank
Mission coprising of Messrs 0. Brown of the Bank's Industrial
Department and S. Saukkonen and A. Tarnawleck, Consultants. It was
or-pleted In Nay, 1984 b- essrs 0. Brown and R. Venkateswran.  A
report by Hr. M. Simula in 1982, a consultant. titled 'ThM Mrket
for Mechanical Wood Products in Malawi, was also used in the
preparation of the project.
(d)   In carrying out the appraisal, the Pank's staff also used dat
prowided by Managmnt of the Forestry Industries Division and the
Governomnt. Project preparation took less than six Months.
(a)   Canoe Come  t as no one in the present Managem et te. WAS
available at apprisal.



- 15 -
tI.  PlllJECT IMPLElMTATON AND MANAGEMNT
(a) hVigt scam
(1) The project scope which was based on Simula's report was found
to be too optimistic on deand projections. The Narket
projections, it was later discovered, were over inflated by
100l. Therefore instead of recommndations to increase timber
production capacity, a scope emphasing on consolidation and
diversification could have been more appropriate.
It1) With a shrunken arket.for timber due to a depression in the
construction industry and the over-supply due to new infrants
(pitsawy.r., into the nmrket, the scope had to be changed. A
consolidation approach was adopted by new Managemmnt which
included disinvestment through closures of loss making and
marginal operations on the one hand and diversifying from timber
production as a predominant were introduced. The consolidation
also included relocation of WICf Head Office from Lilongwe to
Blantyre Sawmill prenises which was to become the single most
diversified and largest unit. The outlook of the project at
completion shows that some major changes in the scope had been
implanted. The changes to the scope were initiated and
recobaded by WICO's Nanagemnt with appropriate approvals by
Government and the Bank. After these changes, the project
scopeJooked as follows :-
- MNamba Sawmill was closed down on 31st March, 1986. It was
discovered that the Sawmill would not be able to operate
economically considering the size of the Northern Region
Markt which it was cartering for. Only the poles
proservrtion plant was left operating at Mazauba.
The restructuring of Dedza Sawmil was not implmewted as
proposed except for the purchase of a side loader for timber
transportaion between the wetmill, drying kilns and stackyard
and the purchase of critical spare parts. The decision to
transfer the intended investment for Dedza Sai.ill wasmade
toards the end of the 1986/87 financial year when the
Department of Forestry indicauted that therE would not be
enough raw material in Oedza to sustin the envisaged
esason prorm



- 16 -
- Zomba SUaill was rehabilitated and all the critical spare
parts which were suppcsed to be purchased for the Kill were
purchased including a sids loader for timber handling at
ZoMba Timber Depot which in addition serves as a stackyard
for the Mill. During the rehabilitation, the old headrig
together with its carriage were replaced by the new headrig
and carrage which were originally meant to be installed at
Mulanje.   It was concluded that an operation at Mulanie
was not viable.
- A framesaw has been installed at Slantyre Sauill bringing
the Mill's single shift output to 12.000 m3 per annum. The
required spare parts were purchased including a side loader
for timber handling, equipment for the furniture factory,
and the poles production has been litensified.
- Appropriate logging transport has been acquired for Dedza
Sawmill, Zomba Sawmill and Blantyre Sawmill. Three heavy
duty vehicles were acquired for transportation of logs and
poles and timber distribution, and for furniture deliveries.
- Technical assistance to finance services of an Operations
Manager, Maintenance Manager, and Finance Manager was obtUined
In addition to these three and because of the increased
activity in the Furniture making line, a Factory Manager was
also employed. Local Malawians were identified as
understudies in these expatriate positions.
(b)   Project Manaemmnt
(1)   The project management was performed by the WICO Management
with the asistance of its Board. The Bank played an important
mcnitoring and supervisory role through its regular
mission visits.
(1i)  Changes in scope received approval of the Bank. A cpital
expenditure budget approved by WICO Board had also to be
approved by the Borrower. This ensured that WICO Management
and its Board and advisers, the Borrower and the Bank endorsed
all plans before implemntation.



- 17 -
(c) Use and Performance of Consultants
(1)   Two Consultants were comissioned.  The first one a  to Messrs
Hellborn GMIH of West Germany to identify critical spare parts
for all the Sawmills.  This consultancy was done at the time
of project preparation. The second consultancy was to Messrs
Peat Marwick for the design of a Core Accounting System. Both
consultancies were completed to the satisfaction of the Client
and the Bank.
ti) Not applicable.
(d) Performance of Contractors and Suppliers
(1)  All rehabilitation and installation works were done without the
use of contractors except for electrical installations at
Blantyre Sawmill where Messrs Humphries, a local contractor,
was used. No delays were experienced as a result of the
contractors performance except where some materials were not
available locally and importation took longer than expected as
a result of transport problems.
(ii) None experienced
'111) None experienced
(e)   Procurement
(i)  Supplies of equipment and machinery were obtained in two
ways. Direct purchase, and purchases through Messrs Heilborn
of West Germany who acted as WICO's buying agents. In both
cases the procurment was done following the Bank's guidelines.
International bids and quotation were considered on cost and
quality basis. This enabled the project to obtain the best
service for the money being spent.  Some delays we  experience
in trying to adhere to international tendering procedures but
never to a serious extent.



- 18 -
TABLE II SOURCE OF EQUIPMENT PROCURED FINANCED FRO4 WORLD RANK LOAN
TYPE OF E9UIPMENT                         COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
Logging transport (Tractor/Trailor)       United Kingdom and W.'st Germany
system and Nercedez Benz Truck
Timber Haulage transport (Mercedez
Benz Truck)                               West Germany
Timber handling equipment (side
loaders)                                  United Kingdom
Framesaw and its accessories              West Germany
Furniture Factory Equipment               Italy, West Germany, and
South Africa.
Consumables and Spare Parts               Mest Germany, U.S.A., Fhance,
United Kingdom, Belgium, Italy,
and South Africa.
(1i) Difficulties experienced initially were overcome in tin.
(OMi) None
(iv) Competitive prices were obtained
Iv)   See attached table - Annexure 6
(f)   Lmlementation schedule
(i)  Thiblmfplem_ntat1on schedule to a large extent was adhered to.
However due to the changes in the scope of the project some
overlaps in certain areas were experienced.
(1i) Unavoidable delays were due to (i) above. However because the
entire project scope was scaled down in some areas, som timn
saving was also realised.
(Mii) No nmjor delays were experienced to the extent of having any
adverse impcts on project benefits.
(iv) This was not necessary as no serious delays were experienced.
(g)   Capital Cost ......



WORLD BANK PROJECT APPRAISAL
Summary of Actual Drawings Against Loan As at 30/06/88                      US DOLLARS
Outstanding
Drawings     Commitments     Requirements        Total             ,Apprasal Estimate
Category LA
Training                    68,514         -                                  68,514                -
Management Fee              298,855      96,000                              394,855
Recruitment                  6,103         -                -                  6,103                -
373,472      96,000              -               469,472                1,400,000
Catego!j IB
Spares                     535,678          570           81,242             617,490                -
Consumables                628,612       71,278             -                699,890                -
Equipment                1,549,663        7,540          318,000           1,875,203                -
2,713,953      79,388           399,242          3,192,583                2.500,000
Front End Fee                   15,960        -                 -                15,960                   15,960
Initial Deposit               299.765         -                                 299,765                  300,000
Unallocated                       0           --                                    -                    900,000
Total                       3,403.150       175,388          399,242          3,977,780                5,115,960
Note; A final cost table ig given in Part III of the PCR.



- 20 -
III. PROJECT OPERATING PERFOR -ANCE
(a)   Comissioning and Start-up
(1)   Problems with start-up were mainly due to lack of continuity
in Management and the psychological adjustment of changing
from a Government operated to a commercially oriented corporate
entity. The shortage and inadequency of the supporting
functional resources at all levels was evident both in
financial and human resource terms.
(ii) The consultancies were completed without any problem. The
performance was closely monitored.
(iii) Not necessary as most commissioning was by borrower technical
assistance personnel.
(b)   Manpower Oevelopments
(1)   Recruitment of local Management Staff was rather hurried and
the candidates lacked the necessary experience. As for
expatriate staff, this had to be done quickly to meet certain
loan conditions. The table below indicates the types of
training programues.
TABLE III - WOOD INDUSTRIES STAFFING LEVELS
AT APPRAISAL-           AT PRESENT            TRAINING PROVIDED
General Manager         General Manager       Stort attachments in
Europe
Operations Manager      Operations Manager   N/A
Operations Manager      Assistant             Overseas training,
(Counterpart)          Operations Manager   attachments in Europe, and
In-service training.
Finance Manager         Finance Manager      N/A
Finance Manager         Chief Accountant      tn-service training and
(Counterpart)                                 local seminars.
Marketing Manager       -                     -
Marketing Manager       -                     Attachtw-. sin Europe
(Counterpart)
Maintenance Manager    Maintenance            K/A
Manager



- 21 -
fT APPWISAL           AT PRESENT -TRAINING pROVI9O
ainteU   Manager   Maintnance Engineer  In-service training
(Conterart)
Adminstrative an
Personnel Mnger       . 
Pers l  anager        P .onnel MIanar        NI/A.
Mill Manager - Mauama -
Intern) Auditor       -
Furniture Factory
Manger                Il/A
Mill MNagers (4)      Mil Managers (3)       In-service training
and sednars
Furniture Factory     Furniture Factory      In-service tranfi;g and
Supervisor            Supervisors (2)        attabnt In so"th
Africa.
Mill Supervisors (4)  Mill Supervisors (3)  In-service training and
- - n rs,
Mianagemnt            In-serico training an
Trainen (3)           overas training.
(11) At appraisal, WICO had 1239 mploye. At proect copltio
it was esti.tei t have 2414 eploye. Ou to the
rationalisation and changs in scope, the nuber have ben
reduced to 1,000 eployee at presnt.
(c)   wr's  Owh   and oreanisatln strvcture
(1)  On of the objectivs for setting up Wood tInustries Corporation
Limited ws to eourage ts evtual privatization. This
hs not be achievd yet. As of now, VICO Is still wholly
owned by Government aN  there wNee no ajor changes in the
Nanagmat and orgalsaton of ite Corporation except for a
few posts which are now vacant. These are the posts of
ntetrnl Auditor and farketing Manager which shall be filled
Wh  it Is so Justified. The borwer is still comtt  to
pivatisation and this my soon be accomplishod.
(11) Organisatioma chas  had taken place through retrenm-ats
in certin deparmts while at -ti sam  tin strengthening
other.



- 22 -
(111) A Core Accounting System Is fully in operation. Couputarisation
is- assisting in improveents in cost monitoring, allocation
and control in all departments.
(d)   Environment Effects
(i)  Not applicable as the operations do not generate effluent or
emit noxious gases.
(ii) Not applicable.
(e) Build-up of Production and ;aoacitv
(I)  Output  - 1988            APRI          MAY
Timber (m)               1116          1229          1237
Poles (ms)                420           360           450
Furniture (MK)
Exports               28,224.00     39,328.00     61,146.00
Local                 45,387.00     48,256.00     41,156.00
(ii) Production building up was affected by a number of factors viz:-
(a) Actual delays in the procurement and installation of
machinery averaging a lead time of up to four months frm
placing of order. The first phase of the mill
zmhabilitation programme went well into the 1987/88
financial year.
(b)  Behaviour of the local market with the coming on the
scene of new smell operators in the timber trade such as
pitsawyers. This only aggravated the sales in an already
depressed market.
(c) Erratic supplies of logs from Department of Forestry. Of
these problems (a) is done with. As for (b) and (e) the
probleus still remain but at a lesser degree and gradually
being resolved. A strategy of diversification is proving
a solution to (b).



- 23 -
1282§S2 Production
Poles      Timer
April      470.972     1,115.697
May        372.778     1,227.891
June       496.150     1,237.583
July       376.940       992.469
August     286.560     1.242.111
September  469.454     1,583.540
October    268.847     1,474.516
November   377.732     1,426.081
December   282.660       827.621
Jauwary    126.657     1,088.523
February   216.618       811.327
1989 March       196.225       630.348



- 24 _
IY. !BBELU
(1)    Projections in the appraisal were based on inCreased sawood
production. A comparison is made hereunder with actual sawnwood
production figures :-
1985/86       1986/87       1987/88
(uM)          (uM)          (M3)
Projected           20,274        2Z,709        23,774
Actual              11,360        12,361        11,808
Oue to a diversification strategy both in product mix nd arketing
by entering exports the future projections of timber and furniture
are as follows -
1988/89       1989/90       1990/91
Sawntimber (M3)          14,170        16,295        18,739
Furniture ( MK) Exports  625,000       750,000       875,000
Local    500,000       625,000       750,000
Transmission Poles (m)    5,000          5,250         5,500
(ii)   The differences between sales forecasts shown in the appraisal
report and the actual in as far as timber is concerned is due to
the following :-
(a)  The dmand projections in the appraisal report were too
optimistic and infact bear no relation to the actual trend.
The variation shos differences of 100l.
(b) The real behaviour of the market incorporates new paraeters
not included at appraisal.  The Gover_nmnt's new policy of
liberalisation has introduced competition through pitsawing
and small milling operations which were not contemplated in
the appraisal report.   The resulting glut in the timber supply
at a time when the economy and in particular the construction
Industry was experiencing a serious recess,on has cost WICO
up to 301 of its market shore.



- 25 -
(C) In the appraisal, it was recognised that there as potential
for a secondry prochssing by aY of furniture prodction.
SuWect to a feasibility study, this sector  as to be-
promoted. The potential for production of woomde timasmission
poles was not recognised beause of very low prodution levls
at thus a negligible contribution at the tim.
Since Incorporation, it was decided to proate thms products
agressively to the extent that they hnve both becon,
important sectorn with a sizeable contribution. The comperis
on per centge of bals of the  three major produtr are s
follow :-
S.           S
Lmoduet                 at sparaisal  at omesent
Timbr                       M            405
Furniture                   55           325
Poles                       as           35
Others                      2             35
v.  FINANCtAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
(a)   Sales Performane
i)  Per attached Annexure I
(b)   Pruction Costs
(1)  Per attached Anexure 2
Ce)   Overall Financial Results
t1) Per attachtd Anneuure 2
(1i)  Per attached Armure 3 and 4
111) Cb) Rate of Return
The appraisal report had forecast that A preta rate of
return of 235 would be achieved for the project.



- 26 -
As the copafy hMs recorded an operating lons in each yer
of its existence. the actual rats of return is obvioul'y
negative.   The budget for 198/189 ref lects a s=l
operating profit. This however doet not cover the intereas
payable on the loan. let alone  xchange losse  which ar
expected to arise due to the devaluation of the Nalaw
(11) Current WUtl
la) The current ratio required by the finncial covenants Is
1.S. If the liability to pay interest on the loa and
capital repayments are ignored, the current ratio
reflected at March, 1988 is 1.2. Todate, no interest hs
been paid against the loan because of the shortape of csh.
No demands to pay the arrears interest have ben made.
As the company will not be in a position to Meet its
capital repaynnt obligations, there have not been included
in any future forecasts. If these liabilities wire
included (and indeed the company is legally bound to them),
thn the company is insolvent.
(b) Debt : Eouitv
The matter of establishing the share capital of the
company is still unresolved. The initial investment in
'EW company is treated as a loan (NK 3.1.). Hoever, as
it is believed that the intention is to convert this to
equity, it is treated as equity for the purposes of
calculating these ratios.
The financial covenants require a ratio of 60:40. As
the accumulated losses of NKS.1 far exceed any share-
holders investments in the compAny, the net equity is
negtive. Thus the required debt equity ratio has not
been ttained.
fiancial Rate of Return  for the ProJect
Attached are two forecasts for the ComPany - (Annexure S (a) and
(b). The first includes a financial restruCturing Of the cOPOny
nd the second is with no restructuring.



e
-27-
The forecasts show that the company is unable to operate urtdr its
existing financial structure, and is unlikely to survive for much
longer. The forecasts inclWding the restructuring indicates that
a rate of return of 15S.would be achieved.
(e)    Economic Benefits
The company supplies the majority of timber required by the local
market. This market would however be supplied by pitsawyers and
smll timber mills in the event that WICO ceased to provide the
market's requirements.
The entrance into the export market has however brought a new
benefit to the economy of the country. Based on the budget for the
coming year, it is estimated that 14K 760,000 will be spent on
imports for the production of timber and furniture. These products
will at the same time generate export revenue of 14K 1,267,000.
VI. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
(a) Being a new Management, we can only coment on the bank's relationship
with the Borrower. The Borrower strictly speaking, is the Malawi
Government which onlent the funds to WICO.
The relationship between the Bank and WICO was very good throughomt the
project cycle. TOB disadvantages of being a new mangement, of changing
scope and the legal status, introducing new disbursement procedures were
mostly outweighed by the corporation and understanding of Bank staff
during the supervision missions. The missions proved very usefu' as
managuient's proposal and efforts could easily be related to actual
environmental constraints which sometimes play a significant role. In
a number of instances a joint approach to authorities proved more
effective.
(b) For the same reason given above, we can only cohment partially on the
design and implementation. The scope of the project was changed
considerably. Management had presented its revised scope approved by the
Board, for discussion with the Bank, in November, 19BS, in Washington.
At that Meeting the Bank agreed to Management's proposals which were
mainly that :-



- 28 -
(1)  Du to the depressed market for sawn timber and the
unertainties in the trend the investment program  had to
be scaled down.
(ii) The above programe had to be phased with additional
investunt only to be subject to a thorough market survey.
(iii) Diversification into furniture production and poles
manufacturing was to be given accorded appropriate priority.
This included a phased investment programe in the
furniture production plant.
(iv) Recognising that contrary to what was stated in the appraisal,
VICO was under-capitalised and needed a working capital
injection to pronote its progrme at (iii) above. The
Bank agreed to making available some working capital from the
loan as a special consideration to enable WICO purchase
chemicals for pole treatment to generate funds. It was
discovered that there were outstanding arrears dating back
sme three years and ESCOM considered the orders valid.
c)   As mentioned earlier, the Bank supervision  missions were very
useful as they enabled on-the-spot discussions and offered
quick solutions to some very critical problems. M gemnt has
had complete satisfaction from these missions as they tended to
epedite the decision making process both by the Bank and the
Borrowr.
(d)    Fced with the kind of problems explained above which were more
prssing especially in WICO's case. it appeared that the
coveants became someht less important and to some extent
irrelevant. The change in scope, the wrong projections, the
subsequent changes in the financial structure all had a direct
bering on the validity of the covenants. No wonder that it
appeared that they were not strictly ediforced by parties concerned.
On the other hand, it is felt that they could have assisted in.
putting pressure in carrying out the financial restructuring and
privatisation which to Management have always been critical success
factors for WICO's performnce but somehow do not seem tohae
ben accorded that imance.



- 29 -
Vt. CONCLUSION
Overall, the Bank's performance has been comi_ndable during the project
cycle. The flexibility that the Bank has been able to adopt in the
Ichanges in the scope was instrumental in the setting up of the back-
ground to the project which is considered solid.
The experience with erroneous projections is an important oen and may
be the Bank could have scrutinised the sources of the original data
more critically. It was also felt that the Technical Assistame
component was too high at over 40 of the total project cost. Under-
capitalisation of projects has always been a major problem in green
field projects. It must be realised that this problem is far worse with
on-going projects.



131w   LII   89,   SW=   AE    am,1  au    "Al  36       w£
MS    U"    wIS   ar  .u    0ur    UN    EL            *      *?                   -
1Wt  t.Z6    31      S:U S        I             I"t 
IS    WI? *LI    ?P s=    ,i   355*                           3
lt1    96     ml   *       ae t   au     ut      u            =                 '-
-M                      m   -At   "I1  t  "it
IU*w ! ~5I)., M1.1  u3 U3. j  TM"  $U3.1  WS$V na         
)IMJt} AS at""" 5Sam:
1~~~~~~~~sie ue;  '  t.           1 WtO
wnW*A 654P1 UPt
'M.UAW- 0£& OnPM



- 31 -
to IsdutnhUwnsm,
F. UK       Swig F ash kroun *macat k.             Vst At                -a       W
'otW  LI.  ~ ~ ~ ~4I9Z         I 1  35741        213       TSS       151              4157     895      442
~~~satul31                       3                  9.        *       3        4        m. 
cbuts'
Psw*latv.                    12                          112  1mt i41
N isuage..aCts51                   191 i             33       102   74           'P:       III              5
MA'tkcio ~ _mn          m                                *_                *_         _           _
Salmiva  & NMIs              41                71        13        7       74       95                          as 15 8
Nalatasug                    115i               10       144       41      111      251       I3       215      141
Gr#usfiaCM$t                  24.               21       19        2       :0        32      to          5      SR
gm   u   nrcao               422               73         1        5       54      Lin       413      1031      5
'MO   lamt,uum  3m  a    *amm  4a                                                                soU3 ~ 3
;                                                                         *
Chaua   au.1711                                          '2         3 .4              I.14                         9
Cust of falst                         Jul 41   UN9       MO1    479        4MU      571       an       US       4
eus   0t                      91       SW      11                 220       -a       2777    *-I"      2w       17
Adas &  eliq  osmts$
udun"  6                     14f               110      31 0U               54      25        IU       115
Iffjcs Izssus12                                8         427      1U        W8      to        4ll.    11        U
lemmca                        74                4:        II       a4       3        4a      12V       a        to
truuswt                       2 *               21       ll        3        03       3t      1a        I         a1
ladBlots                      44                          I I      US                104       9       13        12
tra=i.i                                                  lo0        I        7                I3.       I _0
hn Z*                                               m          5   4n                    m         I   Iffs 
-                  -. _      m _. .-    -                 -  -- 
V6          ~~437     I319      1639    :i        5        24       So9      114
_ .s mu..             m       m-       1g    -*i4      im       s        am.  a 
intomt Powell#                                  13 In              ii       I'd |1 401 ,*              2        Ila
.Ae1talTAUSS                                     2                  455               52         9 
-    sm                     4                                                                        I    7    A11
vu. _    _                                                                                      *ha*_ *_  I  in
..n-AU                  ,             .
.wst aInW                     In   a6            3   -1           9    -:w           as  .15   H O
tr_                                 -a  UW              0 z              n        3t S              a         2
-oos                      um                   .m 4mm 10m 0                                    3.
0awnsqr,tt'a1s         13        02      24   11 '42       :55    .313        ~ 13      Z
Ngtln acs ulah                 lft              13       41S1       ; IX.            dl2 13   44        12       13



- 32 -
-o  i3n:g  CUWI uuu
WmS .
; N ou :a   szdim i  :zvniu  U:aaw
-   . -tM    -tZ  3t.;    X
Fun dome                1124   13        37   n046    5:
Stern.                 £112    12    IN       1767   1o
Oebtwu.rru              439    345    449    141        1
h h 0~~~~~ as m  SO 
=~~~~~~~i  tola    It                      1  t
Caub fwuqu                a     3      32&     22      25
* .    .- . _..      _       _              _      __
** -              Wm       -     21      no      221
Cwm  Uskilitsn
C ,uttw,  fu yi   175    10i3    1701 mt
CrUatvn - i5w            a      3      IU2    4*       411
evotmi                  Id      170    la      141    l1a
Cut=  om                  0      0     5       131       0
;113    95S    11t    244    1154
3    23 4m    so i5
t~~~                                             -
mu
4wnvv hu.              32    31        3125     2 
4.h i12025              105    to      105    101    105
4J.ho MI 243              0    1713   SW      7923   10929
R411 ist.                 0       0     1       900    90
kw.    tnts                0     to0    7in     151   2I0
2=     21       192is  4m 434  47
hsuM            LI  IJ  i2  2.4   L
IA               1.4    1.3    1.0    0.1      9.
idtI gdw h"sttielt                      r     2      S
tmi * MOt          *12Z     4    -1N11   -ion    -ion
fmt-s     iin     tio     mr    zam      m
Fgruga   hOw    t   @1      20     411    451      m
buatt    Ion1        9     5!      53     423



- 33 -
Wood Industries Corpgration Limited
Source and ADplication of Funds
31t3/86   31Z3107  31/3/88  31Z3/189
ApDlication of Funds
Operating Loss                                   1974       2482      2975    2192
Less% Depreciation                               -852       -482      -545    -576
1122      2000      2430    1616
Capital Expenditure                               314       3417      1556     898
1436      5417      3986    2514
Source of Funds
Loans Received                                   1718       4449      2655    2347
Interest Accrued                                  105        639      1012    1148
Sales of Assets                                              284
1823      5372      3667    3495
Increase/(Decrease) in Working Capital
Stocks                                            580        216       159    -208
Debtors                                           457       -270       387     169
Creditors                                        1033         -6      -717    1515
2       -60      -171    1476
Cash Balances                                     385         15      -148    -495
....      ....   .  . ----   ........
387       -45      -319      981
umn    , .. _m_



- 34 -
ASSUMPTIONS OF FINANCIAL RESTRUCTURING PLAN
(1)  Annual rate of exchange loss                                   15X
(2)  Annual Inflation Rate                                          15X
(3)  Percentage of W.B. loan converted to equity at 31/03/88.       55X
(i.e MK 4,249,300)
(4)  Balance of W.B. loan is converted into a local currency
loan with the following interest
(a)  Account to be converted into PK loan             MK 3,476,700
(b)  Repayment period          (years)                            6
(c) Grace period is 3 years (i.e. 1991/92)
(d)  Interest rate                                               12
(5) Annual interest rate on W.B. loan (US$ denominated)               12
(6)  Value of Custom's loan converted to S'Holders Equity  MK          0
(7)  Government short term loan converted to equity         MK  900,000
(8)  Interest Accrued on W.B. Loan as of 31/03/88 is
converted to equity                                    MK 1,690,000
(9)  F.I.D. Investment in the Company is capitalized        HK 3,122,000
(10) Accumulated losses as of 31/3/88 are offset against
share capital                                          MK 8,001,000
(11) Company will declare a dividend policy of 50X on
after tax profits.
(12) Commitment Fees payment on unused portion of W.B. Loan
are no longer payable as the loan is cancelled.



wi      -     .in      as     mi             Di    z.u       u t       .      m       3       3       tON-                   an
*         t U         U        0      tO      "It       I    %*      1        39       Sri            UK'         A        s  
i't    01'    11    U9        0ilt    al      a    W I    "It N       017    09'      6?      in     33              09W1up*
but;  9w1     4m       =      1 06     101   9n10    It.    1p       tSW        9              Ml         an
I      *       0      0       6       0      9       I       at?    59        39             "1.      M183
_a1   1I9   mt     =           01  Cl i tt    9      0 Kit    3      UK       as      U                  -
e      4       0      0       4       us      Stt    all   gm?    L           U       UK        M 5ON                 gm1110-
Ki "D  am   tall "a   flu  an   At  am   Mt m                                                          wp    m  atrme
"it  t   ob    1001   Ot    0141   cit   "t    ovt    0%   4161       6             itnIaild rre
011Ut    ml            sit   ".6        . 0   nu    ton    am6        ml        t      Mt,  a*        IUI.       am   mmi
0941   1941   0941   0911   0941   0941    0911    6941    094 ~1094  094  0041   094  0          uINS110101
- -
0406!   1399   6391  ~~~1    6569   0916!   9190   6111    3911    9919    3439    9999   3999~~~~  1111` 111111110
a3  -             a   a1 -t aU aP a: a   a    aP  a   -  a  
t9W    moi   au       sit  et@..-             ut ttZ    au            9t              aSt 01  31 4Ig.          3gm
9931    WI  -  099    411£    W~~~~51   3999    09   9W   I9     5       09      64      lot11m W 1UT  '
-m        a a    -     a                 t az   a     a    a            1 -              -    a   aum
em   mm  II   %                       au   to   au  ton   m                    m    nl   at   m11                   Om mm
*      0              0      0               6       0      0                  1             on       9 91           1113*4- 11
._= 41                til      1    t m            l Gm   MT      vat                 on                                  MWO - m
us    b   .    t0   ant .n Mt   u    lst IUI                                                                               x  w Z 
ti;                        M tS US S                      Mt M ti    Mt ZH                                              out 
UZI       lo     0u           0       0m     Au      "I    OK    U0           0V       U      0                     gnom
Utz1   nu1    ml   act£  M19    090    £91           09       3       91      64      41      3
t                 aK    at       a       I a    l a      a      l a                - a   a 
SEt   tir:    699   3994    -:    4           U       SI?    9931    31£0LW 1i 0D      tM                           N IMS    W
gitl~~~~ ~     ~~~~           ILe      at    "t    ot         Mf      In       in      in     U6 "E
U*t   kXt    w  at    esu*t   ttat   etz CSul   t ll eM   C"t     tin      of      U      tul am    _Ua
7s't   out    m1   'M'         Mt             M      in O0 oU                          LK     "t ox e  *               _w
IN1    3t    ea    tUlt   t5          m 9       t 051__      out      1 919   I               a"      0           Nu MIA  Om
o      *       *       *      *       *       *-  U    t    M  SW     tin      19      tl  _          so          2I          M
Mg  lt             In      in     at    utt   01"   3 ,           714      t,sC, U§,g to          at
91  aml                       0         8t5UPI Sul owl 931  USa    0tt   al -l
*110      I   U on           *M       an. U lt   t   itS      =1t  lull   am           mlt   Du        Mtt
16010   0661     Wmml,A   Auto  139£4  s£91?  oUs?  391I 3191l    9uo                       M"        4199                 m
0M.*                                                                              1 5 , .I
a a - - a a a a ~~~- -£ a-  



1331  'WI  1331  1361  2001  1333  'WI  U9i  1tt  S1    291   1t11-13  Utt1   pSI.    £3,011
11   tr. ~~~s  941-  91?* ~~   w.. ~~gg*  111.  We-i all not   11*I  LZ0   t*  Uw9N1
te * - sD -               he to  U-  :- -.O-   -It'
-i-  U-        -I -              - - -     -     -    -- -'-d            'ss"P
*     -  *r  *    *e  0*  0    9    0    490   30    91   49   12324
nu   'Wt  gm-- .:g- :-t                          Ml-    41- 1-11-  NU- 4*
-l  -m Om -U - -    t   W *t           6  1- K-        MO -t  U:- -
*    *    a    o    o    5 ~~~~~~~~~~~  e~CD    $U   41%    06  gsft       n 
Xtt  2t:  Xt:  .n:  Tit         M 'ttt  :t.  ::,  z:: 31'   1*t  rVl:  uI:  *.'.   tams ll
-s, -    slt e:t- a !.ma           t.- -IR              al - ull-     . .     am .l
fill  191  1IU1  945   51*. 2435  124-l ;*n1mn- 13*  Sm   OW.  1*- o3   191     U3M243
--- - -- --- -  - -
*-U     - a -         - t- Om-  t- 1  t-    -       Utt-   -     N        -t UX  ff t0
wtiL      OM1  31?  Gm1   M   &M9  qp            m     Mt 0 t           Ku'iml 34 939OI  3241231 UD
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"a eb    I    ¢¢CU   ta    Wl                        m m awU
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4                     I     0          e S At W   WIt  U30l am
t~~~~~I    oa   au 0MUZlIm nt  l  tm  MI   64   GM   in   ula                 S-*||g
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -
*    3    3  *       Sw Sl Uar31 Wl Sl   o       9! 1 1 11 trl  191  9l   3    tm
*    0    *    5    0 t         St    0    0    0      0     0     91   *9      iiniui
* *~~~~~~~tn  et AM   OM qtt  Mt ets   Ut   61    t    Lst   u             n t    mmw
an   am33  31*  au   "H2515   911  I   @31  &ad   w     m
- - - - - - -- -- ---$
1W9?  llUl 4W91 11Sf 31'1  tU1   1t  9SI 3111 IZIO? l_V3  g33' gag   pW   UI2ISW  3
tiff  Itt  Gmtl :KI        Om Ull "   tat  eM   *b   0%   AU   Om   gm 
att  lo     t W   M    *    *              ;*    *     wt"3  I  I    Ut I        t2133u
Ultt  ,t    nu   Mt  W1  nu  *w I a              &W           m- t        '°-   m-
3131  49(9   g   g~  jag  S39t    I  I1?  at  31 of   P t it   alI  a53   Su  19
t              u ta   VP   to    ml   fill  m    16m 
_  ttU - f8U   v   *t  tlZt  *F1  §@|t  tV313? im1f8~ 13
M   sti   W    Su   I"          O"          IN     x      uM    s a:   s aa . m I t
lcU ta ¢Udu"tt ltuit* .ist   st  "g nK   act        II&   ut 6        "            MO
owl  1*02  4931  54 tm      b "11 39134*u nE  ?.   tin.  13'   ml.  Mt32  to 3?
42*t  *0   mu. 3151  3922   MIt       owl    "1    W              t   -1          aid a 
-~~ ~ ~ lI t -s  wl          -     -        _
mu0  1111t      amI   M   "tit $"I 1    1 9E11   M    M                          an
*   -,    0    0    C   *9   *0    24?  m3~9  *3 93    1?   3114



- 37 -
PART III.  STATISTL   INFORMAT=I
A. Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit                              Year of
Number             Name               Anraval       statIus
Cr 992     Wood Energy                  1980     complete
Cr 1428    Second Technical Assistance  1984       active
Lu 2670    Second Wood Energy           1986     cancelled
Ln 2646    Industrial and Agricultural  1986       active
Cr 1990    Energy I                     1989       active
B. Proiect Timetable
Planned     Actual
Item                        Date       Date
Identification Mission                       1/82        1/82
Preparation Mission                        3/82        3/82
Preparation Mission                        8/82        8/82
Appraisal Mission                         11/82        11/82
Post-appraisal Mission                                 3/83
Loan Negotiations                                     11/84
Board Approval                              -          1/85
Loan Signature                                         3/85
Loan Effectiveness                                     6/85
Supervision Mission                          -          2/85
Supervision Mission                      -   7/85        10/86
Supervision Mission                        4/87        1/88
Supervision Mission                        7/88        9/88
Supervision Mission                        3/89        6/89
Project Completion                         9/90        6/89
Loan Closing                               7/89        8/89
C. Loan Disbursements
Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disburseme 
(US$ '000)
m 5 M6   FY87   FY88  .Y9  mFo9   ml
Appraisal Est.      350   1720   4110   5670   6220   6390   6400
Actual               0    1148   2555   4047   4694   4915   4915
Act. X of Appr.      0     67     62     71     75     77       77



- 38 -
D. Proiect Cost and Financin
1. Project Co      m   OM
ApreIfs   Estimto           RevSed Eurt.                   Actuam
.. . .... . ........ ..........          _._ ... ...... ........... . _ ............................ 
itm                 Loca foreign       Totat    Local Foreito      Total    Lalt Foreign       Totl
Eqipent, c _reales,
sprem,  d wection                80      2554      3434        0     3         3500      315     3519      413
Outieswdtae                        820         0      820        0         0        0      417         0      417
training aW TA                     1S0      1530     1680        0      so       50         0       407      407
Subtotal                          180      4084      5934        0     4805      4000      73       4226     495
Physical contingencies             100      410       S10        0      40        40         u         0        0
Esetatin                           190      600       790        0       no       100        0         0        0
TOTAL COST PART A                 2140     5094      7234        0     450       40                 22      4958
Part 11
Cmutant seic"                       80      760       840       SO     NT         80         0      452       452
D=mutratian Equipit                  0       230      230        0      80                   0       221      221
...~~~~fC    ....                     e..ee. ...C.....  ...   ....   ....
sUa*tta                            SO      990      1070       80      V        1           0      673      6U
Phslcat continuncies                10       100      110        0        0         0        0         0        0
Escalation                          20      200       220        0        a         0        0         0        0
ecee      ..       c...    .... .                    . ...       ....     ....
TOTAL COST PAT B                  110     1290      1400       80      99       1010        0      673       673
FRTEND FE                            0       16        16        0       16        16        0        16       16
.... ... .        .. .....e.. ..  *.e  ee.  ..e..   ....e   ....   ....
TOTAL PROJECT FtINING             2250     6400      8650       80     S         SW        72      4915      567
2. Project ffinmin  (USS '000)
PlumeI
............                               .......
scLol Foreign                           Total              L_  Fa             Totl
...........................    ...........................  ............   .......      .......... ...__*...
IS                                  a0     600       6400                       49        4915
ceFIfluIclwO                         0         0        0                 S         0        0
Other ExtermlSources                 0         0        0                          0        0
ViW Cfrm cub floee)               2140         0     2140               iN          0      732
......    .....   ......... ...... -**--
2210     "00      M10                  S      40           0T
_~~~~n                            _   __ 



- 39 -
E. priu  ltsdt
t. Dfrect lsnsfits
Appraisal        Itinte at         btlt. St kit
Idicators                     btifmt            Cloig  _t.           gsW         I i
. ........................................................  ...........      ....-... ......... 000.000............. ......
1. Incrsemd SAw_d pdeitien (I)               14000             -1100             _O00
2. Incremsd revu  fro  predmtion wd
saleof furniture (mlitfIn Wr)                 0               L2 a.
3. _N_mt mid s         isory stsff
to receiw training                           22                16               n
tn. Inerress  mlomnt                          1115              -30               SOO
...............
Rt:
I. Bwacs of the dct  in project scOme I nareed prwtl I osd
tobe anepwcted haft at the closin dote. Thebo          fit of
Incre-sed prodiuti in sho  abv at GFull Devlopqt  Is Me
pro*jctin cspsfifty of the rehltated UICO  lprais,  b   an
only be obtained if the wret did        e      1d Io  conideraby  rs thS
current eetotlmo, VW also if the qWly of los i1prsm.
fi. AltIJ  the possibility of furniture uPreticn   s vi  ludl
at the tim  of apprail, It m  not InctIWed n a projet bstfit.
111. Training we reiod      becme of te chowe in project scp.
Iv. .'-lo-gnt dicresae  beams. of dhins of project  ops.
2. Elcmmic I_ut
Apraieal         AcMta
Ratiste    tAt elosf do)
.......        .......***.
*               Econdc ret" of ren  (1)                 a5            7
Uedwrlyfrg  eaiAptws
3                   Project cost (equiv. UMl mill)    6.             3.9
Sawood price (98 MKd)             44a            206
General cwe fon factor             I              I
Local cuerrey shw  priced         no              no
3. ffmh   lsl lupuct
A1risat          Act1
1521mW      (At closing det)
Rt Profit/(Los")                 W SN,m         (CE 3,416,001)
oprating Proft CX of slo")           7.0             (1.0)
Ctet Rtlo (199                     3.3                2
obt seie Ratio (1989                 1.7              - getiVa
Not Cash flaw (198)              -9 6,0M0         Cin90)



- 40 -
4. Stdes,
Pwpo  as  .f da at Apprisa                Status                          iet
................................... ...................  .........  ............. ............................
1. Fteaibilfty stu*  on fopoving the     not ne           Secam of tte c_a  in project scope .
Ne11  S_mii.                                              the Ndll mt t w   hut dom ad th
p  -     t    bec wAmfrtlu.
2. Feasibilfty study to ass the long    not n dision ms sub to concetrate pro*wtion
two potentl for nereaing prtdwion                         of stwmed at Bltntre  hich could eatly
of the oede Smawll.                                       stisfy *ll swused  di , asking ep- ion
of OfeN  heceway.
3. StU  the feaibility of furnitu        not needed       The cam  proceedld on the basis of its oa
prodetion and glueo-iminting                                    nt of the local  d eport wrket
faclitie  at Blantyre S_milt.                              N   a succsfully estabished furniture
plant at Illatyre, including SLue lasirating
facilities. The furnture plant ha had
a jios fpt on VIIIDs opeation ad is
nw the C_av's singole bigest soeo of
rew, including freign  ahawe .
4. Study altonative use of the pine      coepleted        The prodcktion of chacoa was deterisned to
resouc  of the Vipha plantations.                         be the mt prmising altemtive ue, an on
the bais of trieals undtaken using the
projectss   r tretion eqlipan, a mll
ndstry ha been estdlhed. Note that
this ceWont ma tra_feed from the
project to the S'*s wod en     project.
F. Status of Covenants
_evoym             Sueat                     Deitine  Status
Section 2.01(a)   Naster Sdhdule for         9/30/8   Coploted
activities uwde Part A
Section 2.05(d)    Project Capletion Report  31/12/8   Provided
Section 3.01      Etalo"nt of caqetsnt
_ Ke   n                  63/N8    Caspted
Sectfin 4.01      EstdAlishment of enter-    3/31/85  Cpleted
pris oriented accouiting
financial ard control
syote
Section 4.02(b)    Accounts and Audit        amullty Provided
with up to
six m
day
Section 4.02(b)    det Sevice Covap        aitlly   Not Ceoied
Setion 4.04(a)    Debt     ty Ratio        auwully lot Cmoied



- 41 -
G. STAFF INPUTS (staff Meeks)
ES m9    E m4    ng  ns   Se                                   Sm m  
Prearpleal      12.3   2.6   0.2   0.8   5.0   1.7   0.6  54.0  25.4   2.3         -     -      -         105.1
pprseal            -     -      -     -   0.4      .     .          10.0  65.4   7.4      .     -     .   83.2
Segotiato                -      - *                                   -         12.7            -     -   12.7
ieonl           .      .      -    .       .    .      .     .      .      -   6.6   4.4  17.1   6.7   37.7
Total         12.5   2.S   0.2   0.8   5.4   1.7   0.6  54.0  3S.S  69.4  2s.e   4.4  17. 1   6.7  a37.7



- 43 -                           ATTACHMENT
Wood Industries Corporation Limited
MEAOOFPICE.                                                                 tEL: 00144
Po+moxaas.           Comments Received from  the Borrower                       e 
BLAP4TYAES                                                  6)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n107
TELEX: 4407
FPX: 670676
A0rs-osdr*a"d0W
AOwvsOSn.Sbdtl
mwP                                YawR;                        OwUN:
T E L E F A X
FROM         WOOD INDUSTRIES CORPORATION LIMITED
TO       :  THE WORLD BANK
POLICY-BASED LENDING INDUSTRY SECTION
REF      :  96/116/93
DATE         23RD MAY, 1990
ATTENTION  : MR. ALEXANDER NOWICKI, DIVISION CHIEF
PLEASE  ADVISE BY RETURN IF ANY PART OF THIS MESSAGE HAS NOT COME THROUGH CLEARLY
RE : MALAWI * WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN MAI 2486)  -  PROJECT  REPORT
1.     FIRSTLY APPOLOGIES FOR NOT MEETING THE SUB4ISSION OATE.
2.     THE PKR IS WELL DOCUMENTED AND ANALYTICALLY ACCURATE.
3.     0ff LESSONS LEARNED I WISH YOU INCLUDED THAT IN A PROJECT OF THIS NATURE
SECURITY OF RAW MATERIALS SHOULD HAVE BEEN PART OF THE RESTRUCTURING
PROGRAMME. LACK Of CONTROL OF RAW MATERIAL AT SOURCE IS WICO'S MAJOR
PROBLEM IN PLANNING AND EXECUTION OF OPERATIONAL STRATEGIES.
HOPE YOU FIND THIS COMMENT USEFUL AND LOOK FORWARD TO FINAL REPORT.
BEST REGARDS,
WOOD        ieoo -CORPORATtON LIMITED
.DR J.A.A. Jv7
IR@m5 *     WAMO   a 5L     . nODES a MM     S O    UKAMMA    * M



