Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5063-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
December 12, 1984
Industry Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00   =   MK 1.33 (Malawi Kwacha)   =   DM 2.60
MK 1.00   =   US$0.75
DM 1.00   =   US$0.38
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 board foot (BF)    = 0.083 cu ft
1 meter (m)          = 1.094 yards = 39.4 inches
1 kilometer (km)      = 1,000 meters = 0.621 miles
1 cubic foot (cu ft) = 12 board feet = 0.0283 m3
1 cubic meter (m3)   = 35.3 cu ft = 264 US gallons = 423.6 BF
1 square meter (m2)  = 10.76 square feet
1 hectare (ha)        = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADMARC      -  Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
DEG         -  Economic Aid Agency of the Federal Republic of Germany
EIB         -  European Investment Bank
FIAG        -  Forest Industries Advisory Group for Africa
FID         -  Forest Industries Division in the Ministry of
Forestry and Natural Resources
FRG         -  Federal Republic of Germany
Government  -  Government of Malawi
GTZ         -  Agency for Technical Cooperation of the FRG
INDEBANK    -  Investment and Development Bank of Malawi
KfW         -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MDC         -  Malawi Development Corporation
ODA         -  Overseas Development Agency of the United Kingdom
RAI         -  Rai Plywoods (Kenya) Ltd.
SAL         -  Structural Adjustment Loan
TA          -  Technical Assistance
TPL         -  Timber Products (Malawi) Ltd.
UK          -  United Kingdom
VIPCOR      -  Viphya Pulp and Paper Corp. Ltd.
WICO        -  Wood Industries Corporation Ltd. (formerly FID)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
APPRAISAL OF THE WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Loan & Project Summary                                                        i-ii
I. INTRODUCTION           ...............................................          I
II. WOOD PROCESSING INDUSTRY IN MALAWI .........................                    2
A.  Introduction .........                   ...........       ............ . .  2
B. Manufacturing ......................                                        3
C.  Forestry and Wood Processing Sector .....................                  5
1.  The Forest Resource .          .     .......................,         5
2.  Primary Wood Processing Industries  .................                 6
3.  Production Prospects from Existing Plants ..........                  8
4.  Secondary Wood Processing Industries  .......           . ..          8
D.  Government Policy . .................................... .                 8
E.  Bank Role         ......................................                   9
III. THE MARKET AND MARKETING ...................................                   10
A.   Sawnwood        ........................     .......................     10
B.  Panel board (Plywood and Blockboard)  ....................   11
C. Prices                 ......... 12
D.  Wood Supplies  ....... ..............           .....................     13
IV. THE COMPANY ................................................                   13
A.   Introduction ....... ...............           .....................     13
B.  Capital Structure ...... .............             ...................    14
C.  Management and Organization                ............................   14
D.  Accounts and Auditing ...............         ..     .................    15
E.  Facilities and Operations  .............        ..      ...............   16
V. THE PROJECT ...............             .................................      17
A.   Introduction ....... ...............           .....................     17
B.  The WICO Restructuring and Technical Assistance Program                   18
C.  Technical Assistance to the Government ................             .     19
D.   Start-up Activities ..................             ..................    20
E.  Project Implementation, Staffing and Training ........ ..                 20
F.  Environmental Considerations  ...........................    23
G.  Employment        .......................     ......................      23
This Report was prepared by Messrs. D. Brown and R. Venkateswaran (Industry
Department) and A. Tarnawiecki (consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                      Page No.
VI. CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBIURSEMENT    23
A.  Capital Costs .................                             23
B.  Financing Plan .........................................   26
C.  Procurement and Disbursement ...........................   27
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .........................................   30
A. Recent Performance .....................................   30
B.  Projected Financial Performance ....    ....................   32
C.  Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analyses  .....   35
D. Financial Covenants ..........................               36
E.  Auditing and Reporting Requirements ................. ...   36
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS ................................   37
A.  Adjusted Costs and Benefits for Economic Analysis   ......   37
B.  Economic Rate of Return ................................   37
C.    Other  Benefits   .........................................  38
D.   Analysis  of  Risk  .......................................  38
E.  Sector and Policy Consideration ........................   38
IX. AGREEMENTS .................... ......   ...................    39
ANNEXES
2-1   Sawnwood Production in Malawi
2-2   Production and Imports of Panelboard
3-1   Consumption of Mechanical Wood Products
3-2   Projected Production of the Mechanical Wood Industries in Malawi
3-3   Prices of Imported Wood Products
3-4   Projected Wood Requirements for Mechanical Processing
4-1   WICO Organization Chart
4-2   Terms of Reference - Establishment of Accounting and Control Systems
5-1   Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to WICO
5-2   Project Implementation Schedule
6-1   Cost Estimates & Financing Plan
6-2   Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
7-1   Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
7-2   Forecast Production and Sales Volumes/Working Capital Schedule
7-3   Forecast Income Statements
7-4   Forecast Statement of Source and Applcation of Funds
7-5   Forecast Proforma Balance Sheets
7-6   Cost and Benefit Streams for Financial Rates of Return
8-1   Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Rate of Return



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Reference
1.      INDUFOR - Markets for Sawnwood and Wood-based Panels for the
Viphya Wood Industries Project in Malawi, by M. Simula,
Helsinki, June 30, 1982 (revised August 23, 1982) (File Code
E-1323)
2.      The Demand for Sawnwood and Related Products in Malawi until
2005 and Recommendations on the Establishment and Management
of Softwood Timber Plantations to Satisfy the Requirement for
Construction Timbers, A Study, by M.J. Birchmore, August 22,
1974 (File Code E-1902)
3.      The Companies Acts 1908 and 1913 as Applied to Malawi by the
Companies Act (CAP. 46:03) Company Limited by Shares. A
Memorandum and Articles of Association of Viphya Pulp and
Paper Corporation Ltd., December 31, 1983 by Wilson Morgan and
Co. (File Code E-1842)
4.      Utilization of the Viphya Forest Resources
A. Second Intermediate Report (2 vols)
B. Main Report (3 vols) dated June 30, 1981
C. Contract between Viphya Pulp and Paper Corp. and Jaako
Poyry dated July 23, 1980
D. Utilization Study Report by ODA mission, September 1980
E. Forest Resources and Proposed Operations - Annex I
F. Draft Final Report: Viphya Wood Industries Project,
prepared by VIPCOR and GOPA/Jaako Poyry Team, Blantyre,
October 1983 (revised November 11, 1983). Main Report and
Annexes VI, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII; Main Report and
Amendments to Annexes (File Code E-1319)
MAP
IBRD 18115 - Malawi






MALAWI
WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT-SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Malawi.
Beneficiary:          Wood Industries Corporation (Malawi) Limited (WICO).
Amount:               US$6.4 million equivalent, including front-end fee.
Terms:                Payable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
with standard variable interest rate.
Relending             US$5.1 million equivalent onlent to WICO, payable in
Terms:              10 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
rate at 12 percent, WICO to bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project               The project would assist Malawi in meeting its demand
Description:        for wood products, managing and optimizing forest
resources, increasing industrial productivity,
encouraging privatization, and developing institutions
in the sector. Specifically it would provide: (a)
technical assistance to WICO to assist it to organize
and operate as a private company, restructure its
Mazamba and Dedza sawmills and rehabilitate its Zomba
mill, purchase critical spares and equipment,
establish training programs and carry out feasibility
studies for new processing facilities, product
development and quality control; and (b) technical
assistance to the Government for developing
alternative uses for forest resources, mainly in
Viphya.
Benefits and          The project will substantially increase output from
Risks:              WICO's mills, improve product quality, and lead to
more efficient use of forestry resources, which in
turn would generate significant long-term returns to
the economy. It would also identify additional
economically viable investments for Malawi's extensive
wood resources. The project faces no special risks,
although realization of the expected benefits will
depend mainly on the pace of managerial improvements.
The incrmental economic and before-tax financial rates
of return for the project as a whole (including the
technical assistance costs) are 25 percent and 23
percent, respectively. The after-tax financial rate
of return is 15 percent.



- ii -
US$ Million
Local Foreign Total
Estimated Cost:       (a)  Restructuring and Technical    1.8    4.1    5.9
assistance to WICO
(b)  Technical assistance to           0.1    1.0    1.1
Government
Total Base Cost (Feb. 1984 prices)  1.9    5.1    7.0
Physical Contingencies                 0.1    0.5    0.6
Price Escalation                       0.2    0.8    1.0
Total Project Cost                     2.2    6.4    8.6
IBRD Front-End Fee ($15,960)           -      0.0    0.0
Total Financing Required               2.2    6.4    8.6
Financing Plan:                                                  IJS$ Million
Local Foreign Total
WICO                                   2.1    -       2.1
Government                             0.1    -       0.1
IBRD Loan                               -     6.4    6.4
Total                                  2.2    6.4    8.6
Estimated
Disbursements:
US$ Million
Bank FY:                            1985  1986  1987  1988  1989   1990
Annual        0.3   1.4   2.4   1.6   0.5    0.2
Cumulative   0.3   1.7   4.1   5.7   6.2    6.4
Economic Rate          25 percent.
of Return:
Appraisal Report:    No. 5063-MAI (            , 1984).
Map:                   IBRD 18115.



MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malawi has requested a Bank loan of
US$6.4 million to help finance development of the mechanical wood
processing industry in Malawi (Map IBRD No. 18115). In parallel, on
August 2, 1984, IFC's Board approved an investment in a wood processing
plant at Chikangawa in the Viphya forest in Northern Malawi that was
originally part of the Bank project. The Bank loan would be used to
provide technical assistance to rehabilitate existing Government-owned
production facilities and to further develop industrial forest utilization
in Malawi.
1.02      The IFC-financed project at Chikangawa has a capacity of
6,500 cubic meters per year (m3/yr) of sawnwood and 15,000 m3/yr of
panelboard. It will be owned and operated by a joint venture between
Viphya Pulp and Paper Corporation (VIPCOR) and RAI Plywood (Kenya) Ltd., a
private technical/equity partner (RAI). VIPCOR is a wholly owned
Government corporation originally set up in 1973 to promote commercial
development of the Viphya forest.l/ RAI is a privately owned, profitable
and efficiently run plywood manufacturer with many years of commercial and
operating experience. Financing required for the Chikangawa project is
estimated to be US$23.5 million equivalent and will be provided by
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) (DM 35 million, US$13.5 million
equivalent), VIPCOR and the Partner (US$7 million).2/ The balance of
US$3 million will be provided by IFC and the Investment and Development
Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK). The KfW funds would be a grant to the
Government that will be passed on to the project as a combination of loan
and income notes. The European Investment Bank (EIB) will provide
US$3.3 million equivalent of equity funds for VIPCOR through a loan to the
Government on concessional terms.
1.03      The Bank project will increase output of sawnwood from the
existing government-owned mills operated by the Forestry Industries
Division (FID) of the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources and,
coupled with the Chikangawa project, will enable the country to satisfy its
needs for mechanical wood products through the end of this decade. The
proposed Chikangawa mill will utilize about 12% of Viphya forests and under
the Bank's technical assistance program the forecast industrial use of the
Viphya forest could increase to a maximum of 25% of the mean annual
1/   IDA supported an engineering project that attempted to develop an
export pulp mill in Viphya. The project was not implemented due
primarily to unexpectedly high infrastructure and transport costs, low
pulp prices and the inability to attract the essential foreign
partner.
2/   US$1 million of KfW funds will be made available to VIPCOR as part of
the latter's equity contribution so that both partners will share
equally in the US$8 million capital of the new company -- Viphya
Plywoods and Allied Industries Ltd (VIPLY) to be formed.



-2
increment (MAI). In addition, more effective use of commercial forests in
the Dedza and Zomba areas will be sought. Co-financing for the Bank
project is not included at present, although discussions are continuing
with GTZ (FRG) to provide minor amounts of funding.
1.04      The Bank project comprises:  (i) technical assistance, training
and facilities to convert FID into a corporation, the Wood Industries
Corp. (WICO), and to improve the operation of its sawmills, and
(ii) technical assistance to the Government for the development of
additional industrial uses for the Viphya forest.
1.05      The project, developed over the past three years in cooperation
with the Government and KfW, is the result of the Governmentts efforts
directed towards development of northern Malawi 3/ and more efficient
industrial utilization of the Viphya and other forest resources. Forest
industries represent one of the few opportunities for industrial
development in Malawi. The country has ample commercial plantations but
their geographical distribution does not fit consumption patterns: There
is an overall shortage of wood in the South, both for processing and for
use as fuel and there are overmature forests in the north. The Viphya
plateau plantation has been developed by the Government with the assistance
of FAO and the UK's Overseas Development Agency (ODA). The Bank Group has
been actively assisting the Government, initially through technical
assistance to develop an export pulp mill (which did not materialize) and,
at present, through the IFC Chikangawa project. Other Bank Group
activities proceeding in parallel with the Bank project are a Forestry
Sector Review, assistance to a project aimed at reducing fuelwood
consumption in the tobacco industry, and IFC assistance to the Government
in promoting a small pulp and paper project. A second IDF operation with
INDEBANK is also under preparation.
1.06      The Bank appraisal was carried out in November 1983 by a mission
comprised of Messrs. D. Brown of the Industry Department and S. Saukkonen
and A. Tarnawiecki, consultants. Appraisal was completed in May 1984 by
Messrs. D. Brown and R. Venkateswaran, following the government decision to
create the Wood Industries Corp. (WICO) a year earlier than had originally
been envisaged.
II. THE WOOD PROCESSING INDUSTRY IN MALAWI
A. Introduction
2.01      Malawi is a densely populated (about 6.6 million inhabitants in
1983), small (118,500 km2 land area) landlocked country in Southeastern
Africa, and its per capita income in 1982 was US$210. Malawi has
moderately fertile land in a diversified ecological environment, good water
resources and climate favorable to many types of crops. uInlike its
neighbors, no substantial mineral deposits have been found in Malawi.
3/   The Bank Group is currently implementing the Fifth Highway Project
(Report No. P-3656-MAI) which will pave a portion of the main
North-South highway that passes adjacent to the Chikangawa mill.



Relative to other countries in the region, Malawi has a better cadre of
trained professional people, although their number is insufficient for
sustained, long-term economic growth.
2.02      In spite of the lack of oil and other resources, the country's
economic development since independence in 1964 has been encouraging as
compared to other countries in the region. Between 1964 and 1979, GDP grew
at an average annual rate of 6% and manufacturing output and volume of
exports, on the average, by 10% and 4.5% respectively.4/ Gross domestic
investment has increased steadily in the same period from 9% to 33% of
GDP. This has been made possible by significant inflows of official and
private external capital but also by a jump in domestic savings from
virtually nil in 1964 to 14% of GDP in 1979.
2.03      Malawi's economy is heavily dependent on three primary commodity
exports (tea, sugar and tobacco) and is vulnerable to international price
fluctuations; steady escalation in import prices and disruptions of
overland transportation to and from ocean ports and delays in
freight-handling through congested port facilities, together with the
above-mentioned cyclical swings in export prices,5/ have had a depressing
effect on the country's economy.  Agricultural production suffered from
recurring droughts in 1980 and 1981 and GDP dropped slightly in those two
years.
2.04      Malawi has been able to steer a realistic and purposeful policy
under difficult conditions by providing satisfactory infrastructural and
service facilities and creating a supportive framework to promote private
initiative and investment. It has recently taken steps to ensure that,
with few exceptions, manufactured products are not subject to price
controls. The Government is also addressing budgetary and trade
disruptions through a realistic approach to foreign exchange rates and by
limiting government borrowing. This economic program has been supported by
the IMF through a standby agreement (August 1982) and an Extended Fund
Facility (September 1983) and by the Bank through two SAL operations (June
1981 and April 1982).
2.05      As a consequence of the programs described above and improved
weather conditions (1982 agricultural output was 6.2% higher than in 1981),
GDP increased by an estimated 2.6% in 1982 and 4.3% in 1983 and it is
forecast to continue to grow moderately (between 3.5-4.0% annually) in
1984-88.6/
B. Manufacturing
2.06      From independence through the late 1970s, manufacturing activity
in Malawi was buoyant and starting from a very low level, it grew
vigorously in the period 1970-78 at an average rate of over 10% per year,
4/   Report No. 3082-MAI (Malawi-Growth and Structural Change - A Basic
Economic Report), page 104.
5/   Weighted average export prices declined by 16% between 1977 and 1980
while import prices rose by 39%.
6/   Estimates from CEM mission in February 1984.



or twice the rate of GDP growth. Initially, food, beverages, and the
processing of tea and tobacco crops accounted for the bulk of manufacturing
operations, but over the years the range of goods produced expanded to
include textiles, clothing, footwear, pharmaceuticals, soap, packaging
materials, and wood and metal products. Production of consumer goods
recorded the most rapid advance, followed by export industries,
particularly after sugar had become a major foreign exchange earner.
2.07      The favorable trend was not sustained from 1978 to 1982.
Production initially stagnated and, after a recovery in 1981, fell by 6% in
1982. Over the period 1978-82, growth of manufacturing output averaged
just over 1% per year. However, in 1983, manufacturing value added grew by
more than 15%, the lead coming from agricultural processing and food and
beverages.
2.08      In spite of the 1978-82 slowdown, the Malawian industrial sector
is relatively important, having accounted for 16.9% of the country's GDP in
1982. In terms of sales, the leading manufacturing industries in Malawi
are food (mainly sugar) and beverages (26% of manufacturing), tobacco
processing (15%), building materials (12%) and textiles, footwear and
clothing (15%). Tea processing and other export industries account for
another 18% of total manufacturing sales. The manufacturing sector is
dominated by a small number of enterprises and three major holding
companies: the Malawi Development Corp. (MDC), the Agricultural
Development and Marketing Corp. (ADMARC) and Press (Holdings) Ltd. and a
development bank (INDEBANK). Foreign firms are major partners in beer,
textiles and vegetable oil production. Small enterprises may play an
important but under-reported role in some branches of industry such as
baking, garments and furniture.
2.09      The potential industrial use of coal deposits in the North and
relatively large bauxite ore bodies in the Mulanje area merit further
investigation but prospects are not very promising because these products
are generally exploited in large operations given their low value per unit
volume. Forests and some agricultural products are apparently the only
practical resources available for industrial development in the near
future. Small projects in vegetable oil production by solvent extraction,
coffee vacuum drying, fishing, and mnanufacture of insecticides and
polypropylene bags have been proposed but have not been started. An
IFC-assisted project for the manufacture of ethanol from sugar cane
molasses is in operation. A relatively large project to manufacture
fertilizer (120-140 tons daily of ammonium nitrate) has also been discussed
but the Bank does not consider it to be economically justifiable at
present.
2.10      Malawi's policy has been complemented by a system in which the
private sector has been given the role of being the primary engine for
growth. Although tariffs and quantitative import restrictions exist they
have been applied judiciously, thus discouraging inefficient
import-substitution. The Government's wage-control policy has helped to
keep exports competitive and to expand employment. In particular, this
policy has encouraged a relatively labor-intensive manufacturing, the
40,000 Malawians employed in the sector representing about 12-13% of the



- 5 -
wage-earning labor force. Industrial management in Malawi is generally
good, and considerable attention is paid to maintenance. Spares and
semi-skilled labor are generally available to industries, and capacity
utilization has been relatively high.
C. Forestry and Wood Processing Sector
1.   The Forest Resource
2.11      Large tracts of Malawi were originally covered with natural
woodlands (where valuable hardwood species existed) but much of the forest
has been cleared for food and industrial crops or cut for fuelwood. At
present, 39% of the land area (i.e., about 3.7 million ha) 7/ is
forested. The natural woodlands contain at present few trees of valuable
species, except in areas not easily accessible. Therefore, indigenous
forests (apart from their importance as protective cover) are mainly
utilized for the supply of traditional building poles and firewood,
generally free of charge if used for domestic purposes. Consumption for
these uses (approximately 8 million m3/yr) exceeds considerably the annual
sustainable yields of the national forests.8/ The country-wide figures,
however, do not show the full size of the problem. As most of the
population lives in the South, where the forest reserves are smallest, the
deficit in wood availability is a particularly serious issue in this
region. However, because there are still accessible, unprotected forests,
and hence untrammelled scavenging, fuelwood and charcoal prices remain low
and there have been insufficient economic incentives for landholders to
replant trees on a systematic basis. Woodfuel price differentials between
the northern region and the heavily populated southern river valleys,
however, are now growing in response to increasing scarcity. The Forestry
Subsector Report for Malawi (green cover report dated March 15, 1984)
describes the forest resource and its uses in more detail.
2.12      Since the 1950s, the Government, assisted by ODA and other
agencies, has pursued a forestry development policy which has led to the
establishment of plantations in the following three main groups:
(i) Government and private plantations for sawnwood, plywood and poles for
transmission and telephone lines; (ii) the Viphya Plateau plantations
originally planned for pulpwood; and (iii) Government and small farmer
fuelwood plantings.
2.13      Partly in response to the emerging fuelwood crisis and as a
result of policy initiatives supported by the Bank, the Government is
tackling the fuelwood problem with a three-pronged strategy aimed at
building up long-term supply through small farmer wood plantings, intensive
forest development in areas of shortages and improvement of the management
of customary land by District Councils. The first two aspects of this
7/   Mechanical Wood Industries in Malawi by M.J. Lyons, Forest Industries
Advisory Group for Africa (FIAG 80/24), October 1980. This area does
not include brush areas or land with isolated clumps of trees.
8/   IBRD, Malawi: Issues and Options in Energy Sector (Report No.
3903-MAI), August 1982, and Forestry Subsector Review mission data.



- 6 -
strategy are being carried out with the help of an IDA-financed project
aimed at establishing 12,900 ha of fuelwood plantations and 88 nurseries to
provide seedlings for farmers' woodlots. While the main thrust of the
Government's strategy has been to tackle the supply side of fuelwood, some
headway has been made on the demand side as well, particularly with regard
to more efficient use of fuelwood by the tobacco industry. Under the
IDA-financed Technical Assistance II Project, the Bank is supporting the
first phase of a program to be carried out by the Tobacco Research
Association. The other plantations which the Government has developed for
industrial use total about 73,000 ha, of which 54,000 ha are in the Viphya
region in the North. Details of all new plantations are summarized below:
Malawi - Government Forest Plantations (1982)
(000 Ha)
Other     Sub-total
Pines  Coniferous  Softwoods  Hardwoods   Totals
Northern Region       51.1        -           51.1        2.6       53.7
Central Region         8.9        0.2          9.1        3.0      12.1
Southern Region        5.3        0.2          5.5        3.8       9.3
Totals           65.3        0.4         65.7       9.4       75.1
More than one half of the planted areas in the Northern and Southern
regions are 15 years or older, while the Central region plantations are
much younger (Annex 2-2). Estimates made by the Forestry Department and
Bank missions show that the overall availability of wood suitable for
mechanical processing in Malawi is ample for the current country needs
(para 3.07) but, as in the case of fuelwood, the geographical distribution
of supplies does not match regional demands.9/
2.   Primary Wood Processing Industries
2.14      The most important industrial activity utilizing forest resources
in Malawi is sawmilling. (Traditional use of untreated poles for housing
is not considered part of the industrial sector.) Eight sawmills are now
in operation, five of which account for 90% of the total production of
about 38,000 m3. Four of them (Mazamba, Dedza, Zomba and Blantyre) are in
the public sector and the fifth (the largest of the five) belongs to Timber
Products (Malawi) Ltd. (TPL), a subsidiary of the UK Imperial Group Ltd.,
which also operates a plant in Blantyre making plywood and flush doors.
The plants' output is shown in Annex 2-1, summarized in the following
table.
9/   Availability of Pine Peeler Logs from the Viphya Plantations in
Malawi, Interforest Report to the World Bank, June 1982.



Malawi - Sawnwood Production
(000 m3)
FY
Region                   1969    1974    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Northern
Mazamba                1.0      0.9     -        -        -       0.1      2.4
Central
Dedza                  2.6      5.0      5.6     8.4      5.8     6.1      4.3
Southern
Zomba                  3.6      6.7     8.3      8.5      6.5     8.4      7.4
Blantyre               1.9      5.3      7.6     7.2      6.9     4.8      4.2
TPL                    9.6    14.9    16.6    17.4    15.5    15.9    16.5
Subtotal South    15.1    26.9    32.5    33.1    28.9    29.1    28.2
Other a/                  3.6     4.6      5.1     5.1      3.5      3.0     3.5
Totals             22.3    37.4    43.2    46.6    38.2    38.3    38.3
a/ Estimates for portable circular saws and pit sawing.
2.15      The Blantyre and Zomba sawmills are obsolete and their location
is inadequate. The Mazamba sawmill was designed mainly to process
thinnings for future construction work in the area and has inadequate
facilities for handling and processing lumber of the size and quality for
which there is a market deficit. The Dedza sawmill, though relatively new,
is handicapped by insufficient drying capacity and by the small size of the
logs and thinnings fed to it. The TPL mill operates efficiently but it has
difficulties in obtaining log supplies due to the depletion of indigenous
forests and the limited yield of the company's own eucalyptus plantations
in the Blantyre area. The conversion factors (i.e. the volume of sawnwood
obtained from a given volume of logs) for the mills depend to a large
degree on the average size of logs used. The average conversion factor for
the public sector mills has been 46% in the last three years but the
averages for Dedza and Mazamba are less than 40%. The optimum would be
50-55%, indicating that these mills are not utilizing the timber resources
efficiently.
2.16      The main users of timber are dissatisfied with the present
quality of sawn softwood because of poor grading, insufficient or
non-uniform drying, inadequate pesticide treatment, lack of
joinery/furniture grade timber and scarcity of larger cross sections and
longer lengths needed for construction. Eucalyptus sawnwood is used mainly
for boxes and tea chests and indigenous species for furniture where no
grading is applied. A Technical Committee for Timber Products--with the
participation of producers and the main users--has been proposed by WICO
and its establishment is expected in the near future.



- 8 -
2.17      The only commercial producer of panelboard in Malawi is the TPL
plywood and blockboard mill in Blantyre whose output has averaged about
4,360 m3/yr in the last three years (Annex 2-2).
3.   Production Prospects from Existing Plants
2.18      Significant overall increases in production by existing mills are
possible through some plant modifications and improved management and
operating procedures as well as by the timely supply of suitable logs to
the mills. The Mazamba mill has a theoretical capacity of 15,000 m3/yr but
it is not expected to produce more than 5,000 m3/yr in the near future
because of design and log supply deficiencies. With substantial
improvements in design, log supply and technical management (para 5.03),
this mill is expected to reach an output of at least 10,000 m3 by the
mid-1990s, further increases being dependent on market conditions. The
Dedza mill's capacity could be increased to 20,000 m3/yr; after substantial
upgrading and a better log supply, its output is expected to reach
16,000 m after 1990. The Zomba mill is obsolete and is assumed to stop
operating in the mid-1990s. The WICO's Blantyre mill is also obsolete and
should stop operating before 1990 although the associated furniture, pallet
and pole making activities will continue and expand. For the TPL mill, it
is assumed that purchase of logs from the Forestry Department will allow
the mill to maintain output (possibly increasing it to 20,000 m3 annually
by 1990), but the product mix will gradually shift from hardwoods to a
higher share of softwood. Output from TPL's plywood and blockboard mill is
estimated to be maintained at about 5,000 m3 annually. The increased
output of the existing mills, combined with projected output from the
Chikangawa project (para 1.02), should give the country a relatively
balanced supply/demand situation for mechanical wood products through 1990.
4.   Secondary Wood Processing Industries
2.19      Most sawmills are integrated to some degree with further
conversion operations. The Dedza sawmill makes some furniture and also
moulding, woodwool/cement boards and sawdust pellets. The FID Blantyre
mill has a separate unit to manufacture furniture and it also produces
pallets, boxes, crates, etc. These conversion activities are not, however,
strongly promoted. TPL, on the other hand, not only makes tea chests,
tobacco cases and other boxes, but also produces 2,000 flush doors annually
using its own plywood and sawnwood. In addition, there are ten firms
specialized in joinery and furniture production (of which three employ more
than 50 people) and many artisans or cottage operations, whose output is
under-reported.
D. Government Policy
2.20      Given the relative scarcity of other natural resources, forestry
and associated industries are important to the Government's economic
development plans. The large-scale utilization of Viphya's extensive
plantations for pulp (mainly for export) has been studied extensively but
it has not been demonstrated to be economically feasible. Other projects
for the exploitation of .e Viphya resources and the expanded utilization
of other plantations have been proposed (para 4.06).



-9-
2.21      To encourage the private sector to participate in the development
of forest industries, the Government has agreed to decontrol wood product
prices and to set reasonable stumpage fees to promote economically viable
projects. To improve the efficiency of forest industries already
established in the country it has also converted FID (at present a Ministry
division) into a private corporation (WICO) fully subject to commercial law
(para 4.04). Some or all of the WICO mills could eventually become joint
ventures with private investors. Also the IFC Chikangawa project as well
as a proposed small paper project will be developed in cooperation with
private technical/equity partners (paras 1.02 and 1.05).
E. Bank Role
2.22      The Bank Group's strategy in the industrial sector is to assist
existing enterprises to attain substantial improvement in their performance
and to encourage continued expansion of manufacturing based on the
utilization of forestry, agricultural and livestock resources through
economically justifiable projects. Projects with significant export
potential have been identified with the assistance of the Bank and other
organizations. The Bank's lending for industry in the medium term will
focus on: (i) INDEBANK because of its position as the main local source of
long-term financing for industrial enterprises; (ii) through the Bank and
IFC for commercially oriented industrial projects larger than INDEBANK can
undertake; and (iii) continue to promote co-financing and privatization.
Other improvements in the sector are being sought by the Bank through the
structural adjustment process, including the reform of income, price and
incentive policies and the promotion and diversification of exports.
2.23      The Bank's involvement in the proposed project for improvements
in the industrial utilization of Malawi's forestry resources is discussed
in Chapter IV. In March 1980, IDA extended a credit of US$13.8 million
(National Rural Program II) to assist the Government of Malawi with the
fuelwood problem (para 2.11). IDA had previously made (in June 1974) an
Engineering Credit of US$2.0 million for studies related to the proposed
export-oriented Viphya pulp project which did not materialize (para 2.18).
In addition, a draft report of the Forestry Subsector Study carried out by
the Bank in November 1983 is currently being reviewed by the Malawian
Government. Among other conclusions, this study recommends that: fuelwood
revenue collection be studied to improve revenues and reduce gradually
access to free wood; legal and management procedures be designed to make it
compulsory for agricultural estates to grow trees for fuelwood;
availability of land for forestry be identified; and investments in
forestry research, plantations and extension work (particularly in
training) be increased. The proposed Wood Industries Restructuring Project
has a component to further develop industrial uses of wood. The Bank also
provided a US$3 million line of credit to INDEBANK in 1979 and a second
project is being prepared.
2.24      IFC has participated in Malawi in the financing of a textile
plant (US$10.8 million), a sugar mill (US$9.9 million), in the manufacture
of ethanol from molasses (US$2.4 million) and in a hotel (US$0.4 million).
It has also provided US$0.6 million in the equity of INDEBANK, a financial
intermediary. IFC is also currently re-examining the prospects of a small
paper mill.



- 10 -
2.25      The Bank Group's assistance to Malawi during the next five years
will continue to be directed to help restructure the country's economy,
especially through improved agricultural and forestry productivity and more
efficient operation of public and private enterprises.10/ It is within
this framework that the Bank Group agreed to explore the possibility of
financing the mechanical wood processing complex in Viphya and the
technical assistance required to restructure existing forest industries and
the potential development of new uses for timber.
III.  THE MARKET AND MARKETING _/
A. Sawnwood
3.01      Consumption of sawnwood grew at an average rate of 6.7% annually
from 1968 to 1975 when it reached 49,400 m3. In the three following years,
consumption dropped but, in 1979, it again peaked at more than 51,000 m3.
It has since declined sharply, to less than 39,000 m3 in 1982 (Annex 3-1),
due to balance of payments deficits and the Government's measures to combat
inflation. More than half of the 1979-81 demand was for softwood, the
share of which has been gradually increasing, and this trend is expected to
continue. The main end-users of sawn softwood have been construction (61%)
and packaging (27%). On the other hand, 55% of the sawn hardwood is used
in packaging and 32% in construction. Regional sawnwood demand is
concentrated in the South:
Malawi - Regional Distribution of Sawnwood Demand (1979-81)
(000 m3/yr)
North     Central      South        Total      % of Total
Construction            4.3        11.7         8.7         24.7         55.0
Packaging               0.9         2.8        11.2         14.9         33.1
Furniture, etc.         0.5         1.6         3.3          5.4         11.9
Total              5.7        16.1        23.2         45.0        100.0
Regional %             12.8        35.8        51.4        100.0
3.02      Adopting a three-year moving average to eliminate year-to-year
fluctuations, sawnwood consumption grew, on the average, at 3.4% p.a. from
1969 to 1979, approximately matching the growth of GDP. During 1979-1981
average consumption fell by 4.3% annually, reflecting the recessionary
conditions prevailing in the country. Demand is projected to increase by
4.0% annually between 1982 and 1995. The growth rate of demand in the
South (including Blantyre) is expected to be lower than for the other
regions but the South will remain the major consuming area. It will be
supplied from TPL and expanded output from Dedza as Zomba and Blantyre
mills are phased out. The projected demand is summarized below:
10/ IBRD, Report No. P-3656-MAI.
11/ The chapter is an updated summary of the Bank consultant report "The
Market for Mechanical Wood Products in Malawi", M. Simula,
August 1982.



- 11 -
Malawi - Projected Sawnwood Demand
(000 m3)
Total
1982 Actual (3-year average)              40.9
1987 Projected                            49.7
1990 Projected                            56.0
1995 Projected                             68.0
3.03      The existing Mazamba and Dedza sawmills can increase their
present output through mechanical and organizational improvements
(para 2.18) but the existing and obsolete Zomba and Blantyre mills can at
best be kept operating for a few more years (Annex 3-2). The loss of their
output would consequently leave a growing deficit in domestic supplies.
Only the Viphya and Zomba areas (in the northern and the southern regions,
respectively) have sufficient volumes of sawlogs adequate for economically
sized sawmills. The Dedza planted area is extensive (6,800 ha) but the
bulk of the planting has taken place after 1971 and the growth rate for
trees in the region is slower than in Viphya and Zomba. Therefore,
productive capacity increments in the near future should be first located
at Viphya and Zomba. The proposed IFC-financed Chikangawa project
(para 1.02), together with the increased output from existing mills under
the Bank project, will help to ease the gap between supply and demand until
the end of the decade.
Malawi - Projected Demand and Supply of Sawnwood
(000 mj)
1987             1990           1995
Supplies from Existing Mills:
WICO                                    24.4              -             35.0
TPL & Other Private                    22.0              23.0           26.5
Subtotal                          46.4             55.1           61.5
Supplies from the Chikangawa Project    3.2                 6.5            6.5
Total Supplies                            49.6             55.5           68.0
Demand                                    49.7             56.0           68.0
Surplus (Deficit)                         (0.1)            (0.5)           0
B. Panelboard (Plywood and Blockboard)
3.04      The supply and demand projections for panelboard are summarized
in the table below. These projections show the need for the proposed plant
in the Viphya area and for continued upgrading of output from the existing
mill. Exports to neighboring countries would absorb the moderate surpluses
produced in some years.



- 12 -
Malawi - Projected Demand and Supply of Panelboard a/
(000 m3)
1990              1995
Demand                             19,600            23,600
Supplies from TPL Mill              5,000             5,000
Deficit                            14,600            18,600
a/  Excluding fiberboard, hardboard and wood-wool slabs.
C. Prices
3.05      Sawnwood and panelboard prices in Malawi have been
government-controlled as were those of most other commodities. This policy
has not encouraged the private sector to participate more dynamically in
the mechanical wood industries and has not been conducive to quality
improvement since no price differential was allowed for higher quality
products.  For example, the MK 10/m3 differential allowed for kiln-dried
over air-dried wood was insufficient to cover the extra cost of
kiln-drying. As part of the second SAL operation (para 2.04), the
Government has recently agreed to letting market forces set prices, except
for a small number of products. Wood products have been included among
those that will be decontrolled. During negotiations agreement will be
sought that sawnwood and panelboard will continue to be maintained on the
decontrolled list. Current prices for the main imported wood products are
shown in Annex 3-3 and summarized in the table below:
Malawi - Current and Projected Wood Product Prices
(MK/mJ3)
Projected
Prices
Current Prices         (1985)
Domestic  Imported a/   Domestic
Sawnwood
Pine Construction Sawnwood                     193        438          200b/
Furniture & Joinery                            265        635            -
Panelboard
Plywood, 4 mm (construction)                  650         820          780
Plywood, 9 mm (packaging
quality)                                    354           -          400
Blockboard 19 mm (internal quality)           530         760          630
a/  CIF Blantyre, excluding all duties and taxes.
b/  It is assumed that the price of sawnwood will increase at 5% p.a. in
real terms up to MK 250/m3.  The typical product mix at the WICO
sawmills comprises 45% construction grade I, 45% grade II and 10% box
wood. Under the project, the air dried quality would be upgraded to
the kiln-dried variety commanding the higher price shown.



- 13 -
The prices for domestic sawnwood in Malawi are less than one half of
current border prices. Because of high customs duty,12/ the domestic
prices of imported panel products, of qualities similar to those which
would be produced by the Chikangawa mill, are significantly higher than
current import parity whereas domestically produced panel products, largely
of poorer quality for tea chests only, are considerably lower than import
parity. Domestic prices are assumed to increase but to continue to be
depressed in relation to border prices for imported products because of the
well established marketing practices for domestic products and the
likelihood of consumer resistance to higher prices. By 1987, there would
be three major companies producing sawnwood and two companies making
panelboard. In addition there will be traders who would be expected to be
able to import products freely. Thus, there would be sufficient
competition to prevent a monopoly price situation from developing.
D. Wood Supplies
3.06      Timber volumes required by the existing and proposed wood
processing industries are shown in Annex 3-4. The northern region has a
surplus of sawlogs and peelers available even after installation of the
proposed Chikangawa mill (and also a large volume of surplus pulpwood). On
the other hand, the mills located in Blantyre will run into increasing
unavailability of timber grown in nearby areas and will have to purchase at
least part of its wood inputs from plantations in the Zomba area or even
further away, thereby lowering the profitability of their operations, or
will require new plantations. The Forestry Department has indicated that
it is willing to sell timber from its commercial plantations, including
Zomba, to any purchaser including the private sector. For the southern
plantations, the selling price would correspond to the market value and/or
replacement cost, whichever is higher, and would correspond to a stumpage
fee of about US$18-26/m3 (MK 25-35/m3).  A stumpage fee of US$3.75/m3
(MK 5/m3) to be maintained for five years has been agreed by the Government
with regard to the Chikangawa project. This would be close to the economic
opportunity cost for timber in the Northern region. The Government has
confirmed that the same stumpage fee would be maintained for log purchases
by the Mazamba mill.
IV. THE COMPANY
A. Introduction
4.01      The Forestry Department in the Ministry of Forestry and Natural
Resources has overall responsibility for forestry development, protection
and conservation and for forest utilization. Most of the plantations
are owned by the state through the Department of Forestry. The Department
is headed by the Chief Conservator of Forests who oversees the work of four
divisions: (a) Management of Plantations and Protected Forest Reserves;
(b) Management Service, responsible for education, research and technical
services; (c) Viphya Pulpwood Plantation; and (d) the recently established
Wood Energy Division, responsible for present and future fuelwood
12/ Customs duties and taxes on all imported goods average 15-25% plus a
25% surcharge.



- 14 -
productions. A fifth division, Forest Industries (FID), is being converted
into an autonomous corporation.
4.02      The decision to convert the Forest Industries Division (FID) of
the Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources was officially approved by
Presidential Directive on April 16, 1984. The Government is now taking the
needed steps to complete registration of the newly formed Wood Industries
Corp. (Malawi) Ltd. (WICO) under the Malawian Companies Act as a private
corporation with limited liability. A preliminary valuation of FID plant
and other fixed assets, inventories and other current assets, has been
carried out by the Lands, Valuation and Water Department. Registration
formalities were concluded on July 1, 1984, when WICO began its official
legal existence.
B. Capital Structure
4.03      WICO's opening balance sheet would have a totally debt-free
capital structure so that at project completion a debt/equity ratio of
around 50:50 could be reached (and would not be greater than 60:40), and so
that the debt service coverage in the early years of the project would be
not less than 1.5. It was agreed, at negotiations, that WICO's audited
opening balance sheet would be submitted for Bank review and comment prior
to any disbursement of the proposed loan allocated to the WICO
Restructuring component.
4.04      The Government's intended final ownership structure for WICO is a
51/49 public/private split with the further possibility to sell all of the
individual mills totally to the private sector and/or establish new
projects as joint ventures with private partners. All of WICO's equity
capital would be initially held by the Government. It is likely that an
organization, such as ADMARC, INDEBANK or MDC, would be invited to acquire
a stake in the new corporation. This would facilitate the later sale of
WICO's capital stock to private parties. The Government's intention with
regard to the future ownership structure of WICO and with regard to
privatization was discussed at and recorded in the minutes of
negotiations. The draft memorandum and articles of association do not
preclude such divestiture. Agreement was also obtained that neither the
Government nor WICO would materially change or modify the Memorandum and
Articles of Association of WICO.
C. Management and Organization
4.05      WICO's Board of Directors comprises five members, of whom the
Principal Secretary of the Ministry of Forestry and National Resources is
the ex-officio Chairman. Other Government nominated members would be the
Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, the Chief Economist of the Office of the
President and Cabinet, and the Chief Forestry Officer. In addition, there



- 15 -
is a private individual as a non-government member. It is likely, that
should an organization such as ADMARC, INDEBANK or MDC acquire an ownership
interest, the composition of the Board would change and probably expand in
size to accommodate perhaps two more nominees of the entity concerned. The
General Manager of WICO would be the Chief Executive officer and would
attend Board meetings as the company secretary.
4.06      WICO's proposed organization chart is shown as Annex 4-1.  The
heads of the main functional areas -- Operations, Marketing and Finance, as
well as the maintenance chief -- would initially be expatriates, recruited
under the project (para 5.03(a)). The position of Mazamba Mill Manager
would also be filled by an experienced expatriate to be recruited under the
project (para 5.03(g)). Recruitment of these key managerial staff is under
way and the Government and the Bank have agreed to permit use of the
balance in the Technical Assistance Loan (2027-MAI) to ensure that these
staff could be in place as soon as possible. Promising Malawian
professionals have been recruited and training is already under way and
will continue under the Project to fill gradually the key managerial
positions.
4.07      WICO's first General Manager had been head of the Forest
Industries Division for several years. His untimely death led to the
appointment of the present General Manager, an experienced forestry
professional who has had several years' experience in VIPCOR and has been
trained abroad. Major functional areas such as marketing and cost
accounting have been neglected as FID functioned as a Government department
and the mills sold their output to those customers who either chose to, or
were forced by lack of alternatives, to come to the mill yards or to the
timber depots (at Mzuzu, Mzimba, Lilongwe, Blantyre, Zomba, Karonga and
Dedza) to purchase their requirements. The Government recognizes that this
must change if WICO is to become a commercially viable enterprise.  During
project execution, WICO would also consider appointing selling agents as a
complement to its own direct marketing efforts and also seek to develop a
modest export market for quality sawnwood in neighboring countrIes.
D. Accounts and Auditing
4.08      FID's accounting systems are based on accrual accounting
methods. However, frequent changes in accounting staff, and lack of cost
accounting systems and procedures, have resulted in inadequate financial
information and records for cost control and financial planning. Financial
reporting from year to year has been inconsistent and in some years not
readily comparable. In earlier years, FID headquarter's overhead was not
fully allocated to mill operations resulting in overstatement of
profitability. FID's financial statements do, nevertheless, provide some
measure of the financial worth of the various operations, although they do
not properly reflect the financial position and the true earnings capacity



- 16 -
of the capital being employed. The valuation exercise now underway is
expected to set right this aspect of the FID's balance sheet prior to its
conversion to a private limited liability corporation, so that future total
or partial divestiture or formation of joint ventures could be made on the
basis of the fair market value of performing assets.
4.09      WICO's immediate need is for the establishment of reliable
enterprise-oriented accounting and financial information and control
systems to be set up not later than the end of the current financial year,
i.e., March 31, 1985. This requirement would be met as WICO has hired an
accounting firm with terms of reference to design and set up the systems
and train WICO staff (Annex 4-2). The system to be established would take
into consideration a gradual computerization of the accounting and
financial information functions, as well as related aspects such as
inventory control, financial planning, cash flow forecasting, client
records and budgeting. Under the project, assistance (both hardware and
software) for the introduction of simple management information systems
would be provided (para 5.03(g)). Funding for this initial effort has been
provided under the TAI loan as well as through WICO's own resources.
4.10      Coopers and Lybrand (Malawi) have been appointed as WICO's
auditors. WICO's financial year would run from April 1 to March 31. At
negotiations, agreement was obtained that audited financial statements
would be submitted for Bank review not later than 90 days after close of
the financial year.
E. Facilities and Operations
4.11      WICO's operating facilities at the date of transfer consist of
the sawmills at Blantyre, Zomba, Dedza and Mazamba and depots at Mzimba,
Mzuzu, Lilongwe, Blantyre, Dedza, Zomba and Karonga. The Blantyre mill has
a separate furniture and box making unit as well as a treatment plant for
poles. These activities have expanded substantially in recent years and
now account for over 40% of the Blantyre mill's revenues. The Dedza mill
has a furniture plant and a unit that makes a wood wool/cement boards, and
sawdust pellets. The Zomba mill has a briquetting plant as well as a small
furniture unit. The Mazamba mill also treats poles.
4.12      Conversion efficiencies at the mills have fallen steadily in
recent years due to aging facilities and equipment, deficient log supply,
inadequate or non-existent log sorting and debarking facilities to improve
the quality of the feed to the sawmilling operations. Conversion averaged
50% in 1979/80 but had fallen to 44% in 1983/84. The Dedza mill has fallen
to below 40%, while the Zomba and Blantyre mills, which had experienced
efficiencies of up to 60% in the mid- to late-1970s, are now running at
about 46%. The Mazamba mill has been struggling to reach the 45% level and
is currently running below that rate. The investments under the proposed
project, would improve conversion fators at all mills, so that on the
average rates of above 50% could be achieved for all the mills (para 7.07).



- 17 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
5.01      The Government and the Bank have agreed that the efficient
utilization of forest resources is a high priority endeavor in the
country's development. Therefore, in addition to the major investment for
a new wood processing complex at Chikangawa in the Viphya area being
financed by IFC, the proposed Bank project would concentrate on
restructuring and rehabilitation of existing government-owned sawmills
through the newly created WICO (para 4.02).13/ The project would provide
funds for technical assistance and training as well as for improvements in
the existing mills to bring them to full operating capacity, prolong their
useful lives and substantially upgrade marketing activities and management
capability. The project would also include assistance to WICO in carrying
out feasibility studies for new processing facilities, product development
and quality improvements and for implementation of such studies, if proven
of sufficient economic, technical and financial merit. The other focus of
the proposed project would be technical assistance to the Government for
the development of technically and economically viable alternative uses for
the surplus forest resources with emphasis in the Northern region of the
country.
5.02      Training for management and intermediate level staff will be an
important part of the TA program to be implemented by WICO. There is a
shortage of qualified and experienced managers and technical staff
(para 4.06). Therefore, it will be necessary to make expertise available
to WICO to enable this new company to organize itself along commercial
lines and to develop its staff skills. The required expertise will be
supplied through management and consulting services provided for in the TA
component of the project and it will also be necessary to develop in-house
expertise through training programs. The TA program will include specific
assistance to undertake the required training effort to be carried out by
WICO including training outside the country. The details of the training
program will be developed by WICO's technical assistance personnel in the
first months and a schedule prepared not later than September 30, 1985
(para 5.10).
13/ Direct financial assistance to the major existing private sector mill
is not contemplated, since this company did not indicate a need for
investment funds, and INDEBANK would be the normal source if needed.
However, the private mill, TPL, would benefit indirectly in assured
access to timber supplies on an equal basis with WICO mills; and from
the general pricing covenants under the project. Also, the TA program
is sufficiently flexible to provide support to INDEBANK in assessing
any investment proposals in the sector.



- 18 -
B. The WICO Restructuring and Technical Assistance Program
5.03      The WICO restructuring and TA program comprises the following
elements:
(a) restructuring of the Mazamba sawmill through addition of a
debarking and sorting line, improvements to the band-saw mill,
purchase of log transport equipment and rehabilitation of
existing vehicles; once the initial phase of restructuring has
been completed and the mill's production has reached at least
5,000 m3/year, kiln drying capacity would also be installed if
justified by a detailed feasibility study carried out by the
technical assistance consultants to WICO to confirm that Mazamba
can successfully reach an output of 10,000 m3/year in one shift
operation;
(b) restructuring of the Dedza sawmill through purchase of saw
doctoring equipment, conical and/or semi-conical saws, extension
of the sorting line and log decks, purchase of a fork lift truck
to improve mill transfer operations, improvements to the
briquetting plant and purchase of log transport equipment. In
addition, the Dedza sawmill's drying facilities would be modified
and their capacity increased following completion of a
feasibility study by WICO's consultants that would assess Dedza's
long-term potential including wood supply. This study would be
carried out possibly in conjunction with the study of glue
laminating facilities mentioned below under (f);
(c)  minor improvements and rehabilitation at the Zomba mill,
including saw doctoring, overhaul of critical equipment and
purchase of spares to maintain the mill's productive capacity and
prolong its life through 1992, by which time decisions regarding
future use of the Zomba forest resources would have been reached;
(d) purchase of critical operating spares and consumables for all
mills, including Blantyre, to ensure proper maintenance of
existing equipment throughout their remaining useful lives;
(e) purchase of equipment to establish a modern furniture and joinery
plant at Blantyre, following a feasibility study to be carried
out by WICO's consultants and TA staff;
(f) purchase of equipment to install glue-laminating operations at
the one or more mills to make better use of small sawnwood pieces
and produce large size timber;
(g)  technical assistance program comprising up to 30 m/m for an
experienced mill manager at Mazamba, 30 m/m for an Operations
Manager to take charge of the total production operations at the
WICO facilities and coordinate the overall implementation of the
restructuring program, up to 18 m/m for a Marketing Manager,
24 m/m for a Finance Manager, 12 m/m for a maintenance expert,
12 m/m for engineering and procurement services, and 8 m/m for
setting up of accounting control and data processing systems for
a total of 134 m/m;



- 19 -
(h)  training programs for (i) mill maintenance personnel in saw
doctoring techniques and other maintenance practices;
(ii) management traineeships for up to six key WICO local
managerial staff, consisting of both academic training in
relevant technical fields and job training in suitable mills
abroad before return to Malawi to complete on-the-job training
under the respective technical assistance personnel;
(iii) short-term training programs for other personnel, including
plant visits to sawmills in other African countries, with a view
to improving technical knowledge and gaining relevant additional
experience in new techniques; and
(i)  consultant services for feasibility studies of
(i) glue-laminating facilities, (ii) furniture and joinery plant,
(iii) establishment of a future major wood processing complex
using the Zomba resources, and (iv) the installation of an
existing but unused 5,000 m3/year sawmill at Mulanje, including a
comparative study of the transportation system to be used. A
total of 18 m/m has been budgeted for this activity.
C. Technical Assistance to the Government
5.04      There is a significant imbalance in the supply and demand of
forest resources in Malawi with a large surplus of timber in the North and
a large deficit in the South (para 2.08). The Government and the Bank have
discussed the possible extent of the assistance required to find
alternative uses for the country's forest resources, mainly in the Viphya
area. The basis for this work will be the study on this subject that has
just been completed by the Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ) of the
F.R. of Germany. This part of the TA program should enable the Government
to:
(a)  install industrial-sized demonstration ovens for the production
of charcoal (and/or pelletized wood), and evaluate the technical
and economic aspects of utilizing the wood fuel under actual
commercial operating conditions (in particular, in the existing
cement plant);
(b)  carry out small but commercially oriented tests on the viability
of extraction and distillation of pine resins and turpentine;
(c)  carry out substitution trials using producer gas from wood as
fuel in vehicles powered by gasoline engines;
(d)  study the viability of using producer gas from wood as a
substitute for stationary (diesel) power generating plants; and
(e)  evaluate other possible uses of surplus wood.
A total of 85 m/m of management and technical consultant services have been
provided for this component under the project. In addition, about
US$225,000 has been provided for demonstration equipment and hardware.



- 20 -
D. Start-up Activities
5.05      WICO began operations as a private company on July 1, 1984.  As
stated earlier (paras 4.06 and 4.09), WICO is in need of technical
assistance to fill major functional positions and set up appropriate
financial control and management information systems. At the same time,
WICO needs to procure critical spares for all the mills to ensure that
prior to start of the restructuring and rehabilitation efforts under the
project, essential equipment maintenance is carried out and the sawmills
continue to perform at least at current levels. WICO's liquidity
situation, although not precarious, would not permit it to make such needed
purchases in a timely manner and it has no access to foreign exchange
resources. The Government has agreed with the Bank's assessment that an
early start to some essential project activities would be highly
desirable. Consequently it was agreed that up to US$95,000 remaining in
the TAl Credit would be used to finance:
(a) engineering consultant services to establish priority spare parts
lists and assist WICO in their procurement, particularly as many
portions of WICO's plant are very old and in some cases original
manufacturers may have ceased operations. Consequently an
extensive search for alternative suppliers of such parts may be
needed;
(b)  up to 3 m/m salary and other related expenses for technical
assistance personnel who would then continue to head the main
functional posts under the project, including, in particular,
that of Mazamba Mill Manager; and
(c)  about 8 m/m of accounting technical services to set up
accounting, financial information and cost and budget control
systems.
5.06      Terms of Reference for the technical assistance and consultant
services have been agreed with WICO and are attached as Annex 5-1. In
order to start the initial engineering services work and assist WICO in
recruiting suitable candidates for the technical assistance positions, the
engineering service firm of Heilborn GmbH (FRG) has been retained by WICO
for this purpose. As far as purchase of spares is concerned it was agreed
that retroactive financing of up to US$100,000 would be permitted so that
orders placed and contracts let after November 12, 1984 would be eligible.
As there is a long lead time for acquisition of spares, this would permit
prompt action now.
E. Project Implementation, Staffing and Training
5.07      WICO Restructuring Program.  WICO would implement the
restructuring program with the aid of the TA team to be recruited under the
project. WICO would employ the services of an engineering consultant to
assist in all phases of procurement particularly as regards search for
suitable manufacturers or other sources of spares and compatible
equipment. Much of this work is now under way. The consultant would also



- 21 -
assist in recruitment of individual TA personnel. Implementation of the
restructuring investments would proceed in a staged manner. First, WICO
and its TA team would conduct a thorough review of the physical condition
of the plant at each mill. Next, priorities for rehabilitation,
restructuring, and main overhaul would be assessed and set. Prior to
undertaking larger capital investments each individually exceeding
US$300,000 equivalent, WICO would carry out a feasibility study with the
aid of consultants and would review the results with the Bank. This was
confirmed during negotiations. Terms of reference for the proposed
feasibility studies would be agreed with the Bank, and consultants selected
in accordance with Bank guidelines, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. In view of their importance to the success of the WICO
Restructuring Program, a Project Operations Manager, whose qualifications
and experience have been deemed satisfactory by the Bank, has been selected
and a firm appointment date and other employment conditions agreed.
5.08      TA to the Government.  The program for study of alternative uses
of the country's forest resources would be carried out by experienced
consultants on terms of reference and conditions of employment acceptable
to the Bank. The Government has appointed the Forestry Department in the
Ministry of Forestry and Natural Resources as the agency to implement and
coordinate the above activities under terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank. Prior to any disbursement of the proposed loan allocated for the TA
component, the Government and the selected agency would recruit and appoint
a project manager whose qualifications and experience are deemed acceptable
to the Bank, and on terms of reference and conditions of employment judged
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.09      Training.  WICO would select suitably qualified and experienced
personnel for management training under the project. The scope and content
of the individual study-cum-training programs would be developed by the TA
personnel and WICO for each of the main functional areas. The management
trainees would be initially sent overseas, but would, upon return to
Malawi, work as counterparts to the individual TA team members, with a view
to taking over the functional responsibilities within 6-12 months. WICO
may employ a short-term expert to review other company-wide training needs
and develop appropriate programs.
5.10      The estimated schedule of project implementation is summarized
below and detailed in Annex 5-2. The project is expected to take about 5
years to complete, mainly with regard to new capital investments and staff
training. The critical events are the recruitment of key TA personnel, and
the completion of feasibility studies for the major investments.
Transportation of imported equipment represents a potential problem in
project implementation. To minimize delays, some items of expenditures
such as spare parts and small subassemblies would be air-freighted to
Malawi. A generous cost allowance for transport and freight insurance to



- 22 -
Malawi has been provided in view of current international transit
difficulties facing the country. To monitor project progress and keep the
overall schedule in control, WICO would prepare, with the aid of the TA
staff, a detailed master schedule of project implementation not later than
September 30, 1985, and maintain such a schedule throughout project
implementation. Agreement on this was obtained at negotiations.
Malawi - WICO Restructuring, TA and Training
Schematic Implementation Schedule
19841
Event                            Jul-Dec  1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Project Organization
Start-up Activities
Recruitment of TA Personnel
Loan Effectiveness                         x
Master Schedule Prepared                    x
Project Implementation
Core Improvement, Restruc-
turing, Overhaul, Repair
at WICO Mills
Feasibility Studies
Implementation of Major
Investments_
Staff Training                                                          -
5.11      Implementation of the government TA activities would take place
over a 2-3 year period. The Government has appointed a Steering Committee,
including representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of
Forestry and Natural Resources, WICO, INDEBANK, MDC and VIPCOR, whose
function would be to oversee the program implementation by the appointed
agency (para 5.08). The key event in these activities would be the
recruitment of consultants, in particular, the TA Project Manager, who
would report to the Forestry Department and who would in turn organize the
study phase and coordinate the demonstration activities. Transport of
large demonstration equipment would also be on the critical path of project
implementation. It was agreed at negotiations that, not later than
September 30, 1985, i.e., approximately six months after expected loan
effectiveness, the government executing agency would prepare a Master
Schedule of project activities and maintain such a schedule throughout
project implementation. Agreement was obtained that the Government would
employ a project manager and consultants under terms of reference and on
terms and conditions deemed satisfactory by the Bank.
5.12      The WICO component is expected to be completed by June 30, 1989.
The TA component to the Government is expected to be completed by September
30, 1990 (para 6.07).



- 23 -
F. Environmental Considerations
5.13      The project does not pose any environmental hazards.  The sawmill
operations are similar to those undertaken in Africa and elsewhere, and are
relatively pollution free. Solid wastes are burned for product drying,
converted to briquette (fuel wood) or sold directly as fuel wood. WICO
does not carry out logging operations. Logging is controlled and
supervised by the Forestry Department and adequate environmental safeguards
exist.
G. Employment
5.14      WICO currently employs 1,167 workers and 72 clerical,
administrative and managerial staff. This number is not expected to rise
significantly in the course of project execution. Some redeployment of
workers would occur as older facilities are shut down. The implementation
of the furniture and joinery plant at Blantyre could add 25-50 workers to
the industrial payroll. In the two/three years beyond project completion,
the possible addition of a second shift operation at the Dedza and Mazamba
mills could add significant numbers (150-250) to the payroll. On an
incremental basis, the capital cost for each additional job created works
out to approximately US$21,000 (in constant 1984 terms), which compares
with the US$35,000/job under the Chikangawa Project. WICO is not expected
to experience any difficulties recruiting and training skilled and
semi-skilled personnel from the available labor pool in the country.
VI. CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Capital Costs
6.01      The total project cost of both the WICO and the Government
components, exclusive of taxes and duties to be paid by WICO on equipment
imports, is estimated at MK 10.4 million (US$7.8 million equivalent),
summarized in the table below and detailed in Annex 6-1. Of the total
project cost, 82% or MK 8.6 million (US$6.4 million) represents the WICO
component.14/ The direct and indirect foreign exchange component of the
total project cost is estimated at 82% (US$6.4 million). The total
financing requirement of MK 11.5 million (US$8.66 million equivalent)
includes the estimated front-end fee on the proposed Bank loan of US$15,960
and the estimated taxes and duties. The proposed Bank loan of
US$6.4 million equivalent would finance 82% of the total financing
requirement net of taxes and duties, i.e., the estimated foreign exchange
component of the project.
14/ Taxes and duties on the WICO component (MK 1.1 million or
US$0.8 million equivalent) are estimated at an average rate of 21.6%
of the c.i.f. value of imported equipment and spares.



- 24 -
Malawi - Project Capital Cost Estima8e
-------- ---- -------------       x   of
Total
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Base
, ---Mh' million -----US$ million-----i  Cost
A. Wood Industries Corporation
1. Equipment
Restructuring Mazamba mill   0.07   0.37   0.44   0.05   0.28   0.33   5.3
Restructuring Dedza mill        0.27   0.87   1.14   0.21   0.65   0.86  13.9
Rehabilitation Zomba mill    0.03   0.23   0.26   0.03   0.17   0.20   3.2
Spares Blantyre mill            0.01   0.04   0.05   0.01   0.03   0.04   0.7
New Product Investments         0.77   1.79   2.56   0.57   1.35   1.92  31.0
Accounting Systems              0.01   0.13   0.14   0.01   0.10   0.11   1.8
Total Equipment & Spares        1.16   3.43   4.59   0.88   2.58   3.45  55.7
2. Training & Technical Assistance                                 0.00   0.00
Training & TA Mazamba mill   0.04   0.38   0.42   0.03   0.29   0.32   5.2
Training Dedza mill             0.00   0.02   0.02   0.00   0.02   0.02   0.3
Training Zomba mill            0.00   0.02   0.02   0.00   0.02   0.02   0.3
T-raining & TA W I C 0          0.15   1.39   1.54   0.11    1.05   1.16  18.7
Total Training & TA             0.19   1.81   2.00   0.14   1.36   1.50  24.2
3. Feasibility Studies             0.02   0.22   0.24   0.01   0.17   0.18   2.9
Total Base Cost Part A             1.37   5.46   6.83   1.03   4.11   5.14  82.9
Contingencies
Physical                        0.14   0.54   0.68   0.10   0.41   0.51   8.2
Price escalation                0.25   0.80   1.05   0.19   0.60   0.79  12.7
Total Contingencies Part A         0.39   1.34   1.73   0.29   1.01   1.30  21.0
Total Project cost Part A          1.76   6.80   8.56   1.33   5.11   6.44 103.9
B. Technical Assistance to Government
Consultant Services             0.11   1.01   1.12   0.08   0.76   0.84  13.6
Demonstration Hardware                 0.30   0.30            0.23   0.23   3.7
Total Base Cost part B             0.11   1.31   1.42   0.08   0.98   1.07  17.3
Contingencies
Physical contingencies          0.01   0.13   0.14   0.01   0.10   0.11   1.8
Price escalation               0.02   0.27   0.29   0.02   0.20   0.22   3.6
Total contingencies Part B         0.03   0.40   0.43   0.03   0.30   0.32   5.2
Total project cost  Part B         0.14   1.71   1.85   0.11   1.28   1.39  22.4
Total Base Cost                    1.48   6.77   8.25   1.11   5.09   6.20 100.0
Contingencies
Physical contingencies          0.15   0.67   0.82   0.11   0.50   0.62  10.0
Price escalation                0.27   1.07   1.34   0.21   0.80   1.01  18.3
Total contingencies                0.42   1.74   2.16   0.32   1.30   1.62  26.1
Grand Total Project Cost           1.90   8.51  10.41    1.43   6.39   7.83 126.3
Taxes &  Duties (Part A )          1.09            1.09   0.82   0.00   0.82  13.2
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                 0.02   0.02            0.02   0.02   0.3
Grand Total Financing Required  2.99   8.53  11.52   2.25   6.41   8.66 139.7



- 25 -
6.02      Costs for the government components do not include estimates for
studies that may be required for other longer-range uses of surplus forest
resources for which the Government may seek additional financing from
bilateral agencies such as GTZ and ODA in the form of grants and
concessionary credits. The WICO project component costs are based on
studies carried out by FID, FIAG and Jaakko Poyry/GOPA consultants in
conjunction with the development of the proposed Chikangawa project
(para 5.01). They were updated with the help of WICO following a
post-appraisal of the project in May 1984.  A total of 134 m/m TA and
18 m/m for feasibility studies has been provided for WICO and 85 m/m for TA
to the Government. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% of
the base cost estimates. As no major construction/erection work is
foreseen, these are considered adequate. Price contingencies follow Bank
guidelines and have been taken at 3.5% in 1984, 8.0% in 1985, 9.0% in
1986-88 and 75% in 1989. A domestic inflation rate of 12% in 1984, 11% in
1985, 10% in 1986 and 1987 and 9% thereafter has been assumed. The total
contingencies on Part I (WICO component) amount to 26% of base costs, and
to 30% on Part II (Government TA). The difference arises due to the
procurement by WICO of its core restructuring equipment and spares during
the early years of project implementation.



- 26 -
B. Financing Plan
6.03        The financing plan for the project is shown in the table below:
Malawi - Sumiary Financing Plan
% of
Total      % of
FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88   Total   Total   Net of    Total
(MK '000)             (US$'000)  Taxes  Financing
IBRD Loan
Part A of the Project
Equipment                       173  1,992  1,094  1,087   4,346    3,268      41.7      37.7
Consultant Services             512  1,197    641     89   2,437    1,832      23.4      21.1
Front-end Fee                    21      0     0       0      21       16       0.2       0.2
Total Part A (WIC0)          706  3,187  1,735  1,176   6,804    5,116      65.2      59.0
Part B of the Project
Consultant Services               0    363   528    431   1,322       994      12.7      11.5
Daeonstration Equipment           0     90   274    21    385         289       3.7       3.3
Total Part B (Government)      0    453   802    452   1,707    1,283       16.4      14.8
Total IBRI) Loan             584  3,777  2,530  1,620   8,511    6,399      81.6      73.8
1iQ)
Equipment                        83   488    464    465   1,500    1,128       14.4      13.0
Consultant Services              57    134    73    11    275         207       2.6       2.4
Taxes & Duties                   55   499    255   285   1,094        823      10.5       9.5
Total WIC0                   195  1,122    792    761   2,870    2,158      27.5      24.9
Government
Consultant Services               0     40    58    48       146      110       1.4       1.3
Total Goverrxient              0     40     58    48      146      110       1.4       1.3
Total Financing Required     901  4,802  3,387  2,437  11,527    8,667     110.5    100.0
6.04        The proposed Bank loan of US$6.4 million equivalent would be made
to the Government of Malawi at the applicable variable Bank rate for a term
of 20 years, including 5 years' grace. Of this amount, the Government
would onlend US$5.1 million to WICO on terms of 12% interest and 10-year
maturity including 4 years' grace period, with WICO carrying the foreign
exchange risk. In addition, WICO would pay all Bank loan fees. The
conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between WICO and the Government
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of



- 27 -
disbursement of the WICO component. WICO's internal cash generation would
finance the local costs of the WICO component (estimated at
MK 1.78 million) and all the estimated taxes and duties on the project.
The Government would finance the estimated local costs of the technical
assistance program for development of alternative uses of surplus forest
resources.
6.05      The financing plan does not include financing of working capital
increases that would be required as WICO's facilities and operations are
restructured/overhauled and production and sales growth occur. As WICO is
a going concern, such increases would be handled entirely out of internally
generated funds. For the same reason, interest during construction is not
capitalized or shown as a financing requirement. Projected source and
application of funds (para 7.09) includes these requirements and shows that
WICO's operating cash needs would be met satisfactorily out of ongoing
operations.
C. Procurement and Disbursement
6.06      The following table summarizes the procurement methods to be
followed under the project. Consultant services and TA would be procured
following Bank guidelines. Spares including proprietary spares would be
procured through limited international shopping including original
manufacturers. Replacement and upgrading equipment costing individually
less than US$300,000 equivalent would be procured through limited
international shopping to ensure compatibility with existing equipment and
technology. Vehicles and transport equipment would be procured through
competitive bidding among established local dealers representing major
manufacturers to ensure availability of service and spare parts. Major
capital investments in excess of US$300,000 for which feasibility studies
would be carried out, would be procured through ICB. Demonstration
hardware would be procured through limited international shopping.
Computer hardware and software would be procured through competitive
bidding among established local dealers and manufacturers' representatives
to ensure availability of service and spare parts. Overall, 80% of project
costs (excluding taxes) would be procured under ICB (including consultants)
and 20% through limited international shopping.



- 28 -
Malawi - Methods of Procurement under the Project
(US$'000)
Method of Procurement
Limited    Other &
Internatl. Consultant   Total
Project Element                         ICB    Shopping   Services    Cost a/
Equipment & Spares
Proprietary Spares                                300          -         300
-      (225)         -        (225)
Other Spares                           500          -          -         500
(375)        -          -        (375)
Compatible Equipment                     -        950          -         950
_      (713)         -        (713)
Computer Hardware/Software                          -         90          90
-         -        (80)        (80)
Vehicles/Transport Equipment           450          -          -         450
(338)        -          -        (338)
Major Capital Investments            2,078          -          -           -
(1,546)        -          -           -
Total Equipment & Spares        3,028      1,250        90       4,368
(2,259)     (938)       (80)    (3,277)
%                                  71         29          -        100
Consultant Services/TA
To WICO                                  -          -      2,049       2,049
-         -    (1,823)    (1,823)
To Government                            -          -      1,106       1,106
_         -       (995)       (995)
Demonstration Hardware                     -        289          -         289
-      (289)         -        (289)
Total Project a/                3,028      1,539     3,245       7,812
(2,259)   (1,227)   (2,898)    (6,384)
%                                  35         20         45        100
a/ Excluding taxes, duties and front-end fee.
Note: Figures in parentheses represent the amounts to be financed out of
the proposed Bank loan.



- 29 -
6.07      The disbursement schedule of the proposed Bank loan is detailed
in Annex 6-2 and summarized below.
Malawi - Summary Disbursement Schdule
(US$ million)
Part A              Part B               Total
IBRD      Cumu-                Cumu-               Cumu-
FY      lative      %        lative     %        lative      %
1985      0.34       6.6      0.02       1.3       0.35       5.5
1986      1.62      31.6       0.11      8.2       1.72      26.9
1987      3.61      70.6      0.50      39.0       4.11      64.2
1988      4.66      90.9       1.01     79.0       5.67      88.5
1989      4.97      97.1       1.25     97.6       6.22      97.2
1990      5.12    100.0        1.27     99.1       6.39      99.8
1991      5.12    100.0        1.28    100.0       6.40    100.0
The disbursement forecast is based on the standard profiles for industrial
projects in the East and West Africa regions and technical assistance in
the East Africa region, modified to take into account the particular
project circumstances where all key TA personnel for the WICO project have
already been selected or would be early in the project cycle and the
proposed use of a Special Account to effect disbursements on Part A of the
project (para 6.09).
6.08      Disbursement of the WICO component (Part A) of the project is
subject to:
(a) signature of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between WICO and the
Government (para 6.04); and
(b) submission of an audited opening balance sheet for WICO
(para 4.03).
Disbursement of the Government TA component (part B) of the project is
subject to the appointment of a project manager (para 5.08).
6.09      Disbursement of the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan would be
against presentation of normal documentation. In order to reduce paper
flow for minor disbursement amounts, particularly in spare parts purchases
and technical assistance payments to individuals, and to reduce
disbursement delays, the desirability of setting up a Special Account
(Revolving Fund) for each of Parts A and B of the project was discussed at
negotiations. It was agreed that an amount of US$300,000 equivalent
representing approximately six months of estimated project expenditures
under Part A of the project would be set up as the initial deposit in a
Special Account to be established and operated by WICO. The allocation of
the proposed Bank loan is as follows:



- 30 -
Malawi - Allocation of Funds
IJS$'000    Application
Part A of the Project
Equipment & Spares (incl.        2,500       100% of foreign expenditures
Installation & Erection)                    and 70% of local expenditures
Consultant Services              1,400       100% of foreign expenditures
Initial Deposit in Special
Account                          300
Unallocated                         900
Total Part A                5,100
Part B of the Project
Consultant Services                760       100% of foreign expenditures
Demonstration Hardware              225      100% of total expenditures
Unallocated                         299
Total Part B                1,284
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan             16
Total Loan                  6,400
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Recent Performance
7.01      The financial performance of the consolidated FID operations has
been declining steadily for a number of years, partly due to aging
facilities, partly to price controls that prevented the mills from gaining
an adequate level of sales income to cover rising costs in all
contingencies, and partly due to inadequate record keeping and controls
that overstated income in some years and resulted in extraordinary
adjustments to correct for such overstatement, thereby showing up as large
year-to-year fluctuations. An approximate reconstruction of financial
performance indicators for the past five years is shown in the table below:



- 31 -
Malawi - Summary Financial Indicators for FID
(In MK '000)
FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
Sawnwood Production (i3)              23,122  18,864  18,919  18,283  17,817
Sales Revenues                         2,488   2,517   2,798   2,820   3,057
Manufacturing Costs                     1,409   1,589   1,551   1,915   1,918
Maintenance                               222     345      316      269     234
Depreciation                              142     146      185      468     501
Total Cost of Goods Sold          1,773   2,080   2,052   2,652   2,653
Gross Profit                              715     437      746      168     404
Administrative Overhead                   188     200      172      278     319
Net Profit (Loss)                   527      237      574    (110)      85
Net Fixed Assets                        1,167   1,003   1,016   2,417   2,232
Working Capital                         1,240   1,355   1,423   1,511   2,182
Capital                                 1,323   1,446   1,589   3,742   4,143
Retained Earnings                       1,084     912      850      186     271
7.02      The drop in profitability in FY83 stems from the near doubling of
the depreciation provision, cue to the commissioning of the Mazamba mill in
that year. Manufacturing costs also show a rise of nearly MK 400,000,
mainly due to the additional costs of running the Mazamba operation. As
Mazamba operated at less than 2,500 m3 output in that year, and as Blantyre
and Zomba mills were both beginning to experience lower conversion rates,
it was inevitable that profitability declined substantially in FY83. The
following year, however, increased production at Mazamba and better control
of costs appear to have restored the mills to overall profitability, albeit
a very modest one. Working capital has steadily increased over the years,
mainly due to a buildup of finished and semi-finished product inventories,
in part due to the large drying period for air-dried timber, lack of
adequate kiln drying facilities and poor marketing techniques. It is
estimated that, on the average, no more than 6 months' production is sold
in the year of production and that there is approximately 8 months of
production lying as inventory in the various mills and timber depots.
7.03      Over the past five years, net fixed assets in operation have
practically doubled with barely a 22% increase in sales revenues and
substantial decline in net profit. Sawnwood production fell nearly 23%.
However, the average conversion factor for all mills has dropped from a
high point of 52% in FY80 to about 44% in FY84, thereby accounting for a
substantial increase in log costs. Overall, the performance trend of
the past five years indicates an operation in serious trouble, with a large
but inadequately performing asset base, increasing variable costs, lower
production leading to declining sales and declining profitability.



- 32 -
B. Projected Financial Performance
7.04      Assumptions.  The assumptions used for the financial analysis of
the Project are detailed in Annex 7-1. The analysis assumes that, with the
introduction of a strong technical assistance effort at WICO, particularly
at Mazamba, and with repair and rehabilitation of existing equipment as
well as the restructuring efforts, the declining trends of the past few
years will be rapidly arrested and that WICO operations will show a modest
growth in 1984/85 and begin to improve substantially in the years
thereafter. The main impact of the project on the mill operations would
be:
(a)  sawnwood production at Blantyre would be maintained through FY88,
or at least two years longer than if the project were not
undertaken;
(b)  production at Zomba would be maintained through FY92, or at least
three years longer than without the project improvements;
(c)  production at Dedza will grow substantially more slowly without
the project improvements; and
(d)  production at Mazamba will stagnate at under 5,000 m3/year
without the project, but attain its installed one shift capacity
of 10,000 m3/year with the project.
7.05      The financial projections are in current prices through FY88,
when the project is expected to be fully implemented, and in constant
FY88 prices thereafter. Projected domestic inflation rate is taken at 10%
a year.
7.06      Sales Volume and Revenues.  Sales volume is expected to continue
to lag behind production, albeit by less than the six months that is
currently the case (para 7.02). As additional kiln drying capacity is
added and marketing is improved, WICO should be able to gradually reduce
its finished and semi-finished goods inventories to about 3 months'
production, and thereby reduce its overall working capital needs. Details
of production, sales and inventory and other working capital projections
are presented in Annex 7-2. Domestic sawnwood prices are expected to
remain unchanged in real terms throughout the projection period. However,
the output mix at WICO mills is expected to change in quality with at least
40% kiln-dried lumber as opposed to less than 10% without the project, and
in composition with greater proportion of first and second grade lumber and
lower percentage of shorts and boxwood. These quality differentials are
expected to be reflected in an increase in the average sales price obtained
by WICO. The current average of MK 180/m3 is expected to rise about 2% a
year in real terms from FY86 through FY89, going from MK 180/m3 now to
MK 195/m3 (para 3.05).
7.07      Production Costs.  Production costs are projected on the basis of
past trends, with adjustments for improved conversion rates with the
project. The minor band saw mill improvements, improved saw doctoring and
other maintenance practices should permit WICO mills to return gradually to



- 33 -
the level of conversion prevailing in the mid- to late-1970s when Blantyre
and Zomba delivered 52% conversion percentages. Dedza and Mazamba are both
also expected to show substantial improvements in this regard. Log costs
at roadside for all mills except Mazamba include the stumpage charges at
the commercial rates currently paid by TPL in the South. For Mazamba, the
same cost as for Chikangawa is assumed. This latter cost is expected to
increase in real terms at 5% a year following the five-year moratorium
agreed for the Chikangawa project. WICO is not expected to carry out any
forestry operations. Running costs of vehicles are expected to show modest
declines due to better maintenance and to the replacement of inappropriate
log-handling equipment at Mazamba. Labor costs are expected to show an
initial adjustment of 10% at start of commercial operations as government
wage scales are revised upward. Subsequently, additional labor costs are
included on two occasions -- first with commissioning of the furniture and
joinery plant at Blantyre and then again with introduction of two shift
operations at Dedza and possibly Mazamba in the latter years of the
projection period.
7.08      Projected Financial Data.  The projected income, cash flow and
balance sheet statements for the WICO Restructuring Project are shown in
Annexes 7-3, 7-4 and 7-5 and summarized in the following table:



- 34 -
Malawi - WIO: Sunnary of Projected Financial Data
(MK '000)
84/,85     85/,8b     86l87       07/88      88/Ot      89/90      90/91       91/92
Sawnwood Production (n3)                       17,918     20,274      22,709    23,774    23,000    23,000    22,500          24,950
Incone a Cash Flow
Sales Revenue                                3,892      5,741       7,035      8,560      8,955      8,953       8,935      8,956
Production Cost                              3,029      3,687      4,276       4,772      4,475       4,564      4,516      4,734
Inventory Increase(Decrease)                   727        526         434        108       (500)      (433)       (418)        29
Depreciation                                   672        737         952      1,118      1,086         924        953        979
Administrative Overhead                        350        370         408        441        441         441        441        441
Interest Charges on Long Term  Debt             51        135         383        641        730         670        545        408
Pnortization & Provisions                       75        309         541        632        655         661        452        134
Interest Income                                  0           0          0         27        120         233        323        377
Taxes on Income                                221        5l1         455        546        594        746         966      1,333
Net Incone                                     221        510        i46         546        594         746        966      1,333
Dividends Paid                                   0           0          3        409        491         534        672        970
Cash Generation before Debt Service          1,O19      1,692      2,330       2,937      3,065      3,002       2,916      2,854
I8RD Loan Drawdown                               0      1,480      2,939       1,640        546         204          0          0
Cash Utilization
- Investnents a Renewals                     1,083      4,522      2,824       2,213        492         392        393        393
- Debt Service                                  51        135         383        641      1,298      1,805       1,680      1,543
Changes in Uorking Capital                    (308)   (1,373)    1,841           685        289        1322)      (526)      (174)
Net Cash flow                                  194       (112)        222        630      1,041         796        697        222
Balance Sheet at year-end
Rccunulated Cash                               457         346        56?        746        695         695        690        714
Short Tern Investnents                           0           0          0        451      1,543      2,338       3,041      3,238
Net Occounts Receivable                        538        803         969      1,179      1,215      1,209       1,206      1,209
Inventories                                  2,270      2,796      3,230       3,339      2,0        2,406       1,987      2,016
Other Current Rssets                            16         1?          19         21         23          25         28         31
Current Liabilities                          1,213      3,379      2,140       2,343      2,159      2,044       2,152      2,360
Net Fixed Rssets                             2,594      5,039      6,198       7,293      6,699      6,166       S,607      57020
Other Net Rssets                               561      1,639      1,897       1,449        844        318           Q          0
Total Net Rssets                             6,212      7,261     10,741      12,133    11,695    11,112       10,406       9,868
Financed By
Met Long Tern Debt                               3      1,480      4,420       5,492      4,902      3,972       2,837      1,702
Equity                                       5,212        5,781    6,721       6,642      6,794      7,141       7,570      8,166
Ratios
Current Ratio                                  2.7        1.2         2.2        2.4        2.9         3.3        3.2        3.1
Long Tern Debt/Equity                        01100      2Q.80      41,59       45.55      42,58      36.69       27,73      17.03
Debt Service Coeerage                         20.0       12.5         6.1        4.6        2.4         1,7        1.7 18
Nrte: Flurrent Pricvu  rtruiqh 1' !3o: on,.at               ' 9a rL,ces thereafter



- 35 -
7.09      The forecasts show that debt service coverage and the ratio of
long-term debt to equity are both satisfactory after project completion.
The initial debt structure at the creation of WICO has been confirmed to be
0:100 (para 4.03), and does not go below 45:55 in the year of project
completion (i.e., FY88). Subsequently, repayments of the external debt
permit WICO to improve rapidly the debt/equity ratio. The forecast cash
flow from internal sources more than amply covers the anticipated working
capital increases as well as annual renewals and reinvestments. Cash
buildup is rapid and it has been assumed that excess balances over and
above minimum operating cash needs would be invested in short-term
securities. The current ratio is low in the first year of project
execution, mainly as a result of likely disbursement delays (in keeping
with the Bank's disbursement profiles) which increase current payables on
project supplier accounts. However, this is not expected to pose any
serious liquidity problems as WICO has enough funds to cover cash needs for
its ongoing operations. The current ratio improves rapidly thereafter.
Dividends are expected to be paid out of each year's earnings in the
following year, provided sufficient cash is retained for ongoing needs and
provided the current ratio does not fall below 1.5 after payment of the
dividend. The dividend rate increases from about 5% in the early years to
over 25% by FY91 and remains high after that point. WICO is not expected
to be exempt from any taxes. The income tax rate is taken at an average
50%.
C. Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analyses
7.10      The base case financial rates of return for the project,
calculated in constant 1984 prices and ignoring interest on potential
surplus cash balances, is about 23% before tax and 15% after tax
(Annex 7-6). The returns are expectedly high as the relatively modest
investments and improved maintenance would yield substantial benefits in
terms of increased output, lower production costs, extension of the useful
lives of existing plant and upgrading of worker and managerial skills.
7.11      Sensitivity tests are summarized in the table below:
Malawi - WICO: Sensitivity Tests on Financial Rates of Return
(%)
Before Tax        After Tax
Base Case                                               22.6              14.5
Sawnwood Price Increases in Real Terms
0% (i.e., no change in quality)                      16.2               10.7
Benefits lagged 3 years                                 17.3              11.9
Capital Cost Increases
10%                                                  18.4               12.2
20%                                                  15.1               10.2
Sales Volume down 10%                                   11.3               8.0
The return is sensitive to a lag in build-up of expected benefits.  Other
tests of sensitivity to lower increases of sawnwood prices in real terms



- 36 -
show that even under conditions of no further increases in sawnwood prices
in real terms and only a partial adjustment for inflation, the rate of
returns remain satisfactory. Even if capital costs of restructuring were
to increase 20%, the return would still be satisfactory. Finally, if sales
volumes were to fall a further 10% below the prudent assumptions of the
base case, the returns would still remain acceptable at 11.3% before tax
and 8.0% after tax. Although the base case has been built on conservative
assumptions of price, phasing of improvements, build-up of production and
sales, etc., unforeseen and unpredictable event such as delays in transport
to Malawi could upset the schedule for implementation of key components of
the restructuring program. Such delays would not only increase costs, but
reduce benefits in the early years.
D. Financial Covenants
7.12      During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the following,
that WICO will:
(a) not later than March 31, 1985, establish financial management and
control systems satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.09);
(b) maintain a ratio of debt-to-equity not greater than 60:40
(para 4.03);
(c) maintain a current ratio of at least 1.5 and not declare any
dividend if this would reduce the current ratio below 1.5
(para 7.09); and
(d) not incur additional debt unless a reasonable projection of
revenues for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred
shows that debt service coverage will not fall below 1.5, nor
that the debt/equity ratio would increase beyond 60:40
(para 7.09).
Further, to guard against excessive investments and maintain a cushion
against unexpected cost increases during project implementation, it was
agreed during negotiations that until project completion WICO will not
incur additional debt over and above that agreed in the financing plan
without prior Bank approval.
E. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
7.13      During negotiations, agreement was obtained that WICO will
furnish project documentation as the Bank may reasonably request and to
maintain and furnish to the Bank the records, financial statements and
audited reports that are normally requested from Bank borrowers and
beneficiaries. Audited financial statements should be furnished not later
than six months after close of each financial year. Agreement was also
obtained at negotiations that, upon completion of the project, WICO and the
Govertnment will submit to the Bank a comprehensive project completion
report covering their activities during the project's implementation and
initial operation and describing the project's costs and benefits.



- 37 -
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND RISKS
A. Adjusted Costs and Benefits for Economic Analysis
8.01      To obtain economic costs and benefits, financial data have been
adjusted to economic values. These are:
(a)  customs duties and taxes averaging 21.6% have been eliminated
from the capital cost estimates; and
(b) production costs have been adjusted to: (i) eliminate customs
duties and taxes on imported chemicals, spare parts and fuel; and
(ii) increase the financial price of electricity by a factor of
1.44 to reflect its economic values.
In addition, working capital used in the economic analysis only includes
physical stocks of raw materials and consumables, and excludes cash,
accounts receivable and finished goods inventories; adjustment to this item
has been made to the financial costs. The effects of these adjustments are
to lower net economic benefits in the early years mainly due to the
difference in working capital changes between the financial and economic
streams. There is thus a marginal decrease in the base case economic rate
of return. Economic cost and benefit streams, brought to constant 1984
terms, are shown as Annex 8-1.
B. Economic Rate of Return
8.02      The economic rate of return for the Project is 25%, compared with
the before-tax financial rate of return of 23% (para 7.10), the difference
being due to the adjustments described in para 8.01. The sensitivity of
this result to the same possible changes in the base assumptions, as
detailed in the financial analysis (para 7.10) is tabulated below. As
shown, the economic rate of return remains satisfactory even under rather
adverse assumptions.



- 38 -
Malawi - WICO: Sensitivity of Economic Rate of Return
Economic Rate
of Return
(x)
Base Case                                                              25.0
Sawnwood Price Increases in Real Terms:
0% (i.e., no change in quality)                                      19.0
Benefits Lagged 3 Years                                                19.5
Capital Cost Increases:
10%                                                                  21.9
20%                                                                  19.0
Sales Volume down 10%                                                  14.0
C. Other Benefits
8.03      The main quantifiable economic benefits from the proposed
rehabilitation of existing sawmills arise from the increased output leading
to more efficient use of invested resources, and from the improved product
quality resulting from the relatively minor investments. Without these
investments, the mills would have to be shut down sooner resulting in loss
of productive capital to the economy. For the purposes of the economic
analysis, however, the impact of such losses has not been included in the
benefit stream. Improved utilization of Malawi forest resources in the
long run would also result from the feasibility studies and demonstration
programs. No explicit quantification of these benefits has been
attempted. These benefits in terms of improved sectoral policy would yield
significant long-term returns to the economy.
D. Analysis of Risk
8.04      The main uncertainty associated with the project is that the
level and quality of managerial input is not provided soon enough to attain
the expected incremental sales volumes and reach the expected operating
efficiencies. The provision of technical assistance under the project
would serve to diminish this uncertainty with respect to improved
management. An additional safeguard would be that the rehabilitation
programs would be prepared and supervised by competent experts and that
capital expenditures would only be approved in the context of coherent
programs including all needed managerial inputs.
E. Sector and Policy Considerations
8.05      The Bank project is the outcome of its long involvement with the
utilization of the Viphya pine plantations in Northern Malawi and more
recently with the need to improve productivity of economic activities, in
general, and of Government-owned investments, in particular. The Bank



- 39 -
project also complies with the basic framework for industrial development
in Malawi through the encouragement of private investment in the forestry
industry subsector, development of indigenous Malawian entrepreneurship and
technical capabilities, increased industrial efficiency and clearer
demarcation of responsibilities between Government agencies and
enterprises. The transformation of FID into a private company with clear
commercial objectives is in line with government policy and is a major
sectoral objective of this project. In addition, the project represents a
specific example of price decontrol policy being pursued through the second
SAL.
IX. AGREEMENTS
9.01      Agreements were obtained from the Government of the Republic of
Malawi that it will:
(a)  continue to include sawnwood and panelboard in the list of
products whose prices are decontrolled (para 3.05);
(b)  maintain stumpage fees for the Mazamba mill at the same level as
for the Chikangawa mill (para 3.06);
(c)  employ a project manager and consultants under terms of reference
and conditions of employment deemed acceptable by the Bank for
the studies on alternative uses of forest resources (para 5.11);
and
(d)  not later than September 30, 1985, present for Bank review a
Master Schedule of project activities, under the responsibility
of the appointed government agency; (para 5.11).
9.02      Agreement was obtained from WICO and the Government that they
will not materially modify or change WICO's Memorandum and Articles of
Association without prior Bank approval (para 4.04).
9.03      The Government's policy with regard to future privatization of
WICO was discussed and recorded in the minutes of the negotiations
(para 4.04).
9.04      Agreements were obtained from WICO that it will:
(a)  engage a project manager, a finance manager, a marketing manager,
a maintenance advisor, a mill manager for Mazamba and consultants
under terms of reference and on terms and conditions deemed
satisfactory to the Bank, to:
(i) review and implement plans for the improvement of its
operations (para 5.07); and



- 40 -
(ii) carry out feasibility studies for all capital investments
expected to cost at least US$300,000 or equivalent, that may
be needed for this purpose and for better quality control of
the mills' products (para 5.07);
(b) prepare and submit for Bank review a detailed Master Schedule of
Project Implementation by September 30, 1985 and maintain such
schedule in good form throughout the project implementation
period (para 5.10);
(c) implement financial management and control systems deemed
satisfactory by the Bank, and adhere to the other financial and
investment covenants detailed in para 7.12; and
(d) fulfill the auditing and reporting provisions detailed in
para 7.13.
9.05      The signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and WICO and the submission of an audited opening balance sheet
for WICO are conditions of disbursement of the WICO component (Part A) of
the proposed loan (para 6.08).
9.06      Appointment of competent project manager for the government TA
component (Part B) is a condition of disbursement of this component
(para 6.08).
9.07      Based on the above-mentioned agreements, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$6.4 million to the Government (including front-end
fee of about US$16,000), of which US$5.1 million to be onlent to WICO to
carry out Part A of the project.
Industry Department
November 1984



MAIAWI - WOOD INDUST[UES RESIXUCIUIMt PRaJECr
Saawnwod Production in Malawi
(In m-)
Ye  a/
1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979             1980      1981      1982
Public Sector Mills  1967    /69    /70    /71    /72    /73    /74    /75    /76    /77    /78    /79    /80               /81       /82       /83
Northern Regicn
Chikangawa (G)       n.a.  1,007    864   1,366   1,948   1,933    932
Mazamnba (G)         n.a.      -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -       -       -       -      -         -       150    2,341
Central Region
Dedza (G)            n.a.  2,561   3,336   3,484   2,737   3,877  4,990  6,074  6,207   6,122   3,499   5,615   8,360    5,774    6,055    4,317
(Of which, 1)       n.a.      -       -   (134)   (70)   (36)  (519)  (192)   (45)          -       -       -      -         -         -         -
Southern Region
Zomia (G)            n.a.  3,603  4,440   3,013   4,685   5,404  6,634   6,508  6,314   6,307   7,597   8,316   8,505    6,546      8,407     7,437
Blantyre (G)         n.a.  1,941   4,222  4,751   4,090  4,911   5,326   5,485  6,549   4,499   5,423   7,544   7,239    6,876      4,788    4,231
Subtotal         7,028  9,112  12,862  12,614  13,460  16,125  17,882  18,067  19,070  16,928  16,519  21,475  24,104    19,196    19,400   18,325
(Of which IN4)    n.a. (1,290) (3,058) (3,088) (1,678)  (758) (1,370)   (855)  (886)  (437)  (253)  (420)  (474)    (411)    (339)    (787)  4
TPL sawmill (P)      9,500  9,572  6,261  12,4CB  16,261  14,830  14,901  14,436  14,488  14,762  16,733  16,601  17,382    15,500b/ 15,900b/ 16,500b/
Small swmills
(G&P) b/ c/           500    567    708    991    890   1,190   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100       543       500       500
Handsaw (pit
sawn) (p) b/        3,000  3,000   3,000  3,000   3,000  3,500   3,500  3,500  3,500   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000    3,000    2,500    3,000
Total           20,028  22,251  22.831  29 013  33,611  36   37.383  37.103  38.158  36,790  38.352 43.176  46,6    38.39d/               38325
(Of whidi
softvods)       n.a.   n a.   n. a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   n.a. 24,087d/ 19,600b/ 19,300/ 19,800P/
(Of wich
private) a/           13,000  9,800  16,200  19,900  19,300  19,400  18,900  19,000  19,700  21,700  21,600  22,350    18,950    18,300    18,900
G = Public sector          P = Private sector
a/ Except for 1967, years are for April/March periods corresponding to the Forestry [epartnent fiscal years.
b/ EstimaBtes.
c/ There are three smaUl private circular milLs and a few mobile units owned by FID.
d/ From Markets for Sawwxod and Wood based Panels (IM)UFUR).
Sources: INLURR, Markets for Sawrcd and Wood-based Panels, by M. Simula, Helsinki, June 30, 1982 (revised August 23, 1982).                         z
z
VIPQ)R and (XOPA/J. Poyry, Viphya Wood Industries Project, Blantyre, October 1983 (revised Nbvember 11, 1983). Bank estimaites.           x
Industry Department
April 1984



- 42 -
ANNEX 2-2
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Production and Imports of Panelboard
(m3)
Other Imports
Plywood and Blockboard          Particle                   Total
Production  Imports   Subtotal         Board   Fiberboard    Imports
1970           -        3,283       3,283         47         1,155         4,485
1975          3,755     4,339       8,094           5         1,370        5,714
1979          3,337     6,668      10,005          33        3,500         10,201
1980          3,363     8,592      11,955         -          1,230         9,822
1981          4,429      6,776     11,205          13         1,186         7,975
1982          5,280     8,935      14,215         -          2,155         11,090
Sources:  INDUFOR, Markets for Sawnwood and Wood-based Panels, by
M. Simula, Helsinki, June 30, 1982 (revised August 23, 1982).
VIPCOR and GOPA/J. Poyry, Viphya Wood Industries Project,
Blantyre, October 1983.
Industry Department
April 1984



- 43 -
ANNEX 3-1
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Consumption of Mechanical Wood Products
(000 mi)
Sawnwood                             Panelboard
Apparent                         Apparent
Produc-                      Consump-    Produc-  Imports  Consump-
tion a/  Imports  Exports    tion            tion       b/       tion
1967        20.02      8.60                28.62        -         -          -
1968        22.24      9.15                31.39        -         2.85       2.85
1969        22.68    12.00                 34.68        -         3.52       3.52
1970        27.47      8.76      0.90      35.33        -         3.70       3.70
1971        32.46      7.55      0.25      39.76        -         3.59       3.59
1972        36.14      8.38      0.96      43.56        -         3.19       3.19
1973        36.95      7.95      5.62      39.28        3.48      2.43       5.91
1974        37.17    10.55       1.80      45.92        4.19      4.89       9.08
1975        37.89    11.62       0.11      49.40        3.39      4.46       7.85
1976        37.13      5.66      0.10      42.69        3.69      3.66       7.35
1977        37.96      2.91      -         40.87        3.91      4.17       8.08
1978        41.97      2.80      0.01      44.76        3.46      9.06      12.52
1979        45.74      5.59      -         51.33        3.34      6.67      10.00
1980        40.33      4.84      0.07      45.10        3.36      8.59      11.95
1981        38.31      0.60      0.32      38.59        4.43      6.77      11.20
1982        38.33      0.60      -         38.93        5.28      8.94      14.22
a/  Production figures shown in Annex 2-3 are for April/March fiscal years
and have been adjusted to calendar years in this table.
b/  Net of re-exports which were 300 m3 and 1,810 m3, respectively, in 1980
and 1981. Fiberboard imports averaging 2,018 m3 annually in the last
four years not included.
Sources:  M. Simula, Markets for Sawnwood and Wood-based Panels for the
Viphya Wood Industries Project in Malawi, June 30, 1982.
VIPCOR/GOPA/Jaako Poyry, Viphya Wood Industries Project,
October 1983.
FIAG, Mechanical Wood Industries in Malawi (FIAG 80/24), October
1980.
Industry Department
April 1984



- 44 -
ANNEX 3-2
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Projected Production of the Mechanical Wood Industries In Malawi
('000 m-)
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1995
Softwood
Northern Region
Chikangawa                   -     3.2   4.6   5.8   6.5   6.5   6.5   6.5
Mazamba a/                   4.3   4.9   5.0   5.0   7.0   8.0   9.5  15.0
Subtotal North             4.3   8.1   9.8  10.8  13.5  14.5  16.0  21.5
Central Region
Dedza a/                     7.5   8.5   9.5  10.0  10.5  11.5  15.2  20.0
Southern Region
Zomba a/                     8.0   8.0   8.0   8.0   6.5   4.9   3.7
Blantyre                     3.0   3.0   3.0           -      -     -
Other b/                     2.0   2.0   2.0   3.0   3.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
Subtotal South            13.0  13.0  13.0  11.0   9.5   8.9   7.7   4.0
Total Sawn Softwood       24.8  29.6  32.3  31.8  33.0  34.9  38.9  45.5
Hardwood
Southern Region
TPL (Blantyre) c/           18.0  18.0  18.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
Other                        2.0   2.0   2.0   2.2   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5
Total Sawn Hardwood       20.0  20.0  20.0  22.2  22.5  22.5  22.5  22.5
Total Sawnwood            44.8  49.6  52.3  54.0  55.5  57.4  61.4  68.0
Of which from existing
mills                      44.8  46.4  47.5  48.2  49.0  50.9  54.9  61.5
Panelboard
Northern Region
Chikangawa                   -     7.5  10.5  13.5  15.0  15.0  15.0  15.0
Central Region                -     -      -      -     -      -     -      _
Southern Region
TPL (Blantyre)               6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   9.0  10.0  10.0
Total Panelboard           6.0  13.5  16.5  19.5  21.0  24.0  25.0  25.0
a/  Assuming these mills are substantially improved.
b/  Including small operations in all regions, but mainly in the South.
c/ TPL is shown as all hardwood production. Depending on log supply a
portion of output may shift to softwood.
Industry Department
July 1984



- 45 -
ANNEX 3-3
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Price of Imported Wood Products
(US$/m3)
Pine         Plywood b/      Block-
Sawnwood a/   A      B    C    board c/
FOB Ex-factory                            110         450  235  354      325
Inland Freight & Loading                   30          15   30    -         -
Ocean Freight, Insurance & Landing        120         135  155  150       145
Subtotal CIF Ocean Port             260         600  420  504       470
Railway Freight to Malawian Border         20          20   20   20        20
Insurance & Charges                        30          62   62   68       44
Subtotal Border Cost                310         682  502  592       534
Freight Border-Blantyre & Handling         40          50   50   50        50
CIF Blantyre Cost Excluding Duties        350         732  552  642      582
Duties                                     70         320  231  281      215
Blantyre Imported Cost               420      1,052  783  923       797
a/ From Canada.
b/  A = Finland; B = US Southeast; C = Singapore.
c/ From Singapore.
Sources: Shire Ltd. (from the ITM Group, UK), January 30, 1984. Jaako
Poyry, Helsinki, February 3, 1984.
Industry Department
April 1984



- 46 -
ANNEX 3-4
MAIAWI - WOOD INDXJSfUES RESRUCTURD[ PRSJECr
Projected Wood Requirents for Mechanical Processinga
('000 m-3 u.b.) b/
-                      kmal hVerages
1986- 1993- 2D00-
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990    1991    1992   92    99  2009
SOEfWODS
Northern Region
CiikaDgawa Sawixll c/      -    17.0  25.8  30.6  30.9c/  30.9C/  30.9  23.7  40.5  44.4
Mazamba                     8.8   9.0  11.0  13.0  13.0    13.0    13.0  12.1  13.0   5.2
Other d/                    0.9   0.9   1.2   1.5   1.8        2.1      2.4   1.8   2.7   3.0
9.7  31.9  43.2  54.5  59.2    59.5    59.8  52.6  60.1  52.6
Chikangawa Panelboard e/    -    11.5  16.1  20.7  23.Oe/  23.0    23.0  20.0  23.0  23.0
Subtotal Northern Region   9.7  38.4  55.1  65.8  68.7    69.0    69.3  57.6  79.2  75.6
Central Region
Dedza Sawmill              16.0  20.0  22.5  25.0  25.0    25.0    25.0  23.9  25.0  37.5
Other d/                    1.0   1.0   1.3   1.6   1.8        2.2      2.4   1.9   3.0   3.0
Subtotal Central Region  17.0  21.0  23.8  26.6  26.8    27.2    27.4  25.8  28.0  40.5
Southern Region
Zomba Sawmill              16.7  16.7  16.7  12.5   8.3    16.7    21.9  17.1  27.1  27.1
Blantyre Sawmill            8.3   8.3   8.3   8.3   8.3        6.2      3.1   6.2   -       -
Mulanje SawmiLil            -     4.2   6.2   7.3   8.3        8.3      8.3   7.3   8.3   8.3
Other Sawmills d/           1.8   1.8   2.5   3.1   3.7        4.4      5.2   3.8   6.8   6.8
26.8  31.0  33.7  31.2  28.6    35.6    38.5  34.4  42.2  42.2
TPL Panelboard f/           3.6   3.6   3.4   3.5   3.6        3.8      4.0   3.8   4.8   6.4
Zomba Panelboard           -      -      -      -     -        5.0    10.0   4.3  18.8  25.0
Subtotal Southern Region  30.4  34.6  37.1  34.7  32.2    44.4    52.5  42.5  65.8  73.6
Total Softwoods          57.1  94.0  116.0  127.1  127.7   140.6   149.2  125.9  173.0  189.7
HARDWOODS
1>brtbern Region
Other _/                    1.0   1.0   1.0   1.1   1.1        1.3      1.3   1.2   1.3   1.8
Central Region
Other cII                   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.3   1.3        1.5      1.5   1.3   1.5   2.1
Southern Region
TPL Panelboard I/          7.5   7.5   7.1   7.5   7.7         8.2      8.5   8.0  10.2  13.6
thlanje d/                 -      0.8   0.8   0.9   0.9        1.0      1.0   0.9   1.0   1.4
Other d/                    2.4   2.4   2.4   2.6   2.6        3.0      3.0   2.7   3.0   4.2
9.9  10.7  10.3  11.0  11.2    12.2    12.5  11.6  14.2  19.2
Total Hardwoods          12.1  12.9  12.5  13.4  13.6    15.0    15.3  14.1  17.0  23.1
Fiberboard g/                -      -      -      -     -        -        -     -      -      -
TOTAL WOOD RE(JUMXCIS  69.2  106.9  128.5  140.5  141.3   155.6   164.5  140.0  190.0 212.8
a/ Requirements have been estimated on tte basis of conversion factors of 0.48 for sawwood
processed in the Chikangawa, Zonba and Blantyre mills; 0.45 in Mazamba and 0.40 Xn t1e Dedza
sawmill (wiere it is now 0.39), lulanje and small operators. Thp- cornversion factor for plywood
has also been estinated at 0.40. For blockboard, consunption of sawlogs and peelers has been
taken from ()PE.
b/ Ukier bark.
c/ Caprising 27,000 m3(r) for sawnwood and 17,400 m3(r) for blockboard at ful capacity operation.
d/ Assxned distribution of requirenents from small operators and pit saws.
e/ Comprising 19,000 m3(r) for plywood and 4,000 m3(r) for blockboard at full capacity operation.
f/ Approximately two thirds of the plant output assuned to be in hardwood panelboard.
g/ Asswuing only sawmill waste is used.
Industry Department



- 47 -
ANNEX 4-1
WOOD INDUSTRIES CORPORATION LIMITED
BOARD
GENERAL MANAGER
0                    | ~~~~~~~~~~INT~EPNAL AUJDIT|
|ADMIRNIS0TRANTEILON         OPERATIONS   |             MARKETING            |     RNANCE     l
PERSONNEL ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~      KROG
{  MANAGEMENT |           -|   MAZAMBA1              {     DEPOIS    l         j   ACCOUNTS  |
STUDIESORE
_  SERVICES~ l                 EZ                     MZIMEBA_                    SOE
i I -ULONGWE
4    TIWNINH   4  ZOMBA    l  -ZKARORoWNoGA  -|OOTCMRL 
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -BLANTYRE
.~~~~~ .._..                      _       _-DEDZA  COL7LECllONSl
_    BLANTYRE                        _    ~~~~~~~~CLIENTS
_MITNANCE_                 STDE      |         _     SUIS
_ ENCGINESETRING  |    _ DSRBfO
WORK STUDY 
World Baxnk-26402



- 48 -                        ANNEX 4-2
Page 1
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Wood Industries Corporation
Establishment of Accounting and Control Systems
Objective        The main objective of the assignment
i.s to evaluate Wood Indus tries Corporation's financial
and managerial accounting needs, design an appropriate
system and ensure its implemerntati-on at the various levels
of the Wood Ir.dustries Corporati20i organization.
Means            Ln order t., achieve t.he above cbjective as
eif'ic iently and as expeditiously    as possible, proposals
are being sought from accounting fIrms to:
(a)  conduct a quick review 'of existing accounting
mrt-not s and prauti2es;
(b)  evail-utc the needs for rmrodern accurate .and timely
finanici'al recordiporting, and management
information and contr-o3 systems in lin, with
Wood Industries Corpor:. , Lon's corporate objectives;
(c)  design  arn appro1riate systems (s) taking into
account ttie need to move towards automating the
main features of the system (s) over the next
LwO oi r chre e years;
(de)  assist WIC in uhasnrg  .r the 'revamped
general and cost accounting systems over a
three,-six month period, this will involve
training of all accounting staff at the mills
and at headquartcrs, conducting seminars for
mariage,:ienL staffr, eviewing the operations of the
new sysL-.ems ir!cludinig testing quality of
transactions recording, and generally assisting
ln eniuring a smooth transition from the present
to the future organisation



-49 -                           ANNEX 4-2
Page 2
Consultant Staffing
The expected duration of the assignment is about
six months. It is felt that initially a team of perhaps
a senior and junior accountants will be able to identify
the needs and design the appropriate systems
subsequently, more intermittent inputs from the
consultant will be needed to oversee the implementation
of the systems.
Consultant Proposals
Proposals are invited to carry out the above
tasks. The proposals should contain a description of the
consultants proposed method of work and the expected
staffing and manpower assignments. A bar chart showing
all phases of activity and all staff assignments should
be included. The consultant should be prepared to start
work withing four weeks of being selected for the
assignment. The price bid should be in a separate
sealed envelope clearly marked. This will be opened only
after evaluations of the technical proposals have been
completed. As the assignment is of limited duration and
a definite product is to be achieved, i.e. theimplementation
of appropriate general and management accounting systems
at Wood Industries Corporation , only firm offers will
be entertained.
The selected consultant will be invited to
formally conclude a contract with WIC within one week
after the decision is communicated.
Industry Department
June 1984



- 50 -                      ANNEX 5-1
Page 1
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to WICO
OPERATION/PROJECT MANAGER (O/PM)
The Operations/Project Manager will have overall
responsibility for:-
(i) operation of the four mills of Wood Industries
Corporation
(ii)  preparation of required feasiblity investment
studies
(iii)  implementation of agreed modernization programmes
(iv)  coordination of all procurement according to
WB guidelines.
He will report to the General Manager of Wood Industries
Corporation. For operational matters, the four mill
managers will report to the Operations/Project Manager.
For personnel and administrative matters they will report
to the General Manager. The four mills will operate as
separate cost centres.
Capital expenditure (including working capital/spares)
plans for each mill investment proposals will be prepared
by the Operations/Project Manager working with mill managers
and the consultants as required. These plans/proposals
will be approved by the General Manager (or Board of
Directors) and World Bank prior to execution.
A training program for Wood Industries Corporation will
be developed with emphasis on developing qualified Malawian
staff for all positions of Wood Industries Corporation
with emphasis on maintenance. The Operations/Project
Manager will be working with a Malawi counterpart engineer
who will be trained to assume position by the end cf the
Operations/Project Manager assignment.
The Operations/Project Manager will coordinate mill
production plans with the marketing/sales manager.
The operating plans of the four mills will concentrate on
(i)  increased output, initially with one shift
operation
(ii)  improved product quality and specifications
(iii)  product diversification
(iv)  efficient manpower utilization (training and
manpower reduction)



- 51 _                          ANNEX 5-1
Page 2
(v) improved log supply system/coordination with
forestry
The operating plan for each mill contain sufficient
information/analysis to
(i) confirm the profitability of continued operation
of the mill (for a specified minimum period)
(ii) confirm the viability of the investment being
proposed
The duration of the assignment is expected to be a
minimum of 24 months.
MAZAMBA SAWMILL
The modernization plan will focus on bringing this mill
up to its 10,00 ma /y (one shift) capacity of:sawnwood
and- m3 /y of poles. An expartriate mill manager will
be appointed (separate TOR) to assist in this.
An investment plan will be prepared giving physical
discription and costs of
DEDZA SAWMILL
(1) replacement/additional plant equipment/parts
(2) redesign of plant and layout
(3) maintenance requirements
(4) additional equipment such as dryers
(5) improved logging systems
(6) log/product transport requirement
(7) utility system improvement
(8) ancilliary facilities such as housing
In addition consideration may be given to selling any mill to the
private sector or promoting any major expansion as a
joint venture between Wood Industries Corporation and
private sector
BLANTYRE SAWMILL
(1) replacement/additional plant equipment/parts
(2) redesign of plant and layout
(3) maintenance requirements
(4) additional equipment such as dryers



ANNEX 5-1
- 52 -                           Page 3
(5) improved logging systems
(6) log/product transport requirement
(7) utility system improvement
(8) ancilliary facilities such as housing
In addition consideration may be given to selling any mill to
the private sector or promoting any major expansion as a joint
venture between Wood Industries Corporation and private sector
ZOMBA SAWMILL
Key factors in assessing the rehabilitation of the Zomba Mill
will be
(i)  determining remaining useful life of equipment
(ii)  impact of other wood industries projects on
wood supply
(iii)  environmental factors
(iv)  timing of next major investment requirement for
mechanical wood industries (which could be based on
Zomba resources)
It is likely that emphasis will be on establishing a minimum
maintenance programme at least until decisions on the above
factors have been taken. In addition consideration may be
given to selling Zomba to the private sector of promoting any
major expenses as a joint venture between Wood Industries
Corporation private sector.
The modernization prgramme should be developed considering
the factors under Mazamaba Mill. Consideration should be
given to
(1)  pelletizing all sawdust wastes, semi-protable
units, to minimize storage area and environmental
impact. The pellets would be sold as wood fuel
substitute.
(ii)  moving product drying and storage facilities to other
location
* FINANCE MANAGER
The Finance Manager will have overall responsibility for the
financial management of Wood industries Corporation
including
(1) establishing appropriate financial and budgeting
and overall management information system
(2) preparation of annual budgets for Wood Industries
Corporation



-53 -                           ANNEX 5-1
Page 4
(3)  working with the designated auditors in preparing
audited financial statements for Wood Industries
Corporation
(4)  advising Wood Industries Corporation on any private
sector participation being considered.
(5)  determining (and, if so implementing) whether a
computerized system for financial accounts is
viable
He will report to the General Manager of Wood Industries
Corporation. Accountants at each mill will prepare financial
statements for each mill as separate cost centres. In this
regard they would report to the Finance Manager. For all
personal and administrative matters they will report to the
mill manager.
A training programme for financial management will be
established for Wood Industries Corporation. A counterpart
Malawi staff will be appointed as Finance Manager (alternate)
who will be trained by Finance Manager and takeover
responsibility for functions as appropriate.
The duration of the Finance Manager assignment will be a
minimum of 18 months, extendable at the option of Wood
Industries Corporation.
MARKETING/SALES MANAGER (MSM)
The Marketing/Sales Manager will overall responsibility for
(i)   developing dealer/agent domestic sales systems
(ii)   all product sales
(iii)   promoting export sales
(iv)   developing sales agreement with other companies
(v)   product marketing development
He will report to the General Manager of Wood Industries
Corporation. For marketing matters sales supervisors (ss)
at each sales depot will report to MSM.. For personnel
matters/administrative matters, the sales supervisors
will report to the MM of the mill to which they are attached
A training programme will be developed for Wood Industries
Corporation. A counterpart Malawi staff will be assigned
to MSM for training who will assume responsibility for all
functions as appropriate.
The duration of the assignment will be a minimum of 18 months



54                             ANNEX 5-1
Page 5
MAINTENANCE ADVISOR (MA)
The Maintenance Advisor will be primarily responsible
for assuring that each mill has qualified maintenance
staff with emphasis on saw maintenance.
He will report to the General Manager of Wood Industries
Corporation but within each mill the work could be
conducted under the MM
He will train saw doctors for each mill and develop a
training programme (including outside Malawi) so that new
as well as existing staff can be trained (including
refresher courses). He will train a senior maintenance
technician to takeover responsibility for subsequent saw
doctor training.



-55                             ANNEX 5-1
Page 6
TECHNICAL ADVISOR (TA)
A technical specialist is needed to assist the
Wood Industries Corporation in initiating a rehabilitation
progamme of its four existing sawnwood/wood products mills.
The Technical Advisor would:-
(i) review, with Wood Industries Corporation staff,
the critical spare parts/replacement requirements
for eBch mill and develop specifications
(ii)  assist WIC in procuring these using limited
international shopping (preparation of vendor
lists, budget estimates)
(iii)  assist WIC to obtain the services of long term
technical specialists required for the company's
rehabilitation programme. (TOR for these
assignments are attached). In this regard,
consideration should be given to experienced staff
who have worked under conditions similar to those
in Malawi. Costs of these long term staff are
important and consideration should be given to
attracting these services in. East Africa and
Asia as well as more traditional sources.
The duration of this assignment is expected to be
30 days.
Industry Department
June 1984



MALAWI
WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Prolect Implementation Schedule
_ S                  | YEAR           4984               1985                        1986                      1987                       1988                       1989                       1990
AAT *CERTI THCA3  4       1     2      3     4      1      2      3     4     _       2     3      4     -      2      3     4       1     2      3      4      1      2     3      4
A WAC RESTRUCTURING A TE-CHNICAL. ASSISTANCE
PROJEECT ORGANQ7AYlON
- RECRUITMENT OF TA PERSONNEL
- START UP ACTMTIES
- ORD LOAN EFFECTIPNESS
- MASTER SCHEDULE PREPARED
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
- TA PERSONNEL
-OPERATIONS MANAGER
MAZAMSA MILL MANAGER .
FHNANCE MANAGER
-MARKETNG MANAGER
MANTENANCE AD%ASOR
- FALL IMPRO41VMENTS & RESTRUJCTURING-
-MA2)A4&A                              _             _          _
- DEDZA                                 --Lu
- ZOMaA
B ELANTYRE
- FEASIBLITY STUDIES
- IMPLEMENTATION OF MAJOR CAPITAL INIESTMENTS
- PJRNINRE PLANT                                                   _
-GLUE LAMINATING PLANT(S)                                                 _    _
- DRYING KILNS MAZAMBA
DEDZ.A                                                                                                           =     =
- TIRAJNING PROGRAMS       DE.                                                                                                                           _
- ON-THE-JOE (MAINTENANCE/
SAN DOC1ORING)                                                 _ -    -             _
- OVERSEAS MANAGERIAL
-OTHER AD HOC PROGRAMS
8. IA TO GOVERN8AENI
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
- RECRUITMENT Of PROJECT MANAGER
- MASTER SCHEDULE PREPARED
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
- STUDIES    - CONSULTANT SELECTON                                                                _                                                                                                                                   n
- EXEMJION                                                        -
- DEMONSTRATIONS                                     _                                                    - _          -
WR4TU EOn-26405
Industry Department
November 1984



O              Co        or nn             a,   -o  W.   _0  In    0                   -                  _.                                                   -                    _         ~                                D
0s          0D  -,   -   n-C             0F  E-    01 -C                                 0                                 0                                  00                     1                                                            Iv=nD  rI  1n. -1o  
-                          - ---   -            -       -    -- O r,   -r -0  -1--
00                  1-''r              1-0            8-                                    0         -        0~       4o-  -4              00.a0-4                0         00.1lt ,a -.n00                         0 d       -       2     0~~
0              0J   0                                =    0.  0=                  00                      =    0   0.    0,  O                       ct                    0                                    0   0   0   0rb __ _                                                             4
0a..'0 0- -   -                                                                      -    -     -   B-  0                S0             00_ 3W O t                           X                     - 
a 00                             40      01        4 -                0                   0-                     131-11         40            11        C         0-            Il        0l    lb           0-       01         0    1-0,          0-1           1^ .<Dt@" 
Cl   -         10,1-1-            -       -   -                0   -.        -          - -- C                                                            -         -    - 1  -1   -             -         -1-           -       -   - -       -   - c
I-I-   010   0.r0. 0---                                                                                                                               - -      - ~     0-                                    - 
-      -    -    -          -        -0 -            0 -           - -                -                        l                                          -   -    -           -        -    -    -                                     ,-   -  
10                    0   0    00              0x-                                 4     0 0           -             .0          -0              00         ,.,                01   041        CO              0            =o       0             
0.      01                        0.10                             1-  4-.Jr-    In                                                    0-1                1-'  _  *  100                    0. 0                00                 0-0
o0  -                             10  0                            0   o         _    0    o.                                                                  0   o       o      o          0w1+  hoojozooo          
r.J s e w  row o  J n n_--                                          10 ,0O                                                 o_rn.  -  0  0 -  *   r 10_-  r                    0-             00 >g t( 
0                               0n                   r                               00                     0              0                  r.   o                      oooroooor- 0 v      0n.                 10          o      0   Qjr    DF
0  111  0    In   0                   0.            In             0                  100           3                   0                  0                  In~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~!  4o * 
O~~~~~~~~~~ O                                                                                                             OI                                                                                                                                    :l          I  OjO OOOOo I  04 Z  
Co        0-        I o           -0               _       0       10                           .0    n   o          I           o          C                                                                       roooooooO   o  o 0  o   o  oo      v I                             4-.          0
o0  o,1  4.1  0.   Ia Co  11   0           C    nIn= 0   o4             1.1  4-4       0o1                      . I.-   IJ o.   04  0.t In l   0    r  0 I                                        O  0n 0           CO   In _-I  cn  CO  0.0            4 40
_~~~~ ~~~~~~~ I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - ifl
Cooooo -v    CO   I       CO               o           IJ       cnoXn 0W                       _o   G o 0  Co     I               o                                        Co   o                                                                                                   n o.  ~.D r
0   -O110  -4   I 0   -    0   0    0   0 0.   n  10 0   0. 0  -4-  14  Cf  CO I   0    0    ICO             04  .14   O  C   0.1         0    1                                                              4-



- 58 -                                                                     ANNEX 6-1
Page 2
8t/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  TOTAL  TOTLR
- MlK '88      ------------    US'OOO--------------IBRD  Portion--------------
84/85  85/86  86/87  87/88  Total
ZP18R
Saw Doctoring                                   8      21       0       0      27     20 8            27       0       8      27
Overhaul/flainteance spares                    52      78       8       0    130      98      52      78       0       0    130
Freight, Insurance, Charges                    44      89       O       8    133    108       31      62       8       8      93
Price Contingencies                             2      17       0       O      19     14       1      15       0       0      16
Duties B Taxes                                 21      45       0       0      66      SO
Total equipment 2onba                         119    256        8       0    375    282       84    182        8       8    266
of which Base Cost                          96    194        0      8    290    218        83    167        O       0    250
Price Contingencies               2      17       0       0      19      14       1      15       0      a      16
Duties 6 Taxes                   21      45       0       0      66      58       0       0       0      0       0
8LRNTYRE
Maintenance Spares                             30       8       0       0      30      23     30       0       0       0      30
Freight, Installation, Insurance               25       0       0       0     25      19      18       0       0       8      18
Duties a Taxes                                 12       0       0       0      12       9
Total Spares Blantyre                          67       8       0       0     67      50      48       0       0       0      48
of which Base Cost                         55       O        0      O      55      42      48       0       8       0     48
Price Contingencies
Duties 6 Taxes                   12       0       0       0      12       9       8       8       0      8       0
OTHER
Furniture a Joinery Plant                       0       O    200    465    665    500          8       8    148    326    466
Glue Laminating Facilities                      8      30      78      O    188       75       0      21      49       0      70
Drying Kilns Mazamba                            0    275    275         8    558    414        O    193    193         O    386
Orying Kilns Dedza                              O       0    220    330    550    414          O       0    154    231    385
Freight, Installation, Insurance                0    156    390    405    951    715           8    109    273    284    666
Price Contingencies                             0      41    213    352    606    456          0      28    149    246    423
Duties a Taxes                                  0      92    251    285    628    472                                          0
Total Other Equipment                           0    594  1,619  1,837  4,050  3,845           8    351    958  1,087  2,396
of which 8ase Cost                           0    461  1,155  1,20D  2,816  2,118           O    323    889    841  1,973
Price Contingencies               0      41    213    352    606    456           0     28    149    246    423
Duties a Taxes                    8      92    251      285    628    472         8       0      8       0       0
TOIRL EQUIPMENT                                311  2,816  1,813  1,837  6,776  5,89S    173  1,844  1,094  1,087  4,198
of which 8ase Cozt                        230  1,936  1,195  1,891   4,451  3,330    199  1,544    840    765  3,304
Physical Contingencies           23    193    120    109    445    333          20    154       84      76    330
Price Contingencies               3    187    243    352    785    591            2    146    170    246    564
Duties & Taxes                   55    499    255    285  1,094    823            0       0      0       0       0
8 TR11NING6 B lECHNICRL RSSISTRNCE
MRZR8Rl
Mill Managenent                                93    160    146         0    399    300       84    144    131         0    359
Saw Doctoring B Maintenance Training            0      20       O       0     28      15       0      18       0       0      18
40       0     40      30                      36       8      36
Price Contingencies                             2      16      34       0     52      39       1      14      31       0      46
Total Training 8 1R Mazamba                    95    196    220         0    51i    384       85    176    198         0    459
8E828
Saw Doctoring 8 Maintenance Training            0      20       0       0     20      1S       Q      18       0       0      18
Price contingencies                             0       2       8       0       2      2       0       2       0       0       2
Intal training Dedza                            0      22       0       0     22      17       0      20       0       8      20
ZOM8R
Saw Doctoring 8 Maintenance Training            0      20       0       0     20      is       0      18       8       0      18
Price contingencies                             0       2       0       0       2      2       0       2       0       0       2
-Total training 2Zoba                            8      22       0       0      22     17       0      28       O       0      20



-o  -  -  oso           -               scC   rnr-.aa                -.a.                                -                          -                 o~~C         iC-fl                             -          -         C-C
CA-CC--CC   ~   CD   CAr-                                          r         -''-   C- C-          -            -              --,  --         -         C-C        C     C      .C~C           -    D C
CA  C-C  C-ft   C'  CA -'         C'   -C    CC-C CCCC~                 m- ---- ---C-C-DC- - i                                                                                                    -CC---C-    (D -                        - t    iC        C      t C
C-C-CA  CC  .0    0    ft                                       --- C---C----'--                                         -A ----                                  -C~ --                       C-        f          -
C  D  CA  CA      ci          CA         -         0                                                      -                      -   -        -      -         - -             -    --    -                 -C--- -                                          -C        - A -      -
-  CC-C  CA       CA   ~~~~~~~~~-                                                                        -C -C--i -C                                         -                                           CA                          -' C -            ft-   -      
-,                        PC-    CA                   C          -  C                       C          =          CA  CA                      C~ ~ ~~~~0 



60                                                                   ANNEX 6-1
Page 4
84/85    5/86  96.97  17/0        TDIRL  )00 HL
-- MN 500----------- -----1^$0!08 ---------------IBLRD Portion--------------
84.'Va    85/86  R6/A7  87X8,  Total
TOJO,L PRllJECT CO8STi O)                      880  4,0 2,5281,937    '653    7,28                  7.33  3,188  1,735  1,176  6 783
3E[H8itRL   053528 )  ) 50058811L581                            I9,,( -36'
TECHNICAL R8$I8TRNCE TOCfidUERNMENT
Consultant SerAies                               0    337    4R0        337   1,124        845        0    303      405    303  1,011
Dememstratioo  Hardware                          0      75    2O         15       300     ?22         0      75        2      5     30110
Physical Ooningencies                            0      41      66       35       142      107        0      38      62      32    132
Price Continyencies                              0      40     134      113      287       216        0      37     125      1-3   265
TOTRL T 0 TO 60UERNMENT                          0    493       60      500    1,853    1,393         0    453    802       453  1,708
ERON1 EN[ FEE ONf BRN  LOR[                       21                                 21       16       21                              21
TOT1 L FINNCIAS REQUIREC                         9401     013,388   2,437  11 ,527    8,667           754  3.641  2,537  1,629  8,512
Industry Department
November 1984



- 61 -                                                   ANNEX 6-2
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Bank Loan
(in US$ million)
t Expected
Board Date         05-Feb-85
, Effectiveness:     22-Apr-85
t                               t----------Part I -------             Part Z'------- ---------- Total Loan-------- -,
t Bank   Quarter                 Disb     X    Cum       X    Disb    0    Cun       0    Dish      Z    CuM      x    '
FY    ending                 in Qtr in Otr  Disb    CuM  in Qtrin Qtr  Dish    Cun  in Qtr in Qtr  Oisb    CUM   I
11985  31-Mar-85                  0.00  .O0   0.00    0.0  0,00    0. 0   0 00    0.0   0.0         0. 0   0.00    0.0 
30-Jun-85                0,34    6.6   0.34    6.6  0.02    1.3   0.02    1.3   0,35    5.5   0.35    5.5 t
1986  30-Sep-85                0.09    1.7   0.43    8.3  0.00       .o0  0,02    1.3   0.09    1.4   0.44    6.9  
31-Dec-85                0.30    5.8   0,72   14.1  0.01    0.4   0,02    1.6   0.30    4.8   0.75   11.6
31-Plar-96              0.39    7.6   1.11   21.7  0,03    2.0   0.05    3.6   0.41    6,5   1.16   18.11
30-Jun-86                0.51    9.9   1.62   31.6  0.06    4.6   0.11    8.2   0.57    8.8   1.72   26,9 1
11987  30-Sep-86                  0.67   13.2   2.29   44.8  0.09    6.7   0,19   14.9   0,76   11.9   2.48   38,8 1
31-Dec-86                0.64   12,4   2.93   57.2  0.10    8.0   0.29   22.9   0.74   11.6   3.22   50.4 1
31-Mar-87                0.39    7.7   3.32   64.9  0.10    7.5   0.39   30.4   0.49    7.6   3.71   58.0 1
t        30-Jun-87                0.29    5.6   3.61   70.6  0.11    8,6   0.50   39.0   0.40    6.2   4,11   64.21
1988  3t-Sep-87                0.36    7.0   3.97   77,5  0.15   11,9   0.65   50.9   0.51    8.0   4.62   72.2 1
31-Dec-87                0,35    6,9   4,32   84,4  0.17   13.4   0,82   64.2   0.52    8.2   5.15   80.41 
31--Mar-88               0,23    4,6   4.56   89.0  0.12    9,3   0.94   73.5   0.35    5.5   5.50   85.9 1
t        30-Jun-88                0.10    2.0   4.66   90.9  0.07    5.5   1.01   79.0   0.17    2.7   5.67   88.5 1
'1989  30-Se!p-88                 0.13    2.5   4.78   93.9  0.09    6.7   1,10   85.7   0.21    3.3   5.88   91.91
t 31-Dec-88              D        .12    2.4   4.91   95.9  0.D9    7.3   1.19   93.0   0.22    3.4   6,1R   95.3 1
t        31 -Mar-89               0.06    1,2   4.97   97.0  0.05    4.1   1.24   97.1   0.11    1.8   6.21   97.0 
30-Jun-89                .00    0.1   4.97   97.1  0.01    0.5   1,25   97.6   0.01    0.2   6.22   97.2 1
1990  30-Sep-89                0.04    0.8   5.01   97.9  0.01    0.4   1.25   98.0   0.04    0.7   6.26   97.9 1
t        31 -Dec-09               0.11    2,1   5.12  100.0   .00    0.3   1.26   98.3   0.11    1,8   6.38   99.7 1
1        31-Mlar-90               0.00    0.0   5.12  100.0   .00    0.2   1.26   98.5    .00    0.1   6.38   99.7 1
t        30-Jun-90                0.00    0.0   5.12  100.0  0.01    0.6   1.27   99.1   0.01    0.1   6.39   99.8 1
1991  30-Sep-90                0.00    0.0   5.12  100.0  0.01    0,4   1.27   99.5   0.01    0.1   6.39   99.9 1
31-Dec-90                0.00    0.0   5.12  100,0  0.01    0.6   1.28  100l.    0.01    0.1   6.40  100.0 1
31-Mar-91                0.00    D,0   5.12  100.0  0.00    0.0   1.28  100.0   0.00    0.0   6.40  100.0 1
Total Project           5.12  100.0   5.12  100.0  1.28  100.0   1.28  100.0   6.40  100.0   6.40  100.0 1
StIMRPY
FY 1985                  0.34    6.6   0.34    6.6  0.02    1.3   0.02    1.3   0.35    5.5   0.35    5.5 t
t        FY 1986                  1.28   25.0   1,62   31.6  0.09    7.0   0.11    8.2   1.37   21.4   1.72   26.9 1
FY 1987                  1.99   38.9   3.61   70.6  0.39   30,0   0.50   39.0   2.39   37.3   4.11   64.2 1
I        FY 1988                  1.04   2].4   4.66   90.9  0.51   40.0   1.01   79.0   1.56   24.3   5,67   88.551
FY 1909                  0.32    6.2   4.97   97.1  0.24   10.6   1.25   97.6   0.55    8.6   6.22   97.2 1
t        FY 1990                  0.15    2.9   5.12  100.0  0.02    1.5   1.27   99.1   0.17    2.6   6.39   99.8 1
FY 1991                  0.00    0.0   5.12  100.D0  0.01    0.9   1.29  100.0   0.01    0.2   6.40  100l.0
Total Project            5,12  100.0   5.12  100.0  1.2   I0WO   1.28  100.0   6.40  100.0   6.40  100.01
Industry Department
November 1984



- 62 -                               ANNEX 7-1
Page 1
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections
1.        The financial projections are prepared in current terms through
FY87/88, the year of project completion, and in constant FY87/88 terms
thereafter. Prices and production costs have been escalated from the
January 1984 base as follows:
Annual Escalation Rate (%)
Year                   Foreign           Local
1984                     3.5               12
1985                     8.0               11
1986                     9.0               10
1987                     9.0               10
1988                     9.0                9
2.        Details of production and sales buildup as well as assumed growth
rates for pole and furniture production are shown in detail in Annex 7-2.
3.        The average price for sawnwood is taken as follows:
Malawi - Prices Ex-Sawmills
MK/m3
Kiln-dried Softwood
First Grade               210
Second Grade              190
Shorts & Boxwood          130
Air-dried Softwood
First Grade               200
Second Grade              180
Shorts & Boxwood          120
The WICO mix typically comprises 45% first grade, 45% second grade and 10%
shorts. About 15% of all timber is sold at depots which add a further
MK 10/m3 to each price above, and about 15% overall is kiln dried.  The
selling price is expected to remain unchanged in real terms throughout the
projection period. However, the product mix would improve to about 40%
kiln dried by that time. Taking into account possible discounts on bulk
sales, the average prices (in 1983/84 terms) for sawnwood for all WICO
mills are assumed to grow as shown below:



- 63 -                            ANNEX 7-1
Page 2
Year                   Price (MK/m3)
1983/84 (Actual)             180
1984/85                      180
1985/86                      184
1986/87                      187
1987/88                      191
1988/89                      195
Revenue projections are shown in Annex 7-3.
4.        Production cost estimates are based on past trends, and except
for some improvement as regards vehicle running costs, due to replacement
of aged vehicles, no significant improvements in use of chemicals, labor
productivity, or use of power, water, etc., are assumed in the analysis.
5.        Depreciation is based on past trends.  Rates are as follows:
Buildings              -  20 years  -   5%
Plant                  -   R years  -  12.5%
Vehicles               -   4 years  -  25%
Furniture & Fittings  -  14 years  -   7%
Office Equipment       -   3 years  -  33.33%
Annual renewals are based on percentages of gross fixed assets of the prior
year and on average depreciation rates.  The projected Fixed Assets
Schedule is shown as Table 1 of Annex 7-1.
6.        No preferential tax treatment is assumed for the project.
7.        The financial rate of return calculations do not include interest
on surplus cash balances that may be reinvested.
8.        The Working Capital Schedule is shown as Annex 7-2.  The main
assumptions are:
Industry Department
November 1984



- 64 -                                                          ANNEX 7-2
page 1
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Wood Industries Corporation -Forecast Production and Sales Volumes
9.,zi 1   ;.4.J '95    "HE 6  ,,  : .  as , 't          i, Cl ,l  uf) 11   !1 V 92     129  7/     q95   95Y9
tactl,e V ---  - -- --- -----------------------  -DEf -------- ----- - -----------------
Produf i ion w;th, Project 1(r.3!
Sa;IliiDad;tolalS           17,,O17  ,77~~~~~91,   2n,27    22?Z  059   73,17  23 01 O 5  '13 lin    2: Js50Q  7IssQ   27-   1 j77   zs,s   3Q0 O,'  `9 QG
31entyre                                 e, j2 3,^'7    i,8)            2  11  2,09          D        ,'1 0              D) D1    j                            O
ZDriba~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 6,.13    i,             ' 797  87D000     f Pilol   psunoQ    a;Qo   6,D00        4,5.l0    31,)7s    0Z5l    [ 
aedza                                   rS,r5      7!       ,d1       ,9      0,2    1aaoQLi  ir,Uo                           MOOl i20[    744Q    172J)   '101Q000  MAUiO!
Maza,lba                                 IS  2s   7, 6b F tc,2  1, 3     lrs 10   soCt J] oo     s,o       6,50 C7s OfDl,lQ    000170
Zo,ba~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i o.q  0.9  },  O.S       0.5      D.52    0.5        D.5      05        0. 5/'    0.52o    0.5 (1c   . O
DeZ                                       D.l 90- Cf. 45    )D. 42    oj.5 sb    . 49 o,  . S2    o. 52    a. 572    o.        0 . 52    o52    f 52       a. 52
Oedz6la                                   Ol      0.9        . If,    O'.11    IJB      o.o 1  0.52 0.5                       0.l ,52  D. 52 0  0.80 ',2  o.-5
Leg requirefie,ents
9lantJre                 97$o4   7736s   679s52   s,66a    S796~~W~d   i,hl  o        o         t        O                    
Zr;ilbd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7    1 ,6I, I C37fCf3 15i1 U,728   15, E, -,PC                        38s 178 l,63l  3b4 679 ,l87t t
Pled-za                                 21, 9slh  1),91;   14751fi,6    790gsbf    9231  119,221  23~,077  27,692   32211  3s8,is2  38,i62
ilaza.;,bd~~~~~~~~~~~~-~ s73                 6,0^3 7,0    q,sql  1 c,.7,   1 o'g-L,  9 , n      2Soc  16,5                 1  ?9,     931  1.,3  7X
Lsro PUrJ ce5 at Fclaclqide 01KriD3
Blanlgtle                                             27       3D       -37                                                                RI 6 3i 36 3   6  36i  36
, 3Znba                            29        32       35        3q       39        39       33       39        X>9      39 3~~~~5  7 q9    39
7,3Z                                               2         24       27        2         9                                    -iq 29 2   29      29       29
rszi  b                                               15       17        1?0                2         1         l       2         2        2         3        ?3
F?eeae prir  pd  ,H Kli3                                  Al 29  2f  8      3          0       .        2          ,        ,         8        7        -17
year 2          5                                                        J ,     l 3 3                                  3
,sear~ ~ ~    ~     ~ ~      ~ ~~~~~~ 3j 1, 11 1,  1 0                               0 , Q          o.I     0  q     D
lhiriz 1,31e s ffo-,-- Blent:,r p                  0.M.9               ?.       0. 7     07        0.'      D.1      O.f       D.0.6              at7t
-Xih1a                     D.,2,     D.1      IJ1.1    Li,1      0.1I      0.1      M.       o1.o      D. 0     o.o       Q.       o.o
Fll ed a                    O.2    01.2 0.L2            0.2 o      ,  D.3  oB   X sf0.9 I.
trn)wth Pate Furilt;ji-e lonn                           .        .         .         .        .        .         o        .         o        .         o        .
Gr owlt  7t   te    rdr            n0.                          C.        Q1        .0        .0       .0        .0       .0       .0        .t       .G
Se;!nwood  eles withF'rutecE  ,i  1S7393   37396  l374  227lsD   s70.20  2s7so  2q,9R1 29 2       27 29739 C9  29,3297302 925?953  0D000
RAvecage Spww;rld,~   PriizeAKM/'r.-3;         !80 Cf    J, o       2      7q9      2,00      20,c     285l      2. S     205      285        a  285 H         Z85



- 65 -                                                        ANNEX 7-2
Page 2
Wood Industries Corporation - Working Capital Schedule
-IIK'30C  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---   ----- -----------
------------------------------------------vM'Q  '--------  -------   ------------  
83/84   8V/85      8-586   86/8?   87/88   88/80    89/9f8   9F1/91    91/92   Y92/i9     3V91   94,95   9S/96
(afc tual )----------------------------------------FR -8S ----------------------------------------
Currefit assets
Minimfum Cash                                263      205      238      268      294      278      218      276      286      299      382      30.3     311
flccounts f8eceiuable                        583      656   1,0D6   1,262   1,5 28       1  ,12   1,795   1,881    1,975   2,206   2,410   2,548   2,667
lesa: allowance for doubtfill account         67      118      203      2f3      40i      497      586      675      765      875      990   1,l 0Q   1,21 0
Net P,/R                                     516      538      8Q3      969   1 ,179   1,215   1,2019   1 ,206   1,209   1,331    1 ,420   i,447    i,457
Intentories
Raw Miaterialis ( Supplies                  304      367      439      512      574      S31      533      518      544      586      622      623      631
U-i-p fi Finiahed Goods                  l,lQS    1,736   2703Q   2.315   2,290   1,872   1,472   1,1(15    1,145   1,2I15   1,278   1,292   1,2(18
Spare Parts                                 134      168      328      403      474      435      4Cf      364      326      288      248      206      181
Total lnuenrfories                        1,543   7,278   2,796   3,238   3,339   2,838   2,486   1,4f87   2,016   2,088    2,148    2,121    2,021
Other Misrellanieous                          14       16       i7       19       21       23       25       28       30       33       37       40       44
Total Current astets                       2,3337   3,029   3,854   4,4 4,48    4,836   4,354   3,917    3,497   3,541    3,746   3,906   3,912   3,833
(exrluding surplus ca5hl
Current liabilities
Project 8uppliers payable                             755   2,693   1,406        935      199       (6)
Irade PaVable5                               155      348      4201   5Q7       567      529      542      534      559      598      634      640      648
Taxes Payable                                         ill      255      227      273      297      373      483      666      850      983   1,040   1,87
Current Maturfikes                             0        6        0        01    568   1,135   1,,135   1,136  I1.35 1 ,13S             667        0        (
Total Current Liabilities                     15   1,213   3,3 79   2,140   2,343   2,159   2,044   2,152   2,360   2,583   2,184   1,6709   i,935
Net Change  son-cash Currerfi assefs          348      750      793      602      32(1    (462        437)   (4(8)     35      196      152         5     (87)
Set change current liabilifies               (115)  1,08q   2,16f6  (1,2349)    365)   (751)   (1151    1OP.    208            222 -1   69         63      155
kexcl,current matuiri ie)             ------  ------  ------t  ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  ------  ------   ----    ------
Net Thanr,e warking Cap)tal                   463    (3Q8f 1 1.3   l7841          6i85     289    (322)    (526)   (174)       (26)    (1        (58)   (242)
Industry Department
November 1984



- 66 -                                                        ANNEX 7-3
Page 1
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Wood Industries Corporation - Forecast Income Statements
------------------------------------------------(MK'000)-------------------------------
83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91    91/92   92.93   93/94   94V9S   95/96
(actfal)----------------------------------------FORECRST------------------------------------------------
Sales Revenues
Sawnwood
Blantyre                                           517      685      659      S11      189       22         0        10       0        0        0        0
ZOnba                                              921   1,556   1,927   2,339   2,398   2,349   1,942   1,321              991      743      171        0
Oedza                                              743   1,294   1,734   2,358   2,771    2,907   2,936   3,116   3,740   4,488   5,236   5,42D
Mazamba                                           .376      699   1,013   1,393   1,503   1,483   1,773   2,158   2,605   2,710   2,710   2,710
1,875   2,558   4,234   S,333   6, 602   6,861    6,761   6,651    6,595   7,336   7,941    8,117   8,130
Poles
Blantyrp                                  477      525      543      581      621      633      644      656      668      681       693      706      719
Mazamba                                   119      131      181      218      259      292      326      363       402      443      486      532      581
596      657      724      798      880      924      970   1,019   1,070   1,123    1,180   1,239    1,301
furniture
Blantyre                                           342      395      456      552      607      638      663      676      683       690      697      704
2 DMbo                                              79       82       85       93       92       87        0         0        0        0        0        0
Dedza                                              1OS      131      160      204      235      256      357       364      368      372      375      379
456      526      608      702      849      934      981   1,020   1,040   1,051    1,061    1,072   1,083
Other                                       131      152      1 75     202      229      236      241      245        5  2   255       260      266      271
Total Sales Revenues                     3,057   3,892   5,741   7,03'    B,560   8.955   8,953   8,935    8,956   9,765  10,442  10,693  10,784
Production Costs
Logs (for sawnwood)
Blantyre                                           199      192      185      178        0        O 0       0        0        0        0        O        0
Zonba                                              403      495      566      609      594      594      445      334      251       188        0        0
Oedza                                              284      357      449      527      575  S563         563      676      071       973   1 ,126   1  26
Mazamba                                             90      125      174      20t,     203      201      263       348      420      428      437      446
lotal Logs                              1 ,199      976   1 ,169   i,374    1,16   1 ,373   1,38    ,271    1,358   11,401    1 ,9   1,563 1, 572
Other Materials                             45      389      437      411      5',7     537      561      586      fi07     628       650      673      697
Chemirals                                   73      10.?     1St      184      224      213      213      213      213      233       24q      255      257
Totai Ourect Materia1I                  1,217   1,4b'7   1,756   2,049   2,297   2, 13   2,132   2,070    2,178   2,342    2,48 2,491 2,526
Other Oariable Costs
Power f Uater                             113      158      2,:32     85      347      330      329      329       430     .359      384      394      397
Running Costs Uehicles                    357      445     4q8       570      642      538      541      S23      554      594      631       6310     639
fotatl Oariable Costs                   1,686   2,070   2,4Pf       12    3,?Rb   2,491    3,0022.922    3,06?   3,295   3,503   3,5S1               3,562
Fixed Costs
Salaries a Wages                          583      be7      792      F71     q8       915      9l5      91S      961      961       961      961    1,009
Mnai n nance
Roiiidngs                                 12      i9        210      24       30       34       34       35        36      37       38        38       39
Plant                                     49       bi      i0I      153      15 6     11       211      214      218      221       .22      228      229
Uehuiles                                1I5      !33       193      224      Z4)      26       284      3103     322      34Q      359      37B       383
Other                                     27       31       61      h64       t,       75       80       8         9D      q95      10D      1 05     106
Total maintenance                         213      248      383      465      497      535      609      637      665       693      721      749      757
Other fixed Costs                          22       74       7b       2        .3        35      38        42       4b       S1       56       62       68



- 67 -
ANNEX 7-3
Page 2
------------------------------(--                      K                  ---)-
83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91    91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96
(actU81) ----------------------------------------FORECRST-
Oepreciation
8uildings                                47       72       77      89      199      130      140    l4        148      149      152      156     158
Plant                                   227     298       418     628      739      695      594      714      724      726      734      743      196
Uehicles                                215     291      211      176      209      225      181       84       96       99      109      120     127
Other                                    11       10      31       59       i1       36       10       11       12       13       14       14       14
lotal Depreciation                       501      672      737     952   1,118   1,086        924      953      979      986   1,008   1,033       495
Istal fixed Costs                       1,319   1,630   1,938   2,31b   2,605   2,570   2,487   2,547   2,652   2,691    2,747   2,805   2,329
Total Manufacturing Costs               3,805   3,700   4.425   5,228   5,890   5,S61    5,488   5,469   5,713   5,986   6,249   6,320   5,891
less:Change in Inventories                352      727      526      43t      108    (500)   (433)   (418)        29       72       59      (26)   (101)
Total Cost of Goods Sold                2,654   2,973   3,899    4,794   5,782   6,061   6,921   5,887   5,685   5,914   6,190   6,346   5,991
Gross Profit                              404      919   1,842   2,211   2,778   2,894   3,032   3,048   3,271   3,851    4,252   4,347   4,793
Rdministrative Overhead
Salaries                                 157      166      175      185     195      195      195      195      195      195      195      195      195
Office Expenses                           55      6b        66       73       80 g     0       80       80       80       80       00       80       80
Insurance                                 33       36       4l1      44      48       48       48       48       48       48       48       48       48
Transport                                21        23       76      28        31      31       31       31                31       31       31      31
Other Mliscellaneous                      59       65       72       79       87      87       87       87       87       87       87       87       87
lotal OVerhead                            325      350      378      408      441     441      441      441      441      441      441      44l      441
Operating Profit                           79      569   1,465   1,833   2,338   2,463   2,591    2,607   2,831   3,410   3,812   3,906   4,352
Financial 8 Other Charges
Interest on Long Tern Debt                 0       51      135     383      641      730      670      545      t08      272      136       34       0
Rnortization                               0       30      251     455      527      527      527      318        0        0        0        0        0
Bad Debt Expense                                   46       St       86     106      128      134      134      134      134      147     157      160
Interest on Short term Oebt                         0        I        0        0       0        0        0        0        I        0        0        0
Subhotal                                   0      1"6      444     924   1,273   1,385   1,331         997      542      406      283      191     160
Interest & Other Inc-ome                    5        0        0        0      27      120      233      323      377      394      4O4      4t3     55S
Pre-tax profit(loss0                       84      442   1,020       909   1,091    1,188   1,493   1,933   2,665   3,398   3,933   4,159   4,747
less: taxes on incone                              221      510      455     546      594      746      966   1,333   1,699   1,967   2,080   2,373
het Incone                                 84      221      510      455     S46      594      746      966   1,333    1,699   1,966   2,080   2,373
Patios(i)
Operatliig Profit/Sales                    3       1iS      26       26       7       27       29       29       32       35       37       37       40
het incone/Sales                           z        6        9        7        6        7       8       11       15       17       19       19       22
Industry Department
November 1984



- 68 -                                                                    ANNEX 7-4
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
WOOD INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
Forecast Statement of Source and Application of Funds
-------------------------------------------------(K'000)------------------------------------------------
83184   84/85   95/86   86/87   87/89   88/89   89/90   90/91    91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96
(actual)----------------------- -----------------F8RECRSI------------------------------------------------
SOURCE
Net Income after taxes                          94      221       51Q      455      546       594      746      966   1,333   1,699    1,966   2,080   2,373
Rdd:Depreciation                               501      672.      737      952   1,118    1,086        924      953       979      986    1,008   1,033        495
Rnortization                                 0       30      251       455      527      527      527       318        0        0         a        o        0
Bad Debt Expense                             0       46       58       86       106      128      134       134      134      134      147       157      160
Interest Charges                             8       51      135      383       541      730      670      S45       408      272      136        34        0
Net Cash Flow ffom Operations                  585   1,019    1,692   2,330   2,937   },065   3,Q02   2,916   2,854   3,092   3,257   3,303   3,029
External sources
Proposed lR8 Loan                               8         8   1,480    2,939   1,640        546       284        8         8        8        8         0        8
Equi t y                                      316
Overdraft/Short tern loans                               8         0        0         0        8        8        8         0        8        8        8         8
Total External Sources                         316         0   1,480   2,939    1,648         546      204        0         0        0        0         8        8
Total Sources                                  902   1,019    3,172   5,270   4,577   3,610   3,206   2,916   2,854    3,092   3,257    3,303    3,029
RPPLICRTIOH
Capital Inuestrents B Punewals                 317   1,883    4,522   2,824   2,21.3          492      392     .39.3      393      .93      393       392      109
of which financed by debt                               1         3        2        1
financed by internal cash                1,082    4,519   2,823   2,211          442      392      393       393      393      393       392      109
Suoernment          317
Debt Seruice
Interest Charges                                0       51       135      383      641      730       670      545      408       772      136       34         0
Principal Repayrents                            8         0        8        O         0      568    1 135   1,135    1,135    1,135    1,135        567         0
lotal Debf Service                               0       51       1:35     383      641   1,298   1,8D5   1,680   1,543   1,407    1,271             601         0
Repayment of Short Term debt                               0        0        0         0        0        0        8         0        8        8         8        8
Dividends Paid                                                      0        O      409       491      534      672      870   1,19q   1,529    1,770   1,872
Uorking Capital
InriDec) in non-cash Current assets           348      750       79}3     602      3280     462)    437)    418)         35      196      1S2         5     (87
less Irnc(dec) in current liabilitie5   (115)  1, 89    2,166  (1,234)    (365c    1751)   (115)               108      288       222      169       63       155
(excluding current naturitoes)
Net Inc(Oec) in Uorking Capital                463    (308! (1,373(  1,041          685       289     (322)   (526       1174)    (261      117!       58)   (242)
Total appibcaouns                              780      825    3,284   5, 0 48   3,q47    2,570        i 41C    2'219   2.632   2,973    3,176   2,785    1,739
Net Inc(dec' in cash                           122      194      (1121    2         ;22   630    1,041  79 6  597        222       1l    8   81      598    1,29
Ca[sh  alance heg of year                      141      26.3      457      346      567   ,1,97   2,238   3,833   3,731    3,95.    4,071    4,15;2   4,75
Ending CaSh i,alnce                            263      457       346      567   1,1'47    2,238   3,033    3,731    3,952    4,071    4,152   4,750   6,040
Minimum Cash Veriured fot Operatouns           263      205       238      2 60     29         7       2         "7       7t9 9    294      302       303      31i
Surplus Casn                   O                        252       10      299      098   1 ,960   2,755    3,455    3,667   3,777   3,850   4,447   5,730
Ratfns:
Debt Service Coverage                                 20.0      12.5 b,Q           4.6       2.4      1,7      1.7      1.8                2.6      5.5        NR
Industry Department
November 1984



- 69 -                                                               ANNEX 7-5
Page 1
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
WOOD INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
Forecast Proforma Balance Sheets
-------------------------------------------------(MV000)-----------------------------------
83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89  8H/AD   90/91   91 /92   92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96
(actual) ----------------------------------------F0ORECST ------I-----------------------------------------
ASSETS
Current Rssets
Cash a Banks                               263      4S7      346      567     746      695      696     690      714      736     755      758      777
Short tern Investnents                                O 0      0        8     451   1,543   2,338   3,041   3,238   3,335   3,397   3,992   5,264
Accounts Receivable                        583      656   1,006   1,262   1,580   1,712   1,795   1,881   1,975   2,206   2,410   2,548   2,667
less: allouance for douhtful account        67      118      203     293      401      497     58tZ     675      765      875     990   1,10    1,2'1D
Net 8/R                                    516      538      803     969   1,179   1,215   1,209   1,206   1,209   1,331   1,420   1,447   i,457
Tnventories
Rawi Materials a Supplies                 304      367      439     512      574      531     533      518      544      586     622      623      631
U-i-p A Finished 5oods                  1,105   1,736   2,030   2,315   2,290   1,872   1,472   1,105   1,14S   1,215   1,27B   1,292   1,203
Spare Parts                               134      168      528       403    474      435      401     364      326      288     248      206      181
Total Inventories                        1,543   2,270   2,796   3,230   3,339   2,838   2,406   1,987   2,016   2,088   2,148   2,121   2,021
Other Plscellaneou5                         1,4      lb       17       19      21       23        5      28       30       33      37       40       ,4
Total Currenf Assets                      2,337   3,281    3,962   4,785   5,735   6,313   6,673   6, q5    7,208   7,523   7,756   8,359   9,563
Fixed Rssets
bross Ualue                              4,058   5,263   7,794  10,097  12,291  13,345  13,737  14,130  14,623  14,916  15,309  15,702  15,811
less: Accunmuated Depreciation           1,826   2,754   3,491   4,443   5,561   b,t47   7,571   8,524   9,503  10,489  11,498  12,531  13,026
Net Ualue                                 232   2,506   4,312   5,654   6,731   6,699   6,166   5,607   5,020   4,427   3,812   3,171   2,785
add: Uorks in progress                       0       78      737     544      562        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0
Iota' Fixed Assets                        2,232   2,584   5,039   6,198   7,293   6,699   6,166   5,607   S,020   4,427   3,812   3,171   2,785
Other Rssets (net)                            D      561   1,639   1,897   1,449        844      318        0       0        0        0       0        0
Total Assets                              4,569   6,425  18,64   1 2,881  14,476  13,856  13,157  12,558  12,228  11,950  11,568  11,530  12,348
LTILITIC 58 0 1QUITY
Current .iabilities
Project Supp,liers pdyable                   0      755   2,b93   1,406       935      199       (6)      0        0        0       0        0        0
Trade PaVables                             155      348      43U     507      567      52q     542      534      s5q      S98     634      640      648
Taxes Payable                                0      111      255     227      273      297     373      483      t66      850     983   1,040   1,187
Current Maturities                           0        0        0       D      S68   1,135   1,135   1,135   1,135   1,135         567        D        0
Shnort Term Debt                             0        0        0       n        0        0        0       D        a        0       0        0        0
Total Cjrrent Liabilifies                   155   1,213   3,379   2,140   2,343   2,159   2,044   2,152   2,360   2,583   2,1B4   1,679   1,835
Long Tern Liabilities
long Tern Debt igross value)                 0        0   1,480   4,420   6,060   6,605   6,010   6,810   6,810   6,810   6,810   6,810   6,810
le35: accunulated repay,ents                 8        0        0       0 D O           568   1,703   2,838   3,973   S,108   6,243   6,810   6,810
suh-total                                    0        0   1,480   4,420   6,060   6,037   5,107   3,972   2,837   1,702           567        0        8
less: current naturities                     0        0        O        0     568   1,135   1,135   1,135   1,135   1,135         567        0        0
Hef Long Tern Debt                            i       O   1,480   4,42D   5,492   4,902   3,972   2,837   1,702           567       0        0        0
Total Liabilities                           155   1,213   4,859   6,560   7,835   7,062   6,016   4,989   4,062   3,144   2,184   1,679   1,835



- 70 -
ANNEX 7-5
Page 2
------------- ----------------------------------- -(MK'8OO)------------------------------
933 84   PAf3'   PIS,'8   S6197   87/88   88./e9   051X9    9U!9'   91J9:J  92,'93   93/.i4   M.,)95   95/96
(actuia)----------------------------------------  FORENI3ST-----------------------------------------------
Equity e Retained Earnings
hiare Capit a'                           1,43   4,i74   4,674   4,674   4,674   4 ,74   4,6 74   4,674   4,674   4,674   4,674   4,674   4,674
Res3 eru   C Reiained earnings             2i1      53'7,   1 1Q7   1,.47   1,96f 2, 121      , 467   2,896   3,493   4 j127   4.71D    5,177    5,839
Tottal [qujtvy                           i41414   5,212   5,781   6,321    6,b,42   674 9      ,1$7    73578    81 66   8,8D1   9,384    9,85l  1,613
lotal Liabilite          Equity           4,569   6,42[; 1,640  12,881  14,476  13,85t,  13,157  12,558  12.228  11,960  11,568  11,538  12,348
Ratios'
CU!rem t Ratio              i5.I 2.         7           1,2          2.2      2.4      2.9     3.       3.2      3.1     2.9      3.6      6.8     5.2
! olro Debt/Erqui t9                     I,188   D.1DU   20.88    41.'.q   45.55   42,6I8O  36.64   27.73   17,83    6.94    ,188D   O.188   D.1OD
Industry Department
November 1984



- 71 -
ANNEX 7-6
Page 1
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
WOOD INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
Cost and Benefit Streams for Financial Rates of Return
(MK '000 - constant 1984 prices)
 - -                           -------------WithoutProject------------- l
Project Year             1 Capital  increment Cash Flow Cash Flow 1
Investment Wkg. Cap. bef.laxes aft.Taxes
Year 1  1984/85                   177       204     1,056        878
Year 2  1985/86            i      145       188       992        788
Year 3  1986/87            i      118      (204)    1 ,082       791
Year 4  1987/88                   130      (233)      802        664
Year S  1988/89                   152      (342)      876        656
Year 6  1989/90                    37      (186)      879        542
Year 7  1990/91            '       37      (135)    1,146        675
Year 8  1991/92                   3'7        12      1,163       687
Year 9  1992/93                    37        13      1,271       730
Year 10 1993/94            '       37        22     1,393        793
Year 11 1994/95            '       37        2'7    1,516        855
Year 12 1995/96            1     (493)   (6,270)    1,602        898
Financial Rates of Return
-   -   -   -   -  -   -    -   -   -  -   -  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I 
----     -With Project-----
Project Year                Capital  increment Cash Flow Cash Flow 1
!Investment Wkg. Cap. bef.Taxes aft.Taxes
- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Year 1  1984/85            1    1,083      (367)    1,240      1,019
Year 2  1985/86            1   4,522    (1,341)    2,202       1,692
Year 3  1986/87            ' 2,824        1,871     2,785      2,330
Year 4  1987/88            i   2,213        715     3,456      2,924
Year- 5  1988/89           i      492       268     3,539      3,005
Year 6  1989/90                   392      (321)    3,515      2,885
Year 7  1990/91                   393      ( 528)    3,590     2,755
Year 8  1991/92,                  393      (164)    3,810      2,665
Year 9  1992/93            1      393       (17)    4,397      2,895
Year 10 1993/94                   393       (17)    4,820      3,055
Year 11 1994/95            ,      392       (57)    4,940      3,082
Year 12 1995/96 9              (2,676)   (7,963)    4,847      2,751
Financial Rates of Return
~~~~~~~~~_ _  _         _ _  __ _ _  _'_  .__ .... .  ,_ .    ,  . . . .  .  .. , ,-   _, __ __-__ _____*___________,----



- 72 -                               ANNEX 7-6
Page 2
,-- ---Net Flows with Project -------
Project Year             1 Capital  incremnent Cash Flow Cash Flow
!investment Wkg. Cap. bef.Taxes aft.Taxes5
Year 1  1384/85                    906      (571)       184        141
Year 2  1985/86                  4,377    (1,529)    1,210         903
Year 3  1986/87                  2,707     2,075      1,703      1,540
Year 4  1987/88                  2,083       949      2,654      2,259
Year 5  1988/89                    340       610      2,662      2,349
Year 6  1989J90                    355       (136)    2,637      2,343
Year 7  1990/93 1                  355       (393)    2,414      2,080
Year 8  1991/92             ,      356       (176)    2,646      1,978
Year 9  1932/93                    356        (31)    3,126      2,165
Year 10 1993/94                    356        (39)    3,427      2,263
Year 11 1994/95                    356        (83)    3,424      2,227
Year 12 1995/96                 (2,183)   (1,693)    3,245       1,854
I      Financial Rates of Return
Net                  Net
Project Year               Benefits Bef. Taxes Benefits Aft. Taxes!
current con5t. 841  current const. 84
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -__  - - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____ -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ I_
Year 1  1984/85                   (151)     (198)      (194)      (237)
Year 2  1985/86             i   (1,638)   (1,692)   (1,945)   (1,945)1
Year 3  1986/87                 (3,078)   (2,565)   (3,242)   (2,688)i
Year 4  1987/88                   (378)     (429)      (772)      (699);
Year 5  1988/89             1    1,713      1,170     1,399        956 i
Year 6  1989/90             i    2,417     1,651      2,124      1,450 1
Year 7  1990/391                 2,451     1,674      2,117      1,446 1
Year 8  1991/92                  2,467      1,685     1,798      1, 228 1
Year 9  1992/93             1    2,801      1,913     1,839      1,256
Year 10 1993/94             1    3,110     2,124      1,946      1,329 1
Year 11 1994/95             i    3,152     2,153      1,354      1,335 1
Year 12 1995/96             i    7,121     4,864      5,730      3,913
I      Financial Rates of Return                        22.6                 14.5
Industry Department
November 1984



- 73 -                          ANNEX 8-1
MALAWI - WOOD INDUSTRIES RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Wood Industries Corporation
Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Rate of Return
(M,K '000 - constant 1984 prices
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   i- - - - - - - - - - - i- -- - - - - - - - -i - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - -
INet Benefit!  Adjustments at 1984 Prices        1 Net Econ.  I
I  Project Year  IBef. Taxes 1 Capital  I Working  1 Operating 1 Benefits
i                 'constant 841   Costs   ICap Changes,   Costs   :constant 84 1
1 Year 1  1984/85 1       (198)         (54)        571           (7)       (708):
1Year 2  1985/86 1      (1,692)        (460)      1,473          (60)     (2,646)'
1 Year 3  1986/87 1     (2,565)        (242)     (1,420)         (27)       (877)1
1Year 4  1987/88 1        (429)        (252)       (532)         (21)        376 1
1 Year S  1988/89 1      1,170                     (459)         (14)      1,644
1 Year 6  1989/90 1      1,651                       69          (18)      1,600
I Year 7  1990/91 1      1,674                      228          (20)      1,468
1Year 8  1991/92 '       1,685                      108          (24)      1,600 1
1Year 9  1992/93 1       1,913                       17          (24)      1,920 1
1Year 10 1993/94 1       2,124                       18          (25)      2,132 1
1 Year 11 1994/95 1      2,153                       22          (33)      2,164 1
IYear 12 1995/96 E       4,864                     (230)         114       4,980 1
!Economic Rate of Return                                                    25.0 1
-----------------I-_ ------- -- ------------ - -------------
Industry Department
November 1984






M A L A W I
WOOD INDUSTRIES PROJECT
*       Eist,ng prmnc,p.1 wood processing Ploits
Chikangoao prolect site
lo / ' NKARtNG,A $0 -                                              A ....... ... : Viphyp  plantation                                                                               lo,
KILOMIfERS 0      2.   40 60    B           100                                                                                          Road under desion
__________________.___.1__-R                                                                           Rood under construction
MILES 0          20        40         60                 ' 7                                     3$i                                00,00 roods
I b   j                                                            ip .  gRovel and eortk roods
......Roads being stoair
-s--------.ik Radwoys
./    Livingstonri    *          |-c          -             -          Rdilway under construction
Pi rtAT AU                           .MIowe \ Steamer roures
A' OR  7H -        RN                                                    Airports w-th scheduled services
iiw   t   R U M   /2,l  \   5                                     -   _  Rivers
\,. --r  _RuCEIS I              i                                                 Disric adnrinis,rrtivv centers
~~'~REG    0/V   ~~~~  -~~                               - D,istit bo-d-res
,   .  X REGd N  CyttS   '                    --=   - Regono! bou,dories
: 95 /-2SVteni i a '5 CY 2 D > -*-. ~~~~~~Inrernot onol Doundorins
bo) is {e    .    Qt0BciYa~ gBo-                        _
)UNTI5/
Z        M4B   I  A                     I  -2Ibainrw:                                      -  
-12 '_                                                 j             #       K H   g      c+g,,,,V12-_
<NKHOTAKOTA
K  AS  Uz N  G U               -'J=Ftkt
F. r -.- I l              M  O  Z A M  B I Q U E 
AVil Cabral
(Apn    MCIAJ           .'  [.  0;  W,  N                    LlM SII iBR,a j X
Ch,pc    M     mC H tN i I               DiongoDtri                                                                       I
t,_ , o 2 / ,, r Ca cOceci\ince  ora                                                                                                                                                14,
In inn                                           ;     M NA WvH I 7     GAAuc
Cvrmpuruiv  Tedenoorinutrcsy\                                                                       NC
ctand0 avdr Ce boiodriucv. cisorheI I f ,- 
t t Sm lia/ rse or World Buay unk Ce.                                                               J        j       t, - .        _.-f
tndthe rrtmoatrrabr Fivuvy e .C:, oVo,'ubroo .-.
dr orlocretr ohr Ceromeaulo                                                                     .1!atum                   m            ,
rnodoremadoRrit mp u y.i rtahe istz{(/f1 //  TTt_   f                                                                                     r
silch trutdanes X / % / ft Sf-- _ X Bantyz t > M>~~~A N G E C
ZAIRE    /    TAr iA                                     .\    C<hcloave                            Thtm
ANGOLA      $       l     {MLAt                             P    s9 \   2|KW.WATttOt 
0  ZA3A)>  A  M  B_                                                   \x    N, (<-St 
h- b        . p \,pd b/                                                                 ?N C  E                               Nay\ ANJE  N
C   ./<t.50TH0                                                                        \   \>  /| (                                                             Ct~~~~~~~~~~~~~S   1
_ OTHAFRICA                                                                                          . . -t.J af
0                   -                                                        .                                                 Js{;o Bend                 6u
on       T       B.s



