Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12855-LT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LITHUANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 4, 1994
Infrastructure Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



atc   WflNWfl
Currencyk - L*aLA) (eae talo    0 100 n por LA)
US$ 1 - 4.0 LA ( ofA       1994)
WEIG~I AND M04EA1=
bm         ~~bMils sable    r,                       kWh              kilowatt-our
3wi             Urkibh  mmaId uk                           '              cubic meters
Goal            g1aso(lotesMD                             WIt             nmills gm
GFwb             pal-or(mAfice kWh)                     MW               megmI (10' W)
ow              sipuml (mill.. kW)                      MVA              mvk.pr
GI              gi1jouk18,     ls)Pi                                      petiaoule (10U jabl)
kg              kilogrm                                  Ti               ta!*jcu (,ons joule)
kM2         s~qusms kilcesi                          TWh              bsawsa4hawou (10*2 Wh or
ko.             kilogra  Oil equivalut                                         one billion kWh)
kW              kiloma                                   t                too (metici, 1000 kg)
kV              kilovot                                  tamn            thouand cubi mater
ABBREVIATONS
AFBC            Ataxopberic Fliddized Bed Combustion
ATC             Actua Thermal Capackty
CEE             Cenal and Eastern Europe
CHP             Combined Hemi and Power (Pan)
CMEA            Council for Mutua Eoonomic Assistnc
DEL             Diaft Ener  LAW
DHE             District Heating Enkerprises
EBRD            European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ED              European Invesument Bank
EC              European Commkisaon (formerly Commission of the European Communkiies)
EPD             Environmenal Protection Department
ESR             Energy Secor Review
EU              European Union (formerly European Commnunity)
POD             Flue Gas Desufuiaio0Wn
4SU             Former Soviet Union
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GTCC            Ga Turbine Combined Cycle
GoL             Government of Lithuania
HOB             Heat-Only Boilers
HVDC            HhVolage Direc Current
IAA             International Atomic Enery Agency
ICB             International Competitve Bidding
IDC             Interet During ConBdCtion
IPA             Intenainal Energy Agency
1GCC            Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle
INPO            Institute for Nuclear Power Operations
EFS             Interconnected Power System (of the FSU)
LEI             Lithuania Energy Institute
LSPS            Lithuania State Power System
LTPP            Lithuania hernmal Power Plant
MOE             Mkiistry of Energy
PNDI            Power Network Design Institute
USAID           U.S. Agency for Interational Development
UCPEs            Union for the Coordination of Production and Transmission of Elctriity
USNRC           U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
USTDA           U.S. Trde Development Agency
VATES           StaE  Nuclear Power wnspectomte
WANO            Worl Organizalion of Nuclear Operators
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LITHUANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary
I.         The Economy              ...........................................                                                                   1
A.  Background and Recent Economic Developments    ...................                                                                 1
H.  The Energy Sector ........................                                                                                                    3
A.  Sector Overview    ........................................                                                                       3
B.  Structure of the Energy Sector   ...............................                                                                  5
C.  Main Institutions  ........................................                                                                       7
D.  Energy Strategy and Restructuring Plans   .........................                                                               9
E.  Pricing Policy  ..........................................                                                                       10
F.  Technical Assistance  ......................................                                                                     13
G.  Bank Strategy  and Experience  ................................                                                                  14
m.         The Project              ...........................................                                                                 15
A.  Project Objectives                     .......................................                                                  15
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement    ..............................                                                                 15
C.  Project Description                      ......................................                                                  15
D.  Detailed Project Description  ...............                                 ..          ................                       16
E.  Cost Estimate and Financing    ................................                                                                  18
F.  Procurement    ..........................................                                                                        19
G. Disbursement    ..21
H.  Project Preparation  and Implementation    ..........                                ...............                            22
I.  Reporting and  Monitoring    ..................................                                                                 23
J.  Project Supervision  .......................................                                                                    23
K.  Environmental Aspects   ......                       .......... ..                    ..................                        24
IV.        Financial Aspects                   .....................                          .....................                             26
A.  Past and Present Financial Performance of LSPS   ....................                                                           26
B.  Billing and Collection   .....................................                                                                  27
C.  Accounts and Audits ......................................                                                                      28
D.  Future Financial Performance  ................................                                                                  29
E.  Proposed  Electricity and Heat Tariffs   ...........................                                                            32
V.         Benefits and Risks    .......                   ............ ..                      ....................                            33
A.  Project Benefits .........................................                                                                      33
B.  Economic Analysis .......................................                                                                       34
C.  Project Risks   ..........................................                                                                      37
VI.        Agreements to be Reached  and Recommendation    ......................                                                               38
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Annexes:
Annex 2.1    Energy Demand Forecasts
2.2    Electricity Demand Forecasts
2.3    Organization Chart of the Energy Sector
2.4    Electricity System Data (generation, transmission, and distribution)
2.5    Organization Chart of LSPS
2.6   Statement of Energy Sector Development Policy and Srategy and Restructuring
Plan of Action for LSPS
3.1    Detailed Description of Thermal Unit Rehabilitation
3.2    Detailed Description of Electrical System Upgrading
3.3    Technical Assistance Component
3.4    Detailed Project Cost Tables
3.4A   List of Procurement Packages
3.4B   Disbursement Schedule
3.5   Implementation Schedule
3.5A   Performance Indicators
3.6   Supervision Plan
3.7    Environmental Aspects
4.1    Detailed Financial Statements
5.1    Demand Projections and Order of Merit Loading of Individual Power Plants
5.2    Project Economic Analysis
MaN:         IBRD Map no. 24405  Electric Power Facilities



LITHUANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJE-CT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                         Republic of Lithuania
Beneficiary:                      Lithuania State Power System  (LSPS), Ministry of Energy
(MoE)
Amount:                           USS 26.4 million equivalent
Terms*                            Seventeen years, including four years grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
bjectives;                        The objectives of the project are to: (i) improve the operating
efficiency of the electricity system thus reducing the amount of
imported fuel needed for its operation; (ii) improve the safety,
reliability and flexibility of the electricity system, thus reducing
power disruptions and facilitating economic load management;
(iii) provide support for the restructuring and commercialization
of LSPS, the national electricity agency, and for strengthening
sector institutions.
escrjtiRon                       'MThe proposed project consists of the following components: (i)
rehabilitation of thermal generating units, one unit at the
Elektrenai Power Station and two units at the Mazeikiai
combined-heat-and-power (CHP) station; (ii) upgrading of the
electricity system, including upgrading of the dispatch center in
Vilnius, system communications equipment, and replacement
equipment at substations, and (iii) technical assistance for the
restructuring of LSPS, institutional stengthening, and project
implementation. These components were chosen because they
are of high priority, can be implemented rapidly, would
maximize the impact of Bank funds, and bring about a beneficial
impact on the electricity subsector and prepare the electricity
system for interconnection with Western European networks.
The electricity components are complementary to an EBRD-
administered project (under a grant from the Nuclear Safety
Account).
rioect Benefits:                  The proposed project complies with the priorities outlined and
analyzed in the Bank's Energy Sector Review (Report No.
11867-LT) which emphasized the need for rehabilitation of
existing facilities, increased energy efficiency and regional
cooperation. In line with the above, the project would bring



- i -
about (a) efficiency improvement in energy use and hence
reduction of imported fuel requirements, and of operating
expenses; (b) improved safety and reliability of operation of
existing thermal units; (c) extension of life of existing facilities;
(d) reduction in pollutant emissions; (e) improved dispatching,
greater flexibility, and more economic operation of the electricity
transmission system; (f) increased ability to operate in the
present integrated regional electricity system and in future
interconnections; and (g) commercial management of LSPS and
improved service for electricity customers.
Risks:                            The major risks to the proposed project are that: (a) the GoL
will not allow electricity and heat tariffs to increase adequately
and will not set up an independent regulatory agency to set these
tariffs in the future, both of which are politically sensitive
matters; (b) the GoL will not allow LSPS to become an
autonomous commercial entity; and finally (c) LSPS' lack of
commercial experience may cause delays in project procurement
and implementation. These risks have been addressed through
the agreements reached with the Government and LSPS, the
covenants of the loan agreement, and the technical assistance
provided for the Government and LSPS.
Environmental Aspects.            Implementation of the proposed project is anticipated to have
positive environmental benefits from greater efficiency in the use
of imported fuels as a result of improvements in power and heat
generation efficiency and energy dispatching. Preparation of the
proposed project has included environmental studies consistent
with the requirements of the Lithuanian "Rules for the
Elaboration of 'Environmental Protection' Section of a Study
(RSN 153-93)" and the provisions of World Bank Operational
Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment." Environmental
reviews have been prepared, consistent with the requirements for
category "B" projects for component I, which concerns the
rehabilitation of thermal power units. Component II (Dispatch
Center at Vilnius and Transmission Line and Substation Upgrade
Subcomponents), and component m  (technical assistance) were
placed in environmental screening category "C" and did not
require enviromnental analysis.



Estimated Project Cost:
Million USS
ComRonent                                Lmoal  Foreign Tota
1.   Power Rehabilitation                        0.3      16.5  16.8
2.    Trans. & Elect. System Upgrade              0.4      4.6   5.0
3.    Technical Assistance                        0.2      1.5   1.7
Project Base Costs                          0.8     22.6  23.5
Physical Contingencies                      0.1      2.2   2.3
Price Contingencies                         1.9      1.5  3.4
Total Project Costs                         2.8     26.4  29.1
Interest during construction                0.0      3.8   3.8
Total Financing Required                    2.8     30.1  32.9
Financing Elan:
Million US$ Eguivalent
JLo&al    Foreign      w
IBRD                        0.0       26.4       26.4
LSPS                        2.7        3.4        6.1
GoL/Other                   0.1        0.4        0.4
Total                       2.8       30.1       32.9
Estimated Bank Disbursemet:1
IBRD Flscal Year ->    1995    1996    1927    1998   1222
Annual           (%)      10       22      34       24       8
(million US$)    2.6     5.8      9.0     6.8    2.1
Cumulative       (%)      10       32      66       92     100
(million US$)    2.6     8.4    17.4    24.2   26.4
Economic Rate of Return: 21.1%
1 Based on Standard Disbursement profile for Energy projects.






I. THE ECONOMY
A. Background and Recent Economic Developments
1.1    Lithuania has a territory of 65,200 square kilometers and a population of about 3.8 million
people. Since the renewal of its independence in March 1990, the country has embarked on an economic
reform program aimed at reorienting its economy from a centrally planned to a market system. The
reforms have been supported by two stand-by agreements with the IMF (October 1992 and October 1993)
and a US$ 60 million Rehabilitation Loan from the Bank, which became effective in October 1992.
Apart from the energy sector, the Bank has initiated project preparation and sector work in the
finance/enterprise, agriculture, social protection, transport, and environment sectors.
1.2    Lithuania has made substantial progress in its transition to a market economy, most notably in
the areas of price reform, privatization, trade reform, and the social safety net design. After a decline
of about 55% during the last three years, real GDP could stabilize and grow slightly in 1994. Monthly
inflation, which averaged 24% during 1992, decelerated rapidly during the first half of 1993, falling to
less than 1% in August, and after a temporary increase in the 4th quarter of 1993 again to about 2 % in
February 1994. This drop in inflation was due to overall tight fiscal and incomes policies in addition to
monetary discipline. For the period of the IMF's first standby agreement (ending September 1993),
Lithuania maintained a small surplus in the consolidated general government budget through a set of
policies that included measures such as sharp reductions in subsidies and government real wages.
Economy-wide, real wages in 1993 are estimated to have been 45% lower than in 1992, following a
decline of 17% in 1992. Open unemployment has remained low (around 1.5% of the labor force in
1993), but is expected to rise as underemployment through labor hoarding and short-time work reaches
its limits.
1.4    Despite serious monetary problems, Lithuania remained in the ruble zone until September 1992.
As a temporary measure to ease currency shortage, the Bank of Lithuania began, on May 1, 1992, to
issue coupons (talonas). A major tightening of monetary policy took place in April/May 1993, setting
the stage for the introduction of the national currency, the Litas (Lt), in June and July 1993, which since
its introduction has been under continuing appreciation pressure. The recent passage of the law on the
introduction of a currency board arrangement by Parliament represents a commendable step, which has
great potential to help consolidate and secure the achievements made so far and facilitate further progress
with stabilization.
1.6   In the area of structural reforms, Lithuania's privatization program has made major strides:
nearly all residential dwellings have been privatized, and as of end 1993, two thirds of enterprises
included in the privatization program (about half of all originally state-owned enterprises) had been
privatized. Relatively less progress had been made with land privatization, although measures have been
adopted to accelerate its speed. However, despite progress with privatization, enterprise management and
market conduct have not yet changed substantially, due in part to widely splintered ownership and/or a
resistance of employer and employee shareholders to change. Furthermore, despite drastic reductions
in direct subsidies from the budget and a nearly complete lack of long-term credit from the banking
system to enterprises, only partial progress has been made in the introduction of financial discipline
through improved accounting, bankruptcy and liquidation provisions, and treatment of enterprise arrears.
The authorities will need to address these issues and use technical assistance to liquidate non-viable state



- 2 -
enterprises while re-orienting viable ones.
1.8    After some significant reorganization over the past three years, the Lithuanian financial sector
today comprises the Central Bank of Lithuania, three specialized state banks (the Commercial Bank of
Lithuania, Savings Bank, and Agriculture Bank) that are undergoing privatization, and more than 20
commercial banks whose share in total deposits and assets is growing. However, the banking system
remains weak, and the financial situation of the state banks is fragile. Banking legislation and supervision
have been strengthened, but need to be improved further. The resolution of the portfolio problems
through careful operational and financial audits leading to a restructuring program for the banking sector
is an urgent priority which the authorities have just begun to address. Institutional support and technical
assistance to strengthen the healthy banks is also important.
1.9    Towards the end of 1990, the Lithuanian Government started to prepare changes in the structure
and administration of the inherited social programs, which became effective during 1991. Work on an
overall design of priorities and costing of Lithuania's social safety net programs, however, is just
beginning. In general, the Government's reform program aims to ensure that the costs of adjustment do
not fall disproportionately on the most vulnerable groups, while at the same time providing incentives to
facDitate the process of labor force adjustment, and keeping the budgetary costs of the social safety net
within manageable limits. One area of particular concern for energy sector policy is the integration of
special compensatory payments originally introduced to alleviate the social impact of steep energy price
increases into the general system of social assistance benefits, which are presently being reformed.



-3-
II. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Sector Overview
2.1    Overview. Lithuania's economy is challenged by six major problems in the energy sector. These
are: (1) high energy intensity and the need for energy efficiency and conservation; (2) limited domestic
energy resources; (3) almost total dependence on imported fuels from Russia and vulnerability to serious
supply disruptions; (4) declining exports owing to economic contraction, and disruption of trade in the
region; (5) rapid energy price escalation and difficulty in passing price increases through to final
consumers; and (6) issues related to the environment and to the safety of the Ignalina nuclear power plant.
These problems are complicated by the political transformation and the serious economic crisis described
in Chapter I.
2.2   Faced with these challenges, the Government of Lithuania (GoL) announced at the end of 1992,
that it would develop an energy strategy based on cost recovery from end-users, energy conservation, and
development of indigenous resources and requested technical assistance from international bilateral and
multilateral donors in formulating an appropriate strategy. An Energy Sector Review (ESR) was prepared
by the Bank in response to that request and in collaboration with Lithuanian institutions (Report No.
1 1867-LT, January 1994). A summary of the ESR main findings and recommendations is presented in
this chapter.
2.3   Energy Demand and Conservation. At 1.5 kg of oil equivalent per US$ 1 of GDP in 1990, the
energy intensity of the Lithuanian economy is quite high; it is several times higher than that in developed
western economies, although not as high as in some of the more industrial countries of the FSU. The
high energy intensity is due to previously low energy prices, inefficient methods of energy production
and use, high losses, obsolete equipment, and inadequate maintenance of facilities.
2.4   The ESR found that an accelerated economic reform program in Lithuania would not only lead
to a more rapid recovery in GDP, but also to much lower demand for energy. This conclusion is based
on a World Bank structural model that projects energy demand under various economic reform scenarios.
The results of the analysis show that, even under the "slow reforms" (high demand) scenario, demand
in the year 2000 will be about 75% of its 1990 level and will grow to 98% in 2010. The lower energy
demand that occurs under the "accelerated reform" program is largely due to a more rapid move away
from energy-intensive industries. Details of the three scenarios of energy forecasts are presented in
Annex 2.1. The forecasts for electricity demand, corresponding to the same three scenarios, are
presented in Annex 2.2. The ESR recommended that (a) the GoL should adopt an "accelerated reform"
program, leading to lower energy demand and higher GDP growth;and (b) energy conservation must be
an integral part of the country's economic reform program.
2.5    Domestic Energy Resources. Despite substantial excess capacity in oil refining and electricity
generation, Lithuania has very limited primary energy resources. Its indigenous resources supply only
2% of total energy demand; this makes the country extremely dependent on primary energy imports until
now supplied almost exclusively from Russia. There is some potential to further develop local resources
particularly on-shore and off-shore petroleum (about 50 and 100 million tons respectively), gas, and
geothermal fields but these resources are not adequate to reduce significantly Lithuania's dependence on
imports. The country also has peat deposits, but exploiting them may have negative environmental



-4-
consequences and, where warranted, must proceed very carefully. Renewable resources such as wood
fuels and forest waste can play an important role in the fuel supply mix particularly in supplying heat to
district heating systems.
2.6    Energy ImDorts/Security of Supply.  In 1991, the country imported 18 million tons of oil
equivalent (Mtoe), about 12 million tons of crude oil, and 6 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas. The
country's vulnerability because of its excessive dependence on imports was dramatized by severe fuel
shortages in 1992 and a gas cut-off in June 1993. With no harbor for alternative deliveries and only
Russian-controlled gas connections, supply disruptions became critical. Much of the disruption was due
to the inability to pay the asking price and to make payments in hard currency. Lithuania is also
dependent on imported nuclear fuel to operate its nuclear plant at Ignalina. However, because of nuclear
fuel's high energy density, it is much less susceptible to sudden supply disruptions than fossil fuels and
is therefore considered a more secure source of energy.
2.7    Since Lithuania has major interconnections with the energy networks of the FSU, it is expected
that Russia will remain Lithuania's main supplier of oil and gas at least in the short to medium term. In
view of this, the GoL is taking steps to increase the security of supply. These include: (a) negotiations
for long-term contracts to lock in supply of oil and gas at the most favorable terms; to facilitate the
resumption of normal trade relations with Russia, questions of pricing, terms and currency of payment
must be settled; (b) investigation of alternative crude oil unloading points such as the proposed oil
terminal on the Baltic Sea coast; (c) development of additional gas storage capability most likely by
cooperatively expanding the existing storage reservoir at Incukalns, Latvia; (d) negotiations of long-term
contracts with the Russian suppliers of nuclear fuel, possibly tying them to electricity exports to
Kaliningrad.
2.8    Energy Ex2orts. Until recently, Lithuania was a major exporter of refined petroleum products
and electricity. However, exports declined dramatically in 1992 and the first half of 1993 owing to the
economic contraction in the region, competition from Russian producers, and payment disputes. Over
the near term, this decline is expected to continue.
2.9    Energy Price Escalation. The low energy prices prevailing under the Former Soviet Union were
escalated rapidly after Lithuania independence and are currently at or near international levels. The
Government has made commendable efforts to liberalize prices of petroleum products and is now
regulating only prices for electricity, gas, and heat. This subject is discussed in more detail in Section
II-E.
2.10 Environmental Situation and Nuclear Safety. Lithuanian energy production and consumption
together with industrial plants have historically been responsible for the majority of air pollution in the
country. Lithuanian health authorities report human health effects associated with air pollution (sulfur
dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust) principally heart and respiratory diseases, especially bronchial asthma,
with pregnant women and children having higher rates of problems. In urban areas and towns, locally
significant air quality problems have occurred during the winter heating season as a result of heavy fuel
oil in low-efficiency boilers used for DH and building heating. Air pollution levels within Lithuania are
significantly lower than might be expected, given the level of energy consumption, because of the role
played in the energy network by the major nuclear power station at Ignalina (2,500 MW) which currently
provides 90% of electricity requirements. While levels of air pollution have declined during the last 2-3
years due to the decrease in economic activity, they should be expected to increase in the medium-to-



-5-
longer term as economic recovery occurs, unless energy conservation measures are adopted, and actions
are taken to control pollution. A major concern is the safety of the nuclear power plant Ignalina which
does nor comply with international standards. The international community and especially the Group of
Seven (G-7) industrialized countries have requested that the nuclear plants of Soviet design that lack the
required safety provisions be retired as soon as possible, taking also into account the energy demand in
the country and the alternative sources of power supply (this is further discussed in para. 2.14).
B. Structure of the Energy Sector
2.11 Lithuania's energy sector consists mainly of two energy conversion subsectors (electricity and
district heating) and one energy processing subsector (oil refining). In addition, there are the oil and gas
transmission and distribution enterprises.
The Electricity Subsector
2.12   The sector consists of thermal units with a capacity of about 2,570 MW which burn heavy fuel
oil (HFO) and natural gas, one small run-of-river hydro plant with a capacity of 106 MW, and one
nuclear power plant at Ignalina with an installed capacity of 3,000 MW derated for safety reasons to a
total of about 2,500 MW. The total fuel used in power plants in 1992 was 1.7 billion cubic meters (bcm)
of natural gas and 1.0 million tons of heavy fuel oil. The main generating assets and their characteristics
of the system are shown in Table 2.1.
2.13  The major issues dominating the Lithuanian electricity and district heating subsectors are: (1)
the safety concerns about the Ignalina nuclear power plant and hence its future role in the electricity
system; (2) the cost and supply of fossil fuels (heavy fuel and natural gas) for electricity and heat
production, and (3) the old age and poor condition of a number of generating units.
Table 21: Electricity Generating Assets In Lithuania (1991)
Power Station     Capacitya   Operation   Production (GWh)  Fuel Use
MW          h/y       gross      net      Mtce
Elektrenai TPP           1,800      4,861   8,748.6   8,379.3      2.883
Vilnius CHP               384       4,524   1,737.0   1,523.8      0.817
Kaunas CHP                 183      4,228     773.7     630.8      0.716
Mazeikiai CHP              194      3,121     605.4     532.6      0.384
Klaipeda                    11      4,153      44.8     25.50      0.118
Kaunas Hydro               106      3,234     326.0     324.6        -
Ignalina                 2,500      6,800  16,999.6  15,613.8
Total                    5,178             29,235.1  27,030.4
I/   Total caaity is exclusive of the Knuonis hydroelectric pumped storage facility which
comprise. 2 x 200 MW units and an additional 2 x 200 MW units under construction
and due to be completd in 1994 and 1995 respectively.



-6 -
2.14   The Ignalina nuclear power plant, consisting of two (RBMK) reactors of the same design as the
Chernobyl units, but of a later vintage, does not comply with internationally accepted standards of safety.
The Group of Seven industrialized countries (G-7) have asked for immediate safety upgrades and the
retirement of these "unsafe' units, as soon as possible. Presently, the Ignalina plant produces more than
90% of the country's electricity because the production cost is much lower than that of fossil-fired units
(given that its capital cost is considered sunk and is not taken into account in unit cost calculations). At
the request of the G-7, the GoL and the Ignalina plant management have signed an Agreement with the
Nuclear Safety Account (NSA) administered by the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD). The terms of the Agreement provide for a grant of about ECU 33 million to upgrade both
Ignalina units under an agreed program to retire unit I not later than June 30, 1998 unless certain
conditions prevail and the Lithuania State Nuclear Safety Inspectorate (VATESI) issues a re-licensing of
the plant'. A Safety Assessment to be completed by the end of 1995 may also recommend "alternative
operating regimes" for the reactors (Article B(b) of the Agreement), implying that both reactors may be
allowed to operate in a derated mode (750 to 900 MW each).
2.15   A number of thermal units burning oil and gas are old and inefficient. In addition, they lack
adequate control equipment, creating safety hazards for the operating staff and cause inefficiency.
Moreover, their lack of emission controls and use of high-sulfur fuel oil make them major polluters.
Since most of these units produce little power at the present time, there is little justification for their
extensive rehabilitation. However, some of these thermal units are combined-heat-and-power (CHP)
producers; as such, they are indispensable for a certain number of hours a year in providing heat to the
towns connected to district heating (DH) systems.
2.16   The transmission and distribution systems are well developed but bottlenecks may exist under
certain loading conditions and the equipment is obsolete, poorly maintained and with poor controls. The
dispatching of power has been performed from the Baltija Dispatch Center in Riga. Under the new
configuration and operating mode prevailing after the breakup of the FSU, the Vilnius Dispatch Center
is inadequately equipped to perform its functions. Interconnections with neighboring countries are
adequate with the exception of Poland with which no interconnection exists. More details of the
electricity system are given in Annex 2.4.
The District Heating Subsector
2.17   The central district heating (DH) system of providing heat is used widely in Lithuania as in most
other countries of the FSU. Normally, DH systems take advantage of low-grade heat produced at
combined-heat-and-power (CHP) thermal plants;  this heat would otherwise be rejected to the
environment. Heat-only boilers (HOB) generally supply peak demand and are located in the periphery
near the load centers. However, the structure encountered in Lithuania was not based on rational design
and economic principles, owing primarily to low prices prevailing up to now and a general tendency to
build centralized rather than distributed systems. In the present system, HOB supply 70% of the heat in
' Article B(e) of the Agreement states: " The Recipient shall stop electricity generation at Unit 1 at
the Project Facility whenever required by VATESI and in any case by 30 June 1998, unless: (i) VATESI,
taking into account the recommendations of the panel of experts mentioned in para. (b) above, agrees that
continued operation of the unit would be safe and issues a new license for that purpose; and (ii) the level
of electricity demand justifies investing in upgrades identified through the safety assessment mentioned
in para. (b), on a least-cost basis.



-7-
district heating systems and 30% comes from CHP plants. This creates a system that is not based on
least-cost supply. In addition, Lithuania's heat distribution networks suffer from high heat and water
losses because of poor design, construction and maintenance, and inefficient operation. The combined
energy losses from the water leakages and poor insulation have been estimated at about 30% of supply.
The ESR recommended that local authorities must give high priority to a DH rehabilitation program to
bring about energy savings (projected at about 25%) and service improvements. To reduce the country's
foreign exchange bill for HFO and gas, consideration should be given to the use of indigenous fuels
(wood chips and, possibly, peat) in small-to-medium, decentralized DH systems or local industries.
C. Main Institutions
Overall Institutional Structure
2.18   The Ministry of Energy (MoE) is presently the main policy-making and regulatory body for the
sector. The Lithuania Gas Company handles natural gas imports and transit matters while regional gas
enterprises are in charge of gas distribution to consumers. The Lithuanian Fuel Company and its thirteen
distributors handle the distribution of refined products. 'Nafta' is the state enterprise owning and
operating the Mazeikiai refinery with a capacity of about 12 million tons of crude per year. Electricity
is produced by two enterprises: the Lithuania State Power System (LSPS) and the Nuclear Power Plant
Ignalina (NPPI). LSPS owns and operates thermal plants and a small hydro plant with a total capacity
of 2,680 MW and NPPI represents a capacity of about 2,500 MW. The formerly independent district
heating companies of major cities as well as the regional district heating enterprise Siluma were
consolidated into LSPS in the summer/fall of 1993. The sector is also served by a number of other
institutions such as the Lithuania Energy Institute and the Power Network Design Institute both in
Kaunas. The Baltic Cooperation Council has an energy committee that promotes cooperation between
the energy ministries of the three Baltic countries through regular meetings. Three regulatory bodies have
been established - the Environmental Protection Department (EPD), the Lithuania State Nuclear Safety
Inspectorate (VATESI), and the Energy Pricing Council (EPC).
2.19   Energy sector enterprises are predominantly state-owned monopolies. The energy enterprises
show the general pattern of Former Soviet Union (FSU) state enterprises with clear evidence of
inefficiency and with the following characteristics: (i) large and monolithic; (ii) carrying out functions
which are typically the responsibility of government or of independent agencies such as policy making,
regulation and supervision and including research and manufacturing functions; and (iii) integrating all
activities, without specialization in areas such as production, transport, distribution and trading. Although
the individual enterprises are largely autonomous in day-to-day operations, MoE appoints the general
directors and is instrumental in establishing policy, administering subsidies, and negotiating with the GoL
on pricing. A schematic diagram of the structure of the energy sector entities is shown in Annex 2.3.
Ministry of Energy (MoE!
2.20 The Ministry of Energy (MoE) is headed by the Minister of Energy, two Deputy Ministers, and
two Acting Deputy Ministers who are currently also the General Directors of LSPS and the Mazeikiai
refinery (Nafta). In the fall of 1993, MoE separated about three quarters of its staff to a newly created,
state-owned Energy Agency while retaining about one fourth for its core activities. This Agency exists
outside the rules and compensation scales of the civil service structure and operates with greater flexibility



in performing tasks for MoE. Its work encompasses energy strategy and policy formulation, coordination
of energy sector activities, data gathering and processing, energy conservation, promotion and
coordination, and related tasks. MoE is making progress in redefining its role as a Government
department charged with policy making, coordination, and data gathering as distinct from owner,
operator, and regulator of the energy companies and facilities.
Lithuania State Power System (LSPS)
2.21   With the exception of the nuclear power plant Ignalina, the electricity system as well as heating
systems, including generation, transmission, and distribution, is under the authority of the Lithuania State
Power System (LSPS), which is a state enterprise established prior to World War H with the purpose of
managing, developing, and providing electricity and heat services throughout the country. Since
Lithuania's independence from the Soviet Union, LSPS has been re-established under the Law on State
Enterprises. Its headquarters's staff provide administrative and technical support for its various affiliates
which include: (a) six power stations which generate electricity for sale through LSPS on a wholesale
basis to regional power transmission and distribution enterprises, (b) six regional district heating and a
number of smaller district heating enterprises, (c) seven electricity distribution companies and (d) other
related enterprises (e.g., data processing, electric meter production and maintenance, and procurement).
LSPS also purchases all electricity produced by the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant for domestic usage and
export and negotiates and manages all electricity import, transit and export contracts.
2.22   LSPS's organizational structure at its headquarters currently consists of five departments for:
engineering, economics, capital construction, administration and personnel. The engineering department,
the largest unit in LSPS, has four divisions for (a) energy production operations, equipment and
environmental protection; (b) operation of the dispatch center; (c) operation of control services; and (d)
security and industrial safety services. The six affiliated power stations and six regional district heating
enterprises report to the engineering department for technical support and control. LSPS's headquarters'
staff, and power production and district heating systems' personnel, currently total 289, 3680 and 2932,
respectively. A diagram of the LSPS organization is shown in Annex 2.5.
2.23   Following independence, the distribution companies and one district heating company were
separated from LSPS in an attempt to break up a previously huge monopoly in the energy sector.
However, a true separation of finances was never completely implemented and these activities were
reconsolidated under LSPS in the third quarter of 1993. Siluma, a company managing small regional
boilers and associated district heating systems, was also consolidated under LSPS, thus making the
company the sole owner and operator of electricity and district heating systems in the country. The only
company in the electricity and heat subsector that is not formally under LSPS control is the Ignalina
nuclear power plant.
2.24   Commercial Status of LSPS. The Bank has examined the Law on Enterprises (May 8, 1990),
the Law on State Enterprises (September 25, 1990), the Specific State Owned Enterprise Regulations
(February 22, 1991) and the Registration Certificate of LSPS, including accompanying Regulations
(March 27, 1991). According to these laws, LSPS is a separate legal entity registered under the Law on
State Enterprises (SOE Law), as it relates to enterprises with a specific purpose. Under the SOE Law,
LSPS may carry out a wide variety of commercial and economic activities, including having its own bank
accounts in Lithuania or foreign countries and using the funds deposited therein; making contracts on



-9 -
giving or obtaining loans and fixing their interest rates; establishing economic and trade relations with
domestic and foreign partners and promoting commercial activities. These commercial/economic
activities are directed by a Board of Directors that is appointed by the General Director who is appointed
by the Minister of Energy. During negotiations, the Bank was informed that a new Draft Law of State
Stock Companies has been prepared and submitted to Parliament. This draft law would establish the State
Stock Companies and place each of them under a Board of Supervisors, as is the international commercial
practice with autonomous commercial entities. Although the time of enactment of this law is not known,
it is expected that it would be enacted by July 1, 1995.
2.25   Although LSPS is a separate legal entity, its independence in managerial and financial matters
is limited. For example, the "Founder' of LSPS (the Minister of Energy), under the Regulations
governing Specific State Owned Enterprises, has explicit powers over LSPS such as: limiting its ability
to invest capital in non-electricity entities; determining obligatory services and standards of quality;
limiting its ability to use hard currency; provision for Government orders for certain services to the state;
determining the selection of the Board of Directors; and "fixing the annual income of the enterprise'
(applying financial restrictions on its income). In addition, the present dual appointment of the General
Director as a Deputy Minister of Energy indicates a substantial overlap between LSPS and the
Government and daily interference by the Government in the affairs of LSPS. A number of these
deficiencies are expected to be corrected in the process of LSPS restructuring according to the
Restructuring Plan of Action (para. 2.28). However, in order to indicate the commitment of the
Government to proceed toward full commercialization of LSPS, measures should be taken, as soon as
possible, to increase in practice the independence of LSPS from the Government. In order for the
Government to indicate its commitment toward full autonomy and commercialization of LSPS, it was
agreed during negotiations, that it would be a condition of effectiveness that the Government eliminate
the dual appointment of the General Director of LSPS as an Deputy Minister of Energy (para. 6.3(a).
D. Energy Strategy and Restructuring Plans
2.26   The GoL has set up a policy for the institutional restructuring of the sector which seeks a modern,
lean and efficient institutional set up for sector enterprises under key principles that are in line with those
of its national energy policy and strategy. The objectives pursued include to: (a) separate the roles of
government as policy maker and regulator from those of owner and manager of enterprises; (b) keep
under energy enterprises only the core functions and transfer to other institutions and to the private sector
non-core functions such as research, construction and manufacturing; (c) separate activities, such as
electricity, gas and heat distribution, from production and transmission, according to specialization; and
(d) transfer to municipalities or to the private sector those systems which are not considered of "national
importance".
2.27   During the last three years, a commission chaired by the Deputy Minister of Energy has been
working on a Draft Energy Law (DEL). The Bank, in cooperation with the Danish Energy Agency
(DEA), has participated as facilitator in several discussions held during 1993 to review the DEL and was
instrumental in bringing about significant improvements. The basic objective of this law is to set the
basic policy principles under which sector activities should develop and to constitute an umbrella law
under which the specific subsector legislation and regulations can be designed. The DEL has been
presented to the Seimas (Parliament) but its review and ultimate passage may take some time because of



- 10-
the bacldog in proposed legislation.
2.28   The Bank has recommended that the energy sector be restructured in order to (a) establish
autonomous energy enterprises and commercialize their activities; (b) develop a proper regulatory
framework to protect the interests of consumers and ensure the financial viability of energy enterprises;
and (c) develop a legal framework for each energy subsector.  For the electricity subsector, a
Restructuring Plan of Action (Plan of Action) has been prepared by the Government and discussed with
during negotiations (see attachment in Annex 2.63. The Plan of Action is structured in five phases, for
implementing gradual and parallel reforms, including: (a) establishing an energy regulatory agency to
oversee both pricing and technical standards in the energy sector and (b) commercializing LSPS and
corporatizing all sector service units and companies. The condition for negotiations that the Government
issue a Decree creating an energy regulatory agency according to the above principles and appoint its core
personnel was fulfilled through the Decree issued on March 23, 1994, establishing an Energy Pricing
Council (EPC) and appointing eleven members to serve on it. The detailed charter of EPC, including
functions, rules, methodologies, and practices, would be elaborated under the Regulatory Framework
Assistance subcomponent provided in the loan.
The Statement of Sector Development Policy and Strategy
2.29   Since the DEL has not yet been enacted, a Statement of Sector Development Policy and Strategy
(the Statement) has been prepared by the Government and discussed with the Bank during negotiations
(Anne 2.6). The Statement reflects the objectives and basic principles set by the GoL for the sector
restructuring. Attached to the Statement was also a final version of the Plan of Action with dates for each
action and clear definitions for each of the steps included. It was agreed, during negotiations, that X
Government and LSPS will carry out the restructuring Plan of Action in accordance with the indicated
timetable (para. 6. 1(a)).
2.30   The World Bank supports the agreement reached between GoL and EBRD for a grant from the
Nuclear Safety Account to upgrade the Ignalina nuclear plant. The Statement makes a specific
commitment to fulfilling the obligations agreed with the EBRD under the Nuclear Safety Account grant.
2.31   The Statement also indicates that the Goverwnent will prepare a least-cost development plan for
the power sector, taking into account the scenarios contained in the Nuclear Safety Account Agreement.
After review of the development plan and agreement on its conclusions, the World Bank, as requested
by the G-7, will assist GoL in defining and mobilizing financing for power development, as needed. To
start the process, Terms of Reference (TOR) for the preparation of the Plan were given to the Lithuanian
delegation during negotiations for their consideration. Duriny negotiations. it was agreed that the first
draft of the least-cost development plan. taking into account the possible scenarios contained in the
Agreement. would be completed by June 30. 1995 (para. 6.1(b)).
E. Pricing Policy
2.32   After decades of centrally administered prices under the Communist system, the process of price
liberalization in Lithuania began in 1990. Presently, prices are regulated only for energy (electricity,
natural gas and heating), transport, and communications. With the exception of residential heating, all



- 11 -
other energy prices reflect full cost recovery, however, the average costs of regulated energy products
are underestimated primarily because depreciation is based on historical costs, which are far below
replacement costs, and is below the level required for adequate maintenance of existing assets. Implicit
cross-subsidies for residential heating were included in electricity tariffs and heat tariffs charged to
industrial consumers, but have largely been eroded by LSPS' increasing (fuel-related) electricity operating
costs. An excise tax of 10% is charged on electricity sales, and varying levels of taxes are applied to
the sale of petroleum products. Gas supplied for home heating is also subsidized at a level to equalize
the price of district heating and gas. Prices of all petroleum fuels, and the price of coal, were liberalized
in spring 1993 and are set by market forces. Import prices of gas and crude oil are negotiated between
suppliers and buyers, and are close to world market levels. Electricity export tariffs and transit fees are
negotiated between LSPS and importers/suppliers. Electricity, heat and gas tariffs and rate structures as
of December 1993 are presented in Table 2.2.
Table 2.2: Energy Tariffs
(December 1993)
Residential                  NnR, sidai1al 
En1m TM                               NiRht    Other Hours                   (ff
'ik       Peak m
Electricity, Lt cents/kWh'               4.0             8.0  11.2/12.4       4.0   7.5/8.0
% Increase over 12 months                 -           (38%)                           (38%)
Heating & Hot Water, Lt/Gcal               -            18.6          -         -      75.0
% Increase over 12 months                            (520%)                          (-14%)
Gas, Lt/1000 m3     Heating                -              55           -        -       378
Other               -             315           -         -       378
Peak and off-peak charges only for those consumers who have time-of-day metering
I      LArge industrial consumers (>750-kV load) pay the lower rates and a capacity fee of 3 LtIkW/month.
Electricity tariffs include a 10% excise tax (not charged on heat).
2      Electricity is purchased from the Ignalina nuclear power plant for 4.29 LU cents/kWh (fuel cost 2.33 LU
cents/kWh). LSPS' average thernal power generation costs are about 9.9 It cents/kWh (fuel cost 7.1 LU
cents/kWh). Electricity exports are priced at 0.025 German Marks/kWh (5.6 Ut cents/kWh) and electricity
transit fees are 8.3% (in kind) of the transit amount.
2.33   The Office of Pricing and Competition was established in 1982 within the Ministry of Economy
to set and administer prices. Since August 1993, this office has reported directly to the Council of
Ministers and was responsible for coordinating price liberalization with the development of competitive
market structures. Costs and tariffs are reviewed on a quarterly basis upon requests made by the
concerned state enterprises to the Government. Adjustments had to be approved by the Office of Pricing
and Competition. In March 1994, an Energy Pricing Council was established by Government Decree
with a mandate to receive and examine proposals for energy price adjustments and make
recommendations to the Government for final approval (para. 2.28). The Government's decision is
usually based on a combination of political, economic and financial considerations. Although the GoL
has made considerable progress in eliminating distortions in energy prices, household energy remains a
politically sensitive area. Price distortions in this area need to be removed if price signals are to assist



- 12 -
in rationalizing energy consumption, and in providing sufficient resources to sector enterprises for them
to serve energy demand at the least long-run marginal cost.
Electricity and Heating Tariffs
2.34   Currently, residential heat tariffs are established based on the GoL's assessment of consumer
ability to pay. LSPS is compensated for the estimated difference between the cost of service and the heat
tariff through: (a) an (implicit) cross-subsidization by electricity tariffs (which are set above the average
cost of supply); and (b) a direct subsidy from the Government budget paid at the end of the fiscal year.
Electricity tariffs are, therefore, linked to heat tariffs and to consumer ability to pay. A profit margin
equal to 10% of assets is included in the tariff. Additional implicit subsidies are also provided to LSPS
in the form of low interest Government-guaranteed credits for working capital (mainly fuel imports) and
other capital investments. The impact of the current electricity and heating prices on the financial
condition of LSPS are discussed in Chapter IV. The main weaknesses in tariff policy are:
*      Erosion of revenues from cross-subsidization due to escalating costs of electricity supply;
*      Late (end-of-year) remittance of direct subsidies to LSPS resulting in the company's cash-
flow difficulties;
*      The informal and non-transparent nature of the electricity-to-heat cross-subsidy; and
*      The linking of company profits to asset value (presently grossly undervalued) instead of
commercial performance (sales revenues and loss/cost reduction).
2.35   According to Government estimates, on average, households pay about 26% of a single salary
income on all utility services, of which 3% is on electricity and 15% on heating. At the present tariff
levels, residential heating tariffs cover about 30% of supply costs. During appraisal, the Office of Pricing
and Competition and the Bank agreed that it would be more efficient to convert implicit and cross-
subsidies into more transparent consumption taxes (see para 2.36) and targeted subsidies, preferably
targeting vulnerable consumer groups. A system of categorization of household incomes is presently
underway and will help in identifying vulnerable groups which could then be targeted for direct subsidies.
2.36   Recommended Pricing Policy. Pending the restructuring of LSPS, electricity tariffs would
continue to be regulated and set with the aim of rationalizing energy consumption, protecting vulnerable
groups, ensuring the financial viability of LSPS while also providing incentives for the efficient use of
its resources. At appraisal, the Bank advised the GoL that in the short-to-medium-term, this can best be
achieved by:
(a)    Introducing a new electricity rate structure consisting of:
a "life-line' supply of electricity (about 50-100 kWh/month) per customer
charged at a flat rate covering all of LSPS' electricity-related operating costs, and
any direct taxes (excise or VAT); and
a consumption tax on consumption above the 'life-line" level, with the tax rate
increasing for each incremental bracket (say 50 kWh/month) of consumption.



- 13 -
(b)    Using the revenues from the electricity consumption tax to directly subsidize (on a timely
basis) LSPS' heat supply costs. These revenues could be converted to targeted consumer
subsidies at a later stage and should, in the longer term, be phased out.
(c)    Allowing the profit margin used in setting tariffs to be a percentage of sales revenue so
that LSPS has the incentive to reduce operating costs and system losses, and improve
collections.
2.37   Consumption taxes and cross-subsidies are justified in order to control the energy mix of
households and the possible shift towards low-priced electricity if full-cost recovery for heat was
implemented and enforced. In addition, the continued provision of district heating at affordable prices
will reduce the demands on the electricity system and the investments needed to meet these demands.
The Restructuring Study/Consultancy under the proposed project would determine the precise rate and
subsidy structures needed to promote energy conservation, and the electricity consumption taxes to raise
the revenues needed to subsidize district heat. Tariff policy reforms needed for the financial viability of
LSPS, and proposed as conditions for the loan, are discussed in Chapter IV.
2.38   HetTariffs: Significant increases in heat tariffs are not recommended at this time as the supply
to the majority of residential consumers is neither metered nor do they have the means to regulate their
consumption. In addition, with the heating bill already consuming about 15% of the average salary of
a wage earner, consumer ability to pay would be further weakened. Future tariff increases should be
linked to the separation of the district heating companies from LSPS, the introduction of meters and
regulators, and to the financial and institutional strengthening of the district heating companies.
F. Technical Assistance
2.39   Considerable technical assistance (TA) has been given to the energy sector of Lithuania by
bilateral and multilateral donors. On the energy strategy level, two major studies have been completed:
the Energy Sector Review (ESR), initiated by the Bank in November 1992 and completed in April 1994
and an Energy Strategy Study performed by a consortium of European contractors under financing by
the EC-PHARE program.  Both reports were discussed in an International Conference for the
Restructuring of the Energy Sector in Vilnius, November 10-12, 1993 and were in essential agreement
on major conclusions and recommendations. In the power sector, the US grant aid agencies USAID and
USTDA have provided TA for feasibility studies of thermal plant rehabilitation and electricity system
upgrading; these studies have provided the basis for the preparation of the proposed project. These
agencies will provide funding for detailed engineering and tender document preparation. Norwegian,
Danish, and Swedish consultants are already performing or will start feasibility studies for the components
that are planned for a follow-up energy project (district heating rehabilitation, small/medium boiler
conversion, and completion of unit 4 of the Kruonis pumped storage plant). A sector environmental
assessment for the increased utilization of indigenous resources (wood chips and peat) is also being
performed by a consortium of Lithuanian and Swedish firms under financing by BITS and managed by
the Bank. Considerable TA is being provided to the nuclear power subsector, specifically to the nuclear
power plant Ignalina, to increase its operational safety and to bring about urgently needed safety
upgrades. The Swedish Government is providing support for this program which is being coordinated
by the Swedish Nuclear Inspectorate. The US Government is also active in this area by providing two
plant analyzers, training of personnel, and regulatory assistance at a total cost of about US$ 3 million.



- 14 -
2.40 On institutional and financial aspects, substantial grant TA has been available also. USAID has
provided consultancy support to LSPS for an accounting system diagnostic study and introduction of
immediately needed improvements in accounting and financial planning. A follow-on study has been
arranged under EBRD's management and financing by the EC-PHARE program for support to LSPS for
the introduction of a modern computerized accounting system. TA for electricity system planning and
personnel training has also been offered by Swedish, Irish, and Canadian consultants under grant
financing from their respective governments or, in some cases (Swedish and Finnish power utilities), with
self financing. The Know-How Fund of the UK has financed a detailed study on electricity and heat
pricing which has been completed.
G. Bank Strategy and Experience
2.41   Bank Strategy. The Bank's ESR was prepared with the cooperation with Lithuanian counterparts
and thus reflects an agreement with the Govermment on the main issues discussed. The main
reconimendations of the ESR are reflected in the preceding paras. of this chapter.
2.42  Past Bank Experience. Past Bank experience in Lithuania is limited to the Rehabilitation Loan
(US$ 60 million equivalent with approved cofinancing from the Export Import Bank of Japan) which
became effective in October 1992. The objectives of the loan are to: (a) assist the Government in the
design and implementation of its adjustment and structural reform program; and (b) help maintain or
increase capacity utilization and output in key sectors. In addition to critical imports in the agriculture,
transport, and health sectors, the loan is financing emergency equipment and materials in the energy
sector.  Apart from  certain initial difficulties in processing procurement packages, which is
understandable for a borrower with little background in this area, experience has been satisfactory. As
of April 20, 1994, about USS 45 million have been disbursed. Experience with Bank projects in power
rehabilitation is limited since there is a dearth of purely rehabilitation projects. To the extent that
rehabilitation components could be evaluated separately, performance has been satisfactory.



- 15 -
m. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1   The objectives of the project are to: (i) improve the operating safety, efficiency, reliability, and
environmental performance of the electricity generating system, thus reducing the amount of imported
fuel needed for its operation; (ii) improve the safety, reliability and flexibility of the electricity
transmission system, thus reducing power disruptions and facilitating economic load management; and
(iii) support the restructuring and commercialization of LSPS.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.2   The proposed project is fully consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy since the latter
emphasizes the energy sector as one of primary importance for the country. The proposed project follows
from the Bank's Energy Sector Review (Report No. 11867-LT, January 1994) which recommends a
strategy based on: (a) energy efficiency and conservation, (b) rehabilitation of existing facilities, (c)
regional cooperation, and (d) institution building and management strengthening. In addition, the strategy
recommends measures to improve the safety of the nuclear plant Ignalina for operation in the medium
term. This strategy, which has also been confirmed by an Energy Strategy Study. financed by the
European Union's PHARE program, has been accepted by the Government of Lithuania. The proposed
project is designed to support this overall strategy by assisting the electricity subsector. The project
would also facilitate the continuation of the Bank's active dialogue with the GoL on energy issues. The
particular components were chosen because: (a) they could be implemented quickly, (b) would have a
major beneficial impact on the performance of the electricity system, (c) would maximize the effect of
the Bank's resources on the Lithuanian electricity system and its operating company. The project is
consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Lithuania, last discussed with the Board in
October 1993. The nest CAS Board presentation is scheduled in FY95. The project would complement
an EBRD energy emergency loan to the Government of Lithuania (of about USS 40 million equivalent),
which is still disbursing and has been used to procure equipment and supplies for the energy sector
including the power subsector. The components of the proposed Bank loan were selected to avoid any
duplication of the items procured or to be procured under the EBRD loan.
C. Project Description
3.3   The proposed project consists of the following components:
(i)   rehabilitation of two thermal plants: unit 6 at the Elektrenai Thermal Power Station and
two units (2x80 MW) at the Mazeikiai combined-heat-and-power (CHP) station;
(ii)   upgrading of the electricity system, including upgrading of the dispatch center in Vilnius,
system communications and control equipment, and replacement equipment at high-
voltage transmission substations; and
(iii)  restructuring of LSPS and other technical assistance for consultants' services to perform
technical studies, project engineering, and management.



- 16 -
D. Detailed Project Description
3.4    Rehabilitation of Elektrenai and CHP Thermal Power Plants. The component consists of the
rehabilitation of unit 6 of the Elektrenai thermal station and two units at the Mazeikiai CHP station,
constituting a minimum program needed for safety, efficiency, fire protection, and reliability. The
rehabilitation will include upgrading boiler controls and event recorders, installation of low-NO. burners
and improved fuel atomizers, improved temperature and flow controls, and continuous emission monitors.
Under present conditions in which the Ignalina nuclear power plant provides more than 90% of the total
electricity requirements of the country plus considerable exports, it would be difficult to justify a
rehabilitation program for thermal power units. However, as only one Ignalina unit would be in
operation during the planned staged safety upgrading of the two units that will last the next two to three
years, and only one unit may be in operation after 1998, under one scenario of the Nuclear Safety
Account Agreement, additional thermal units are needed in the system. These units will supply demand
that exceeds the output of one Ignalina unit and serve as backup power in case of loss of the largest unit
on the system (1,250 MW) for short (less than 6 hours) or long Oonger than 6 hours) planned or
unplanned outages. To serve this role, LSPS has few assets: 1,800-MW at the Elektrenai thermal power
station (4 x 150 MW and 4 x 300 MW), a number of combined-heat-and-power (CHP) units with a rated
capacity of 772 MW (of which about 640 MW is dependable), installed at five stations and a 100-MW
hydro unit at Kaunas. These units range in age from about 7 to 57 years and LSPS has experienced, in
recent years, severe shortages of urgently needed spare parts, supplies, and maintenance resources. To
enable these units to serve as safe, dependable, efficient, and environmentally acceptable energy
production facilities, LSPS has undertaken a systematic maintenance, upgrading and rehabilitation
program, only part of which has been implemented to date. The expectation is that the program could
be expanded later when the decisions on the future of Ignalina are firmed up and the demands on the
thermal power units are better defined. A more detailed description of this project component is shown
in Annex 3. 1.
3.5   Electricity System Upgrade. This component consists of three subcomponents: (a) dispatch center
upgrade; (b) communications system strengthening and (c) transmission system and substation equipment.
3.6    Vilnius Dispatch Center Subcomponent. The first subcomponent will upgrade the Dispatch
Center at Vilnius (DC-Vilnius) by using modern remote terminal units (RTUs) and more powerful
computers which will support state-of-the-art Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA)
software and advanced application software. The improved functionality will enable LSPS to achieve
more economic operation, improve the accuracy of data received at DC-Vilnius, improve the ability to
schedule transactions with neighbors, automate the energy accounting process and, when needed,
implement frequency and interchange control. The new system will be interfaced to the existing system
and will continue to provide access to the operating data to the rest of LSPS via the existing facilities.
Similar hardware and SCADA software will be provided at the seven regional distribution centers. This
is a cost-effective approach that takes advantage of the work already done by LSPS and adds the best
technology available for the new dispatch functions.
3.7   Transmission Line and Substation Upgrade Subcomponent. A large number of transformers,
circuit breakers and disconnectors in the 330-kV and 1 10-kV system are over 25 years old and some over
30 years old. They are near the end of their useful life, susceptible to failure, a potential safety hazard,
and a likely source of service disruption. Most of the critical system components that are in the poorest
and most unreliable state are planned for replacement using the funds from the EBRD energy emergency



- 17 -
loan. At present, there remains an urgent need to replace one 330/1 10/10-kV, 200-MVA autotransformer
located at the Kaunas substation. A new transformer is well justified since the existing one is no longer
a functioning element of the system and its replacement is mandatory if serious service disruptions are
to be avoided. In addition, this component includes shunt reactors and maintenance equipment.
3.8   LSPS Communication System Upgrade Subcomponent. The LSPS communication system is
essential for the real-time control and operation of the power network. This system has serious
limitations at the present time, including poor quality communication channels and obsolete and hard to
maintain equipment. The subcomponent includes the most pressing measures to correct the existing
serious deficiencies. These consists of adding another communication path to the Western part of the
LSPS high-voltage network, i.e., a link between Klaipeda, Telsiai and Siauliai with a stub link Telsiai-
Mazeikiai. In addition, the terminal equipment will be upgraded to enable the links between DC-Vilnius
and the seven regional electricity enterprises to allow a higher speed of communication between the
computers at these centers. To address the longer-term needs for conversion of the system to a modern,
more efficient configuration, a strategic plan for the LSPS communication network would be needed.
This work has been included in the technical assistance component of the project (para. 3.9c). Additional
details on Component II are given in Annex 3.2.
3.9   LSPS Restructuring and other Technical Assistance. To assist LSPS in becoming a fully
commercial entity, operating efficiently in a market environment, which is a major objective of the
project, and carry out the restructuring plan (paras. 2.26-2.3 1), as well as to perform other needed studies
and consulting services for project implementation requested by LSPS, this component has been provided
in the project. The items to be financed under this component are:
(a)  LSPS Restructuring and Management (R&M) Consultancy. The estimated effort would amount
to about 24 man-months (m-m) of expatriate and 50 m-m of local services to assist LSPS in the
transition from a centrally controlled entity to a market-oriented enterprise. The Consultant
would provide assistance in organization structure, management, and staffing of the company,
introduction of management information systems (MIS), financial analysis tools, billing and
collection improvement methods, methods to improve future financial performance, affordability
analysis of proposed tariffs, and auditing requirements.
(b)  Regulatory Framework Assistance. The estimated effort would amount to 17 m-m of expatriate
and 50 m-m of local services to provide support to the Government in setting up the detailed
structure, analytical tools, methodologies, and practices of the recently created Energy Pricing
Council.
(c)  Electricity System Communications Strategy Study. The estimated effort would be 15 m-m of
expatriate and 1 m-m of local services to prepare a study for a least-cost, long-term plan for a
phased modernization of the communications system of LSPS.
(d)  Project management and implementation assistance. The effort would amount to 30 m-m of
expatriate and 100 m-m of local services to assist LSPS in managing and implementing the
proposed project and in gaining experience in modern project management methods.
3.10   Training does not appear explicitly in the above technical assistance component. However,
required training will be included in the tender documents for the supply of equipment as well as in the



- 18 -
technical assistance for each component. In addition, training will be provided by the Consultant for the
accounting assistance (under EC-PHARE financing) as well as under twinning arrangements provided by
bilateral and multilateral grant agencies. TOR for the above consulting services have been prepared. In
addition, the TOR for the LSPS restructuring and regulatory assistance have been given to the Vilnius
representative of the EC-PHARE program for possible consideration for grant financing. Details of the
technical assistance component are provided in Annex 3.3.
E. Cost Estimate and Flnancing
3.11   Project Costs. Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, are estimated at
US$ 29.12 million equivalent of which US$ 26.35 million is the foreign exchange cost. Cost estimates
are based on February 1994 prices. Physical contingencies were estimated using 10% of base cost except
for selected components (mainly transmission and distribution) for which 5% was used. On average,
physical contingencies are 9.6% of base costs. Price contingencies were estimated using a constant 2.5%
per year for foreign costs except for labor and high technology components for which 5% was used.
Considering the presently low cost of local labor on which the consultant's cost estimates were based,
and the expectation of rapid escalations in the cost of local skilled labor, price contingencies for local
costs were assumed as follows: 100% in the first year declining to 30% by year 4 of the project.
Average price contingencies are 14.4% of total base costs. Based on information from the Ministry of
Finance that imports under the proposed project would be exempt from import duties and value-added
taxes, these have not been included in the cost estimates. A summary of project costs is presented in
Table 3.1 and detailed costs for each component are presented in Annex 3.4.
3.12    roject Finanging. The World Bank loan of USS 26.4 million would finance 90% of total project
costs. The World Bank loan would be made to the Government of Lithuania at the standard variable
interest rate (currently 7.27%) for a period of 17 years, including a grace period of 4 years. During
negotiations. the delegation confirmed that the loan proceeds for which LSPS is the beneficiary would
be on-lent to LSPS at the same terms as the IBRD loan. Proceeds would be on-lent and reDaid in foreign
exchange. with LSPS assuming the foreign exchange risk and commitment charge (para 6.1 (c)). LSPS
would be the beneficiary for the loan proceeds, except for the funds for the Regulatory Framework TA
(about US$ 350,000), for which the GoL would be the beneficiary. LSPS would finance all local costs,
the interest during construction (estimated at US$ 3.77 million), and any taxes which may become
applicable. Signature of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and LSPS. satisfactory to
the Bank. would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para 6.3 (c)). If the GoL or LSPS are able to
secure grant financing for the technical assistance components, the amount secured would be reduced
from the loan or reallocated. Financing arrangements are shown in Table 3.2.



- 19 -
Table 3.1: Project Costs
(based on Febnzauy 1994 ctinates)
Million USS         Millioo Litai   %Foreign  % of
Comnooent                    Lol Forein Total   L   Foreigdn Ibtd Exchanu Base Cost
I
1.   Power Rehabiltation           0.27  16.51 16.78    1.04  64.39 65.43      98     71.5
2.   Trans. & Elect. System Upgrde  0.37   4.65 5.02    1.43  18.14  19.57     93     21.4
3.   Tochnic Assistanoe             0.21   1.47 1.68    0.82   5.73  6.55      84      7.1
Project Base Costs            0.84  22.63 23.47    3.29  88.26 91.55     96    100.0
Physical Contingencies        0.07   2.19 2.26    0.29   8.54  8.83      97      9.6
Price Contingencies           1.86   1.53 3.39    7.25   5.96  13.21     45      14.4
Total Project Costs           2.78  26.35 29.12   10.82 102.76 113.58    90    124.1
Interest during construction  0.00   3.77 3.77    0.00  14.71  14.71    100    16.1
Total Financing Required      2.78  30.12 32.90   10.82 117.47 128.29    92    140.1
Table 3.2: Finandng Plan
Miflion USS Eauivaknt         %
Loal    Foreitu              of TSU
IBRD                          0.00      26.35      26.35       80%
LSPS                          2.72       3.40       6.11       19%
GoLlOther                     0.06       0.38       0.43        1 %
Total                         2.78      30.12      32.90      100%
F. Procurement
3.13   The procurement for the project will consist of eight to ten packages of well-defmed equipment
for the two components and three contracts for consulting services. Procurement for goods would follow
ICB procedures according to Bank guidelines except that for small contracts for goods under US$
300,000, international shopping procedures would be permitted (i.e., quotations from a minimum of three
suppliers from at least three World Bank member countries) for a total of about USS 1.0 million (about
3.5% of total procurement). Direct Contracting will be used for spare parts that are only available from
the original supplier for a total amount of about US$ 2.5 million (about 9% of total procurement). Works
and goods would be grouped in packages of US$ 300,000 or more to the extent practical to encourage
competitive bidding. LCB is not expected since the goods to be procured under the project are not
manufactured in Lithuania and works are to be conducted by force account. All procurement with ICB
procedures would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. A list of procurement packages and the
method of procurement has been prepared and can be found in Annex 3.4A.
3.14   Domestic manufacturers may be eligible for a 15% margin under ICB procurement provided the
manufacturing cost includes a value added in the country of the Borrower equal to at least 20% of the



- 20 -
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
3.15   Consultants financed under the proposed project will be selected in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants and hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (including
review of their qualifications). Consultant contracts above US$ 100,000 for firms and US$ 50,000 for
individual consultants will be pre-reviewed by the Bank. For time-based assignments, the Bank's
Standard Consultant Contract Form will be used. About 86 staff-months of expatriate and 200 staff-
months of local consultant services have been included in the project. Terms of reference have been
prepared and given to the GoL and LSPS during appraisal.
3.16   A summary of procurement arrangements is given in Table 3.3 below:
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements'
I       Procurement Method         |             T
T  T                    I ~~~~~~~Total
Proiect Element              ICB    j_LCB            Other    N.B.F.'    Cost
1.     Goods: Equipment for boiler      21.2          _         3.5b                 24.7
and turbine rebabilitation and  (21.2)                  (3.5)                (24.7)
electrical system upgrde
2.     Works: Instaflation                                                 2.14       2.1
l _______________________________                                          (0.0)      (0.0)
3.     Consulting Services: Studies,                            1.7        0.6        2.3
Design, Supervision                                     (1.7)      (0.0)     (1.7)
TOTAL                           21.2          _          5.2       2.8        29.1
l  (21.2)                  (5.2)      (0.0)      (26.4)
a Figure. in parenthem are the amounts to be financed by the Dank loan.
b To be procured by Interational Shopping and Direct Conzctizcg.
c Not Ban-financed.
d InAalltdio to be accompliahed by Force Account.
3.17   Prior review of draft tender documents, including review of evaluation and recommendations for
award of contracts, would be carried out for all ICB procurement. The list of goods to be procured using
international shopping procedures would be submitted for prior review by the Bank.
3.18   The General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the Development Business Forum on
November 30, 1993, which allows for more than the required 60 days prior to the issue of the bidding
documents. The GPN will be updated and published annually. At least 30 days prior to the issuance of
bidding documents, individual bidding opportunities will be advertised in a major local newspaper and
embassies of World Bank member countries located in the country will be notified. The project agencies
would also be expected to advise known eligible and qualified traditional suppliers.
3.19   Since Lithuania does not have a tradition of competitive bidding for the procurement of public
goods and services, a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) is not required at this stage. The



- 21 -
Government is now in the process of preparing legislation instituting public procurement rules and
regulations as part of its comprehensive program to transform its economy from a centrally planned to
a market-oriented system based on the development of a competitive private sector.  Since the
introduction of this legislation might take some time, for this proposed project, the Government would
follow the World Bank's procurement guidelines. A CPAR would be expected to be carried out after
legislation has been enacted and placed in effect.
G. Disbursemnent
3.20   The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed over five years (1994-99) on the following basis:
(a)    100% of the foreign costs (see Table 3.3);
(b)    100% of local ex-factory costs of supply of materials and equipment and 85% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; and
(b)    100% of foreign expenditures for consultancy services.
3.21   Table 3.4 shows the estimated Bank disbursement profile for the project; a more detailed
disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 3.4B. Based on consultants studies agreed with LSPS,
project implementation is expected to be completed in about four years; however, a more conservative
five-year disbursement schedule was used. The schedule is shorter by about 4 quarters compared to the
Europe and Central Asia standard disbursement profile for energy projects. This is reasonable in view
of the relatively simple nature of the project compared to the majority of Bank energy projects. The
Closing Date for the proposed loan would be June 30, 1999.
3.22   Disbursement requests will be prepared and submitted to the Bank by the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) existing at the Ministry of Finance, based on documentation to be provided by the Ministry
of Energy and LSPS. This unit has acquired experience in disbursement with the on-going World Bank
Rehabilitation and the EBRD Energy Emergency Loans.
Table 3.4 Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                             |
1995     1996     1997      1998     1999
Annual   (%)       10        22       34       24        8
(US$)     2.6       5.8      9.0      6.9       2.1
Cumulative (%)     10        32       66       92       100
(USS)     2.6       8.4      17.4     24.2     26.4
3.23   Special Account. A special account for LSPS with an initial deposit of US$ 1,000,000 would
be established at a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would



- 22 -
also permit the use of statements of expenditure (SOE) on contracts valued at US$ 100,000 or less to
assist LSPS in making timely payments on the contracts. LSPS would retain the supporting documents
and make them available for inspection by Bank supervision missions and by external auditors. Full
documentation would be required for expenditures on contracts over US$ 100,000 for materials and
equipment. An audit of the special account would be carried out by independent auditors and the audit
report would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year. The
independent auditors who would be contracted to audit LSPS annual accounts would prepare a special
report to include a statement verifying the amounts disbursed against the SOEs. During negotiations.
agem    was reached on arrangements for the Special Account (para 6.1 (d)).
H. Project Preparation and Implementation
3.24   Project Preparation. All components of the project have been the object of feasibility studies
which are complete. The rehabilitation of thermal power units was prepared in a feasibility study by Stone
& Webster Co. USA, financed by USTDA, which has provided list of equipment and cost estimates for
appraisal. The electrical system upgrading has been prepared by Electrotek and EPIC of USA under
financing of USAID. Lists of equipment and cost estimates have been provided.
3.25   Follow-on studies are required for project components I and II for detailed engineering, technical
specifications of equipment, preparation of bid documents and assistance to the borrower for bid
evaluation and contacting. The follow-on consultancy for the thermal unit rehabilitation has been
approved by USTDA and work has been initiated in the middle of March 1994. The follow-on work on
the electricity system upgrade has also been approved by USTDA and the contract is expected to be
signed in May of 1994. Thus the preparation of the tender documents is expected to be completed by
the end of July 1994. Detailed schedules of tender document preparation, clearance, advertisement,
distribution, tender preparation, evaluation, contract signing and other details of the procurement process
have been agreed and are shown in the implementation charts in Annex 3.5.
-3.26   ProjectImlementation. LSPS will be in charge of overall implementation of the project with
the exception of the Regulatory Framework Assistance which will be the responsibility of the MoE; the
newly created Energy Agency, through its Director, would be in charge of implementing this
subcomponent on behalf of MoE. LSPS has appointed a Project Manager and an Assistant Project
Manager, with qualifications agreeable to the Bank, to be in charge of coordinating all activities under
the project. LSPS's experienced technical personnel will install the equipment to be delivered under the
guidance of the supplier (to be included in the tender documents) and with additional assistance from a
project management and implementation advisor to be financed under the technical assistance component.
During negotiations, it was agreed that site managers will be appointed by LSPS management at each site
where project subcomponents are to be implemented (para 6.2 (a)). Procurement will be handled by
TENA, the procurement unit of LSPS, which has acquired adequate experience in procurement under
previous and/or on-going internationally financed projects. TENA is well equipped and its staff is
committed and well qualified for the task. Detailed implementation schedules for the components of the
project, using conservative assumptions regarding the duration of each step, have been worked out with
assistance from the respective consultants and are shown in Annex 3.5 together with the procurement
schedules. The studies and other consulting services under the technical assistance component are to start
not later than three months after loan effectiveness. Commissioning of the rehabilitated thermal units is
planned during the period of July I to December 31, 1996 and of the electricity system upgrading in July



- 23 -
of 1997. During negotiations. project Rerformance indicators, to be used during the mid-term review and
at project completion were discussed and agreed (para 6.1 (e)) and Annex 3.5A).
3.27  In order to ensure that project implementation would proceed according to schedule and to further
support LSPS, the implementing agency, the following measures have been agreed:
o    an expatriate procurement advisor would be engaged to assist TENA; this advisor would work
on demand (amounting to about one third time) rather than full time since TENA would need
occasional advice as it prepares the procurement documents and actions. Two bilateral grant
agencies have expressed interest in financing this assistance;
o    project management and supervision assistance will be provided either with grant assistance or,
if not forthcoming, through the Bank loan. Grant agencies have been contacted and are
considering a request by LSPS;
o    procurement and disbursement seminars have been held or are being planned in Lithuania and
staff of the project office of LSPS and TENA have been nominated to attend: general
disbursement seminar, April 21-22, 1994; and procurement seminar, first two weeks in August
1994.
I. Reporting and Monitoring
3.28   The monitoring of the project will be accomplished through the milestones shown in the
implementation charts. Semi-annual and mid-term progress reports, covering all components of the
project, would be submitted by LSPS to the World Bank. The mid-term report, based on the
comprehensive mid-term review (para. 3.29), would be submitted to the Bank not later than September
30, 1997. The reporting formats would be agreed upon prior to the date of submission. A Project
Completion Report (PCR) would be submitted to the Bank promptly after the completion of the project
but in any event not later than six months after the Loan Closing Date. Included in the PCR would be
an assessment of: the execution and initial operation of the project, its costs and benefits derived or to
be derived, the performance of the Borrower and the World Bank and other agencies involved on their
respective obligations and accomplishments, and lessons learned.
J. Project Supervision
3.29  In addition to the review of procurement actions during project implementation, semi-annual
reports, and other documentation, supervision missions will be planned as required. Owing to the lack
of experience of the borrower with Bank project implementation and procurement rules, the project is
expected to require a considerable supervision effort from the Bank at an average of 25 staff-weeks per
fiscal year during the first two years and, thereafter, 15 staff-weeks per fiscal year. The Supervision
Plan, discussed and agreed during negotiations, is shown in Annex 3.6. At negotiations. agreement was
reached with the Government and LSPS that a mid-term review of proiect implementation will take place
no later than June 30. 1997 (para 6.1 (f)).



- 24 -
K. Environmental Aspects
3.30   Enviromnental Review Process. Preparation of the proposed project has included environmental
studies consistent with the requirements of the Lithuanian 'Rules for the Elaboration of 'Enviromnental
Protection' Section of a Study (RSN 153-93)" and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive
4.01, "Environmental Assessment." Environmental reviews were prepared by Stone & Webster Co. for
facilities at Elektrenai and Mazeikiai, consistent with the requirements for a category "B" project for the
rehabilitation of thermal power plants subcomponent. These studies have been reviewed and approved
by the Environmental Protection Department (EPD) of Lithuania. The Dispatch Center at Vilnius and
Transmission Line and Substation Upgrade component and the LSPS restructuring and other technical
assistance components were placed in environmental screening category "C" and were not subject to
environmental review; however, they include an environmental training activity for LSPS staff. A
summary of the findings of the environmental reviews, mitigation and monitoring activities, and
recommended institutional strengthening actions is provided in Annex 3.7.
3.31   Potential Environmental Impacts. Mitigation and Monitoring Measures. Implementation of the
proposed project is anticipated to have positive environmental benefits from greater efficiency in the use
of imported fuels as a result of improvements in power and heat generation efficiency and energy
dispatching. It is also expected to contribute to decreased levels of air pollution in the Elektrenai and
Mazeikiai areas. Environmental aspects of the proposed subcomponents include:
(a)    Rehabilitation of Elektrenai and CHP Thermal Power Plants.
(i)  Potential Impacts. It is projected that these rehabilitation activities would result in improved
efficiency in the use of imported heavy fuel oil in the rehabilitated units from the installation of
improved combustion technology and controls. New low NO. burners and control systems,
supported by installation of continuous emissions monitoring systems would reduce NO. and
particulate emissions.  The reduced air emissions would also reduce the ground level
concentrations of these pollutants around both facilities. An undetermined amount of asbestos
installation may need to be removed and disposed, proper procedures would be used to assure
worker safety during this process and for proper disposal of the waste materials. Worker safety
conditions would be improved at both plants through installation of safety equipment at the
boilers. The handling and storage of heavy fuel oil creates risks which can cause soil, surface
water and groundwater pollution. The project will include provisions for improved environmental
monitoring and emergency management of oil at the facilities. Although no known use of
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) exists at either facility, a PCB survey would be conducted to
verify the actual situation.
(ii) Mitigation Plans. The mitigation plans for each facility include the following elements which
have been agreed to during negotiations: (1) preparation of an asbestos management and disposal
plan; (2) conduct of a survey for PCBs and, if located, development of a facility specific PCB
management plan; and (3) development of a fuel spill control and oil spill contingency plan.
(iii) Monitoring Plans. The monitoring plan for the project would support the installation of
continuous emissions monitoring systems to measure emissions of NO., SO2, CO and opacity for
Elektrenai Unit 6 and Mazeikiai Boilers 3 and 4. This would provide LSPS operators with real
time data to support improved environmental performances of the boilers and create a



- 25 -
documented data base for air emissions from these boilers for use by both LSPS and EPD.
Monitoring of the environmental performance of the partially rehabilitated Elektrenai and
Mazeikiai power plants is the responsibility of the local environmental offices working under the
supervision of EPD.
(b)    Electricity System Upgrade
(i) Vilnius Dispatch Center Subcomponent. The proposed subcomponent is anticipated to have
a positive enviromnental impact by stimulating more efficient management of energy resources
at the national level through improved methods for dispatching and receiving electricity via the
national and regional grids.
(ii) Transmission Line and Substation Upgrade Subcomponent. The proposed subcomponent is
anticipated to have a positive environmental impact and improve worker safety by supporting a
series of improvements to the existing transmission system and the replacement of one
transformer. LSPS uses a system under which it collects all oil from transformers which are
repaired or replaced, filters it in a central facility, then recycles it in other units within the
system. Transformer oils in the LSPS system are reported not to have included the use of PCBs;
this will be verified by undertaking a PCB survey as an element of the mitigation plan for the
project.
3.32  Institutional Strengthening. Under the LSPS Restructuring and Management subcomponent,
would be an activity to support training of LSPS personnel from the central office and major facilities
in environmental aspects of energy planning and generation. This would include training in the
preparation of environmental assessments and the collection and use of environmental monitoring
information in the design and operational context. Personnel from LSPS and EPD would receive
instruction in the operation and use of the continuous emissions monitoring systems to be installed for
the rehabilitated boilers under the project. Additional training on environmental management techniques
will be provided under twinning arrangements funded by bilateral and multilateral aid agencies.
3.33   The consultants preparing the environmental review made the following recommendations: (a)
for both plants, an asbestos management and disposal plan must be prepared; (b) polychlorinated
biphenyls (PCB); as far as is known there is no use of PCBs in Lithuania; however, a survey should be
performed and, if any PCBs are found, a management plan must be prepared; (c) a fuel-spill control and
action plan should be developed; and (d) the monitoring plan for both stations of air and water quality,
as recommended in the consultant's report, should be implemented. LSPS has agreed to prepare and
implement. as appropriate, the above survey and plans by August 30. 1995 (para 6.1 (h)).



-26-
IV. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Past and Present Financial Performance of LSPS
4.1    Following Lithuania's declaration of independence, the accounting system underwent three major
revisions, the third of which is still not fully implemented. Historical statements are therefore not readily
comparable with present financial performance. The lack of comparability is made more pronounced by
distorted asset values resulting from recent high inflation rates which have eroded the book value of assets
(only partially countered by periodic indexation of whole classes of assets). In addition, a number of
major reorganizations undergone by the company since independence have significantly changed the
number of subsidiaries (distribution and heat companies) consolidated in its statements. As a result, past
financial statements of LSPS presented in this section should be viewed as historical information only
since they are of limited use in making projections or gauging trends.
4..2   The 1991-1993 financial years have been a period of major transition for the electricity and heat
subsectors in Lithuania:
*     Import prices for natural gas and heavy fuel oil rose about 20 fold in real terms between
January 1991 and January 1993 as Russia began to charge world market prices. Nuclear
fuel increased about 8 fold in real terms. The cost of producing heat and electricity
therefore increased significantly, whereas tariffs often lagged behind these rises.
*     Domestic demand for electricity fell dramatically between 1991 and 1993 due to higher
tariffs and falling industrial output; consumption for 1993 was only 60% of 1991 levels.
*     Export demand has fallen even more precipitously, and increasingly unreliable payment
from Belarus and Kaliningrad has forced LSPS to constrain supply to these countries.
Exports for 1993 were about 23% of 1991 levels.
*     Cross subsidies from industrial heat consumption were implemented to lower the impact
on residential heating tariffs (which would have consumed 40-60% of average household
income without the cross subsidy). However, a large share of industrial consumers
disconnected from the district heating system rather than pay the higher tariffs, thus
causing significant financial losses for the heating companies under LSPS.
4..3   Considering the difficult economic conditions in which LSPS operated, the deterioration of its
financial performance in 1992 is not surprising and the company posted a small operating loss of 2.7
million litai. This loss on operations was largely incurred in the district heating subsidiaries where
Government-controlled residential heat tariffs were not adjusted to keep pace with the rapid growth in
costs. The Government provided a heat operating subsidy which was sufficient to cover the loss.
4.4    During 1993, the financial state of LSPS deteriorated. The company experienced losses on
operations for the year, although heat operating subsidies from the Government allowed the company to
show a profit. However, LSPS experienced cash flow problems resulting mainly from: (i) growing
arrears for district heating and electricity exports which have lost value due to inflation; (ii) insufficient
tariffs to cover all operating costs; and (iii) inadequacy of the system of subsidizing residential heating



-27-
from heat tariffs charged to industries (para. 4.2). This cash flow problem was manifested in increased
borrowings of nearly USS 70 million between October 1993 and February 1994 primarily for fuel
purchases. In late 1993, the Government essentially phased out the cross-subsidy between industrial and
residential heat, and replaced it with an electricity-heat cross subsidy (by raising electricity tariffs above
average supply costs), and a direct operating subsidy. The policy is reasonably effective in preserving
the financial viability of LSPS in the summer months when low-cost electricity is available from the
Ignalina nuclear power plant and when thermal power and district heating units operate at reduced loads.
However, the cross subsidy has not been formalized (i.e., there is no guaranteed level of subsidization
of heat), and surplus funds from electricity sales were largely eroded toward the end of 1993 as operating
costs rose, tariffs remained constant, and direct subsidies were not remitted to LSPS until the end of the
year. In order to improve LSPS' cash flow. agreement was reached at negotiations that the GoL will
remit heating subsidies to cover the planned difference between revenues and operating expenditures
within 15 days of receiving from LSPS quarterly requests. Agreement was also reached that the GoL
will take all measures necessary to reduce gradually and eventually eliminate all direct subsidies to LSPS
(para 6.1 (g)).
4.5    Reduced supply from Ignalina in the future, will raise LSPS' average electricity supply costs, and
would make it difficult to raise electricity tariffs further to cross subsidize residential heat. Until cross-
subsidies can be phased out, the Bank has recommended that these subsidies be administered through a
transparent electricity consumption tax charged to consumers of district heating and electricity.
B. Billing and Collection
4.6    The billing system used by LSPS and its distribution subsidiaries is essentially manual and is
inadequate for the company's needs in a market economy. Bills are prepared on a monthly basis and are
up-to-date, but billing has suffered from frequent errors. Virtually all electricity customers are metered,
but only industrial consumers, and some residences, have heat meters. Residential heating bills are
calculated based on the size of the apartment and the number of inhabitants. Residential electricity
customers are billed for their metered consumption; however, residential meters are read infrequently.
Billing of industrial customers for both heat and electricity is based on metered consumption plus a
capacity charge for larger customers. A majority of large industrial customers now have time-of-day
electricity meters in order to take advantage of cheaper off-peak tariffs. In contrast to residential billing,
LSPS staff read industrial heat and electricity meters on a regular basis, usually monthly.
4.7    Under the former Soviet system, LSPS had a nearly perfect collection record since consumers
had the ability and tradition of paying their electricity and heat bills on time. This record continued
through 1991, but the company began to experience its first major difficulties with collection as the
economic crisis worsened in 1992 and 1993. Collection from electricity customers has been relatively
good (receivables represented about 47 days of sales by end-1993); however, district heating became a
particular problem. Whereas LSPS can disconnect electricity customers for non-payment, it is not
technically possible to disconnect individual households from the district heating system. Moreover, the
increase in fuel costs makes consumption of historical levels of heat unaffordable for the average
household if it were to pay full cost-recovery prices. After experimenting with the rationing of heat and
hot water supply in the winter of 1992-93, the Government mandated that the heat companies provide
higher levels of heat for the 1993-94 heating season. Consumer inability or unwillingness to pay for



-28-
increased supply has resulted in an increase in LSPS' heat accounts receivable (to 110 days of sales by
end-1993).
4.8    Although collection from electricity customers has been relatively good, domestic heat arrears
are continuing to grow. LSPS has received Government backing to enforce payment by: (i) imposing
fines in excess of commercial interest rates for non-payment; and (ii) disconnecting customers from the
electricity system for non-payment of electricity, heat or gas bills. It is too early to assess the
effectiveness of these measures since disconnections are not permitted during the winter, but the Bank
is satisfied that LSPS is making a substantial effort to improve its collection performance. a
negQtiations. agreement was reached that LSPS will take all necessary measures to maintain the average
collection period for domestic electriciy bills at no more than 45 days from end-1995 and thereafter and
to reduce the collection period for heat bills to 100 days by end-1994. 90 days by end-1995. 80 days by
end-1996. 70 days by end-1997. and 60 days by end-1998 (para 6.2 (b)).
4.9    During 1993, LSPS had little control over collection from Belarus and Kaliningrad for exports
of electricity, although collection performance from Latvia was good. Arrears from these countries to
LSPS at the end of 1993 were about 128 million litai (US$ 33 million) or 65% of export billings.
Moreover, most of these arrears were priced in rubles, and the value has therefore declined to 41.2
million litai due to inflation. LSPS has now discontinued electricity supplies to both Belarus and
Kaliningrad until their arrears are cleared. In addition, it is trying to negotiate an agreement with Russia
to barter natural gas in exchange for electricity supplies to Kaliningrad. It is significantly cheaper for
Kaliningrad to import electricity from Lithuania than to wheel it from Russia to Kaliningrad and thus
prospects for collection would appear more positive. Belarus' ability to import cheap nuclear-produced
power from Russia gives Lithuania less leverage in enforcing collection of past sales.
4.10   Billing and collection procedures are being reviewed as part of the accounting assistance being
provided to LSPS by USAID and EC PHARE; the Bank has provided input on the terms of reference for
this work to ensure that all relevant issues are being addressed. Assistance under the proposed project
for upgrading billing and collection procedures as well as accounting and management practices has been
included.
C. Accounts and Audits
4.11   Under the Soviet system, Lithuanian companies prepared limited financial statements on a cash
accounting basis which were used largely as tools for budget allocation under the five-year plans.
Following independence, Lithuania introduced a new accounting system more in line with those of
Western countries; however, the new system was still based on cash accounting for calculation of
revenues, although some aspects of accruals accounting were applied to expenditures. The country is now
in the process of introducing an accounting system using an accruals basis common in Western countries.
Financial statements for all companies will be expected to be produced according to the new system
beginning in 1994. With USAID funding, technical assistance and training has been provided to LSPS
to carry out a diagnostic analysis of the requirements to introduce commercial accounting practices in
LSPS. This is due to be followed by further assistance under EC funding. The follow-up work will
include implementation assistance of computerized commercial accounting systems, financial controls and
training of staff.



-29-
4.12   The fixed asets of LSPS are currently grossly under valued, amounting to roughly US$ 60
million. The company's 3,100 MW of thermal, hydro, and pumped storage capacity represent the bulk
of the company's fixed aets. However, the replacement cost of the thermal capacity alone would be
expected to be in the order of US$ 2 billion (including accumulated depreciation). On the other hand,
LSPS currently has a large surplus of generating capacity due to the sharp and sustained drop in domestic
and export demand. If assets were revalued to more realistic levels, tariffs would have to reflect
depreciation charges for generating units which are rarely used (the early retirement of one or more units
of Ignalina would significantly reduce this surplus capacity). Nevertheless, realistic valuation of assets
is needed to facilitate financial planning and attract outside investment. The Government is expected to
index assets by 11.5 fold in July 1994. Assistance to further re-evaluate assets would be provided
through the restructuring services under the project.
4.13  In order to monitor the financial performance of LSPS, the company's financial statements
(Income Statements, Balance Sheets) would need to be audited by an auditor acceptable to the Bank and
the audit reports submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year. The audit
reports should contain a separate opinion on compliance by LSPS with all financial covenants under the
Bank Loan. It is expected that a local branch of a private international auditing firm would carry out the
audits. In addition to the financial statements, LSPS would prepare a project account identifying all
sources and uses of funds in carrying out the project, including a detailed accounting of the use of the
proceeds of the Bank Loan. The project account would also be independently audited and submitted to
the Bank within six months of the end of the financial year. The project account's audit reports should
contain a separate opinion on the statement of expenditure (SOE) procedure, when utilized, and on the
operation of the Special Account. During negotiations. agreement was reached with LSPS on the
accounting adauditing reqirements for the proQject (para 6.2 (cY).
D. Future Financial Performance
4.14   Financial projections for LSPS for the period 1994-99 have been prepared and are presented in
summary form in Tables 4.1-4.3 and in detail in Annex 4.1. Financial projections have been prepared
utilizing accruals accounting principles. Accounts for 1992 (in original form) and 1993 (converted to the
extent possible to reflect international accounting principles) are presented for reference purposes. These
projections are subject to several important areas of uncertainty including: (i) the future of the Ignalina
nuclear power plant, and therefore the price at which LSPS will purchase base-load electricity; (ii) export
demand for electricity and the ability of neighboring countries to pay for imports, (iii) domestic heat and
electricity demand; (iv) LSPS' supply obligations, particularly regarding the level of heat to be supplied
during the heating season and the recovery of associated costs from tariffs and subsidies; (v) collection
performance (in the context of increasing bankruptcies); and (vi) the expected restructuring of LSPS,
pariicularly the separation of the district heating companies from LSPS. Considering these difficulties,
the financial projections have been based on conservative assumptions discussed below.



-30-
Table 4.1: Summary Income Statement for LSPS
(Litai million)
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Electricity Sales CWh)            15.2   10.3    8.7    9.7    9.5    9.3    9.6    9.8
Heat Sales (m Gcal)               14.5   11.4   11.3   11.3   11.7   11.7   11.9   11.9
Revenues                         346.4 1,133.7 1,503.1 1,925.0 2,113.0 2,112.3 2,211.9 2,469.0
Operating Expenses               349.1  1,140.8 1,520.5 1,795.8 1,974.8 1,901.0 1,978.7 2,223.6
Net Operating Income              (2.7)   (7.1)  (17.4) 129.2  138.3  211.3  233.2  245.5
Heat Operating Subsidy            12.0   39.1   96.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Net Income Before Tax              7.9   38.5   42.8   55.7   53.3  125.2  142.7  159.9
Expenditureas % of Revenues       101%   101%   101%    93%    93%    90%    89%    90%
Net Income as % of Revenues        2%      3%      3%     3%      3%      6%     6%      6%
Avg. Electricity Tariff (L/kWh)  0.015  0.067  0.105  0.139  0.159  0.159  0.159  0.171
Avg. Heat Tariff (L/Gcal)         10.5   39.8   51.6   60.8   61.0   64.2   67.5   67.5
N.B. Ruble and alowns (coupon) accounts for 1991 and 1992 rempctively wen coovetted to ltai at an exchange rate of 100 ubls - 1
Dt".
4.15   Assumptions. The key assumptions include:
-     Nuclear power output is projected to be reduced beginning in 1994 due to the
implementation of safety upgrades and the possible closure of one unit by June 1998.
*     Exports are projected to drop to 1.4 TWh in 1994 but recover to 2.5 TWh through the
rest of the decade.
-     Fuel costs for heavy fuel oil and gas stay at an average price of US$ 65 per ton and USS
90 per 1000 cubic meters respectively. The projections take into account a planned
increase in use of heavy fuel oil as more fuel oil storage is constructed in the country.
*     Domestic inflation is projected to be 48% in 1994, falling to 5% beginning in 1997. The
exchange rate is forecast to remain at 4.0 litai = US$ 1 from 1994 onwards.
*     Tariffs are set at a level sufficient to cover all operating costs and generate 10% of
projected annual capital (project-related and other) investments from internal sources.
There is an implicit cross subsidy of heat from electricity which is gradually phased out
by 1998. Export tariffs in 1994 average about 8 Lithuanian cents per kWh, rising
gradually to the end of the decade. These tariffs remain somewhat below domestic tariffs
due to the absence of VAT and excise tax and stiff competition from Russian exporters.
*     Residential heat tariff's rise to an average of 30 litai per Gcal in 1994 (compared to 70
litai for industrial customers); residential tariffs rise to full cost-recovery levels by 1998.



-31-
*     Other investments are projected to be approximately US$ 10 million per year following
the completion of the World Bank and EBRD projects.
*     Asset indexation planned for July 1994 is assumed to result in an 11.5 fold increase in
asset value, and a corresponding increase in depreciation charges. Indexation is balanced
with a revaluation reserve.
*     Value Added Tax of 18% is levied beginning in the second trimester of 1994, although
residential customers are exempt until 1995. VAT is levied on the value after a 10%
excise tax on electricity is applied.
*     Approximately US$ 15 million of short-term borrowing is refinanced as long-term.
Table 4.2: Summary Sources and Applications of Funds Statement
(Litai million)
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Totl Sources                     379.2  279.5  215.7  254.3  265.7  280.0
Direct Subsidies                96.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Borrowings                     273.6  117.1   42.7   10.3    0.0    0.0
of which Bank Project          11.8   39.4   42.7   10.3    0.0    0.0
Tnternal Sources                 9.6  162.4  173.0  244.1  265.7  280.0
Total Applications               379.2  279.5  215.7  254.3  265.7  280.0
Capital Expenditures            98.0  126.3   84.3   50.7   40.0   40.0
of which Bank Project          12.5   40.8   44.3   10.7    0.0    0.0
Working Capital Increase       212.0   78.4   39.8   93.1  110.0  120.2
Taxes and Other Obligations     20.5   20.8   14.0   35.3   40.4   45.4
Debt Service                    48.7   54.0   77.6   75.3   75.3   74.4
Debt Service Coverage              2.2    3.0    2.2    3.2    3.5    3.8
Interest Coverage                  4.7    5.9    5.8    9.0   11.4   15.3
4.16   The three most important factors affecting the financial performance of LSPS through 1999
are (i) the extent to which nuclear power can meet demand; (ii) collection performance; and (iii) tariff
levels for electricity. Owing to the possible closure of one unit of Ignalina, significantly more
burning of higher-cost fossil fuel is expected after 1996; expenditures on fossil fuel are expected to
increase by 36% in 1996 compared to 1995 despite flat domestic demand. These years of lower
nuclear output will also take place concurrently with an increase in debt service requirements as past
borrowings fall due, the EBRD and World Bank loans are disbursed (prior to commissioning of
facilities) and increased cash is needed to meet the local contribution requirements of the project. In
order to ensure that LSPS is capable of servicing its total borrowing requirements. agreement was
reached at negotiations that LSPS will maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 during the
project period (para 6.2 (d)).



-32-
Table 4.3: Summary Balance Sheet for lSPS
(Litai million)
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Total Assets                      227    760   2976   3072   3086   3116   3175   3255
Fixed Assets                      100    238   2319   2366   2361   2320   2260   2198
Current Assets                    127    522    656    705    725    796    914   1056
Lone-Term Investments               0      1       1      1       1      1       1      1
Total Liabilities                 227    760   2976   3072   3086   3116   317S   3255
Equity and Reserves                98    241   2292   2328   2369   2460   2564   2680
Long-Term Debt                      0     14    262    352    348    310    258    202
Current Liahilities               129    491    414    384    364    342    351    372
Current Ratio                     0.99    1.06   1.59   1.83   1.99   2.33   2.61   2.84
Quick Ratio                       0.48   0.55   0.84    1.00   1.02    1.19   1.48   1.75
Days of Heat Receivables          141    110      90      90     75      60     60      60
Days of Electricity Receivables    23      47     45      45     45      45     45      45
4.17 Given LSPS' weak financial condition, as a condition of loan effectiveness. the Government
will increase averaLge domestic electricity tariffs net of tax to not less than 11.5 Lithuanian cents pe
kWh and the price for residential heat to not less than Lt 30 l2er Ocal or carr out a combination ot
tariff increases to provide the revenue equivalent (para 6.3 (b)). These increases are based on an
expected increase at the beginning of May 1994; any delay in implementing price increases may
prevent LSPS from achieving one or more of the financial covenants in the project and loan
agreements. In order to ensure LSPS' financial viability. agreement was reached at negotiations that
GoL and LSPS would take all measures necessary to ensure that the combined revenue from heat and
electricity tariffs and heat operating subsidies in 1994 and thereafter. would fully cover the costs of
production. operations and maintenance, depreciation. interest and make a contribution to profits.
which would be calculated as a percentage of sales revenues rather than the present system of basing
it on (undervalued) asset values (para 6.1 (g)).
4.18   After the significant tariff increases in 1994, more modest tariff increases are projected to be
required over the project period. Due to the large share of household income that heat tariffs already
consume (circa 15-20%), there will be limited flexibility on the part of the Government to raise
residential heat tariffs beyond what is proposed in the projections (see para 2.39 and Annex 4.1).
The brunt of the increases will therefore have to be borne by rises in electricity tariffs. However,
even with the proposed increases, average electricity tariffs in Lithuania will be less than half of West
European levels through 1999. Further restructuring of tariffs, the introduction of consumption taxes,
and the impact of the expected separation of the district heating companies from LSPS' electricity
supply responsibilities are to be addressed by the LSPS Restructuring Study under the proposed
project.



-33-
V. BENEFTIS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1   Project Benefits. The main quantified benefits from the project are: (i) improved fuel efficiency
of the thermal power plants rehabilitated; (ii) reduced NOx and particulate emissions; (iii) life extension
of the thermal power units of at least 3 years (i.e. a deferral of replacement capacity investments from
year 17 to year 20); and (iv) reduced technical losses due to the strengthening of the dispatching and
communications capability of the electricity transmission and distribution system. Additional benefits are
possible from (i) the improved availability of the thermal power plants and the reliability of the
transmission system; (ii) improvement in LSPS' commercial performance through the strengthening of
its management information and communications systems; and (iii) improved managerial efficiency
brought about by the restructuring of LSPS into autonomous operating units.
5.2    The plant operating parameters before and after rehabilitation are presented in Anne 3.1 and
quantified benefits are elaborated below. Due to the substantial reduction in thermal power generation
in the last two years, following escalation in fossil fuel prices, actual plant operating characteristics and
benefits expected after rehabilitation were estimated based on historical records and extrapolation.
5.3   Elektrenai 300-MW Thermal Power Plant: Plant rehabilitation is expected to be completed by
mid-to-end 1996 and is expected to yield the following main benefits:
m     Improvement in plant operating efficiency: 2 percent improvement in fuel efficiency and
7 percent in other variable operating and maintenance costs.
*     Improvement in plant reliability: 2 percent improvement in plant availability through the
reduction in forced and planned outages.
*     Reduction in NOx and particulate emissions: 50 and 53 percent respectively through the
installation of low-NOx burners and flue gas recirculation.
*     Safety imrovements: A significant proportion of the investment (17 percent) is directed
at upgrading the safety of the unit and is, therefore, considered absolutely essential if the
plant is to be operated at all. Specifically, the advanced control system will reduce the
potential for serious operational excursions which could lead to catastrophic failure and
plant damage, and affect personnel safety. Safety benefits are consequently very high.
These benefits have not been quantified because of lack of adequate records from which
to assess probability of failures, real value of plant and other assets, etc.
*     Lif extension: The rehabilitation is conservatively estimated to permit an extension of
the reliable operating life by 20,000-30,000 hours or 3-5 years. The improvements in
temperature controls under the project will minimize temperature transients or excursions
that accelerate thermal fatigue and damage due to creep stress, and consequently postpone
the need for replacement capacity.
5.4    Mazeikiai 160-MW CHP Plant: One unit is expected to be rehabilitated by the end of 1995 and
the second by the end of 1996. As applicable to Elektrenai (above), main project benefits include:
*     Improvement in plant operating efficiency: 2 percent improvement in fuel efficiency and
3.5 percent in other variable operating and management costs.
*     Improvement in plant reliability: 2 percent improvement in plant availability.



-34-
*     Reduction in NOx and Darticulate emissions: 50 and 30 percent respectively.
*     Life extension: 20,000-30,000 hours (3-5 years) of reliable operating life.
5.5    Electricity Dispatch and Transmission System Upgrade: The benefits of providing modem
computer and communication facilities for the operation of a large power network derive from:
*     Loading of power plants:  Improved (lower cost) allocation of total generation
requirement among the generating units. This includes both determining the units that
should be on line as well as their output. The optimal pumping/generation regime of the
pumped hydro units is an important element in this scheduling.
*     Loss redution: More efficient system operation due to reduction of losses, improved
modeling of losses, and more accurate calculation of costs and benefits of imported and
exported energy.
*     Reliability: Reduction in problems of unserved energy due to improved communications,
isolation of problems, and faster restoration of service.
*     Management Information: Improved accuracy, reliability and timeliness of data available
to operators and managers resulting in better operations and commercial decisions.
B. Economic Analysis
5.6    An economic analysis, based on incremental costs and benefits, was conducted on each sub-
component separately and then integrated for the component as a whole. Detailed demand and supply
projections and economic analysis are presented in Annexes 5.1 and 5.2 respectively and summarized
below. Detailed costs are presented in Anne 3.4. For the thermal power plants, economic rates of
return (ERRs) were calculated on two bases: (A) Excluding environmental benefits and associated
investment costs; and (B) Including environmental benefits and associated investment costs. The project
includes significant investments (38 and 18 percent of total costs for Elektrenai and Mazeikiai
respectively) to improve environmental performance. Component and project ERRs are shown in T.bh
ii.
Table 5,1: Economic Rates of Return
ProowUCOMRgnent                          ~~~A: ERR(%M    B: ERR(%)
Thermal Power Plant Rehabilitation                            19.3          16.3
Elektreai 300-MW Thermal Power plant                          19.8          15.5
Mazikisi 160-MW CHP Plant                                     18.5          17.9
EJeclicity Dispatch System Upgrade                            34.6          34.5
Project Total                                                    -         21.1
A. Excluding nviimmWl cog. and benefi. B. Including environmnetal coat and benefits.



-35-
5.7    Basic Assumptions:
Demand: Electricity demand projections are LSPS' low-case scenario which are comparable to
the base case projections presented in the Bank's Energy Sector Review. Domestic demand is
expected to bottom out at 6.8 TWh in 1997 and then increase at an average annual rate of 2.5
percent. Based on ability-to-pay limitations, exports are not expected to exceed 2.5 TWh/year
(compared with 12.8 TWh in 1991 and 5.3 TWh in 1992) until the year 2000 after which demand
for exports is projected to increase at an average annual rate of 2.5 percent as the regional
economies pick up. This export demand could be competitively served by Lithuania only from
surplus nuclear, hydro, and pumped storage capacity.
Supply: Based on the loading of the plants on their order of merit (to serve electricity and heat
demand), electricity supply is linked to the future of the base-load Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant
(INPP). The working assumption is that between mid-1994 and end 1996, the two reactors will
be successively rehabilitated and their safety improved so that one unit, with a derated capacity
of 1250 MW, may continue to be operated safely until the end of 2010 (the end of its economic
life) while the second unit would be permanently retired in June 1998 (as per the agreement
reached with EBRD). The improved efficiency benefits of the rehabilitated Elektrenai Unit 6
would essentially be reduced during the periods when both of the Ignalina units are operating
(since less thermal-generated power would be necessary from Elektrenai). Supply from this unit
is not expected to exceed 50 percent of total electricity output from Elektrenai. The Mazeikiai
plant supplies steam to the refinery all year; therefore, it is estimated that this plant will operate
at an average 60 percent capacity factor after rehabilitation.
5.8    Valuation of Benefits:
Fuel efficiency improvements have been valued at a price of US$ 100 per 1,000 m3 of natural
gas. This is above the current contract price of about USS 90 per 1,000 m3, to reflect
undervaluation of the maintenance and replacement costs of the gas pipeline network.
Cost of unserved energy: Owing to the excess available capacity in Lithuania up to 2010, even
if both Ignalina units are retired, no value has been assigned to reductions in periodic unserved
electricity. There will, however, be some benefits attributable to increasing the amount of
reliable reserve capacity in the region; these benefits have not been quantified.
Life extension benefits are the most significant benefits for both plants and are derived from
postponing expensive replacement investments, estimated at US$ 322 million (based on gas
turbine, combined cycle units valued at US$ 700/kW of capacity) by three years. The difference
in the present value of deferring this investment from 2013 to 2016 is US$ 11.9 million
(discounted at 10%)'.
Reduction in the emissions from the thermal power plants have been valued at US$ 250/ton for
NOx. Benefits for reduction of particulates (estimated at US$ 50/ton) have not been taken into
1 This asgumes that the operation and mantenance costs will be roughly the same for new investments and
continued operation of unit 6 at Elektrenai. Since these investments will be many years in the future, any
difference in operating costs would have little impact on the economic rates of return.



-36-
account since natural gas has been used for calculating fuel saving benefits and particulate
emissions are negligible when gas is used for power generation.  Pending a detailed
environmental assessment for Lithuania, these values are cost based (rather than "value to the
economy' based) and are derived from emission reduction investments in other parts of the
world. For example, depending on the baseline level of NOx emissions, capacity factors, fuel,
and capital investment required, costs of NOx range from US$ 250 to US$ 1000 per ton of NOx
removed.
System loss reduction: Based on the experience of US and European power utilities, savings of
4 to 8 percent in fuel costs are possible through the strengthening of the electricity dispatching
and transmission system. This is brought about by greater efficiency in the loading of power
units to serve peak loads, and improved power flow in the system. The dispatch facilities to be
introduced under the project represent a significant advance over the present system and savings
could be substantial. However, given the small amount of peak load supplied by thermal units
in Lithuania, a conservative 2.5 percent savings in the fuel consumption for thermal power
generation has been assumed for calculating benefits.
5.9    Co: The following costs were included for the cost-benefit analysis: (i) base investment costs
plus physical contingencies; and (ii) costs of technical assistance (TA) to LSPS for restructuring and the
development of a communications strategy. The reduction in system losses is expected to be maximized
through this TA. No adjustments were made to the exchange rate or to wages.
5.10   Sensitivity Analysis:  Sensitivity analyses were performed to determine: (i) the impact of
continuing the operation of both units of Ignalina at total derated capacities of 1500 and 2000 MW, until
2010; (ii) the impact of capital cost increase of 10 percent; and (iii) the impact of a 10 percent decrease
and 20 percent increase in fuel price (gas price of US$ 90 and 120 per 1,000 in:). Because the present
value of life extension benefits alone, discounted at 10 percent, is about 98 percent of relevant thermal
power rehabilitation costs, values of other costs and benefits which would cause the ERR to drop below
10 percent (switching values) were not calculated. Project benefits are most sensitive to the continued
operation and capacity of the two Ignalina nuclear units, and to only a partial realization of the estimated
loss reduction through the strengthening of the electricity dispatch and transmission system. Results of
the sensitivity analysis are presented below.



-37-
Table 5.2: Sensitivity Analysis
Component/Project ERR (%)'
Powe     Trans/    Proiec
IMDac lusessed                                                     PlanI   DisiDatch     Total
3e Case ERR                                                          16.3      34.5       21.1
ERR (%) if 1500 MW nuclear capacity till 2010                        15.3      29.0       18.7
ERR (%) if 2000 MW nuclear capacity till 2010                        14.8      18.9       15.7
ERR (%) if loss reduction through T&D strcngthening is 40% of estimate  16.3   18.8       16.9
ERR(%) if capital (investment) costs increase by 10%                 15.3      31.9       19.8
ERR (%) Fuel costs (main benefits) reduced by 10% (current gas price)  15.9    32.1       20.2
ERR (%) Fuel costs (main benefits) Increased by 20% (world price)    17.1      39.4       23.0
Cae, B, including environmental benefits and associated investment costs.
C. Project Risks
5.11   The main sources of risk for the project derive from the extremely poor initial financial condition
of LSPS, the possible lack of political will to pass through legitimate cost increases to the consumers of
electricity and heat, possible delays in LSPS being allowed (and its ability) to function according to
commercial principles as an independent public utility, and LSPS' limited experience in the Bank's and
market economy methods of implementing and managing projects. Risks arising from the financial
condition of LSPS have been addressed under the project by requiring the GoL to institute up-front tariff
increases and adopt an adjustment formula which allows changes in operating costs to be passed through
by LSPS in a timely manner. The improved financial condition would allow LSPS to maintain adequately
its assets and reduce future high costs of replacement and maintenance. Requests for tariff adjustments
would be reviewed by the autonomous Energy Pricing Council, which has been established by the GoL
in March 1994, and is expected to be relatively impartial between its responsibilities to protect
consumers, and ensure the financial viability and efficiency of electricity suppliers.
5.12   Technical assistance provided under the project would help accelerate the restructuring of the heat
and electricity subsector and provide any expertise needed for LSPS to serve consumers on the basis of
commercial criteria and established regulations. The extent of independence, particularly with respect
to termination of service (for non-payment), freedom to reduce supply (and cut operating costs) if tariffs
are insufficient to cover costs, freedom to negotiate export contracts, etc., will have a bearing on the
longer-term health of the subsector. The Government's commitment to facilitate the restructuring of
LSPS into an independent company that operates according to commercial principles, has been articulated
in the Statement of Sector Development Policy and Strategy, prepared by the Government (Annex 2.6).
5.13   Finally, risks arising from delays in project implementation (considering LSPS' limited familiarity
with Bank procurement and reporting practices) have been addressed through the provision of technical
assistance for project implementation (paras. 3.9(d) and 3.27).



-38-
VI. AGREEMENES REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.1    During Negotiations, agreements were reached on issues that are either under the purview of
GoL, GoL and LSPS, or under LSPS only. The agreements reached with GoL or with GoL and LSPS
are:
(a)    The Government and LSPS will carry out the restructuring Plan of Action in accordance
with the indicated timetable (para 2.28);
(b)    The Government will prepare a least-cost development Plan for the power sector, taking
into account the possible scenarios contained in the Nuclear Safety Account Agreement;
the first draft of the Plan would be completed by June 30, 1995 (para 2.31);
(c)    Confirmation of on-lending arrangements between GoL and LSPS, including on-lending
interest rate and repayment method (para 3.12);
(d)    Arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Account for the project (para
3.23);
(e)    Agreement on the set of project performance indicators (para 3.26);
(f)    Agreement on a mid-term review of project implementation no later than June 30, 1997
(para 3.29);
(g)    The Government will carry out a program of further tariff increases in 1994, timely
remittance of operating heat subsidies, and future tariff adjustments for 1995 and beyond;
(para 4.4 and 4.17); and
(h)    Preparation, by August 30, 1995, of: an asbestos management and disposal plan; a
survey for polychlorinated biphenyls and, if any are found, a management plan; a fuel-
spill control and action plan; and implementation of an environmental monitoring plan
(para 3.33).
6.2    Agreements reached with LSPS are:
(a)    Establishment and maintenance of project management arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank (para 3.26);
(b)    Measures to maintain the average collection period to 45 days for domestic electricity
bills and to reduce the collection period for heat bills to 100 days by end-1994, 90 days
by end-1995, 80 days by end-1996, 70 days by end-1997, and 60 days by end-1998.
(para 4.8);
(c)    Auditing requirements of the company accounts (para. 4.13); and



-39-
(d)    Commitment to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 during the project
period (para 4.17).
Conditions of Effectiveness
6.3   These would be:
(a)    The Government will eliminate the dual appointment of the General Director of LSPS as
an Deputy Minister of Energy (para 2.25);
(b)    The Government will increase average domestic electricity tariffs, net of tax, to not less
than 11.5 Lithuanian cents (Ltc) per kWh and the price of residential heat to not less than
Lt 30 per Gcal or carry out a combination of tariff increases to provide the revenue
equivalent (para. 4.17).
(c)    Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GoL and LSPS.
Recommendation
6.4   Subject to the above, the Project is suitable for a Bank Loan of US$ 26.4 million equivalent at
the standard variable interest rate with a maturity of 17 years. The Borrower would be the Republic of
Lithuania and the beneficiaries would be the Ministry of Energy and the Lithuania State Power System
(LSPS).






Annex 2.1
Power and Rehabilitationl Project
Energy Demand Forecasts
Final Energy Demand Projections
12                    (Million Tons Oil Equivalent)  Slow Refo
10
8   ~        \                           Accelerated Refo
6
~~ = =-~~~~= C a~~            se
4
2
0
1990 1992 1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010



Annex 2.2
LITHUANIA
Power Rehabilitation Project
Electricity Demand Forecasts
Electricity Demad Projections             _
Wiese 1990-100                                             9    1    K                                          *. 0   2  2                               0
.   >   >   w  gffi5 >  I9$   .  >     .9a  1999                        .           k     i   ;-.        2 04 .2..,  <<21
Ban.     do   100.00  94.76  8.64  72.58  65.22  61.72  59.61  57.59  56.20  5501  53.71 52.        9     .1   592         59.25  62.39  65.7469.33  7.17
Agaslerled Ref  100.00  94.69  53.68  69.60  59.32  52.73  47.74  44.27  43.411 44.95  47.42  50.47  53.761 57.46  61.43  65.771 70.49  75.64  31.24  87.34  93.9
Slow Reforms   100.00  95.14  86.34  78.37  75.52  77.9t tO.43  S3.21  t5.20| 87.09  89.48  92.47  96.07  99.98 104.21 108.77 113.66 118.90 124.511130.50 136.9
Duet*fz Scen    15.00  14.21 12.7010.89   9.78   9 .26894   8641  8.431  1.25   8.06   7.85   7.74   7.82   8.091  8.46  8.89   9.36   9.86  10.40110.98
Acolrented Ref  15.00  14.20  12.55  10.44   8.90   7.91  7.16   6.64| 6.51k  6.74   7.11  7.57   8.06   3.62   9.21| 9.t7  10.57  t11.35  12.19  13.10  14.09
SlowRefornns  | _01 1 4.27|  .951  11.76| It.33| 11.701 12.07  1 2.491 12.751 13.061 134| _3t7 4.4t1 15.00| 15.631 16.321 17.051 17.U|IU|1.8|2.



Annex 2.3
LITHUANIA
Power Rehabilitation Project
Organization Chart of the Energy Sector
Organization of the Energy Sector
........... - -.
. - ~~~~~~~~~~..............          ...     .....
The LSPS controls the transmission system



Annex 2.4
Page 1 of 2
LITHUANIA
Power Rehabilitation Project
Electricity System Data (Generation. Transmission, and Distribution)
Lithuanian Generating Resources and Load
6000                                                                  .....  ------------- 24
W000             .. .................    . ........  . ..............  ....  ..........  ... Z. ...  .... .......    20
5000                                                                               20 ... 
0                                                                               0
19865    1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991      1992
Capacity       Demand -        Enrgy
Electricity Supply in Lithuania (1991)
Power Station           Capacitya    Operation   Production (GWh)    Fuel Use
MW            hly           gross       net         Mtce
Elektrenai TPP          1,800         4,861         8,748.6    8,379.3    2.883
Vilnius CHP             384           4,524         1,737.0    523.8         0.817
Kaunas CHP              183           4,228         773.7       630.8        0.716
Mazeikiai CHP           194           3,121         605.4       532.6       0.384
Klaipeda                11            4,153         44.8        25.50       0.118
Kaunas Hydro            106            3,234        326.0       324.6        -
Ignalina                2,500         6,800         16,999.6   15,613.8
Total                   5,178                       29,235.1   26,030.4



Annex 2.4
Page 2 of 2
LITHUANIA
Power Rehabilitation Project
Key Data on the Transmission System
330-kV Lines In Lithuania
IUNE LENGTH
IN LIrHUANIA      THERMAL   THERMAL
LINB NO                LOCATION                    CONDUCTORS                 KM             CAP, A       CAP, MW
325      KLAIPEDA - KALININGRAD                   ACO-2x300                92.6             1335          762
324      KLAIEDA - LATVIA                         ACO-2x300                53.S             1380          788
327     JURBARKAS - KAUNAS                        ACO-2x300                86.2             1380          78S
326     JURBARKAS - KALININGRAD                   ACO-2x300                45.8             1380          788
306     SIAULIA - KAUNAS                           AC-2x400                134.4            1670          953
305      SIAULIAI - LATVIA                         AC-2x300                59.9             1380          783
328     KAUNAS - KRUONIS                          ACO-2x400                28.2             1650          942
329     KAUNAS - KRUONIS                          ACO-2x400                28.2             1650          942
330     ALYTUS - LIETUVOS                         ACO-2x300                60.7             1380          788
368     ALYTUS - BELARUS                          ACO-2x300                 59              1380          7S8
307     KRUONIS - LIETUVOS                        ACO-2x400                29.6             1650          942
308     KRUONIS - LIETUVOS                        ACO-2x400                29.6             1650          942
447     KRUONIS- KALIEINGRAD                      ACO-2x300                142              1460          834
317     JONAVA - PANEVEZYS                        ACO-2x300                80.2             1380          783
318     JONAVA - LEETUVOS                         ACO-2x300                69.4             1380          738
316     PANEVEZYS - LATVIA                        ACO-2x300                 83              1380          788
455     PANEVEZYS - UTENA                         ACO-2x400                 100             1650          942
453     UTENA - IWNALUNA                          ACO-2x400                64.5             1650          942
456/454   NERIS - IGNALINA                           AC-2x400               151.5             1650          942
331     NERIS - LIETUVOS                          ACO-2x500                63.8             1890          1079
332     VILNIUS - LETUVOS                         ACO-2x300                40.9             1380          788
333     VILNIUS - BELARUS                         ACO-2x300                34.1             13W0          788
451     IGNALINA - LATVIA                          AC-2x400                 28              1650          942
450     IGNALINA - BELARUS                         AC-2x500                 0               1650          942
452     IGNALINA - BELARUS                         AC-2x400                 0               1650          942
705     IGNALINA - BELARUS                         AC-5x300                 0               1420          Sl
TOTAL                                                            1565.4                         2252S



OHR CONSTRUCTION TCNLGCL             OEAINLHAOATR   TF
ASSOCIATE   AND SERVICE    BRECHNOOGCA     OPMRAIONSLHAQATR  TF
ENTFtPIM BRANCHES       BACE               MIN
T~~~~E:  iui ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    1
i~~~~~Ii  '''U~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
I uu~~~~~~~~~"'II~ ~      ~ ~ ~ _
I  I   _______  _________                                    I         z~2  m 
I     I              I                  I~~~F4 F-8 
I  I              I~~~~~~~-0c
I  I          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _~ ~ ~ ~
I'               I                                  I                                     rn-



Annex 2.6
Page 1 of 6
LITHUANIA
STATEMENT OF ENERGY SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY AND STRATEGY
Macroeconomic Background
1.    After independence, the Government of Lithuania (GoL) has taken significant steps to make the
institutional and economic structure of the state compatible with the new principles of political and
economic democracy. In this respect, on the political side it has institutionalized a state structure with
a system of checks and balances among the three branches of government and a decentralized system of
delegation of many functions to the municipal governments. On the economic side, it has implemented
a program of macroeconomic reform, including market liberalization and increasing participation of the
private sector in economic activities, leaving for the Government its inherent role as policy maker and
regulator, and a subsidiary role only for areas which are not yet attractive to the private sector.
2.    The Government of Lithuania realizes that, in order to firm up the significant advances made on
the macroeconomic area, it is now important to carry out reforms in the main sectors of the economy so
as to make them positive contributors to the political and economic reform of the country.
Energy and the Economy
3.    In this respect, GoL has given a high priority to the energy sector as a pivotal component of its
reform program and, in consequence, has decided to ensure that its institutional structure is coherent with
the new political and economic framework of the country. For this purpose, it now issues this Statement
of Energy Policy and Strategy which sets the general principles and objectives and the proposed
institutional structuring of the sector.
Objectives
4.    The basic objective of the energy sector in Lithuania is to provide reliable energy at the lowest
possible cost. To achieve this basic objective, GoL sets the following strategic objectives:
o    Effciency, by implementing comprehensive measures to reduce costs:
-     in energy production, through competition wherever possible or through regulation
based on efficient enterprises; and
-     in energy use, through conservation and other measures.
o    Reliability, by setting strict regulation to ensure:
-     continuity, to avoid unreasonable interruptions in the supply; and
-     quality, to avoid unreasonable variations from the standard technical levels.
o    Diversity, by reducing dependence:
-     in the sources, to ensure that the supply does not rely heavily on one single country,
region or contract; and
-     in the resources, to ensure that the energy balance has a reasonable mix of types of
energy.
1



Annex 2.6
Page 2 of 6
o    Environment Protection, by establishing strict rules:
-      in the construction of new installations, by ensuring that safeguards have been included
and requiring permits before they are commissioned; and
-      in the operation of installations, by establishing fines and making compulsory the
installation of anti-pollution equipment if necessary.
o   Attraction of Capital, local or foreign, by establishing clear and stable rules of the game which
alleviate the Government of the funding requirements of the sector in any of the following forms:
-     services such as billing and collection, operation and maintenance, management, twinning
arrangement;
-      loans, preferably without Government guarantee;
-      bonds, evaluation of present assets by shares and share emission possibility; and
-      equity, partial or total.
o    Increase of Competition, in all forms and where viable, as a means of increasing the economic
efficiency of the sector.
Policy Principles
5.    To achieve the above objectives, the Government, in exerting its policy- making role, has
established the following principles that will govern its activities in the sector:
To separate clearly the roles of the Government
6.     Under the new system the roles of the Government which are inherent to its functions, such as
those of policy and strategy making, regulation and supervision, which cannot be transferred to other
institutions, will be separated from its subsidiary roles such as research, and ownership and management
of enterprises, which can be transferred to other institutions and the private sector.
To assign Government roles to accountable organizational units
7.    The roles of the Government will be clearly assigned to specific organizational units which will
be accountable for their functions through performance results, and with a system of checks and balances
among them. In the case of the energy sector, the inherent roles of the Government will be split as
follows: the Ministry of Energy will be responsible for the sector policy and strategy, while an
autonomous Energy Pricing Council is responsible for regulation and supervision of sector pricing. The
subsidiary roles of the Government will be exerted as follows: the ownership of state enterprises will be
in the hands of shareholders while their management will be the direct responsibility of each enterprise
under a system of performance contracts; sector enterprises belonging to the Government will limit their
activities to purely sectoral matters. The relations among the units with the subsidiary roles of
Government will be established through direct contracts under commercial law.
To decentralize, as much as possible, the roles of the Government
8.    Following the principles set under the Municipalization Law, the National Government of
Lithuania will transfer some of its roles, both inherent and subsidiary, to the municipal governments
under a coherent scheme of clearly set areas of responsibility. In the case of the energy sector, we see
2



Annex 2.6
Page 3 of 6
a greater participation of the municipalities in the areas of district heating, and,possibly, in electricity and
gas distribution. As in the case of the National Government, there will also be separation of the
regulatory and corporate roles at the municipal level with due consideration to size and other
characteristics.
To increase private sector participation
9.    In the areas where the Government still exerts its subsidiary role, particularly in enterprise
ownership and management, the intention, under the present policy, is to increase the participation of the
private sector wherever possible. In the case of the energy sector, the private sector should have an
increasing participation in the new production projects, and could also participate in the distribution of
energy either through a form of service contract or through full ownership of the system. The
Government will also seek any other form of participation of private capital such as joint ventures, bonds,
equity participation, and trading arrangements.
Regulatory Principles
10.   In order to adequately implement its energy policy, the Government will improve the independent
regulatory system for the energy sector under the following principles:
To protect the consumer
11.   The regulatory system of the energy sector will have as a primary responsibility the protection
of the consumer by: ensuring the fairness of the pricing system, acting as an administrative court to
address and resolve complaints and supervising the adequate enforcing of the law and its regulations.
To ensure the autonomy of the regulatory system
12.   The regulatory system will be insulated from the day-to-day politics in order to ensure the
stability and continuity of policy implementation. For this purpose, we attached to the Energy Pricing
Council full autonomy from the Executive branch of the Government, both administratively and
financially.
To regulate as little as possible
13.   The Government intends to reduce its inherent role of regulator in the area of price setting to a
minimum and, when exerted, under an arms' length approach. Wherever competition is viable, prices
will be set by market forces. Regulation of prices will exist only in those areas where natural monopolies
yet exist and the pricing system will emulate the market, as far as possible, using the best surrogates such
as marginal cost principles. In the case of the energy sector, price regulation exists only when
competition is not viable. Because of the size and location of Lithuania, competition at the production
level will happen at the international level.
To oppose and eliminate any dominant position in the ownership of energy enterprises
14.   While promoting the participation of the private sector, the Energy Regulatory Agency should
fight any monopolistic situation that may develop in the ownership of energy enterprises and that may
3



Annex 2.6
Page 4 of 6
impair the proper play of market forces, especially in those areas where prices are set on the basis of
competition. For this purpose, and since the sector has portions which are still natural monopolies, the
regulation of the sector will include antitrust measures which will be more stringent than those applied
for the economy as a whole.
To ensure the transparency of the regulatory system through an open and comprehensive
information system
15.   To attain the basic objective of its energy policy, the Government will ensure that the regulatory
system of the sector is fully transparent by establishing an open and comprehensive information system
that will include, but will not be limited to, the following purposes: (a) let consumers know in detail the
process for setting tariffs and the solution given to their complaints; (b) let investors know sector statistics
which will make their decision better informed; (c) let the Energy Regulatory Agency know the basic data
for tariff setting and to follow up the corresponding results; and (d) let the Government know the
implementation of its policy and strategy, and the corrections that may be needed.
Strategy
16.   The Government realizes that in order to achieve the goals of its policy will take time and it has
set the following priorities in its strategy for the sector:
o    To improve the efficiency and economy of existing systems through the reduction of losses.
o    To improve the diversity of energy supplies through exploitation of indigenous resources.
O    To rehabilitate existing installations in order to improve their efficiency and construction of new
relevant facilities on a least-cost investment basis.
O    To implement the Nuclear Safety Account (NSA) Agreement signed with EBRD.
17.   GoL has undertaken to fulfil all its obligations contained in the Agreement between it (the GoL,
referred to as the Installation State), the Nuclear Plant Ignalina (the Recipient) and the EBRD (the
Administrator of the Nuclear Safety Account grant).
18.   A National Energy Strategy of Lithuania was prepared in 1993 with assistance of foreign experts
and the Lithuania Energy Sector will follow the guidelines proposed in it. This strategy will be updated
as needed.
Plan of Action
19.   The Government plans to implement its sector policy and strategy in a phased manner, in order
to avoid any traumatic effects on the economy and on sector institutions and staff. The Plan will be
executed in a consistent manner, as both the regulatory and enterprise areas are moving forward in
parallel, taking advantage of Government ownership of most energy enterprises. Attached to this
statement is an outline of the Plan of Action for the electricity sector which will serve as a model for
the other energy subsectors, with due consideration to their individual characteristics.
4



Annex 2.6
Page 5 of 6
LITHUANIA - ELECTRIC POWER SECTOR
OUTLINE OF A PLAN OF ACTION FOR
REFORM OF THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRIAMEWORK (RLR)
AND RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION OF ENTERPRISES (RPE)
PHASE I
1.     RLR:  The Government of Lithuania (GoL) issues its Energy Policy and Strategy Statement
which sets a general framework for the sector (April 1994).
RPE:  Actions are taken to separate LSPS from the Government and allow LSPS to carry out
its activities under commercial law, including direct borrowing in capital market, and be
able to implement all the steps included in the RPE part of the Action Plan (July 1,
1994).
2.     RLR:  Based on the recommendations of the Energy Pricing Council (EPC), sector tariffs are
established on economical basis, except heat energy tariffs for households; the last one
will be subsidized from other sources (May 1, 1994).
RPE:  Sector service units or companies will sign medium-term contracts with LSPS or its units
(July 1, 1995).
PHASE II
3.     RLR:  The Ministry of Energy (MoE), with technical assistance, prepares a draft Electricity
Law (July 1, 1995).
RPE:  LSPS, with technical assistance, prepares a program for the transfer of district heating
systems to district, municipal, and/or private ownership (July 1, 1995).
4.     RLR:  EPC sets economically-based tariffs for electricity and heat for all customers (after at
least three years).
RPE:  LSPS will perform the best efforts to transfers district heating systems to districts or
municipalities or to private investors.
5



Annex 2.6
Page 6 of 6
PHASE III
5.     RLR:  MoE and EPC set electricity distribution regulations (July 1, 1996).
RPE:  LSPS creates electricity distribution utilities (EDUs) and sets a single cost center for
transmission facilities and the national dispatch center (July 1, 1996).
6.     RPE:  LSPS starts to sell its shares.
PHASE IV
7.     RLR:  EPC will show the best efforts to establish transmission toll system.
RPE:  LSPS will show the best efforts to create National Electricity Transmission Company
(NETC).
8.     RLR:  MoE and EPC will show the best efforts to set regulations for open transmission access,
cogeneration and independent power producers (IPPs). MoE and EPC will show the best
efforts to open electricity trade for major consumers to open competition.
RPE:  NETC will show the best efforts to open access to all interested parties and EDUs sign
purchase contracts with cogenerators and IPPs.
9.     RLR:  EPC approves generation tariffs on the basis of marginal costs. EPC sets anti-trust
regulations for the sector.
PHASE V
10.   RLR: EPC will seek to open electricity generation to competition and sets electricity tariffs for
regulated consumers on the basis of marginal costs as reflected by market forces.
RPE:  LSPS sells some of Generation Stations to the private sector.
Minister of Energy                                                      A. Stasiukynas
(Received on March 31, 1994 form Vilnius and negotiated during April 18-22, 1994 in
Washington.)
6



Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 5
LITHUANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THERMAL UNIT REHABILITATION
1.           The management of the Lithuania State Power System (LSPS) recognizes the urgent need
for rehabilitation and a continuing program of adequate maintenance for the ageing thermal power and
CHP units of its generating system. LSPS is using US$ 7.75 million from a loan obtained from EBRD
to purchase spare parts and maintenance materials for boilers, turbines and district heat distribution
networks. In addition, under a U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA)-funded program, Stone
& Webster Engineering Company (SWEC) of the US has surveyed these stations and has provided LSPS
with a comprehensive evaluation of plant rehabilitation requirements.
2.           The objective of the rehabilitation component of the project is to take the first steps in
the needed comprehensive overall thermal plant rehabilitation program by upgrading the reliability and
operating efficiency of two major thermal power generation facilities: (a) the 300-MW unit 6 of the
1,800-MW Elektrenai oil and/or natural gas-fired station; and (b) two 80-Mw units at the Mazeikiai CHP
station.
3.           A 300-MW unit (# 6) at Elektrenai was selected by LSPS owing to the importance of this
power station and its ability for relatively rapid ascension to full output in the case of an unexpected loss
of one of the large units (1,250 MW each) at the Ignalina Nuclear Power Station. The reliability,
economics, and environmental acceptability of the Mazeikiai CHP power station is particularly important
because it operates year round to supply electric power to the LSPS system and steam to the Mazeikiai
Refinery as well as seasonal district heating requirements to the refinery and a small nearby community.
4.           The following is a brief description of the items selected by LSPS for the rehabilitation
of Elektrenai power station and the Mazeikiai combined-heat-and-power (CHP) station.
A.    Boiler Control Replacement (Elektrenai and Mazeikiai):
5.           The existing electronic analog boiler controls were designed for baseload operation; the
components are obsolete and spare parts are difficult to obtain. Also the control room operator interface
has very limited capability.
6.           The proposed system is a solid state microprocessor-based distributed control system
(DCS). The implementation of a DCS for boiler control will alleviate many of the present control
deficiencies which make it difficult to upgrade control strategies. Digital circuits will provide high
accuracy and reliability because of drift-free operation and a high degree of redundancy. Operator
interface will be enhanced with keyboards and CRT screens. Increased operational flexibility and
increased accuracy of control will result.
B.    Turbine Control Replacement (Elektrenai):
7.           The existing turbine control system is mechanical/hydraulic which has several problems
inherent in the design. The system shares hydraulic fluid with the turbine lubrication system with the



Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 5
potential for dirt and moisture entry causing sluggish control of close-tolerance turbine speed and load
control components. These systems are usually imprecise and comparatively unresponsive to load change
demands. The operating fluid is also flammable which can lead to serious problems if leakage occurs
adjacent to high temperature turbine components.
8.           The proposed replacement system will be digital electro-hydraulic with non-flammable
fluid used to operate turbine valves through electronically positioned actuators. This will provide
improved speed regulation, load response, and a coordinated interface with the boiler control system.
The system will also have enhanced programmability, greater reliability, and a highly effective control
room operator interface.
C.    Burner Control System Addition (Elektrenal):
9.           The Elektrenai boilers have no automatic burne control system. Fuel is admitted
manually, ignition is performed manually, and individual burners are not monitored for the presence of
flame. There are no automatic protective circuits which purge the furnace after a burner or boiler trip.
All of these limitations are considered potential safety and plant reliability problems.
10.          The proposed burner control system has the primary purpose of reducing the risk of
furnace explosion during transient operation. These events, although rare, can be very costly. Other
advantages include reduced smoke and plume opacity excursions during startup and shutdown. It will
also be possible to rapidly switch from fuel oil to gas under load or co-fire both fuels with the same
burner safely.
D.    Burner Replacement (Elektrenal and Mazeikiai):
1I.          The existing mechanically atomized fuel oil burners do not represent the low emission
design technology required today. Steam atomization is proposed to minimize particulate emissions and
plume opacity for the widest range of residual fuel oil. The new burners will also be designed for low
excess air operation and combustion staging to minimize NO. emissions. The burners would also have
high load turndown capability to insure clean combustion at low load. They will be equipped with
automatic gas and oil ignition system and electronic flame detection.
E.    Instrument Cable Replacement (Elektrenai):
12.          Power, control, and instrumentation cables were found to be a major concern. Fires in
cable vaults have occurred. Reported random fluctuations in instrument signals may indicate improper
cable type, improper shielding and lack of separation of instrument cables from control and power cables.
Replacement will be planned where new cables are not being installed for the new boiler, turbine, and
burner control systems.
F.    Continuous Emission Monitoring (Elektrenai and Mazelkiai):
13.          There is no on-line monitoring of NO, and SO2 and the stack opacity instruments are
unreliable and inaccurate. The proposed continuous emission monitoring system will perform these
functions and will also include alarming capability and the ability to add other channels for oxygen and
carbon monoxide. This will provide expanded operator surveillance of the combustion process.



Annex 3.1
Page 3 of S
G.    Upgrade Control Valves (Elektrenai and Maeikiai):
14.          Many of the control problems experienced by the plant staff can be partially or wholly
attributed to control valve problems. Problems with feedwater flow, drum level, fuel oil pressure and
feedwater heater level control are widespread. Valve stem leakage, erosion, cavitation, and jamming
were cited as common.
15.          For severe service applications, plug type control valves with anticavitation trim design
are recommended. Improved control and reliability with reduced noise, vibration, and maintenance wIll
be realized with proven advanced valve designs.
H.    Upgrade Sequence of Events Recorders (Mazeikiai):
16.          On a boiler or turbine trip, it is currently not possible to identify the initiating signal,
device or cause of the trip in order to permit operator intervention. Each unit will be provided with a
recording device with the capability of signal discrimination for trip or transient sequence identification
permitting prompt operator intervention.



Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 5
ELEKTRENAI 300 MW UNIT
Net Available Capacity (MW)               300            300             0         0.00%
Maximum Unit Availability (%)           79.61        81.61%            2.00        2.51%
Estimate Capacity Factor (%)            75.00        77.00%            2.00        2.67%
Operating Heat Rate (BtullWh)           9,500          9,300          (200)       -2.11%
Fixed O&M Costs ($/kW-year)              3.90           3.90           0.00        0.00%
Variable O&M Costs ($/MWH)               1.40           1.30         (0. 10)        -7.14
Estimated Operating Life (years)           17          20-22            3-5       18-30%
SO2 EMISSIONS (tons/year)               8,350          8,350             0         0.00%
NOx EMISSIONS (tons/year)               2,250          1,125        (1,125)      -50.00%
PARTICULATES (tons/year)                  870           410           (460)      -52.87%
UNSERVED ENERGY (GWh)                   113.3          102.0         (11.3)      -10.00%
(1 % of total sales)
MAZEIKIAI 16 LMWN
Net Available Capacity (MW)               160            160             0         0.00%
Maximum Unit Availability (%)           80.00          82.00           2.00        2.50%
Estimated Capacity Factor (%)           75.00          77.00           2.00        2.67%
Operating Heat Rate (Btu/lWh)           8,000          7,840          (160)       -2.00%
Fixed O&M Costs ($/lW-year)              3.90           3.90           0.00        0.00%
Variable O&M Costs ($/MWH)               1.40           1.35         (0.05)       -3.57%
Estimated Operating Life (years)           17          20-22            3-5     18-30% %
SO2 EMISSIONS (tons/year)                                                0          ERR
NOx EMISSIONS (tons/year)               1,100           550           (550)      -50.00%
PARTICULATES (tons/year)                  400           280           (120)      -30.00%
UNSERVED ENERGY (GWb)                   113.3          107.6          (5.7)       -5.00%
(19% of total sales)



LrU UANIA STATE. POWER SYSTIEM
PROJECT COST & CASH FLOW
ELEICTRENAI 300 MW UNrr
PROJECT CASH FLOW
PROJECT                     PROJECT                      TOTAL           FOREIGN         LOCAL       LOCAL                        -_-
NUMBER                   DESCRIPTION                      COSTS            cosrs         COSTS       cosrs              1994       1995        1996      TOTAL
(S1000)          ($1000)       ($1000)     (LIOO)          ($1000)    (S1000)    ($1000)    ($1000)
I    Replace boilercontmls                          S2,591.450      32,563.250     528.200     118.440            $515      $1,037      51,037     52,591
2    Addn wtuAbweooontros                           $1.422.700      S1,410.700      S12.000     50.400           ' $285       $569        S569     S1,423
3    Add bumermanhgemcnt ystan                      1,221.700      S1,212.700      S9.000      37.S00             S244       $489        5489     Sl,222
4    Burnerrepleancet                               S3,404.000      S3,327.500      S76.500    321.300             3631     Sl,362      $1,362     53,404
5    Replaeoemotzlcable                               S114.950        S110.500      S4.450     1.690               523        546         $46       $115
6    Add gmniuion monwtowng                           $801.500        S794.600      57.200      30.240             S160       5321        5321       5802
7    Upgrade control valves                           S447.000        S442.200      S4.800      20.160              $89       S179        $179       S447
S10.003.600      59,861.450    5142.150    597.030            52,001     54,ODI      $4,001 S10,004
Percent            200.00%          iL.5t%        1.42%                      20.00%      40.00%     40.00%     100.00%
MAZEIKA! HEAT AND POWER PLANT
PROJECT CASH FLOW
PROJECT                      PROJECT                      TOTAL         FOREIGN        LOCAL        LOCAL
NUMBER                     DESCRIPTlON                     COSTS         COSTS          COSTS       COSTS               1994        1995        1996      TOTAL
($1000)       ($1000)        ($1000)     (LIOOO)           (S1000)     (51000)     (51000)      ($1000)
I    Upgrde boiler controls (2)                   S3,542.000     $3,502.400      $39.600      166.320             $708       $1,417      $1,417      S3.542
2    Upgade sequence ofevens recorders (2)          S200.000       S198.200        S1.800       7.560               S40         580         S80        $200
3    Low NOX burners & imprved atomization          S816.000       S756.000       S60.000     252.000              $163        $326        $326        $816
4    Revision to teanpersture & flow control        S462.700       S448.300       S14.400      60.4S0               S93        $185        $185        $463
5    Add conminuous ernisssion monitoring           S179.300       S177.500        S1.800       7.560               $36         $72         S72        S179
s5,200.000    S5,082.400.    S1 17.600     493.920            S1,040      52,080      52,080      $5,200
Perocnt        100.00%         97.74%         2.26%                        20.00%      40.00%      40.00%     100.00%
(A 0
o ;.'



Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 4
LITHUANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF ELECTRICAL SYS7EM UPGRADING
1.    The electrical system upgrade component, prepared as a feasibility study financed by the US
Agency for International Development (USAID), consists of three subcomponents:
(a)    Dispatch Centers at Vilnius and 7 regional enterprises (ENEs);
(b)    Transmission line and substation equipment; and
(c)    LSPS Communication system upgrade.
2.    Dispatch Center Upgrade Component.  The Dispatch Center at Vilnius (DC- Vilnius) is
responsible for the real time operation of the Lithuanian power system. DC- Vilnius is part of a three-
level hierarchy of dispatch centers with the Baltic Dispatch Center (DC Baltija) at Riga being at the top
level, DC Vilnius in the middle and seven enterprise (ENE) dispatch centers at the third level. DC-
Vilnius and the seven enterprise dispatch centers will be upgraded as part of this project.
3.    DC-Vilnius has recently been converted to a PC-based distributed system. It is proposed to
upgrade this system by using modem remote terminal units (RTUs) and more powerful computers which
w.vI support state-of-the-art Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) software and advanced
application software. The new functionality will enable LSPS to achieve more economic operation,
improve the accuracy of data received at DC-Vilnius, improve the ability to schedule transactions with
neighbors, automate the energy accounting process and, when needed, implement frequency and
interchange control. The new system will be interfaced to the existing system and ill continue to provide
access to the operating data to the rest of LSPS via the existing facilities. Similar hardware and SCADA
software will be provided at the seven enterprise centers. This is a cost-effective approach that takes
advantage of the work already done by LSPS and adds the best technology available for the new dispatch
functions.
4.    The estimated foreign cost of the upgrade is US$ 3.26 million for the new hardware, software
and support services. The local component cost is 15 person-years of professional engineering labor.
In 1994-1995 this corresponds to US$ 120,000. The system is expected to be fully operational by 1995.
Assuming a physical contingency of 10% and a price contingency of 5% increases these estimates to
US$3.75 million and US$ 140,000 respectively. Details of this and other costs can be found in Table 1.
5.    Transmission Line and Substation Upgrade Subcomponent. LSPS reports that a large number
of transformers, circuit breakers and disconnects, in the 330-kV and 1 10-kV system are over 25-years old
and some over 30-year old. They are near the end of their useful life, susceptible to failure, a potential
safety hazard, and a likely source of service disruption. Most of the critical system components that are
in the poorest and most unreliable state are planned for replacement using the funds from the EBRD
energy emergency loan. At present, there remains an urgent need to replace one 330/1 10/10-kV, 200-
MVA autotransformer located at the Kaunas substation. This transformer is expected to cost about USS
250,000. Its replacement is mandatory if serious service disruptions are to be avoided.



Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 4
6.    Two additional elements are included in this component. The first is shunt reactors needed to
control the high voltage that occurs under light load conditions on the 330-kV network. The second is
the need to obtain equipment for maintaining the sub-transmission and distribution system. The shunt
reactor requirements are under study by Kaunas University but barring some unexpected developments,
the shunt reactors will be needed and are included. The second element is equipment needed to ensure
the safety of the maintenance personnel. This is a critical need to avoid serious possibly fatal danger to
LSPS and ENE personnel. This equipment will enable maintenance personnel on the 35 kV and 110 kV
systems to check for energized lines and to conduct operations on live lines via the use of insulated sticks.
The budget for this sub-component is USS 1.1 million in foreign and USS 0.01 million in local costs.
7.    LSPS Communication System Upgrade SubcoMmonent. The LSPS communication system is
essential for the real-time control and operation of the power network. This system has serious limitations
at the present time. The bandwidth of the communication links is not adequate in many cases; part of the
network (the Western region) has very poor quality communication channels and, as demonstrated during
the 1993-1994 winter, is susceptible to serious weather related failures; and the system contains obsolete,
hard to maintain equipment. However, since the communication network is needed to support LSPS'
entire corporate information flows, it was decided that upgrading of the communication system to meet
the needs for real time operation should be coordinated with a strategic master plan for LSPS'
communication network. Therefore, this subcomponent consists of two elements. The first element is
technical assistance to develop a strategic plan for the LSPS communication network (including
coordination with the Ministry of Communication). The second element is the remedy the serious
deficiencies that exist now. This upgrade consists of adding another communication path (most likely
radio) to the Westem part of LSPS. This link would be between Klaipeda, Telsiai and Siulai with a stub
link Telsiai-Mazeki. In addition, the terminal equipment wil be upgraded to enable the links between DC-
Vilnius and the seven ENE to allow 9600 bps communication between the computers at these centers.
8.    The primary motivation for including the LSPS Communication System upgrade in this project
is to support the real time operation of the power network and to enable the Dispatch Centers functions
to be carried out their functions under both normal and disturbance conditions. The development of a
strategic plan is an important related element and should be undertaken to ensure a cost effective corporate
wide development of the LSPS communication infrastructure.
9.    Benefits of the Dispatch Center and Communication System Upgrades. The benefits of providing
modern computer and communication facilities for the operation of a large power network derive from:
o    Improved (lower cost) allocation of total generation requirement among the generating
units. This includes both determining the units that should be on line as well as their
output. The optimal pumping/generation regime of the pumped hydro units is an
important element in this scheduling.
o    More efficient operation due to reduction of losses, improved modeling of losses and
more accurate calculation of costs and benefits of imported and exported energy.
o    Increased security of the power system which reduces unserved energy. This is due to
both fewer blackouts and to faster restoration of service.



Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 4
o    Effective management of the system. The data available to the operator is more accurate
and reliable resulting in better decision making. The data is current and up-to-date. The
amount of manual record keeping and reporting is reduced sharply. Upper management
will have much faster access to data including cost data.
10.   Based on the experience of U. S. and European power utilities, the first two benefits can result
in cost savings of 4 to 8% in (equivalent) fuel savings. The new dispatch facilities represent a significant
advance over the present ones and it is likely that the savings will be at the high end of this range.
However, we assume a relatively conservative 5% for calculating the benefits.
The benefits of the last item above, namely more effective management of the system, are very difficult
to quantify, but they can be substantial. Therefore, we use the 5% figure in our cost/benefit analysis.
11.   Based on the anticipated operating scenario, the cost benefit analysis is shown in Table 2. The
details of this scenario can be found in the Demand Projections and Merit Order loading of Power Plants
in the economic analysis section. The fuel cost estimates are based on the Stone and Webster study but
sced to reflect the revised thermal generation output values.
12.   Li*  to =e    R.a. The EBRD loan contains a computer and a communication equipment
component. The computer equipment is general purpose DOS based systems for general corporate use.
The communication equipment is needed to replace existing failed equipment in order to keep the system
operating. None of this is included in the Electricity System upgrade proposed herein. Thus there does
not appear to be any overlap or duplication.
13.   Some maintenance equipment has been also included in the EBRD loan. This consists largely of
vehicles, while the World Bank loan component consists exclusively of equipment needed by maintenance
staff to ensure safety of personnel.
14.   The EBRD loan also includes new circuit breakers for the 330-kV system which were therefore
deleted from the original list of transmission equipment needed as noted in paragraph 5 above.



Annex 3.2
Page 4 of 4
Table 1: COST ESTIMATES FOR ELECTRICITY SYSTEM UPGRADES
A. DISPATCH CENTER FACILITIES
ITEM                            LC          FC         Total
Dispatch Center at Vilnius                                        .43         .43
25 Remote Terminal Units                              .03         .38         .41
Seven ENE SCADA Centers                               .03         .81         .84
Implementation, Testing, Training                     .01         .47         .48
Application Software - Phase 1                         .01        .25         .26
Application Software - Phase 2                         .04        .71         .75
Subtotal    0.12       3.05        3.17
Contingency 10% physical plus 5% price                0.02        0.46       0.48
TOTAL       0.14       3.51        3.65
B. LSPS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM UPGRADE
ITEM                            LC          FC        Total
Terminal Equipment DC Vilnius to 7 ENE                 .01        .25       0.26
Klaipeda-Telsiai-Siulai and Mazeki Link               .02         .34       0.36
Subtotal    0.03       0.59       0.62
Contingency 10% Physical, 5% Price                    0.01       0.09       0.10
TOTAL       0.04       0.68       0.72
C. TRANSMISSION LINES AND SUBSTATIONS
-~~~~~~~m                                         LC         FC,       Total
Transformer 330/110/10 IcV                                       .25         .25
Reactors, and Maintenance Equipment                   .01        .75         .76
Training at Vendor                                               .10         .10
TOTAL       .01       1.10        1.11



Annex 3.3
Page I of 2
Power Rehabilitation Project
TECHICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
1.    ISPS Restructuring and Technical Assistance. To assist in the restructuring of LSPS toward
becoming a fully commercial entity, operating efficiently in a market environment (a major objective of
the project), as well as for other needed studies and technical assistance for project implementation
requested by LSPS, this component has been included in the project. The items to be covered are:
(a) LSPS Restructuring and Management (R&M) Consultancy. This will consist of consulting
services to LSPS to assist in its transition from a centrally controlled entity in a command
economy towards greater market-orientati. The Statement of Sector Development Policy and
Strategy that the Government will prepare as part of the agreement for the World Bank loan (see
Section G) includes an Action Plan that proposes the actions to be taken, in a phased approach,
toward the restructuring including the transfer of ownership of the District Heating companies
from LSPS to the municipalities under suitable financial arrangements. The Consultant will
provide close assistance in all the steps included in the Action Plan's first and second phase and
prepare the ground for the next phases. The Consultant will build on the work already performed
by Arthur Andersen Co. on a diagnostic accounting study fbr LSPS and on the work of the State
Electricity Board, International (SEBI-Ireland) that has been initiated under funding by the EC-
PHARE program that is also focused on the introduction of a fully commercial accounting system
according to international standards. The Consultant will also provide training to management
personnel of various levels in modern management practices, including methodologies for
environmental assessments and reviews of power projects. Terms of Reference (TORs) for the
Restructuring and Management (R&M) consultancy have been prepared. The total effort is
estimated to about 24 person-months of expatriate and 50 person-months of local consultants
services. LSPS should initiate the process of contractin_ the consulting services under World
Bank guidelines or secure grant financing under terms of reference and conditions acceptable to
LSPS and the Bank. The Consultant should begin work at the latest within 3 months after loan
effectiveness.
(b)  Regulatory Framework Assistance. Since the Government will undertake to establish an
independent Energy Regulatory Agency (ERA), as explained in more detail in the Statement of
Sector Development Policy and Strategy, and since this practice is new to the country, consultant
services will be required to organize and strengthen. The assistance will also include training of
the staff of the ERA. TORs have been prepared. The work effort is estimated to about 17
person-months of expatriate and 50 person-months of local consultant services. The Ministry o"
Energy (through the Energy Agency) should initiate the process of procurement of these
consulting services unde Bank guidelines or secure grant funding under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Ministry and the World Bank. The Consultant should begin work at the latest
within 3 months after loan effectiveness.



Annex 3,3
Page 2 of 2
(c)  Electrzicty System Communications Strte  Study. In planning its future system, LSPS
intendts to gradually upgrade its communications system to modem technology at least cost. The
proposed communications strategy study would examine the electricity system with its present
needs, capabilities, and limitations as well as the available options for modernization to
international standards and technology in order to propose the least-cost approach to a phased
modernization program. TORs have been prepared. the worl effort is estimated to about 15
person-months of expatriate and I person-month of local consultant services. LSPS should
initiate the procurement of the consulting services under World Bank guidelines. The Consultant
should start work not later than 3 months after loan effectiveness.
(d)  Project Management and Ibnplementation Assistance. Since the equipment to be procured will
be of the advanced type for which little experience exist in Lithuania and since LSPS would need
strengthening before it acquires modern methods in project management and implementation, this
component has been provided in the project. The weork effort is estimated to about 30 person-
months of expatriate and about 200 person-months of local consultant services. 5PS should
initiate the process of hiring the consulting services under Bank guidelines or secure grant
financing. The selection of the Consultant should start work not later than three months afer
loan effectives.
2.    Training does not appear explicitly in the above technical assistance component. However,
required training will be included in the tender documents for the supply of equipment as well as in the
technical assistance for each component. In addition, training will be provided by the Consultant for the
accounting assistance (under EC-PHARE financing) as well as under twinning arrangements provided by
bilateral and multilateral grant agencies. The mission agreed with LSPS that if grant financing is
available for the above studies and technical assistance the funds under this component would not be used
for the purposes stated above and would be cancelled or reallocated. (The TORs for the Restructuring
and Management Consultancy have been given to the Vilnius Office of the EC-PHARE program for
possible financing).
3.    The total cost of this component is estimated at US$ 1.68 million of which US$ 1.47 million in
foreign and US$ 0.21 million in local costs. More detailed cost estimates, based on the work effort
estimated above, are presented in Annex 3.
LCAOAUi43.1
A e-9f



Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 4
LITHUANIA
Power Rebbilitation Project
Detailed Project Costs
Cost esimates based on February 1994 prices and an exchange rate of 3.90 Litai/USS. Total costs by component and year
are presented along with Project Economnic Analysis in Annex 5.1.
Millon USS        Million Lita     % For.    % of
ComDooen                           L&2da  Foreign Total Loca  Forci2n  121 Excha     Ba o con
1. Power Rehabilitation             0.27   16.51 16.78 1.04   64.39 65.43      98        71.5
A. Elekrnai 300 MW Unit 6           0.20   10.85 11.04 0.76   42.31 43.07      98        47.0
B. Mazeikiai 160 MW CHP Plant       0.07    5.66 5.73 0.27   22.09 22.36       99        24.4
2. Trans. & Elect. System Upgrade   0.37    4.65 5.02 1.43   18.14 19.57       93        21.4
A. Disptch Center Upgrade           0.26    3.05 3.31  1.02   11.90 12.92      92        14.1
B. Communications System Strengthening  0.03    0.59 0.62 0.12    2.30  2.42   95         2.6
C. Transmission and Sub-stations    0.08    1.01  1.09 0.29    3.94  4.23      93         4.6
3. Technical Asistance              0.21    1.47 1.68 0.82    5.73  6.55       84         7.2
Project Base Costs                  0.84   22.63 23.47 3.29   88.26 91.55      96       100.0
Physical Contingencies'             0.07    2.19 2.26 0.29    8.54  8.83       97         9.6
Price Contingencies2                1.86    1.53 3.39 7.25    5.96 13.21       45        14.4
Total Project Costs                 2.78   26.3S 29.12 10.82  102.76 113.58    90       124.1
Interest during construction3       0.00    3.77 3.77 0.00   14.71 14.71      100        16.1
Total Finaning Required             2.78   30.12 32.90 10.82  117.47 128.29    92       140.1
1      10% per year assumed except for selected components (mainly T&D) where 5% assumod.
2      2.5% per year for foreign costs based on expected avcrge "westem" inflation rates, except for high labor and
technology components where 5% per year assumed. High escalation in local costs assumed to reflet presety
low wages (used by consultants for estimating base costs) and expected high inflation in costs of skilled labor
(100% in year 1, 90% in year 2, 50% in year 3 and 30% in year 4).
Interest Calculated at 7.27% as financed in the on-lending agreement by LSPS



Lithuania: Power Rehabilitation Project
Detailed Project Costs
Proje Cst Breakdo
Costs in'000 (Febrry 1994) USS Equi,alna           (Prie coingenwcie. used sbown at botomn of annex)
<-  1994 -> <-  1995 -> <-  1996 -> <- 1997 ->   <- Tot al->  %
Compoutait                               LC    }C  Total   LC        PC   Toebl LC           Pt   Total   LC       lC       Tota    LC      1C   Tota  PC
1. Thermal Power Rehabiitation
A. Elekual#i - 300 MW Uni 6
Boiler Controls                            4   256   260    14    1025   1039        14     1025    1039      4    256        260    35  2563   2599 99%
Turbine cont: Eff. (75%), Safety (25%)     2   141   143      6      564    570       6      564     570      2    141        143    15   1410   1425  99%
Burnercontuls: Safety (100%)               1   121   122      5      485    490      5       485     490      1    121        122    11   1213   1224  99%
Burner rfplacerent: Environ. (100%)       10   333   342    38    1331   1369    38         1331    1369    10    333         342    96   3328   3423  97%
Instumentcable:Safety(100%)                1    11    12      2       44     46      2        44      46      1     11         12     6    111    116  95%
Emissions  anitor.: Environ. (100%)        1    79    80      4      318    321      4       318     321      1     79         80     9    795       04 99%
Controlvalves: Reliability (100%)          1    44    45      2      177    179       2      177     179      1     44         45     6    442    448  99 %
Shipping & Tran. (10% of Equip)            2    99   100      7      394    402      7       394     402      2     99        100    18    986   1004  98%
Base Cost                                20  1085  1104    78    4339   4417    78          4339    4417    20   1085        1104   195  10841  11042  98%
Pbyaic Cotingency (10%)                    2   108   110      8      434    442      8       434     442     2    108         110    20   1085   1104  98%
Prnc Conrgency (2.5% on FC)               22    15    36   163       180    343   206        304     510    5S    108         166   449    607   1056  57%
Snb-compomt Cost                          43  1208  1251   249    4953   5202   292         5077    5369    80   1301        1380   664  12538  13202  95%
D. Msamida - 160 MW CHP Plant
Boiler controls                            5   350   355    20    1401   1421    20         1401    1421      5    350        355    50   3502   3552  99%
Sequence of evenrts recoers                0    20    20      1       79      80      1       79      80      0     20         20     3    198    201 99 %
Low NOx burnea - Environ. (100%)           0    S    82      1      326    327       1      326     327      0     81         82     3    814    817 100%
Reviion to temp. & flow control            1    46    46      3      183    186      3       183     186      1     46         46     6    458    464 99%
Continousemisuionsmnwikoring               0    18    18      1       71      72      1       71      72      0     IS         18     3    177    180 99%
Shippingd&Tmans. (10% of Equip)            1    51    52      3      206    209      3       206     209      1     51         52     6    515    521  99%
Base Cost                                  7   566   57      28    2266   2294    28        2266   2294       7    566        57     70   5664   5734  99%
Physical Contingncy (10%)                  1    57    57      3      227    229       3      227     229      1     57         57     7    566    573  99 %
Price Contigency (2.5 % on FC)             8     8    IS    59        94    153    74        159     233    21      56         77   161    317    478  66%
Sub.componmt cost                         15   631   646    89    2586   2676   105         2651    2756    29    679         708   238   6547   6785  96%
Com nen_ Total Costs, OND  USS            58  1839  1897   339    7539   7878   397         7727    8125   108   1980        2088   903  19085  19688  95%
Base Cost                                 27  1651  1678   106    6604   6711   106         6604    6711    27   1651        1678   266  16511  16776  98%                3 2
Phyical Contingncy (10%)                   3   165   168    11       660    671    11        660     671      3    165        168    27   1651   167S  98%                 rD
Price Continency (2.5%Year on FC)         29    23    52   222       274    496   280        463     743    79    164         243   611    923   1534  60%                 ro
0*
nr\sahnan\lithuan\eco-cosucIs



Lithuania Power Rehabilitation Project
Detailed Project Costs
2. Dbpdac  & Tlangu| icim Systm  U pgae
A. Dipb C_mr Urai
Vilnui  Computs, Com- Equzp etc.          0    16    16     0       43     43      0      251     251     0      43        43     0    430    430 100%
R s m Ternim.  Units-25                   S    76    84     4       38     42    23       221     251     4     31         42    31    380    411  91%
ENE SCADA Cevor -7                        S   162   170     4       S1     15    23       486    S09      4     81         S5    31    110    143  96%
hot.IIatioa/Inipklemuatioafrning        25    94   119    13        47     60    75       232    357    13    47           60   125    470    595  79%
Appication Software-Huem                3    50    53      1       25     26      S      150     158     1    25          26    13    250    263  95%
ApplcaiSonsoftwan-Phan 2                 10   142   152     5       71     76    30       426     4S6     5     71         76    50    710    760  93%
Base Cods                               53   610   663    26       305    331   15       1830   1988    26   305          331   263   3050  3313  92%
Physica Coeingency (l0%)                  5    61    66     3       31     33    16       113     199     3     31         33    26    305    331  92%
Price Coingency (5% on FC)              5S    17    74    55        25     10   416       261     677    78    62         140   606    366    972  38%
Sub-compose  total                     116   688   803    84       361    445   589    2274   2863   107   398            SOS   895   3721   4616  81%
B. Com_macatious Systd Srygthsin
Equip: Vilnius Diup. Ceter to 7 ENE       1    25    26     5      125    130      4      100     104     0      0          0    10   250    260  96%
Klaipeda-Telsiai-Siauliai-Mazeikiai Link  2    34    36    10      170   10       8      136     144     0      0          0    20    340    360  94%
Base Cost                                3    S9    62    15       295    310    12       236    248      0      0          0    30  S9       620 95%
Phyuical Couingency (10%)                0      6     6     2       30     31      1       24      25     0      0          0     3     59      62  95%
Price Contingency (5% on FC)*            3      2     5    31       25     56    32        34      65     0      0          0    66     60    126  47%
SWb>-cMonomttotal                        7    67    73    48       349    397    45       293    338      0      0          0    99    709    808  1%
* Price contingency higher than ulndard 2.5 % becaure of high international labor content
C. Trausmissim ad Substatios
Tnuuforner330/llOllOkv                    1   25    26    11       225    236      0        0       0     0      0          0    13    250    263  95%
Rewctor uad Mainemc  Equipment            1   75    76    11       675    6S6      0        0       0     0      0          0    13    750    763 91%
lnatllut                                  5     1     6    45        9     54      0        0       0     0      0          0    50      10     60  17%
Base Cost                                8   101   109    68       909    977      0        0       0     0      0          0    75   1010   1085  93%
Phys caloCoingeCy (10%)                   I    10    11     7       91     98      0        0       0     0      0          0     S    101    109  93%
PriceContiaegncy(2.5%onFC)                a     I    10   141       38    179      0        0       0     0      0          0   149      39    lU   21%
sa.hCOmpmt total                         17   112   129   215    1038   1253       0        0       0     0      0          0   232   1150   1382  S3%
Component Total Cost                    139   867  1005   347    1748   2095   634    2567   3201   107   398             505  1226  580   6806  82%
Base Cot                                63   770 13   109    1509   1611   170    2066   2236    26    305                331  368   4650 5018  93%
Phyuical coduigency                       6    77    J3    11      131    162    17       207    224      3     31         33    37    465    502  93%               Po
PriceCoiency                             69    20    19   227       U     315  447        295     742    78     62        140   122    465   1217  36%
W w
0 .
1-h 0.



Lithuania: Power Rehabilitation Project
Detailed Project Costs
3. LSPS Retu etring, Technical Asisbtnee & Training
(a) LSPS Restruct./Mgmt. Assistano     10   80   90   30         240    270    10       S0      90     0      0         0    50   400   450  89%
(b) Regulatory Framework Assist.       10   60    70   30        180   210    10        60      70     0      0         0    50   300   350  86%
(c) Elec. Syst. Commun. Strategy        2    50    52    3        75     78     3       75      78     2     50        52    10   250   260  96%
(d) Proj. Impl. Consulting Services    20   104   124   30       156   16    30       156    186    20    104        124   100   520   620  U4%
Base Cost                              42   294  336   93        651    744    53      371    424    22    154        176  210   1470  1680 88%
Pbyui  C _oyigey()                      2    15   17    5         33     37     3       19      21     1      8         9    11    74    84 88%
Price Co_tey (5% on FC)*               44     8   52   186        52    237   134       51    184    62    30          92   426    140   566  25%
Componadt total                        &8   316   405  283       73S   1019   189      440    629    85    192        277   646   1684  2330  72%
Project Total Cost                    285  3022  3307   969   10022  10991  1220   10735  11955   300   2570         2870  2775 26348 29123  90%
Ban Cost                              132  2715  2847  308    8764  9072   329    9041   9370    75   2110           2185   843  22631  23474  96%
Physical Coatecy                       11  257   268   26        844    870    30      886    916      6    203       210    74  2190  2263  97%
Price Cotingency                      143    50   192  635       414   1049   861      808   1669   219    257        476  1858   1528  3386  45%
It. during cot. onlonaont               0    43   43      0      578    578     0     1332   1332      0   1820      1820     0   3772  3772 100%
Total Fmaning Required                285  3064 3350   969   10600  1156   1220   12066  13287   300  4390           4691  2775 30121  32896  92%
Projected Exchange Rate, Ltai/USS    3.90               3.90                 3.90                   3.90
Projected Avg. Annual Inflat.* (%)   100.00  2.50      90.00    2.50        50.00     2.50         30.00   2.50
* Price inflation of 5% used for foreign components with high labor and technology content
High price co_gneces on loa costs to refect expected ralinf .
a m kl



Annex 3.4A
LXIHUANIA
Power Rehabilitaton Project
List of Procurement Packages
Equipment Cost      Procurement          Implementation
Package                           (USS million)           Method                Date"
Component I
Emission Monitors & Cables           1.3                ICB                    7/95
Turbine Controls                     2.2                 ICB                   7/95
Control Values                       2.0                ICB                    7/95
Sequence-of-Events Instruments      0.3                 ICB                    7/95
Fuel Burners                        4.4                 ICB                    1/96
Boiler Controls                      6.3                ICB                    1/96
Component II
Dispatch Center Equipment            3.0                 ICB                   3/97
Communications System Update        0.6                 ICB                    4/96
Substation Equipment                 1.1                ICB                    4/96
Component m
LSPS Restructuring Study            0.4                  2/                    9/94
Regulatory Assistance                0.3                 2/                   10/94
E.I. System Communications Strategy   0.3                2/                   9/94
Project Implem. Consulting Services    0.5               2/                    9/94
1/     Delivery dates for components I and 11, contract dates for component m.
Z/    Following Bank guidelines or from gant agencies. Assuming Bank financing, the LSPS Restructuring Study and the
Regulatory Assistance would be procured on the basis of a select list of 3-6 firms, whereas the E.I. System
Communications Sbtatgy and Project ImplementatiQn Consulting will employ individual consultants.
=:. dG ua3 2%a34b



ITrHrUANIA                                Annex 3.4B
POWER REHABIIUTATION PROJECT
Dibursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank Flcal Year      Disbursement         Cumulative           Cumulative
and Semter           In Semester          Disbursement              %
FY 1995
Dec.31, 94                  1.05                 1.05                 4.0
Jun.30, 95                  1.58                2.64                  10.0
FY 1996
Dec. 31, 95                 2.64                5.27                 20.0
Jun.30, 96                  3.16                 8.43                32.0
FY 1997
Dec. 31, 96                 4.74                13.18                50.0
Jun.30, 97                  4.22                17.39                66.0
FY 1998
Dec.31, 97                  3.69               21.08                 80.0
June.30, 98                 3.16               24.24                 92.0
FY 1999
Dec. 31, 98                 1.05               25.30                 96.0
Jun.30, 99                  1.05               26.35                 100.0
Page 1



LITHUANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Scheduele - Component I
ID         Nam                                       1994                                       1995                                      1996
eMar I4ayJ. dJuI AugISeplOd Nov Dec Jan Feb Mart AprMay Jun, U9 J    gSpOc No _Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jud Aug Sep Ocl No _Dec
1 Power Rehabilitation Project             _       _            -
2  Update project manual                   Y8
3  Review data and request new from LSPS  .31 - 3"1                                         I
4  Prepare Draft Tender Documents             21- .
5  Site sits                                  V10; V0
6  Prepare Final Tender Documents                 5/2 -8/13
7  Develop Recommended Tender's Ust               5i5- 5/9
8  WB review of Tender Documents                      7/18-7/29
9  Develop Final Project Schedule            ||          r
10  Advertlsment                                      7/15 - 812
11  Bid Preparatlon                    |1s | |30 
12  Bid Evaluation                                               io- 1C 30
13  WB Approval of Contract                                       1 /7 - 11/18    Q
14  Contract Signing                                                                   W - 711
15  Manutackudng &Delivery (Group 1)                                   I        ---                 
I  I                     ~~~~~~~~~~~1/2 -12/31
16  Manufacturing & Delivery (GrouplI) )                                            -         -  -  -  -  -  -  - _
17  InstUallaonI II                                                                                                                      /1       1-
18  Commissdonhg                                                                                                                                  7   1 12   
EKNV55720a
kJl1A



Annex 3.5
Page 2 ot 2
LITHUANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule - Component 11
1994            1995                 1996                 1997
.______                                A  iAISONP MIASi JEJIASIN 1Ia iI M MAMJeJIAESIO NDJIAIMIJIA] T
A. DISPATCH CENTER UPGRADES
Prepare Bid Documents
Vendor Response
Review Bids and Select Supplier
Start of Implementabon
Finalize Statement of Work
Final Design Complete                                           _
System Development/RTU Installation
Factory Asseptance Tesbing
Shipment and Installation
Site Acceptance Testing
Phase 2 Applicaton Software
Development                                                          l _      _   _   _   _
Factory Test
Site Installabon and Test
B. LSPS COMMUNICATION UPGRADE
Master Plan
Prepare Bid Document
Select vendor
Prepare plan
Equipment procurement
Prepare Bid Documents
Vendor prepares Bid
Review Bids, Select supplier
Install equipment for Vilnius-ENE links
Install Klaipeda, Siauliai, Mazeikiai link
C. TRANSMISSION SYSTEM UPGRADE
Prepare Bid Documents
Vendors Prepare Response
Review and Select Supplier
Factory Test and Shipment
Field Installation and Operation
EKlW55720b



Annex 3.5A
Page 1 of 3
LTHUANIA
Power Rehabilitation Project
Performance Indicators
1.     At the time of project completion and during the mid-term review to the extent that
components and subcomponents are completed, the following performance indicators and goals would
be used to measure the effectiveness of project implementation:
A.    Technical Indicators
2.    Elektrenai 300-MW Thermal Power Plant
*     IfImDrovement in plant operating efficiency: 2 percent improvement in fuel efficiency
and 7 percent in other variable operating and maintenance costs.
*     Improvement in plant reliability: 2 percent improvement in plant availability through
the reduction in forced and planned outages.
Reductio' in NOx and particulate emissions: 50 and 53 percent respectively through
the installation of low-NOx burners and flue gas recirculation.
-     Safety improvements: the advanced control system will reduce the potential for
serious operational excursions which could lead to catastrophic failure and plant
damage, and affect personnel safety.
3.    Mazeikiai 160-MW CHP Plant:
*     Im2rovement in plant operating efficiency: 2 percent improvement in fuel efficiency
and 3.5 percent in other variable operating and management costs.
*     Improvement in plant reliabilitv: 2 percent improvement in plant availability.
*     Reduction in NOx and particulate emissions: 50 and 30 percent respectively.
4.    Electricity Dispatch and Transmission System Upgrade:
*     Loading of Dower Rlants: Operational experience showing that optimal dispatch,
compared to the previous regime, has been accomplished, including optimal
scheduling of pumped storage units.
*     Loss reduction: estimation will be based on a more efficient system operation due to
reduction of losses, improved modeling of losses, and more accurate calculation of
costs and benefits of imported and exported energy.



Annex 3.5A
Page 2 of 3
*     LaRekilitY: Reduction in unserved energy due to improved communications, isolation
of problems, and faster restoration of service.
*     Management Information: Improved accuracy, reliability and timeliness of data
available to operators and managers, resulting in better operations and commercial
decisions.
B.    Envirownental Indicators
5.           Completion and implementation of asbestos management plan.
*     Completion of PCB survey and, if needed, implementation of management plan.
*     Complation and implementation of oil spill prevention and management plan.
*     Completion and implementation of the environmental monitoring system.
C.    Finandal and Econonic Indicators
6.           Improvement in liquidity and working capital: current ratio in excess of 1.6 and quick
ratio (quick assets divided by current liabilities) not less than 0.8.
*     ComDliance with covenants: debt service ratio not lower than 1.5, electricity
receivables not greater than 45 days, and heat receivables not greater than 70 days.
mProfitabilitv: net income before tax consistently positive.
*     Fixed assets and depreciation: progress in bringing fixed asset values and depreciation
charges closer to realistic values as measured by international industrial averages for
the subsector.
*     Recalculation of the Economic Internal Rate of Return.
D.    Institutional Restructuring Indicators
7.     *     Commercial o2eration of LSPS.
*     Improvement in the articles and operation of the Regulatory Agency.
*     Progress in power sector restructuring according to the Plan of Action.



Annex 3.5A
Page 3 of 3
E.    Mid-Term Review Indicators
8.    A mid-term review is to be conducted not later than June 30, 1997. The review will
concentrate on progress in procurement, disbursement, installation of equipment, and implementation
of the technical assistance component against targets set in the implementation and disbursement
schedules of the Staff Appraisal Report. Status of compliance with covenants, including auditing
requirements, and performance of consultants will also be reviewed. The indicators under (A), (B),
(C), and (D) above will be used as appropriate.
M:%W1WUiWw.b5.A
AQV4-2144



Annex 3.6
LITHUANIA
Power Rehabilitation Project
Supervision Plan
The supervision of the project is expected to require about 25 staff-weels per fiscal year in the first
two years and 15 staff-weeks per fiscal year thereafter. The schedule below is in addition to the
regular review requirements for progress reports, procurement actions, and correspondence, estimated
to be about 9 staff weeks per year for the first two years and about seven staff years thereafter.
ApproQriate          Activiy              Epected Skl                   aff
Date                                      Reguirement                  wera*
9/94                 Supervision          Engineer, Economist,
Mission              Procurement, Disbursement,
(Project Startup)    Financial Analyst
Regional Environmental Specialist** 8
3/95                 Supervision          Engineer, Procurement,
Mission              Institutional, Financial
Regional Environmental Specialist*  8
9/95                  a                   Engineer, Procurement
Institutional, Financial          8
3/96                  a                   Engineer, Financial Analyst        8
9/96                  p                   Engineer, Financial Analyst        4
3/97                  "                   Engineer, Financial Analyst        4
9/97                  o                   Engineer, Financial Analyst        4
3/98                                      Engineer, Financial Analyst        4
9/98                                      Engineer, Financial Analyst,
Institutional                     6
6/99                 PCR Preparation      Engineer, Institutional,
Financial Analyst, Economist      8
* Staff weeks for IBRD staff only.
* Staff from Regional Office in Vilnius.
u:.AUz _ 7v2md4



Annex 3.7
Page 1 of 3
LlITHUANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
A.    OVERVIEW
1.    Introduction. Preparation of the proposed project has included environmental studies consistent
with the requirements of the Lithuanian "Rules for the Elaboration of 'Envirommental Protection' Section
of a Study (RSN 153-93)" and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment." Environmental reviews have been prepared by Stone & Webster, consistent with the
requirements for a category "B" project for Component I - Rehabilitation of Elektrenai and CHP Thermal
Power Plants. Component II, Electricity System Upgrade, which includes the Dispatch Center at Vilnius
and Transmission Line and Substation Upgrade and the LSPS Communications System Upgrade, was
placed in environmental screening category "C" and was subject only to field review by Bank
environmental staff. Component III, Technical Assistance, has been placed in category 'C" and did not
require specific environmental analysis; however, it includes an environmental training activity for LSPS
staff.
2.    Present Conditions.  Lithuanian energy production and consumption has historically been
responsible for the majority of the air pollution in the country. Lithuanian health authorities report
human health effects associated with air pollution (sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust) responsible
for heart and respiratory diseases, especially bronchial asthma, with pregnant women and children having
higher rates of problems. In urban areas and towns, locally significant air quality problems occur during
the winter heating season due to the use of heavy fuel oil in low-efficiency boilers used for DH and
building heating. Air pollution levels within Lithuania are significantly lower than would be anticipated,
given the level of energy consumption, because of the role played in the energy network by the major
nuclear power station at Ignalina (2500 MW) which currently provides 90% of the electricity
requirements. While levels of air pollution have declined during the last several years due to the
economic restructuring process, they should be expected to increase in the medium future as economic
recovery occurs and the Ignalina nuclear power station is phased out of operation, unless energy
conservation measures are adopted and actions taken to control pollution.
3.    Consultation Process. The environmental reviews prepared for the proposed project have been
subject to review and approval by the Environmental Protection Department (EPD). As part of the
preparation process for the environmental reviews, consultative meetings have been held in the Elektrenal
and Mazeikiai areas with representatives of local government, regional environmental offices and other
concerned parties.
B.    PROPOSED PROJECT COMPONENTS
4.    Overview. Implementation of the proposed project is anticipated to have positive environmental
benefits from greater efficiency in the use of imported fuels as a result of improvements in power and
heat generation efficiency and energy dispatching. It is also expected to contribute to decreased levels



Annex 3.7
Page 2 of 3
of air pollution in the Elektrenai and Mazeikiai areas when the rehabilitated boilers are in operation. The
project would include support for the installation of continuous emissions monitoring systems for the
rehabilitated units.
5.    Component I - Rehabilitation of Elektrenai and CHP Thermal Power Plants. The proposed
project component is the subject of an environmental review prepared by Stone & Webster of the United
States for LSPS.
6.    Major Findings. The proposed program will support: (a) rehabilitation of thermal unit 6 at the
Elektrenai Thermal Power Station (300 MW) and (b) rehabilitation of a thermal unit at the Mazeikiai
combined-heat-and-power (CHP) station (2 x 80 MW). It is projected that these rehabilitation activities
would result in improved efficiency in the use of imported heavy fuel oil in the rehabilitated units from
the installation of improved combustion technology and controls. New low NO, burners and control
systems, supported by installation of continuous emissions monitoring systems, would reduce NO. and
particulate emissions. At Elektrenai, due to the very low current use of the power station, the
rehabilitated boiler would have a reduced air emissions level when operating. Improvements at Mazeikiai
would result in improved local air quality over current conditions under which the boilers are regularly
used for heat and power generation. The reduced air emissions would also reduce the ground level
concentrations of these pollutants around both facilities and their adjacent communities.
7.    Solid waste and ash would continue to be disposed of at EPD approved disposal sites. An
undetermined amount of asbestos installation may need to be removed and disposed of; proper procedures
would be used to assure worker safety during this process and for proper disposal of the waste materials.
Worker safety conditions would be improved at both plants through installation of safety equipment at
the boilers. The handling and storage of heavy fuel oil creates risks including overflow when tanks are
filled, ruptures in fuel lines and leakage from storage tanks, all of which can cause soil, surface water
and groundwater pollution. The project will include provisions for improved environmental monitoring
and emergency management of oil at the facilities. Although no known use of polychlorinated biphenyls
(PCBs) exists at either facility in transformer oil, electrical oil-filled circuit breakers, hydraulic fluid, etc;,
a PCB survey would be conducted to verify the actual situation.
8.    Proposed Environmental Mitigation Plan. A proposed program to address environmental
concerns in the two plants to be rehabilitated has been developed by the consultant as an element of the
environmental reviews. Given the restricted nature of the proposed rehabilitation activities, the mitigation
plans include a limited number of activities to be undertaken at each of the plants. The mitigation plans
for each facility include the following elements which have been agreed to during negotiations: (a)
preparation of an asbestos management and disposal plan; (b) conduct of a survey for PCBs and if
located, development of a facility specific PCB management plan; and (c) development of a fuel spill
control and oil spill contingency plan.
9.    Proposed Monitoring Plan.  Implementation of the proposed project would support the
installation of continuous emissions monitoring systems to measure emissions of NO., S02, CO and
opacity for Elektrenai Unit 6 and Mazeikiai Boilers 3 and 4. This would provide LSPS operators with
real time data to support improved environmental performance of the boilers and create a documented
data base for air emissions from these boilers for use by both LSPS and EPD. Monitoring of the
environmental performance of the partially rehabilitated Elektrenai and Mazeikiai power plants is the
responsibility of the local environmental offices working under the supervision of the Environmental



Annex 3.7
Page 3 of 3
Protection Department. It is anticipated that periodic monitoring would be conducted by these offices,
on behalf of the EPD, which would complement the routine collection of monitoring data and the
calculation of emissions for non-monitored boilers by the operators of the power plants on the basis of
performance factors and fuel quality.  It should be noted that LSPS has previously had on-site
measurements made for the Elektrenai Plant by a consultant which have been used for checking their
emission factors. Issues related to the use of water by the power plants would be monitored by the local
water authorities.
10.   Component II - Electricity System Upgrade. The proposed component consists of three
subcomponents as follows:
(a)    Vilnius Dispatch Center Subcomponent. The proposed subcomponent is anticipated to
have a positive environmental impact by allowing for the more efficient management of
energy resources at the national level through improvements in the methods used for
dispatching and receiving electricity via the national and regional grids. It has not been
the subject of environmental analysis.
(b)    Transmission Line and Substation  Upgrade Subcomponent.   The proposed
subcomponent is anticipated to have a positive environmental impact and improve worker
safety by supporting a series of improvements to the existing transmission system and the
replacement of one transformer. LSPS uses a system under which it collects all oil from
transformers which are repaired or replaced, filters it in a central facility then recycles
it in other units within the system. It is reported that the transformer oils in the LSPS
system have not included the use of PCBs; however, this will be verified by undertaking
a PCB survey as an element of the mitigation plan for the project.
(c)    LSPS Communications System  Upgrade Subcomponent.  The subcomponent is
expected to have a positive environmental effect by improving the integrated and more
efficient operation of the transmission system and reducing power interruptions in parts
of the country.
11.   Component Im - Technical Assistance. It is proposed that the project would include an activity
to support training of LSPS personnel from the central office and major facilities in environmental aspects
of energy planning and generation. This would include training in the preparation of environmental
assessments and the collection and use of environmental monitoring information in the design and
operational context. Additional training on environmental management techniques would be provided
under twinning arrangements funded by bilateral and multilateral development agencies.



Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 10
Notes to the Fnancdal Statements and Projections
1993 Statements
1.    Lithuania employed a cash accounting system with elements of accruals accounting during
1992 and 1993. The main principles of this method of cash accounting are:
*     Revenue is recorded in the income statement only after payment is received.
*     Expenditures are recorded according to a coefficient of total expenditures in order to
try to match expenditure with revenue.
2.    In order to provide a more meaningful presentation of historical information for LSPS, the
financial statements for 1993 have been modified to approximate International Accounting Standards
(IAS) using accruals accounting. Revenues presented in these projections therefore represent the cost
of energy and services supplied during the accounting year, and expenditures represent all costs
associated with providing those services (i.e., they are not presented on a cash accounting basis). The
main areas of uncertainty for which adequate information was not available were (i) revenue from
other operations and (ii) other operating expenses. Accounts for 1992 were left in their original
form.
3.    The balance sheet for 1993 has also been modified to provide a fairer view of the company.
For the most part, these modifications consisted of reclassifying items, particularly accounts
receivable, to correspond with IAS classifications. Receivables for electricity are presented at current
realizable value - that is net of approximately 40 million litai lost due to inflation and exchange rate
movements from exports to Russia which are not subject to fines or indexation for late payment. It is
currently unlikely that this unrealized lost revenue will be collected in the form of fines, and there
was no method in the old accounting system to report this loss. It therefore does not appear
anywhere in the company's accounts.
4.    Long-term and short-term foreign currency debt was originally presented at historical
exchange rates rather than at the rate at the end of the accounting period. The debt was therefore
overstated by approximately USS 3 million and has been restated in the balance sheet using end-year
exchange rates. The unrealized gain is expressed on the liability side of the balance sheet and is
amorized as it is realized on the funds flow statement for the projections. Approximately ECU 28
million of funds borrowed from the EC for working capital (on-lent from the Ministry of Finance)
were misclassified as long-term debt in the company's 1993 accounts. LSPS reborrowed these funds
in February 1994 on new terms (six year maturity); this debt is reflected in the projections as long-
term from 1994 but has been reclassified as short-term for 1993.



Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 10
Assumptions for the Financial Projections
Power and Heat Production
*     Nuclear Power Production. Nuclear power production is projected to be reduced
beginning in 1994 due to the implementation of safety upgrades and the expected
closure of one unit by June 1998.
*     Thermal Power Production. Thermal stations are used for peaking purposes except
during heating season and for technical reasons. A minimum of 1.3 TWh of
electricity is produced by thermal stations annually.
*     System Los  grow to 16% in 1994 (reflecting the current level of technical losses
and increased theft) but are stabilized at 15% in subsequent years due to increased
system efficiency and improved methods for combatting thefts.
Fuel Costrs for heavy fuel oil and gas stay at an average price of US$ 65 per ton and
US$ 90 per 1000 cubic meters respectively. Nuclear fuel rises to USS 70,000 per
assembly. The cost of electricity from Ignalina is comprised of variable fuel costs
plus fixed costs including the costs of financing a US$ 25 million investment program
in short-term safety upgrades and the later US$ 68 million for long-term upgrades of
one unit. The projections take into account a planned increase in use of heavy fuel oil
as more fuel oil storage is constructed in the country.
Power and Heat Demand
-     Electricitv Exo  are projected to drop to 1.4 TWh in 1994 but recover to 2.5 TWh
through the rest of the decade. Reduced exports is more a reflection of neighboring
countries' ability to pay than actual demand.
*     Domestic Electricity Demand will bottom out at 6.8 TWh in 1997. The significant
drop in domestic demand reflects both a decline in economic activity and an
increasing economic shift away from the industrial sector toward the service sector.
*     Heat Demand. Heat output will continue to be constrained based on estimates of
consumers' ability to pay and budgeted subsidies. After reaching a low of 11.3
million Gcal in 1994, heat demand/output will grow only marginally.
General Financial Assumptions
*     Domestic Inflation is projected to be 48% in 1994, falling to 5% beginning in 1997.
The exchange rate is forecast to remain at 3.9 litai = USS 1 from 1994 onwards.
*     Tariffs for heat and electricity are set at a level so that total revenue is sufficient to
cover all operating costs and to cover 10% of projected annual capital investments
(project-related and other) from internal sources. There is an implicit cross subsidy of
heat from electricity which is gradually phased out by 1998. Export tariffs in 1994



Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 10
average US 2 cents per kWh, rising gradually to the end of the decade.
*     Residential Heat Tariffs rise to an average of 30 litai per Gcal in 1994 (compared to
70 for industrial customers); residential tariffs rise to full cost-recovery levels by
1998.
*     Value Added Tax of 18% is assumed to be levied (as planned) beginning in the
second trimester of 1994. However, according to the temporary rules on the tax, it is
only levied on non-residential customers. However, VAT is levied on all customers
beginning in 1995. Excise tax of 10% is levied on electricity bills prior to VAT
calculations.
Income Statement
*     Revenues are based on average tariffs, although a variable tariff structure is applied
for electricity revenues depending on the time of day that electricity is consumed.
Tariffs are inclusive of VAT and excise tax.
*     Salaries and benefits are assumed to increase with inflation. The expected real
increase in wages is offset by a reduction in personnel and therefore is not visible in
the projections.
*     Materials and Spare Parts. Expenditures on materials and spare parts increases by
10% in real terms in 1994, followed by real increases of 5-9% in subsequent years.
The real increases reflect a reversal of chronic neglect of maintenance work.
*     Dpjreciatio  is assumed to be on a straight line basis, with depreciation charges
increased in line with the expected indexation of fixed assets in 1994.
*     Penalt Income on overdue accounts declines by 5% a year as a percentage of total
revenues (the actual number therefore remains relatively flat).
*     Heating Subsidie. A 96 million litai heating subsidy is projected for 1994 in line
with the approved state budget. Heat subsidies are assumed to be phased out after
1994, although the cross-subsidy of heat with electricity will continue.
*     Profit Tax of 29% is levied on taxable profits, although a rate of only 10% is applied
to those profits which are reinvested in fixed assets (in accordance with Lithuanian tax
law).
*     Tax on State Capital is levied at 7% of one third of the value of state capital. It
should be noted that the revaluation of fixed assets is included in a revaluation
reserve, not in the state capital reserve, and therefore does not affect the tax on state
capital in the projections. This is still being debated by the Government.
Funds Flow Statement
*     Debt Service. Debt service is according to the terms of the existing loans with the



Annex 4.1
Page 4 of 10
EBRD, EC, and IMF which are available in the project file. The World Bank project
loan is carried by the company as a foreign currency loan paid in local currency at the
prevailing interest rate (bearing the full foreign exchange risk). As agreed during
negotiations, the loan is passed on at the same interest rate at which the Government
borrows.
*     Debt Rescheduling. The rescheduling of the EC short-term credits is shown as new
borrowing since the principal was actually repaid in 1994 and then reborrowed on
new terms.
*     Investment Costs. Ihe company is expected to cover at least 10% of all investment
costs from internal sources. Investment is projected to be approximately USS 10
million per year following the completion of the World Bank and EBRD projects.
*     Unrealized Foreign Exchange Gains (Losses) are shown to be realized as the foreign
loans are being repaid.
*     Working Capital is increased sharply in 1994, reflecting predominantly a rescheduling
of short-term borrowing for working capital to long-term.
Balance Sheet
*     Asset Indexation planned for July 1994 is assumed to result in an 11.5 fold increase in
asset value, and a corresponding increase in depreciation charges. Indexation is
balanced with a revaluation reserve.
d     Accounts Receivable. Reduction in accounts receivable is assumed to meet Bank
targets, i.e., electricity receivables will be reduced to 45 days.
*     Inventorie are assumed to grow in line with the increased availability of storage
facilities and the increasing fossil fuel needs. Three months supply of materials and
spare parts is also assumed.
*     EC and IMF Borrowings. The EC loan of ECU 28 million is shown to be
rescheduled as happened in February 1994. Approximately USS 15 million of a total
of USS 30 million in short-term borrowing is refinanced as long-term. This new
borrowing is assumed to be at 9% interest over 7 years. USS 10.8 million of IMF
short-term credits on-lent from the Ministry of Finance are assumed to be rolled over
and reduced by US$ 2 million per year.
*     Accounts Payable to suppliers fall from 60 days to 30 days of expenditures over the
period of the projections.



Annex 4.1
Page 5 of 10
LUTHUANIA STATE POWER SYSTEM
KEY ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECIONS
-ActuaI- --  Ead  -  -
1992     1993     1994     1995      1996     1997     1998      1999
ELECTRICITY:
Elc.De.naad-Dometic(CWh)               9.90      7.40     7.30     7.20     7.00      6.80     7.14     7.32
Ehc.Demnd-NoEzpa (TWb)                 5.30      2.90     1.40     2.50     2.50      2.50     2.50     2.50
Toal Nd Ebc. Dand (Ch)                15.20    10.30      3.70     9.70     9.50      9.30     9.64     9.82
Syim mesm(%)                          9.09    15.60    16.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00    15.00
SystemLon (TWh)                        1.70     2.20     1.23     1.29      1.84     1.81     1.37      1.29
Lo Reduc   fiaom Projtd (2.5%)        0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00    -0.06    -0.04    -0.04    -0.12
Net Syasm Loa1., TWb                  1.70     2.20      1.33     1.89     1.79      1.77     1.84     1.77
Own Use (%)                           9.30    11.35      8.00     8.00      2.00     8.00     2.00     8.00
Own Use (CWh)                          1.80     1.60     0.92     1.01     0.98      0.96     1.00     1.01
Cainuqtion bar.Kmunis(TWh)            18.70    14.10    11.45    12.60    12.22    12.04    12.48    12.63
Hybo Storge Use (CWh)                 0.22      0.22     0.75     0.22     0.60      0.22     0.22     0.60
Total Elec. Conumption (h)             12.92    14.32    12.19    13.42    12.22    12.86    13.31    13.23
Supplied by (TWh):
Nucleawprhupoio                       15.10    12.48     9.52    11.06     7.62    10.51    10.92      7.67
PunWed Storage                        0.20      0.20     0.53     0.58     0.42      0.58     0.58     0.42
Transit Fee (8.3% in kind)                               0.12     0.12      0.12     0.12     0.12     0.12
Themal: OfWbich:                      3.60      1.37     1.69     1.32      4.32     1.32     1.29     4.63
asB                                   1.20     0.07     0.08     0.07      0.22     0.07     0.06     0.23
HeavyFuelOil                          1.80     1.30     1.60      1.25     4.10     1.25     1.22     4.45
Thermal Supplied by Facilities:
Elekbeai                                       0.63     0.59     0.42      2.12     0.43     0.43     2.63
Mazeikiai CHP                                  0.44     0.42     0.29      0.48     0.66     0.66     0.20
Vilniu&/aunas CHP                              0.30     0.61     0.55      1.65     0.23     0.20      1.26
Hydro                                 0.30      0.33     0.33     0.33     0.33      0.33     0.33     0.33
Totw Supply(TCM)                       19.00    14.33    12.19    13.42    12.28    12.86    13.31    13.23
Transit Electicity                                        1.50     1.50     1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50
Fuel for Eledity Prztion
sm (milUion m3) a1                   521.1     19.8     24.4      19.1     62.5     19.1      12.6     67.8
HeavyFuel OiICOOtons) hI             433.4    313.4    325.2    301.5    922.0    301.7    294.2  1,071.4
Nuclear (suemblies) cl                       1,386.7  1,058.0  1,229.2    253.4  1,167.4  1,220.2    251.7
HEAT:
Hat Demand LSPS + Alytu (M Ocal)       12.9     10.2     10.4      10.4     10.8     10.2      11.0     11.0
indusrial                              7.3      4.3      5.0       5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0       5.0
Residential                            5.6      5.9      5.4       5.4      5.8      5.2      6.0       6.0
Heat Demand Siluma (M Ocal):            1.6      1.2      0.9      0.9       0.9      0.9      0.9       0.9
Indudrial                              0.6      0.3      0.2      0.2       0.2      0.2      0.2       0.2
Residential                            1.0      0.9      0.7       0.7      0.7      0.7      0.7       0.7
Tobl Het Demnd (M Gcol):               14.5     11.4     11.3      11.3     11.7     11.7      11.9     11.9
LSPS SyIem. ose.(%)                    9.0     11.6      9.6       9.6      9.2      9.2      9.1       9.1
LSPS Sydam Los  (M Oal)                1.2      1.5       1.1      1.1      1.1      1.1       1.1      1.1
TotalHeatProduction(MOcal)             15.7     12.9      12.4     12.4     12.8     12.2      13.0     13.0



Annex 4.1
Page 6 of 10
Supplied by (M Ocal):
Gam                                                        5.2        4.4        4.4         4.6        4.6         4.6        4.6
Heavy Fuel Oil                                             7.4        7.3        7.3         3.1        8.1         3.3        3.3
Ugbt Fuel Oil                                              0.2        0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1        0.0         0.0
Coal                                                       0.1        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
Total Supply (M Gcal)                            0.0       12.9       12.4        12.4       12.3       12.3        13.0       13.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~.............          ...      ................................... . .. ..  . ........  ~. ........ . ....  ._.... . ..  . . . _._. ._.~
Fuel for Head Production
Gas (million m3) d/                                     743.0      653.0       653.0      673.6       673.6      633.9       633.9
HeavyFueOilO(M0tons) e/                                 906.3       959.5      961.7      995.S       993.0    1,016.1    1,018.3
gltFuelOil (VWO ton)fY                                    23.2       13.5       11.5         9.4        7.3         5.2        3.1
Coal cm  tons) g/                                         15.0        5.7        5.7         5.7        5.7         5.7        5.7
ENERGY PRICES AND TARIFFS:
Heavy Fuel Oil (S/mAric ton)                                 60          65         65         65          65         65         65
light Fuel Oil (S/metric ton)                               116        200         200        200        200         200        200
Gas (S/housnd m3)                       86                               90         90         90          90         90         90
Coal (Utcn)                                                  13          25         40         40          40         40          40
Nuclear (S/assembly)                                     39,000    60,000    70,000    70,000    70,000    70,000    70,000
Nuclear Fixed Costs (Litusnmillion)                       160.0      212.4      254.2       263.4      231.0      294.3       352.4
Avg. Elc. Tariff Dom (L it/kwh)              0.013      0.067       0.105      0.139      0.159       0.159      0.159       0.171
Avg. Elc. Tariff Export( itakh)               0.014      0.057       0.030      0.100      0.120       0.120      0.120      0.171
Avg. HeatTariff (Lits/Ocal):                   10.53   39.798    51.596    60.775    60.967    64.244    67.473             67.478
Industrial                                    17.77   7S.400    76.930    76.700    70.S00    70.S00    70.300    70.300
R:esidetial                                    1.07    12.700    30.000    47.200    53.100    59.000    64.900    64.900
Av& Purchae Price Nuclear (LJkwh)                        0.029       0.054      0.059      0.073       0.064      0.064       0.035
.~....~  .......................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................... . ........... ~ .
.1 Assumes 239.5 million m3 of as produces I TWh of electricity
'. Assumes 240,000 tons of heavy fuel oil produces I TWh of electricity
c/ Assumes I auembly of nuclear fuel produces 9 million kwh.
d/ Asunmes 147.4 m3 of gs produes I GOcal of heat
e/ Assues 0.1226 tovs of heavy fuel oil produces 1 Ocal of heal
9 Ames 0.1153 tons of ligA fuel oi produces I Ocal of heal
S/ Assumes 0.210 ton of coal prdus I Gcal of heal
...... .. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................... ~..~...



Annex 4.1
Page 7 of 10
LITHUANIA STATE POWER SYSTEM
CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
INCOME STATEMENT FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
(million LAW)
1992     1993     1994      1995     1996      1997     1998      1999
Elac. Dmand- Domestic (TWh)             9.9       7.4      7.3       7.2      7.0      6.8       7.1      7.3
Elm .Deen-nd oNtExpt(ICh)               5.3       2.9      1.4       2.5      2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5
Heot Duand - Indusia (M Ocal)           7.9       4.6      5.2       5.2      5.2      5.2       5.2      5.2
Heat Demand -  Rsidenial (M Ocal)       6.6       6.S      6.1      6.1       6.5      6.5       6.7      6.7
Avj Ebc. TariffDom.(Lhwb)             0.015    0.067    0.105    0.139    0.159    0.159    0.159    0.171
Av&Elm TariffEqxwta(J b)              0.014    0.057    0.0S0    0.100    0.120    0.120    0.120    0.171
Avg Heat Taiff (LOGal)                 10.53    39.80    51.60    60.7S    60.97    64.24    67.48    67.48
Avg. Hea TiffIistriul (IJOcal)         17.77    78.40    76.93    76.70    70.80    70.30    70.80    70.80
Av& HeatTariff-RNidea (/GOcal)          1.07    12.70    30.00    47.20    53.10    59.00    64.90    64.90
Domesticlldation(%)                  1,020.0    150.0     48.5      12.0      6.0      5.0       5.0      5.0
Exhap  PRate(Lita/S)                             4.10      4.00     4.00      4.00     4.00      4.00     4.00
___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................    _   _   _................................................................
OPERATlNO REVENUES
Eledficity Revnues
Dowestic                             148.0    513.8    766.5   1,002.1   1,113.0   1,081.2   1,135.3  1,251.5
lAe: VAT                                                56.1    152.9    169.8    164.9    173.2    190.9
Lem: Excie Tax on Sales                        44.0     64.6      77.2     85.7      83.3     37.5     96.4
Export                                73.2    163.8    112.0    250.0    300.0    300.0    300.0    427.5
SuW-otal Eled1icity                 221.1    633.6    757.8   1,022.0  1,157.5   1,133.0  1,174.6  1,391.6
Ha Revuas
bInudria                                                400.0    398.8    368.2    368.2    368.2    368.2
Residential                                             183.0    287.9    345.2    383.5    434.8    434.8
Lem: VAT                                                33.6    104.8    108.8    114.7    122.5    122.5
Sub4otal, Heat                       89.3    453.7    549.5    5S2.0    604.5    637.0    680.5    690.5
Toal Elecricity/Heat Revenue       343.5  1,087.3  1,307.3  1,604.0  1,762.0  1,770.0  1,855.1   2,072.2
Rvenuex fim Otwe Opeoatom               2.9      46.4     57.7     64.6      68.4     71.9      75.5     79.2
VAT Redimzd                                              13S.2    256.4    282.6    270.4    231.3    317.6
Tow Operating bwlnoe                346.4  1,133.7  1,503.1   1,925.0  2,113.0   2,112.3  2,211.9  2,469.0
.... _................                           .............................
OPERATING EXPENSES
WagCF Salanbn and Bdefit               11.2      69.2    102.3    115.1    122.0    128.1    134.5    141.2
Mateials&SpamePaats                    34.5      86.6    137.3    166.1    189.3    212.1    235.4    258.9
Fuel                                  135.0    599.9    605.0    580.4    789.2    594.0    598.7    817.4
lpalina Ebricity Purdhis              160.7    328.0    466.3    598.4    507.4    607.9    635.9    590.9
0tdr                                    0.3      57.1     70.9      79.5     84.2      38.4     92.9     97.5
VAT Pid on Fuel and Otber Input                          138.2    256.4    282.6    270.4    281.3    317.6
Totl Opwating Expamsa               349.1  1,140.8  1,520.5  1,795.3  1,974.8  1,901.0  1,978.7  2,223.6
NotlncoomeBI&D                          (2.7)    (7.)    17. 4)   i29.2    138.3    211.3    i33.2    i45.5
Depreciation                          0.9       6.7     40.4      79.1     89.6     91.6      99.8    101.8
Nd Operaing Incomebefore lntS           (3.6)   (13.9)   (57.8)    50.1      48.7    119.7    133.4    143.7
Inteexton Borrowinp                    3.5       8.5     22.4     27.7      30.1     27.3      23.2     13.4
Pealty Inome on Overdue AcOt           4.3      23.7     29.9     36.4      38.1     36.3      36.2     38.5
Fin  Paidby LSPS                       1.4       1.9      2.8       3.2      3.3      3.5       3.7      3.9
NotOperingl ome                         (4.1)    (0.6)   (53.2)    55.7      53.3    125.2    142.7    159.9
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....... ... _._._...___.._.........................
HeatSubsidies (DiuetJA Indi)           12.0      39.1     96.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Notin omebeforeTax                      7.9      38.5     42.8      55.7     53.3    125.2    142.7    159.9
ProSt TAx                              2.6      13.3     10.8      14.4      7.6     28.6      33.8     38.8
Oav TaxonCa Capi                       0.5       4.0      5.1       5.1      5.1       5.1      5.1      5.1
NetlnoomeaflerT ax                      4.8      20.6     26.9      36.2     40.6      91.4    103.3    116.0



Annex 4.1
Page 8 of 10
LTHUANIA STATE POWER SYSTEM
CONSOLDATED OPERATIONS
SOURCES AND APPUCATIONS OF FUND8 STATEMENTS FOR YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 30
( Us)
- Acu IAd E                                     -  -
1992     1993     1994     1995      1996     1997     1993      1999
SOURCES
henl S8m
NotOpra1gInoomebefore Intre                            (57.3)    50.1      48.7    119.7    133.4    143.7
Deprciation                                            40.4     79.1      39.6     91.6     99.8    101.8
hiwr am Pnaty nme                                       27.1     33.3      34.7     32.3     32.5      34.6
TOWl Ibterl Sourns                                      9.6    162.4    173.0    244.1    265.7    230.0
WorWd Bank Rehabbiaion Loa I
EBRD Emwrncy Ewgy Loa                                   77.7     77.7
World Bank Enr  Projet Loan I                           11.3      39.4     42.7     10.3      0.0
Rambe1lingST Ddet                                      134.0
Toal Boowinp                                          273.6    117.1      42.7     10.3       0.0      0.0
.________ ............  ..________ ......................................_
Subsidies                                                96.0
TOTAL SOURCES                                         379.2    279.5    215.7    254.3    265.7    280.0
APPlCATIONS
Pr4ec R -ioo
Prposd Wodd Bank Projed                                 12.5      40.3     44.3     10.7       0.0
EBRD Prjct                                               5.5      35.5
d6w Ongoing Projqes                                                        40.0     40.0      40.0     40.0
TOWal Projects                                         93.0    126.3      34.3     50.7      40.0     40.0
...._._...____ ..............._.__......__._ ... _______.........................._
Word Bank I - intemug                                    0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4       0.3
- princp                                                                      0.6       0.6      0.6
EBRD       ii 3rmat                                      3.3      9.0      11.4      9.9      8.4       6.3
-prinipal                                                           21.2     21.2      21.2     21.2
Wodd Bak akiunereo                                       0.4      2.6       5.3      7.2      7.6       7.1
.pminipsl                                                                               4.0      8.0
LomfobrFuulPurSmauss 4htri                             1.2       15.7     12.9      9.7      6.9       4.1
- pripal                                         263       26.3     26.3     26.3      26.3     263
Total Dbt Srvice                                       48.7      54.0     77.6     75.3     753       74.4
Tiumm *nd Obgatory ContbnUdom                            16.0      19.5     12.7     33.8     31.9      43.9
Porsip Ezxabap Aijusnos                                   4.5       1.3      1.3      1.5      1.5       1.5
Inreae (Decease) m Wong Capit                           146.7     81.7      51.7     33.3      11.9     14.9
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                   313.9    232.3    227.6    194.6    167.6    174.8
Surplus Fund                                             65.3     (3.3)   (11.9)    59.3      98.1    105.3
Opening Cas Balance                                      46.8    112.2    108.9      97.0    156.3    254.9
Closing Cah Baance                                      112.2    108.9      97.0    156.3    254.9    360.2



Annex 4.1
Page 9 of 10
LITHUANIA STATE POWER SYSTEM
CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
BALANCE SHEETS AT YEARS ENDING DECEMBER 31
-Atus I-  -   -   Etimated -   -   -
1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997     1998      1999
ASSETS
Faxed Ast
roaw Fixed Amta                     110.6    254.2  2,968.4  2,968.4  3,179.3  3,219.3  3,367.7  3,407.7
Ls: Acmuld  Deprection               26.6     61.5    747.7    326.7    916.3  1,007.9  1,107.7  1,209.5
Net FixedAsseb                      34.1    192.7  2,220.7  2,141.7  2,263.0  2,211.4  2,260.0  2,198.2
Work-in-Pogr                         15.7     45.1     98.0    224.3      97.7    108.3      0.0      0.0
Total Fixod Aetb                    99.8    237.8  2,318.7  2,366.0  2,360.7  2,319.7  2,260.0  2,198.2
....__..._._._......___...  ..__..__..____
Long-Term Invexments                   0.0      0.9      0.9      0.9       0.9      0.9      0.9      0.9
Currt As
Cash and Bank Nots                   12.3     46.8    112.2    108.9      97.0    156.8    254.9    360.2
Acoounts Receivable - Total          49.3    225.0    234.8    275.9    273.3    250.4    262.9    290.0
ofwhichHem                          34.9    138.8    137.4    145.5    125.9    106.2    113.4    113.4
Eledricity                    14.4     83.5     94.7    127.8    144.7    141.6    146.8    174.0
Otier                                   2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7      2.7       2.7
Advanes                              18.7     60.8     90.3    101.1    107.2    112.5    118.2    124.1
Inventories                          19.8    100.1    138.3    145.5    177.3    209.0    214.8    220.7
Other                                27.3     89.0      80.9     73.6     70.1     66.7     63.6     60.5
TotalCwrrntAsst                    127.4    521.7    656.5    705.0    724.9    795.5    914.4  1,055.6
_..._._._._._..........._____._... _....__.. _._....................................
TOTAL ASSETS                       227.2    760.4  2,976.1  3,071.9  3,086.5  3,116.2  3,175.3  3,254.6
EQUITY AND LIABILMIES
EQUITY
StateCapital                         42.6    199.1    199.1    199.1    199.1    199.1    199.1    199.1
StateCapitalResave                   54.5     21.3     21.3     21.3      21.3     21.3     21.3     21.3
Share Capitl                                   0.4      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4
Shae Capital Reserve                          16.5     16.5      16.5     16.5     16.5     16.5     16.5
Revaluation Rese                                     2,023.4  2,023.4  2,023.4  2,023.4  2,023.4  2,023.4
Reaied Eninp and Reves                1.3      4.2     31.0     67.2    107.8    199.3    303.0    419.0
Toal Equity                         98.3    241.5  2,291.7  2,327.9  2,368.5  2,459.9  2,563.7  2,679.7
.. . ... _._ ....... . . . ................  ...............  . _.
LngTeum Debt
World BanP  I                                  5.7      5.9       5.9      5.9      5.3      4.8      4.2
EBRD, EC A Ote                                 7.7    243.2    294.6    247.1    199.6    152.1    104.6
Word Bank II                                   0.0     11.8     51.2      93.9    104.2    100.2     92.2
Domedic Loans                         0.0      0.6      0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6      0.6      0.6
Toal Long-Term Loans                 0.0     14.0    261.6    352.4    347.5    309.8    257.7    201.6
Currat liabilities
AocountsPayabltoSuppliers            92.1     92.0    198.7    165.8    142.5    116.2    120.8    137.0
Advances                              1.1      7.3      12.0     15.0     18.0     21.0     24.0     27.0
Shoat-Term Loa                        8.2    239.5     43.2     35.2      27.2     19.2     11.2      3.2
Other                                27.5    152.6    160.2    168.2    176.6    185.5    194.8    204.5
Toal Crat Liabilities              128.9    491.4    414.1    384.2    364.3    341.9    350.8    371.7
................................................................................... ..........................................................................._______
Uealized F/X gais (loses)                      13.5      8.7      7.4       6.1      4.6      3.1      1.6
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILTIES          227.2    760.4  2,976.1  3,071.9  3,086.5  3,116.2  3,175.3  3,254.6
-    ===5    =====    ~==    _n-                        --  _-



Annex 4.1
Page 10 of 10
LTHUANIA STATE POWER SYSTEM
CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS
RATIOS OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
-AdU I- --  EAmated -  -  -
1992     193       1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999
UQUIDITY
Currmt AstCuait Liabilities               0.99      1.06      1.59      1.3       1.99     2.33      2.61      2.84
Quick Anet/CufnatLiabilities              0.48      0.55      0.84      1.00      1.02      1.19     1.48      1.75
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Operaing Expamhh/Revenues                101%      101%      101%      93%       93%       90%       89%       90%
(Fuel+Elec. PurcbasesYOpor. Expam         85%       81%      70%       66%       66%       63%       62%       63%
PROFITABILITY
ReturnonOrow FixedAxmts                   14%       21%        3%       2%        2%        4%        4%        5%
Retum on Net Fixod Aseta                  19%       28%       4%        3%        2%        6%        6%        7%
DEBT, FINANCLAL LEVERAOE
Dcbt Sevice Covege (w/o subsidies)                   1.9       0.2       3.0       2.2      3.2       3.5       3.8
IntUeret Coverage                                   1.9       0.4       5.9       5.8      9.0      11.4      15.3
Debt Service Coveage (w/ subsidies)                            2.2       3.0       2.2       3.2      3.5       3.8
Inteest Coverage                                              4.7       5.9       5.8      9.0      11.4      15.3
Long-TenD DeWEquity                                  6%       11%      15%       15%       13%       10%        8%
RECEIVABLES
Receivable/Annual Amounb Due (Days)
Elecricity                                 23        47        45        45       45        45        45        45
Heat                                      141       110        90        90       75        60        60        60
AvegeDays WorkingCapital                   -2        10        57        64       66        86       103       111



Lithuania: Power Rehabilitation Project
Demand Projections and Merit Order Loading of Power Plants                                                                         Ln
Actbua        >  ESTIMATED                                                                                      >
1991 1992 193  1994  199S V 61    199      8       1999 -eo 20         =   2      __    2007 2--  -             20   2010
CeaaftWoo for Domek  Demn. (tWh)    15.36 13.20 11.03 10.57  10.54  10.00  9.99   10.43  10.35 10.59  10.84  11.09 11.35  11.61  I.8U  12.16 12.44 12.73 13.03 13.34
Gwenrioato med tol dem. (W)       29.40 18.91 14.38 12.19  13.42  12.88 12.36  13.31  13.23 13.54  13.86  14.13 14.52  14.86  15.21 15.58 15.95 16.32 16.71 17.11
Mib. Themd GaCr_ia  (160 MW)                   1.30  1.80   1.40   1.40  1.40   1.40   1.40  1.40   1.40   1.40  1.40   1.40   1.40  1.40  1.40  1.40  1.40  1.40
Energy Dispah Projections (based on order of merit oading)
1i(Nuclekr) 01 (Max. 70% CF)        .43  7.81  6.23  1.36   7.23   7.68  2.34   3.32   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
Ilina (Nclear) 02 (Max. 70% CF)    3.43  7.81  6.25  7.67   3.83  0.00  7.67   7.67   7.67  7.67   7.67   7.67  7.67   7.67   7.67  7.67  7.67  7.67  7.67  7.67
Kauna - Hydro (36% CF)             0.33  0.33  0.33  0.33   0.33   0.33  0.33   0.33   0.33  0.33   0.33   0.33  0.33   0.33   0.33  0.33  0.33  0.33  0.33  0.33
Kns - Pumped Storage (5-17% CF)    0.00  0.20  0.20  0.53   0.53   0.42  0.58   0.53   0.42  0.42   0.42   0.42  0.42   0.42   0.42  0.42  0.42  0.42  0.42  0.42
Klaiped - HPP (33-70% CF)          0.03  0.03  0.06  0.06   0.06   0.06  0.06   0.06   0.06  0.06   0.06   0.06  0.06   0.06   0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06  0.06
Mazei 1&2 (CHP 45-60% CF)          0.57        0.44  0.53   0.33   0.53  0.70   0.70   0.34  0.34   0.34  0.34  0.34  0.34  0.34  0.34  0.34 0.34  0.34  0.34
Vilniu - I & 2 (5-35% CF)           1.75       0.30  0.48   0.43   1.12  0.16   0.18   0.91  1.06   1.06   1.06  1.06   1.06   1.06  1.06  1.06  1.06  1.06  1.06
Vilnius - HPP (35% CF)             0.11        0.06  0.06   0.06   0.06  0.06   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00
Kaunas 1,2 & HPP (0-35% CF)        0.63        0.00  0.07   0.00   0.47  0.00   0.00   0.33  0.47   0.47   0.47  0.47   0.47   0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47  0.47
Elekei 1-3 (TPP: 3-75% CF)         9.22        0.63  0.63   0.53   2.23  0.47   0.47   2.67  2.70   3.02   3.34  3.68   4.02   4.37  4.73  5.10  5.41  5.87  6.27
Totl Dispath TWh                  29.51 19.00 14.38 12.19  13.42  12.38 12.86  13.31  13.23 13.54  13.86  14.18 1452  14.86  15.21 1S.S8 15.95 16.32 16.71 17.11
Tow IThumml CinuadGou  TWh         12.31       1.49  1.31   1.44  4.44  1.44   1.41   4.31  5.12   5.44   5.76  6.10   6.44   6.30  7.16  7.53  7.90  3.29  3.69
Ebectrict auppUd by Ebktr    Unit  (aftwr &ibIiW.)
Copity needed to met demand, MW    1404          96   96    S0   339   72        72    406  410   459   509  560   612   665  720  777  334  893  954
SuppyfmUnit6(300MW)-ama.50%of totalEEldameiSupply, TWh            1.11  0.00   0.00   1.34  1.35   1.51   1.67  1.34   1.97   1.97  1.97  1.97  1.97  1.97  1.97



Lithuania: Power Rehabilitation Project
Demand Projections and Merit Order Loading of Power Plants                                                                     -
Actual         >   ESTIMATED                                                                                         >                        N
1991  1992 _=   .194   19S     1996  2227  221    1222  2                  2002    2002 23004   2005  NO         2007 2           8 2
Electricity Demand and Geration Can TWk except wbhe  indiaed)
Domestic Demand                       12.30  9.90  7.40  7.30   7.20   7.00  6.50    7.14    7.32  7.50   7.69   7.88  3.0    828   3.49  3.70  3.92  9.14  9.37  9.60
Exponf fTom LSPS                      12.80  5.30  2.90  1.40   2.50   2.50  2.50    2.50    2.50  2.56   2.63   2.69  2.76   2.U3   2.90  2.97  3.05  3.12  3.20  3.23
Tol Net Demand                        25.10 15.20 10.30  8.70   9.70   9.50  9.30    9.64    9.32 10.06  10.32  10.57 10.84  11.11  11.39 11.67 11.96 12.26 12.57 12.81
Sytem Loses (X)    5.78  9.09 15.60 16.00  15.00  15.00 15.00   15.00   15.00 15.00  15.00  15.00 15.00  13.00  15.00 15.00 15.00 15.00 15.00 15.00
System Losues (Wh)    1.70  1.70  2.20  1.83   1.89   1.34  1.S1    1.87    1.89  1.94   1.99   2.04  2.09   2.14   2.19  2.25  2.30  2.36  2.42  2.48
Less: Loss Red. from invest (2.5% of Thennal, TWh                      -0.06 40.04   -0.04 40.12 4.13  -0.14  -0.14 4.15  -0.16  -0.17 40.1S  -0.19 -0.20 -0.21 -0.22
NetSysnemLosses,TWh                    1.70  1.70  2.20  1.83   1.89   1.79  1.77    1.34    1.77  1.31   1.85   1.S9  1.94   1.98   2.02  2.07  2.11  2.16  2.21  2.26
Own Use(b)    8.84  9.30 11.35  3.00   8.00   3.00  8.00    8.00    8.00  8.00   3.00   3.00  3.00   8.00   3.00  8.00  3.00  3.00  3.00  3.00
OwnUwe(CWh)    2.60  1.80  1.60  0.92   1.01   0.93  0.96    1.00    1.01  1.04   1.06   1.09  1.11   1.14   1.17  1.20  1.23  1.26  1.29  132
Electricity Production (fWh)         29.40 13.70 14.10 11.45  12.60  12.23 12.04   12.48   12.63 12.94  13.26  13.59 13.92  14.27  14.62 14.93 15.35 15.73 16.12 16.51
Hydro Storage Use CTWh)    0.00  0.23  0.28  0.75   0.82   0.60  0.S2    0.82    0.60  0.60   0.60   0.60  0.60   0.60   0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60  0.60
Total 1Ece. Production (Wh)          29.40 IS.91 14.33 12.19  13.42  12.   12.86   13.31   13.23 13.54  13.86  14.13 14.52  14.86  15.21 1S.  15."  16.32 16.71 17.11
Aveage demand, MW                     3356  2167  1642  1392   1532   1470  1463    1519   1510  1546   1532   1619  1657   1697   1737  1773  1320  1863  1903  1953
Peak demand (75% load fac.) MW        4475  2889  2139  1856   2042   1960  1958   2025   2013  2061   2109  2159 2210   2262   23t6  2371  2427  2485  2544  2604
Cap. for Peek + 20% reerva, MW        5370  3467  2627  2227   2451   2352  2349   2430   2416  2473   2531   2591 2652   2715   2779  2845  2912  2912  3053  3125
Avail"  Cap. - wIlgaulia, MW          5431  S431  5431  S006   4656   4211  5691   S048   4423  4423   4423   4423  4423   4423   4423  4423  4423  4423  4423  4423
AvailableCap.-w/o Ignalina,MW         2931  2931  2931  3131   2781   2961  3191   3173   3173  3173   3173   3173  3173   3173   3173  3173  3173  3173  3173  3173
Existin Available Capacity (rtfleding doan-time for rehabDibitn) . MW
IgainaQ (tuckar) I1                   12501250  1250   625  12501250  1250    625                0     0      0      0     0       0      0     0     0     0      0     0
Ia  (Nuckear) fl                       1250  1250  12W0  1250    625       0  1250    1250   1250  1250   1250   1250  1250   1250   1250  1250  1250  1250  1250  1250
Elektei 1-4 MP)                      I10   1O00  1300  1300   I50    1650  130    130    1300  1800   1100   1300  IS0    1300   IS 300I    IS0 1OO  IS0   1800  10OO
Vitniu (HPPM                             18    18    18    18     18      18    18       0       0     0      0      0     0       0      0     0     0      0     0     0
Vinius I&2                             346   346   346   346    346    346  346    346    346 346  346  346346    346   346  346346346346   346
Mazeikal I&2 (CHP)                     100   100   100   100      SO     30   160    160       160   160    160    160   160    160    160   160   160   160   160   160
Kaunas I&2                              152   152   152   152    152    152   152    152       152   152    152    152   152    152    152   152   152   152   152   152
Klapoda- HPP                             9      9     9     9      9       9     9       9       9     9      9      9     9       9      9     9     9      9     9     9
Kaunu - Hydro                           106   106   106   106    106    106   106    106    106   106    106    106   106    106    106   106   106   106   106   106
Knoris - Pumped Storage (Peaking)      400   400   400   600    600    600   600    600    600   600    600    600  600    600    600   600   600   600   600   600
Exes (Deficit) Capacity, MW             61  1964  2804  2779   2205   1359 3342   2618   2007  1950   1892   1132  1771   1708   1644  1578  1511  1441  1370  1298
Eace  Delicit) Cap. wig I4da          -2439  -S36   304   904    330    60    842    743    757   700    642   582   521    458    394   321   261   191   120    43



Lithuania: Power Rehabilitation Project
Project Econonic Analysis
L Tbermal Power Plant Rehabilitatla.
Elektrenal 300 MW  Power-only unit                (Opaa m             bom md aftr ecb__Tam               is Asn 4.1)
Ba BfOts                                                 Oar DBd
Fud Cost Saviogs, S/MWh                 0.70             NOx comu dn m 6re ou, SMWb              0.15       Hka eflime hqRs         .DUNW              200.0 @5/3000 lb      33
Non-el opeiag coat avings, S/MWI        0.10             Padimba  reduefian, S/M/W               0.01
ToL b_e benefita, S/MWh                 0O.              Safety kiwon_, S/MWb1                              NOx 13i2asio  rnduedm/yaw                    039  4g/MWI md  250.0 SAc        0.15 SIuMW
Vale for inproved avalblt  Cp. pri       20 /MWb         Totdl Ober bemits,  MWk                 6.16       Putmlatea rationyea                         0.24   MVWb a       50.0  Abe     0.01 Simwl
Life Exir . sowra  - Ddefod  avebuncti of $300 mnd. fom 2013 to 2016 ($1000 per kW) FVI    $44.6  minion  PY2   $333 . liam
Pv of f3e Extaos a 10%               511.0    _
1      2      3      4       S       6      7      6      9      I0     11    32   13    14    IS    16         17      18    19     20
1995  19           19       M   19       n"                    2 i   i              20K   2Z1  201             2H 20     2 010
Supply from rhalbiitated unit, GWM
Caaity faclo(%)                                            21%     0%      0%   51%      51%    57%   64%    70%    75%   75%    75%    75%   75%   75%   75%   75%   75%           75%   75%   75%    75%
Pro&Wcio  awh                                               556      0       0  1335    1348    1506  1671   1838   1971  1971   1971   1971  1971  1971  1971  1971  1971    1971  1971  1971   1971
Baaeris due to icreaed availability, aWht
Bua  io     a boeltfis, '000 S                                5      0       0  1068    1079    1206  1337   1471   1577  1577  177   1577  1577  157   1377  157  1577    I7  1577  1577    1577
Othh iac_m abit., '000 S                                     65      0       0   212     214      239   265    291    312   312    312    312   312   312   312   312   312    312   312   312    312
Bae cOa COOOS) - Exd. Eivll eUnnata            750  2999  2999    750                                                                                                            -300000               300000
Total arna coasd, 'C000 $                     1215  4659  4659   1215                                                                                                            -30000               300000
A. Net bie (cma) beet,W0005.                  -750 -2999  2554   -750        0  1068    1079    1206  1337   1471  i17   i57    1577   1577  1577  i5n   1577  1577  1577 30135    17   1577 -296423
B. Net total 1edta bmnka  000S               -1215 -4S59 .4325  -1215        0  120    1292    1445  1602   1762   1889  1669   19    8IU9  189  169  IS9  19  IS9 301689  19  19 298III
m.csaA  <.7V,    Z3U-'Csoe~                                              - AMb                           .~Ias,Ra4V8*S    .'I,4~



Lithuania: Power Rehabilitation Project                                                                                                    C D
Project Economic Analysis                                                                                                       , u
Majeikal 160 MW  CHP Platt                  (Operalg pozmetee befome rd ar rhbdAltiiso pereted an Atex 4.1)
BUN Beefila                                              Other Benibt
Fuel Cad Savink S/MWh                   0.56             NOx anini_o redacti, S1MWk              0.13       Had efickcy  ip _vcm       T BlUlkWo  160.0 0/VO00 it     3.5
Net-fud opeitiq cost savings, S/MWI     0.05             Pafutculie ruhactica, S/MWh             0.01
To, base besefdi, SMWhk                 0.61             Safety imuproniaft  /Mwh                           N Oxxl2nuniosimdred    0.54  /MYWb and   250.0 Shsm    0.13 /MWb
Vabe for      d availabi  (Exp. pi       20 /MWD         Toal other beadha, h/MW                 0.14       PazfialAts reductim/y   0.12 kg/MWh md    50.0 Shoo   0.01 5/MWb
Life Exui. BaDer - Defemn  bvesat of $160 mill. from 2013 to 2016 ($1000 per kVt) VI S23.71 miimi  Nv2    $17.9 m;lie.
NV of Ifge Eutemloa   10%             5551 mime.
1      2      3      4       S       4      7      1      9      10     11    12    13    14    IS    16        17      is    19     20
199 I"SSN 199 1NI      19"  200                                   O 26 2t 20M 2e  2119 2O aL D@U aU  2*10 2@l 2Ml 2
Supply from reh taied sollt. GW
Ca  facor (%                                               75S  50%  50% 60%  60%   60S 60  60OS0 60%                                                                eO%0%  60%  S60560560560560%   60560560%   60%
Produict,oOYoh                                              526    701    701   841      141      841   141    141    141   841    141        411 41   41   41141  41                 411 41  141         141
Ctuion of 60 MW ie oaed available e qacity, OWh
Ruae hcrment basefs, '0&0 S                                 321    427    427   513      513      513   513    513    513   513    513    513   513   513   513   513   513          513   513   513      513
MtaereibmW lb,'rOs, S000$                                    74     91      91   118    li        1  111 II     1 I11    111   111    lIS    its  111   111   II   118   118        III   111   111      111
Bae Coda (0O0OS) - ExeL BEva   a=a             541  2164  2164    541                                                                                                            -160000               160000
Total  dacm Wl ood, '000 $                     631  2523  2523    631                                                                                                            -160000               160000
Ndbm(eoia)bmefalts, 000.                      -541 -2164 -1143   -113    427   513       513      513   513    513    513   513    513    513   513   513   513   513   513  160513   513   513 -15947
Ndetal (eo    besaft, '000 S                  -631 -2523 -2129   -105    526   631       631      631   631    631    631   631    631    631   631   631   631   631   631  160631   631   631 -159369
: t   B:.:B. ........ '.:    :  :'   i  :   t   -   0 -   -  ; i i                N           i  .   :.         .-.......
TheM l Power Plant Redbilitatlon - Totl Component Econo l Anabls
1      2      3      4       5       6      7      3      9      l    1i    12    13    14    15    16         17    1i    19       20
IA 2     S1 1995    199           19     2;00     2001  2002   2003    2 0 M 2000 20               2066 20"     2010  2011  2012   2013  2014  205S   2014
Totl Invetment Cot,'000S lus                  1457312 7382   145             0     0        0       0     0       0      0      0      0       0     0     0      0     0      0 -460000     0      0 460000
Net bas (cote) benefits, '000S.              -1291 -5163 .4397   463    47   1511    1592    1719  1150   1914   2090  2090   2090   2090  2090  2090  2090  2090  2090 462090  2090  2090-457910
Net WA (at) benefis,OOOS                     -1145 -7382 -6454  -1320    526  1911    1923    2076  2232   2393   2520  2520   2520   2520  2520  2520  2520  2520  2520 462520  2520  2520 -45740
ERR - CMeA~                           11.5%        IR- -.~5                154%              ). B::: ...... R: BB. .,  -      2



Lithuania: Power Rehabilitation Project                                                                                               (D 
Project Economic Analysis                                                                                                  
2. Dispatch & Transmission Systen Upgrad
Bae Benefds: Reduction in mainly tennal unit gnatcd tnsmission ls   wugh beau dispatcig, communiato and systbns sengthening (failure psurenm).
Cotu iclude LSPS Re. uctux*  Technical Assistance and Aisane to develop sid implaent an Electricity System Ccamunications Staty.
Msuisl       Vown"         Kuna         Ekktran
Huet re for iural uits, miln BTU/MWh        7.84         6.20          5.46          9.30         (Maii &  Elrai 1.00 mod 9.50 Ml/BTUAW   beicr rch )atioo)
International Oil Price, $/lhMBTU           3.50
Fud expeaes sawd hough reduced thema gen.  2.5% from 1997            125%a 1996
(Acal beaefits catittcd by dhe ce_nsikn wee a 5% rductien in d_ie   power geneatioa. The hwe ben calod down as indit  as achevamas wil rqur asproprh  changes in mmaganai strtgy and fic e,
1      2     3      4       5      C      7      5      9     10     11    U      13    14    15    16      17    IS    19    20
1I4  IS9  1927   I         M    19 j9   2000   2001 5002 20          200    2     2O      q!          20     J 201I     2012   2013  2014   01    2016
Hea for Ther. Gen., lOOObllbonBTU            14.0  11.1  34.9   11.5   11.3  39.2   41.1   44.1  47.1   50.2   53.4  56.7   60.0   63.5  67.0  70.6  74.3  74.3  74.3   74.3  743  74.3   74.3
Fran Mauii              4.1   2.6   4.1    5.5    5.5   6.6    6.6       6.6   6.6    6.6    6.6   6.6    6.6    6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6    6.6   6.6   6.6    6.6
Fmrn Viius            3.3   3.3   7.3    1.3    1.1   5.6    6.6       6.6   6,6    6.6    6.6   6.6    6.6    6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6   6.6    6.6   6.6   6.6    6.6
Fmrn Ktuma            0.7   0.3   2.8    0.3    0.3   2.1    2.1    2.8   2.8    2.8    2.8   2.8    2.8    2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8    2.8   2.8   2.8    2.8
From Elchkai             5.9   4.9  20.7    4.4    4.4  24.8   25.1    28.0  31.1   34.2   37.4  40.7   44.0   47.5  51.0  54.6  58.3  58.3  58.3   58.3  58.3  583    58.3
Fucl Costof Thrmal Power On., miLleo S      41.9  38.8 122.3   40.3   39.6 137.1  143.8   154.2 164.8  175.7  16.9 198.4  210.1  222.1 234.5 247.1 260.1 260.1 260.1  260.1 260.1 260.1  260.1
BeAnit: Sai  (2.5% fomm 1997), '000                     152S   1008    "I 3428   3Sff   3855  4121   4393   4673  49S9   523   5553  SS62  6178  652              2  62   6502  G02   52    62
TOWl  nvestMt Cot, '000 USS                 916  17S0  2459    364
Op. & Mgm. Strangteing TA, '000 $ ;7A        149   365   176      55
Net Badic (Cots), '000 USS                  -1065 -2145 -1107    590    991  3428   3596   3855  4121   4393   4673  4959   5253   5553  5862  6178  6502  6502  6502   6502  6502  6502   6502
.      g         ..E'~  'i'
1      2     3      4       5       6     7      8      9     10     11    12    13    14    IS    16       17     18    19    20
UA4  1995  192    J2    12I  19m          -    2001   0 2     2003   200                              2         01l   2012   2013  2014  2015     M
Toal Benclts, 'OCO S              f010         0     0  2456   1534   1516  5339   5519   5931  6353   6786   7193  7479   7773   8074  832  8698  9022  9022  9022   9022  9022  9022   9022
TotalCat, s'OW  USS                        2911 9526 10017   2264         0     0       0       0     0      0       0     0      0      0     0     0      0     0     0 460000      0     0 460O0
Nat tota (cats) bieflts, '000S            -2911 -9526 -7561   -730   1516  5339   5519   5931  6353   6786   7193  7479   7773   S04  8382  869S  9022  9022  9022 469022  9022  9022 -450978
_~~- -                                               r4






IERD 2A40!
22-                                           24-                                            268
r. O                I           N            _   _oW-l  n sl ;w4{m-t                                                                                    ,                          LITHUANIA
SROCE.IT Rg                         T. 5.1-a            T VIo,,
Go                                                                   LATVIA                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
ELECTRIC POWER FACILITIES
O / t 7 @ 9- >_> z^^ 0_ X / 4 (l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLO.ETERS                                                                                                              1.OJET PANE E.sN
N~ ~ ~ ~~~I.~                                                                              I  ID  20  3I  IO 50-                                                750 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
0    lO   2'O   30  ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~          -      330 kV TRANSMISSION LINES"
I 10 kV TRANSMISSION LINES
PoIa.ogo'         PloT0. 1SL0  0                                                                                                                                                                                   330 kV SUBSTATIONS
0                                                                                                             56                =                   t/        - 1 1  kVSUBSTATIONS
IAI                                                                       AUGPILSUTHERMAL POWER STATIONS
HYDRO AND PUMPED STORAGE STATIONS
I     NUCLEAR POWER STATION
lr-                                                                                               ADISPATCH CENTER
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
RUSSI N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f.;,; *~o T~JJo
IKALININGRAD ftGION)                        V-.i                                   ECLMT-,
1011A.  D-                                                                                                                                    ... ly-      i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,.
8~IIie ~  ~      FEDERATION                                                                                                                                lOAA I'  Sl.
POLAND                                                                                                                                           2lus~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IPOT,' A    .VIi
UTHUANIA .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lOTR-- INE
~~                   \.)                                                                      ~                                                                                                                         ILNEtARU
POLAND                                                                                                  0     **of 
"I UKRAINE                      ~A26-
___________________________         I  ~~~     ~~~    ~~~     ~~~    ~~~    ~~~    ~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.ARCHI 199



