-A/ ~V5 -/  7-AT7
Doemem of
The World Bnk
FOM O cAL USE ONl
Rqxwt No, P-6324-LT
MEMORANDUM AND) RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
ECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSRD LAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$26.4 MILLION
TO TERE
REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
FOR A POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAY 4, 1994
Tbis document has a testrited distribution and may be used by recpient only in the performanc of
theit ofricial duties Its contets may not otherwis be disclosed without World Duak authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LnWANIA 
POWER REH§ABIITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Lithuania
Benekidaries:              Lithuanian Stae Power System (LSPS) and Mnistry of Energy
Loan Amount:               US$ 26.4 million
Terms:                     Seventeen years, including a four-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
On-leading Terms:          Same as lending terms
Thaucing Plan:             IBRD          US$ 26.4 million
LSPS         US$ 6.1 million
GoL          US$ 0.4
TOTAL        US$ 32.9 million
3conomic Rate
of RetuR:                  21.1 percent
Poverty Category:          Not applicable
Environnntl Levels:        B
Stff Appraal RepWt:        12855-LT
Map:                       IBRD 24405
Ibis document has a restricted distiuon and may be usod by recipiet o  in the pfane of th*
Io ct contents m  not  eisc b discloe wiu Wld an  thorizatio



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMEDATION OF THE PREDENT
OF THE 3RD
TO THEXECUE   DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBUC OF LITHUANIA
FOR A POWR RER BLITATION  PROJECT
1.    The following     m         and recomm ionon a proposed loan to the Republic of Lithuania
for the equiivalent of USS 26.4 millon is submitted for approval. Ihe loan would be at the Bak's
sndard variable intert rate wit a maturity of seventeen years, including a four-year grace period.
'he Project would help to reabilitate three thermal power unit nd upgrade the electricity system of
Lithuania.
Par I: Country Outlook
2.    Ecoomic Overview. Lithuania has a territory of 65,200 squae kilometers and a popilation of
about 3.8 million people. In March 1990, following a 45-year period of central planning under Soviet
ule after World War II, Lithuania declared the re-establAment of its independence, which was
internationally recognized in AugustpSeptmber 1991. Since then, the country has embarked on an
economic reform program aimed at reorienting its economy from a centrally planned to a market system.
The reforms have been supported by two stand-by agreements with the IMF (October 1992 and October
1993) and a US$ 60 million Rehabilitation Loan from the Bank, which became effecdve in October 1992.
Apart from the energy sector, the Bank has initiated project preparation and sector work in the
fance/eterprise, agriculture, social protection, transport, and environment sectors.
3.    Lithuania has made substntial progrss in its transition to a market economy, most notably in
the areas of price reform, privatization, trade reform, and the social safety net design. However, reforms
have started in an unfavorable economic environment, characterized by declining output, deteriorating
terms of trade, and high rates of inflation. 'Me success of the reform program will depend on many
factors. ITese include political determination, appropnate institonal support to enhance implementation
capacity, and extemal factors that are not fidly within Lithuania's control such as the fther
normaization of trade relations with the former Soviet republics, and continued finacial assisuce from
the international community.
4.    After a decline ! about 37% in 1992, and an estimated 16% in 1993, real GDP could stabilize
and grow slightly in 1994. Industrial output fell rapidly throughout 1992, but began to level off toward
the end of 1993. Declines in agricultural production were exacerbated by a drought in 1992, although
the situation stabilized somewhat in 1993. Official figures do not filly capture private sector actvity,
which now may account for about 20% of the total. Monthly inflation, which averaged 24% during
1992, decelerated rapidly during the first half of 1993, falling to less than 1% in August; aftr a
temporary increase in the 4th quarter of 1993 to an estimated 6-7%, monthly inflation has been declinin
again since December 1993, falling to about 2% in February 1994. This drop in inflation was due to
tight fiscal and incomes policies in addition to monetary discipline. For the period of the IMF's first
standby agreement (ending September 1993), Lithuania maintained a small surplus in the consolidated
general government budget, including measures such as sharp reductions in subsidies and government real
wages. Economy-wide, real wages in 1993 are esfimated to have been 45% lower than in 1992,
following a decline of 17% in 1992. Open unemployment has remained low (around 1.5% of the labor
force in 1993), but is expected to rise as underemployment through labor hoarding and short-time work



-2 -
reaches its limits.
5.    Lithuania remained In the ruble zone until Stember 1992. As a temporary measure to mase the
currency shortage, the Bank of Lithuania began on May 1, 1992, to issue coupons (talonas). A major
tightening of monetary policy took place in April/May 1993 with a trebling of reserve requemet and
the inception of auctions of central Bank money, setting the stage for the introduction of the national
currency, the Litas, in June and July 1993. Since its introduction, the Litas has been under continuing
apprecation pressure. A new trade regime was adopted in July 1993. Export licensing was abolished
while export taxes were temporarily introduced for a limited number of items. Trade is gradually s:fting
away from the FSU to exports and imports from the West, estimated at around 30-40% of total trade in
I993.
6.    The Government inteds to phase out all remaining price subsidies. An early completion of the
price reform will help reduce the strain of subsidies on the budget and improve the chances for price
stability. The Government also recognizes the need for appropriately tight macroeconomic policies for
the foreseeable future to limit inflation, help build confidence in the litas, and create a stable framework
for enterprise, banking, and sectora! reforms. Under the second IMF Stand-by, the authorities are
committed to a continued tight monetary policy and keeping the general government financial and fiscd
deficit below one and five percent of GDP, respectively. The recent passage of the law on the
introduction of a currency bo3rd arrangement by Parliament represents a bold and commendable step,
which could help consolidate and secure the achievements made so far and facilitate furter progress with
stabilization.
Part H: Energ Sector Outlook
Major Issues and Constraints
7, There are six major problems in Lithuania's energy sector. These are: (1) high energy intensity
and the need for energy efficiency and conservation; (2) limited domestic energy resources; (3) almost
total dependence on imported fuels from Russia and vulnerability to serious supply disruptions; (4)
declining petoleum-product and elecricity exports owing to economic contraction and disruption of trade
in the region; (5) rapid energy price escalation and difficulty in passing price increases through to final
consumers; and (6) issues related to the environment and to the safety of the Ignalina nuclear power plant.
These problems are complicated by the severity of the economic downturn described in Part I.
8.    Energy Demand and Conservation. At 1.5 kg of oil equivalent per US$ 1 of GDP in 1990,
the energy intensity of the Lithuanian economy is sevra times higher than in developed western
economies, although not as high as in some of the more industrial countries of the FSU. The high energy
-inensity is due to previously low energy prices, inefficient methods of energy production and use, high
losses, obsolete equipment, and inadequate maintenance of facilities.
9.    The World Bank Energy Sector Review (Report 11867-LT) fouud that an accelerated economic
reform program in Lithuania would not only lead to a more rapid recovery in GDP, but also to much
lower demand for energy. This conclusion is based on a World Bank structural model that projects
energy demand under various economic reform scenarios. Ihe results of the analysis show that, even
under the "slow reforms" (high demand) scenario, demand in the year 2000 would be about 75% of its
1990 level and would grow to 98% in 2010. -sine lower energy demand tha occurs under the



-3-
"accelerated reform" program is largely due to a more rapid move away from energy-intensive industries.
10.   Domestic Ewergy Resources. Despite substantial excess capacity in oil refining and electricity
generaton, Lithuana has very limited primary energy resources. Its indigenous resources supply only
2% of total energy demand; this makes the country extremely dependent on prmary energy imports
supplied almost exclusively from Russia. There is some potential to further develop loca resources
particularly on-shore and off-shore petroleum (estimated at about 50 and 100 million tons respectively),
gas, and geothermal fOdids, but these resources are not adequate to reduce significantly Lithuia's
dependence on imports. Ile country also has peat deposits, but exploiting them could have negative
environmental consequences and therefore must proceed very carefully. Renewable resources such as
wood fuels an4 "brest waste can play an important role in the fuel supply mix, particularly in supplying
heat to district heating systems.
11.   Energy Impor/Security of Supply. In 1991, the country imported 18 million tons of oil
equivalent (Mtoe), about 12 million tons of crude oil, and 6 billion cubic meters (bcm) of gas. The
country's vulnerability because of its dependence on imports from a single source was dramaized by
severe fuel shortages in 1992 and a gas cut-off in June 1993. Much of the disruption was due to the
inability to pay the asking price and to make payments in hard currency. Lithuania is also dependent on
imported nuclear fuel to operate its nuclear piant at Ignalina. However, because of the high energy
density of nuclear fuel, it is much less susceptible to sudden supply disruptions than fossil fuels and is,
therefore, considered a more secure source of energy.
12.   Since Lithuania has major inonnections with the energy networks of the FSU, it is expected
that Russia will remain Lithuania's ain supplier of oil and gas at least in the short to medium term. In
view of this. the GoL is taking steps to increase the security of supply. These include: (a) negotiation
of long-term contracts to lock in supply of oil and gas at the most favorable terms; (b) investigation of
alternative crude oil unloading points; (c) development of additional gas storage capability, most likely
by cooperatively expanding an exisfing gas stge reservoir in Latvia; (d) negotiations of long-term
contracts with Russian suppliers of nuclear fuel, possibly linking them to electricity exports to
Kaliningrad.
13. Energy Exports. Until recently, Lithuania was a major exporter of refined petroleum products
and electicity. However, exports declined dramatically in 1992 and the first half of 1993 owing to the
economic conaion in the region, competition from Russian producers, and payment disputes. Over
the near term, this decline is expected to continue.
14.   Energy Price Escaon. The low energy prices prevailing under the Former Soviet Union rose
rapidly after Lithuania's independence and are currently at or near inenational levels. The Government
has made commendable efforts to liberalize prices of petroleum products and has regulated only prices
of natural monopolies such as electrcity, gas, and heat.
15.   EnvIronmental Situation and Nucar Saftety. Lithuanian energy production and consumption
has historically been responsible for the majority of air pollution in the country. Lithuanian health
authorities report human health effects associated with air pollution (sulfiur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and
dust), principally heart and respiratory diseases, especially bronchial asthma, with pregant women and
children having higher rates of problems. In urban areas and towns, locally significant air qaity
problems have occurred during the winter heating season as a result of heavy fuel oil in low-efficiency
boilers used for district heating and building heatng. Air pollution levels within Lithuania are



-4 -
significantly lower than might be expected, given the level of energy consumption, because of the role
played in the energy network by the nuclear power station at Ignalina (2,500 MW) which currently
provides 90% of electricity requirements. While levels of air pollution have dedined during the last 2-3
years due to the decrease in economic activity, they are expected to increase in the medium-tolonger term
as economic recovery occurs, unless energy conservation measures are adopted, and actions are taken to
control pollution.
The Electricity Subsector
16.   The subsector consists of thermal units with a capacity of about 2,570 MW burning heavy fuel
oil and natural gas, one small run-of-river hydro plant with a capacity of 106 MW, and one nuclear
power plant at Ignalina with an installed capacity of 2 x 1,500 MW, derated for safety reasons to a total
of about 2,500 MW. The total fossil fuel used in power plants in 1992 was 1.7 billion cubic meters
(bcm) of natural gas and l.C million tons of heavy fuel oil (HFO). All generating plants (with the
exception of Ignalina), transmission and distribution networks, Vilnius dispatch center, and related
facilities are owaned and operated by the Lithuania State Power System (LSPS). In the autumn of 1993,
all district heating systems were also placed under the ownership of LSPS. Ignalina is an independent
enity, selling its electricity output to LSPS.
17.   The major issues dominating the Lithuanian electricity subsector are: (1) the safety of the
Ignalina nuclear power plant and hence its future role in the electricity system; (2) the cost and supply
of fossil fuels (hea-y fuel and natural gas) for electricity and heat production, and (3) the old age and
poor condition of a number of generating units.
18.   The Ignalina nuclear power plant, consisting of two RBMK reactors (together with about twenty
five additionad units of earlier Soviet desig in five countries of the FSU) does not comply with
intationally accepted standards of safety. The Group of Seven industrialized countries (Q-7) have
asked for immediate safety upgrades and the retirement of these units, as soon as possible, taking into
account the energy demand in the country and the availability of alternave generating sources.
Preently, the Ignalina plant produces more than 90% of the country's electricity because the production
cost is much lower than that of fossil-fired units (give. that the relative capital costs are not taken into
account in unit cost calculations). The GoL and the Ignalina State Nuclear Power Plant (ISNPP) have
signed an Agreement with the Nuclear Safety Account (NSA) administered by the European Bank of
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). The terms of the Agrement provide for a grant of about
ECU 33 million (about US$ 36 million) to upgrade both Ignalina units under an agreed program1. The
NSA Agreement requires that an in-depth safet assessment of both Ignalina units be prepared by ISNPP
under the supervision of the Lithuanian Nuclear Safety Inspectorate (VATESI) and the montoring and
review of a panel of intenational safety experts; the safety assessment is to be completed by December
31, 1995.
' Article B(e) of the Agreement states: ' The Recipient shall stop electricity generation at Unit 1 ai
the Project Facility whenever required by VATESI (the Lithuania State Nuclear Safety Inspectorate) and
in any case by 30 June 1998, unless: (i) VATESI, taking into account the recommendations of the panel
of experts mentioned in para. (b) above, agrees that continued operation of the unit would be safe and
issues a new license for that purpose; and (ii) the level of electricity demand justifies investing in
upgrades identified through the safety assessment mentioned in para. (b), on a least-cost basis.



- -
19.   Ihe cost of heavy fuel oil (HFO) and natural gas, wh;ch are the fuels used in the production of
electricity and beat in addition to nudear- fuel, bas escalated dramatically since indepedence and is aow
at about international levels. Although most electricity is produced by the Jgnalina nuclear power plant,
the system still has to produce beat during the winter months and steam for industry and this has to be
generated mostly with imported fossil fuels.
20.   'he generating facilities of LSPS are aging and suffering from a lack of operating safety systems,
poor maintenance, and lack of environmental control and monitoring devices. T'e heavy dependence of
the system on two large nuclear units whose operation is subject to planned and unpled interrtions,
highlights the need for a number of reliable thermal generating units. The transmission and distribution
systems are also of an old technology and age, lack needed automation and control, and have not been
maintained properly for lack of spare parts and materials. These deficiencies cause frequent and
prolonged interruptions of servie.
Government and Bank Strategy
21.   The GoL has set up a policy for the instional restructuring of the sector which seeks a modern,
lean and efficient institutional set up for sector enterprises under the following principles: (a) separate the
roles of government as policy maker and regulator from those of owner and manager of enterprises; (b)
keep under energy enterprises only the core functions and transfer to other institutions and to the private
sector non-core functions such as research, construction and manufacturing; (c) separate electricity, gas
and heat distribution, from produecon and transmission; and (d) transfer to municipalities or to the private
sector those systems wbich are not considered of "national importance'.
22.   The restructuring plans of the Government would proceed in two parallel directions: one in the
direction of commercialization and autonomy of energy enterprises, and the secund in the direction of
establishing a regulatory framework for the regulation of those aspects of energy that are natural
monopolies. The steps in the restructring effort must necessarily include the preparation of the
legislation for each of the energy subsectors and the corresponding regulations. More specifically for the
electricity subsector, a date-bound Restructuring Plan of Action for LSPS (Plan of Action) has been
agreed with the GoL as the basis for institutional reforms.
23.   The Government intends to move decisively in the direction of commercialization of energy
enterprises. Based on the guidelines of the Draft Energy Law, the reform of the sector is expected to
set up a modern framework for sector development. The Plan of Actdor Jets the specific steps needed
to implement the restructuring.
24.   Statement of Sector Development Policy and Strategy (the Statement).  In the absence of
formal passage of an Energy Law (which is currently being considered by Parliament), a Statement of
Sector Development Policy and strategy has been prepared by the Lithuanian authorities. The Statemen
reflects the objectives and basic principles set by the GoL for the sector restructring. The Statement
outlines the plans of the Govermment in (a) setting up a regulatory framework to regulate prices in the
relevant energy subsectors and set standards of service so as to protet both the interests of the consumers
and the producers of energy in a transparent, balanced, and fair way and (b) restructuring the energ
enterprises to ensure their efficiency, competitiveness, autonomy from the Government and commercial
viability. The Statement also confirms the Government's decision to implement the provisions of the
Agreement with EBRD under the Nuclear Safety Account grant, and the preparation of a least-cost
development plan for the power sector, as required also by the above-mentioned Agreement.



-6 -
25.   PricIng Polcy. AfSt decades of centrally administered prices under the Communist system, the
process of price liberlization in Lithuania began in 1990. Presently prices are regulated only for
electricity, natr gas and heating, transpor and communications. With the exception of resideni
headng, all eegy prices reflec full cost recovery; howwver, the average costs of regulated energy
products are undered primarly be 1u1e1  (i) depreciation is based on historical costS, which ar far
below replacement costs; and 01) the estimate to cover the costs for adequate maintenance of existing
assets Is low. Implicit cross-subsidies for residential heating were Included in electicity and heat taiffs
charged to industrial consumers, but have largely been eroded by LSPS' increasing (fuel-related)
electricity operating costs. An excise tax of 10% is charged on electricity sales, and varying legeis of
taxes are applied to the sale of petroleum products. Gas supplied for home heating is also subsidized at
a level to equalize the price of district heating and gas. Prices of all petroleum fuels, and the price of
coal, were liberalized in the Spring of 1993 and are set by market forces. Import prices of gas and cmude
oi are negotiated between suppliers and buyers, and are close to world market leIels.
26.   Bank Strate. lhe Bank's Energy Setor Review (ESR) was prepared in cooperation with
Lithuanan instiutions and thus reflects an agreement with the Government on the main issues discussed.
The ESR analyzes in detail the energy sector and makes recommendations on overall energy policy as
well as on each subsector. Ihe review recommends a strategy based on (a) energy conservation and
efficiency, (b) rehabilitation of existing facilities, (c) increased use of indigenous resources, (d) regional
cooperation, (e) rational pricing of energy, and (f) a fundamental restructuring of the seo to correspond
to the market-oriented reform of the economy. In addition, the strategy recommends measures to
improve the safety of the nuclear plant Ignaina for operation in the medium term and for fcilitating the
early retirement of at least one Ignalina unit. The Bank's work on energy policy is fully reflected in the
Government's plans for sector restructuring. Lending to the power sector would underpin the Baik's
policy dialogue with the Government and would ensure continued momentm in the restructuring effrt.
27.   Lessons Learmed from Past Bank Experience. Experience under the Bank's Rehabilitaion
Loan, under which US$ 45 million out of a total of US$ 60 million have been disbursed as of April 20,
1994, has been satsfactory. Disbursement is on schedule and the beneficiaries have acquired valuable
experience in implementing Bank loans following Bank guidelines. Experience with Bank projects in
power rehabilitation is limited since there is a diarth of purely rehabilitation projects. To the extent that
rehabilitation components could be evaluaied separately, perfonnance has been satisfactory.
Part III: The Project
28.   Project Objecdves. The objectives of the project are to: (1) improve the operating safety,
efficiency, reliability, and environmental performance of non-nuclear electricity generation, thus reducing
the amount of imported fuel needed for operation and facilitating the retirement of the Ignalina nuclear
power plant; Cu) improve the safety, reliability and flexibiity of the electricity tsmission system, thus
reducing power disruptions and facilitating economic load management; and CiiI) support the restructuring
and commercialization of LSPS and strengthen sector institutions.
29.   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The proposed project is filly consistent with the Bankcs
country assistance strategy since the latter emphasizes the energy sector as one of primary importance for
the country. The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's Energy Sector Review recommendatons
(para 26). lhe Government of Lithuania's own strategy is consistent with this. The proposed project
is desiged to support the overal strategy by assistng the electricity subsector and complements the



-7 -
agreement signed by the Golt and the Ignalina plant management with the Nuclear Safety Account (NSA)
adminit   by tae EBRD. 'Me project woula also facilitate the continuation of the Bank's active
dialogue wih the GoL on era Ises. The particular compoents were chosen because: (a) they could
be implemented quickly, (b) woud have a major beneficial impact on the perfomance of the electricity
system, and (c) would maximize the effect of tlhe Bank"s resources on the Lithuanian electicity system
and is operatig company. Ihe project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Lithunia, last discussed with the Board in October 1992. The next CAS Board discussion is sheduled
in FY95.
30.   Prtje Desaiption. The proposed project consists of the following components:
(1)   reh2abiitation of two thermal plants: wit 6 at the Elektrenai Thermal Power Station and
two units (2 x 80 MW) at the Azeikiai combined-heat-andpower (CHP) station; the
equipment would include boiler and turbine contrls, low-NO. burners and combustion
management systms, emission monitors, temperate and flow controls, cotol cables,
and control valves;
(ii)   upgrading of the electricity system, including upgrading of the dispatch center in Vilus,
system comnumications and control equipment, and replacement equipment (high-voltage
utansformers, compensatioa reactors, and maintenance equipment) at high-voltage
transmission subsaions; and
(Mii) restructuring of LSPS and other technical assistance, including a restructuring and
management consultancy for LSPS, regulatory framework assistance, an LSPS
communications strategy study, and consulting services for project engineering,
management, and supervision.
31.   The proposed Bank loan would finace the procurement of goods for components (i) and (li)
above, wbich are expected to be supplied from foreign suppliers since Lithuania does not produce the
required equipment, and the foreign exchange required for component (iii) which consists of consulting
services for the restrucuring of LSPS and other technical assistance. Installation will be accomplished
by LSPS' own personnel which has experience in similar rehabilitation works, assisted by foreig
consultants, as needed. If technical assistance can be secured from bilateral or multilatera grant sources,
the technical assistance component of the loan would be cancelled or realloced.
32.   Project Costs and Financing. Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies,
are estimated at US$ 29.2 million equivalent. The total financing required for the project, including
inerest during construction of US$ 3.8 milion, is about US$ 32.9 million equivalent. Of the total
financig required, US$ 30.1 would be in foreign exchange and the remaining US$ 2.8 million equivalent
would be local costs. Cost estimates are based on February 1994 prices. A provision of 9.6% (average)
of base cost was made for physical contingencies and a provision of 14.4% (cumulative) of base costs
was made for price escalation to allow for volatility and real escalations in the cost of local skilled labor.
Based on information from the Minstry of Finance that inports under the proposed project would be
exempt from the value-added taxes being considered by the Government, duties and taxes have not been
included in the cost estimates. Project costs and financing arrangements are summarized in Schedule A.
Procurement and disbursement arrangements are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key processing
events and the status of other Bank and IFC operations are given in Schedules C and D respectively.



-~ -8
33.   Project Implementation. LSPS will be in charge of overall implementation of the project-with
the exception of the Regulat Framework Assistance which will be the responsibility of the MoE; the
newly created Energy- Agency through its Diz eOr, would be in charge of implementing this
sabcomponent on behalf of MoE. LSPS has appointed a Prqject Manager and an Assistant Project
Manager, with qualifications acceptable to the Bank, to be Lii charge of coordinating all activities under
the project. LSPS's experienced technical personnel will u>iall the equipment to be delivered under the
guidance of the supplier (to be included in the tender documents). Procurement will be handled by
TENA, the procurement unit of LSPS, which has acquired adequate experience from procurerent under
previous and/or on-going internationally financed projects. TENA is well equipped and its staff is
committed and weU qualified for the task. Detailed implementation schedules for the components o the
project, using conservative assumptions regarding the duration of each step, have been worked out with
assistance from the respective consultants. Bid documents for about 757% of equipment are scheduled for
completion by the middle of July 1994 and available for distribution by September 1994. The studies
and other consulting services under the technical assistance component are to start not later than three
months after loan effectiveness. Commissioning of the rehabilitated thermal units is planned during the
period of July 1 to December 31, 1996 and of the electricity system upgrading in July of 1997.
34.   In order to ensure that project implementation would proceed according to schedule and to further
support LSPS, the following measures have been agreed: (a) an expatriate procurement advisor would
be engaged to assist TENA on a part-time basis; (b) project management and supervision assistance will
be provided either with grant assistance or through the Bank loan; (c) procurement and disbursement
seminars for the staffs of borrowers and beneficiaries are being planned in Lithuania and staff of the
project office of LSPS and TENA have been nominated to participate; and (d) a mid-term review has
bea.n planned.
35.   Procurement. The procurement for the project will consist of eight to ten packages of well-
defined equipment for the two components and three contracts for consulting services. Procurement for
goods will follow ICB procedures according to Bank guidelines except that for small contracts for goods
under US$ 300,000, international shopping procedures would be permitted for a total of about US$ 1.0
million. Direct Contracting will be used for spare parts that are only available from the original supplier
for a total amount of about US$ 2.5 million. Goods would be grouped to the extent practical to
encourage competitive bidding. LCB is not expected since the goods to be procured under the project
are not manufactured in Lithuania and works are to be conducted by force account. All procurement with
ICB procedures would use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents. Consultants financed under the
proposed project would be selected in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
36.   Environmental Aspects. Implementation of the proposed project is expected to have positive
environmental benefits as a result of improvements in power and heat generation efficiency and energy
dispatching. Preparation of the proposed project has included environmental studies consistent with the
requirements of the Lithuanian Rules for the Elaboration of 'Environmental Protection' Section of a
Study (RSN 153-93)' and the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental
Assessment." An environmental review has been prepared, consistent with the requirements for category
'B" projects for Component I (Rehabilitation of Thermal Power Plants). Component II (Dispatch Center
Upgrading, LSPS Communications System Upgrade, and Transmission Line and Substation Equipment)
and Component m  (Technical Assistance) were placed in category "Cm and were not subject to
environmental review. The findings of the environmental review have been used to design requirements
for environmental mitigation and monitoring activities.



-9 -
37.   Benefits. The mai quantified benefits from the project are: (i) improved fuel efficiency of the
thermal power units to be rehabilitlted; (ii) reduced nitrogen oxide and particulate emissions; (iii) life
extension of the thermal power units of at least 3 years (i.e. a deferral -of replacement capacity
investments from year 17 to year 20); and (iv) reduced technical losses due to the strengthening of the
dispatching and communications capability of the electricity transmission and distribution system.
Additional benefits are possible from (i) the improved availability of the thermal power plants and the
reliability of the transmission system; (ii) improvement in LSPS' commercial performance through the
strengthering of its management information and communications systems; and (iii) improved managerial
efficiencv brought about by the restructuring of LSPS into autonomous operating units.
38.   Risks. The major risks to the proposed project are that: (a) the GoL would not allow electricity
and heat tariffs to increase adequately; (b) the GoL would continue to intervene in the management of
LSPS despite legal autonomy and commercialization; and finally (c) LSPS, as an entity with little
commercial experience, will have difficulty with implementation of the project, potentially delaying
disbursement. These rnsks have been adequately addressed through the agreements reached with the
Government and the beneficiaries, the covenants of the loan, the supervision schedule, and the technical
assistance provided for the Government and LSPS.
39.   Project Sustainability. To ensure the sustainability of the benefits of the project, technical
ssistance has been provided to: (a) restructure LSPS into a commercial, autonomous, and financially
viable enterprise with the right structure and incentives to improve and sustain the maintenance of
generation and transmission facilities and the dispatch center; (b) strengthen the newly created Energy
Pricing Council to ensure that electricity and heat prices are set at levels that provide adequate income
for LSPS, coupled with incentives to reduce losses and increase efficiency; and (c) provide consulting
services that will promote technology transfer to LSPS on aspects of project engineering and management,
corporate and financial planning, management information systems, maintenance of facilities, and other
modern methods of operating a power company efficiently. In addition, training programs are being
implemented, through twinning arrangements financed by bilateral and multilateral grant agencies, that
will assist LSPS personnel in increasing their ability to manage, operate, and maintain the facilities of
LSPS thus ensuring the sustainability of the project.
40.   Agreed Actions. During Negotiations, agreements were reached on issues that are either under
the purview of GoL, GoL and LSPS, or under LSPS only. The agreements reached with GoL or with
GoL and LSPS are:
(a)    The Government and LSPS will carry out the restructuring Plan of Action in accordance
with the indicated timetable;
(b)    The Government will prepare a least-cost development Plan for the power sector, taking
into account the possible scenarios contained in the Nuclear Safety kccount Agreement;
the first draft of the Plan would be comp - ed by June 30, 1995;
(c)    Confirmation of on-lending arrangements between GoL and LSPS, including on-lending
interest rate and repayment method;
(d)    Arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Account for the project;
(e)    Agreement on the set of project performance indicators;



- 10-
(t)    Agreement on a mid-tetm review of project implementation no later than June 30, 1997;
(g)   llbi Government will carry out a program of futher taiff inceses in 1994, timely
remitance of operatng heat subsidies, and future tariff adjustments for 1995 and beyond;
and
@)    Preparation by August30, 1995, of: an asbestos management and dispos plan; a survey
for polychloriae biphenyls and, if an- are found, a management plan; a fuel-spill
control and action plan; and mW meon of an environmental monitoring plan.
41.   Agreement reached with LSPS are:
(a)    Establishment and maintance of project management arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank;
(b)    Measures to maitain the average collection period to 45 days for domestic electricity
bills and to reduce the collection period for heat bills to 100 days by end-1994, 90 days
by end-1995, 80 days by end-1996, 70 days by end-1997, and 60 days by end-1998;
(c)    Auditing requirements of the company; and
(d) Commitment to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 during the project
period.
42.   Conditions of Effectveness. The following conditions of effectiveness were agreed:
(a)    The Govermment will eliminate the dual appointment of the General Director of LSPS as
an Deputy Mmiister of Energy;
(b)    The Goverment will increase average domestic electricity tariffs, net of tax, to not less
than 11.5 Lithuanian cents (Ltc) per kWb and the price of residential heat to not less than
IA 30 per Ocal or carry out a combination of tariff increases to provide the revenue
equivalent; and
(c)    Execation of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between (oL and LSPS.
43.   Recommendaton. I am satisfied that the proposed loan wo'tld comply with the articles of
agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Diectos approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
May 4, 1994



- 1 1 -
Schedule A
LMIUANIA
POWER REHABILITATION PROJECr
Summwy Project Cost 13stmate
(net of duties and taxes - based on February 1994 prices)
Million USS
ComRngflt                                 LsS  lFSgDstM
.1.   Power Rebabilitation                        0.3      16.5  16.8
2.   Trans. & Elect. System Upgrade               0.4       4.6   S.0
3.   Technical Assistance                         0.2       1.5   1.7
Project Base Costs                          0.8      22.6  23.5
Physical Contingencies                      0.1       2.2  2.3
Price Contingencies                          1.9      1.5  3.4
Total Project Cos                           2.8      26.3  29.1
Interest during construction                0.0       3.8  3.8
Tota Findacig Required                      2.8      30.1  32.9
Financing Plan
(net of taxes and duties)
MfliUQ US$ Equivalent
k"   Foreg   19
IBRD                        0.0       26.4       26.4
LSPS                        2.7        3.4       6.1
GoLlOther                   0.1        0.3       0.4
Total                       2.8       30.1      32.9



- 12-
Schedule a
rage 1 of 2
SUMAtRY OF PROCWUREMEN ARRANGEMENTS
(USS million)
Pr oreent Metbod
Poct e xent-                                                                    Total
ICR         ICB         Other       N.BYF.        Cost
1. Goods: Equipment for boiler and       21.2         -           3.5b                    24.7
turbine rehabilitation and      (21.2)                    (3.5)                   (24.7)
electrical system upgrade
2. Works: Installation                                                         2.1'        2.1
I _________________________  :          _______               :  _______       (0.0)       (0.0)
3. Consulting Services: Studies,                                   1.7         0.6         2.3
Design, Supervision                                            (1.7)       (0.0)       (1.7)
TOTAL                                 21.2                     5 5.2        2.8        29.1
I__________________________    (21.2)                             (5.2)        (0.0)      (26.4)
a Figum in panAhae am to amowt to be finanoed by th Dk loan.
6 To be pmwuzd by h*mnfiond Shopping ad Diet Coatoetg.
o Not Dak-faced.
d Jnaaaon to be accomplishd by Pone Accoun.



- 13 -
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
BY CA1T1OY
Proposed IRD Allocation    % of Expenditures
-             lU~(hSS Million   -   Jgefinsc      .
1. Materials and                    22.3               100% of foreign
Equipment                                            exr,ndimfes,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 85%
of local expenditures for
other items procured
locally.
2. Consult' Services                                    100% of foreign
expediture
(a) For restrutring
and strengtheing
of LSPS and studies.            1.4
(b) For strenghening ERA            .3
3. Unallocated                         A                _ _ _ _.
TOTAL                            26.4
DISBURSEMET SCHEDULE
IBRD Fic  Year ->      1225 .           1        1229   1
Annual           (%)      10       22      34      24        8
(million USS)   2.6      5.8     9.0      6.9    2.1
Cumulive         (%)      10       32      66      92      100
(million USS)   2.6      8.4    17.4    24.2   26.4



- 14 -
Schedule C
Thukable of Key Project Processing Events
(a) Time taken to Prepae:                                       14 montis
(b) Prepared by:                                                Government with  IBRD
assistance & USTDA and
USAID consultan
(c) Fffst Bank Mission:                                         November, 1992
(d) Appraisal Mision Deparr:                                    Febnuay 10, 1994
(e) Negotiations:                                               April 18, 1994
M  Planned Date of Effecfiveness:                               June 25, 1994
Bank Staff Responsible for Project Preparafion
Achilles G. Adamaniades, Task Manager
Salman Zaheer, Energy Economist. Consultant
Carolyn Gochenour, Financial Analyst
Scott Vicary, Financial Analyst, Consultant
Stephen Linter, Envhironmental Speciist
Jose Maria Bakovic, Entrpris Restructring Specialist
Tord Holmstiom, Procurement Specialist, Baltics Resident Mission
Babara Santos, Senior Counsel



,0    _    
It.         ,         .Q  t
,~~~~~~~~~~~
CW 
[~~



MAP SECTION



IVRD 24405
22-                                       2'24' 
T. T 26n.                                 T.E Rig                                                                                                                 LITHUANIA
SROCEN            e r. Tk-      rT.SoI,piI  T                   LATVIA                                                POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT
ERUOTFKRUSTVILS                                          ELECTRIC POWER FACILITIES
KILOMETeRRSPOEtPAUOEION
O  10ATVIJA  20  0  40>  0  10750     kV     TRANSM ISSION                       LINES
;    10   20   30                                             33 20 kV TRANSMISSION I(NES"
MILES
110kV TRANSMISSION LINE$-
C*    320 kV SUBSTATIONS
0 P o o d o I y .  \i t                               0 d e   ^   ;  5 6 c( -               *    1   1 0   k V   S U B S T A T I O N S
K.fl.g.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~iU                                               THERMAL POWER STATIONS
NYDRO AND PUMPED STORAGE STATIONS
_ NUCLEAR POWER STATION
A              ~~~~~DISPATCH CENTER,
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
T. ft l6)\< -k~                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
To RoSoromIio                        Dooblo o oo I ooo od oo,ool bb--o  op-bpiod I2 / 4y o - I - I
|        >                     |POLAND%<_E LARUS  jRAARKAd.
FEDERATION                                                                                                                                              TP-3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tw~  NAIOA
POLAND l¢>-  \  mr=    1et,   ef<ge7ewesorrv R                                                                                                                                     Io
SWEDENUKR  IDATONJ   E                 5A iN                                                                      26 
_   SELAR                                                                                     I   .                                                                                                       MSRCH 1A9
POL   ADANDK!E,,
UKRAINE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~oon                                                                                                       ONV 
2,4-             216-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roo                                                        .,,        V,o
POLAND                                                                                                             194105~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARH19



