Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3737 LT
                              Loan Agreement
                      (Power Rehabilitation Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated January 27, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3737 LT
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
LITHUANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
    WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
    (B)   Parts A, B and C (1), (2) and (3) of the Project will
be carried out by the Lithuania State Power System (LSPS) with
the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to LSPS a part of the proceeds of
the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
    WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
LSPS;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
    (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
    (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
    which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
    inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3
    of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and LSPS, defined hereafter, of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
    (b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and LSPS pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
    (c)   "LSPS" means the Lithuania State Power System,
established and operating pursuant to the Law on Enterprise
dated as of May 8, 1990, the Law on State Enterprise dated as
of September 9, 1990 and Decree No. 75 on Statute and Specific
Enterprises dated as of February 22, 1991.
    (d)   "Statutes" means the statutes of LSPS, No. 91-0152,
dated as of April 27, 1993, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
    (e)   "EPC" means the Borrower's Energy Pricing Council,
established and operating pursuant to the Decree on the
Creation of Energy Resources Pricing Council, No. 192, dated as
of March 23, 1994.
    (f)   "LTc" means Lithuanian cent.
    (g)   "Lt" means Lithuanian currency.
    (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
    Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of twenty-six million four
hundred thousand dollars ($26,400,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Page  3
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A, B and
C (1), (2) and (3) of the Project, open and maintain in a
freely convertible currency satisfactory to the Bank a special
account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
    Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
    (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
    (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                on the date immediately preceding each date
                specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                Agreement is signed.
          (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                interest rates determined otherwise than as
                provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
         (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                the second six months of a calendar year.
    (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
          principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
Page  4
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
          preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
                "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost
          of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such
          Quarter."
                "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
    Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
    Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
          (i)   shall carry out Part C (4) of the Project with
                due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
                with appropriate administrative and financial
                practices and shall provide, promptly as needed,
                the funds, facilities, services and other
                resources required for such Part of the Project;
                and
          (ii)  without limitation or restriction upon any of its
                other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
                Borrower shall cause LSPS to perform all its
                obligations set forth in the Project Agreement,
                shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                including the provision of funds, facilities,
                services and other resources, necessary or
                appropriate to enable LSPS to perform such
                obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
                taken any action which would prevent or interfere
                with such performance.
    (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Part C (4) of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The Borrower shall relend a part of the proceeds of the
Loan to LSPS for purposes of Parts A, B and C (1), (2) and (3)
of the Project under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and LSPS, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Bank, including inter
alia: (i) an interest rate equivalent to the interest rate
provided for in Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and (ii) the
relending of such proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower and the
repayment by LSPS to be in foreign exchange, with the foreign
exchange risk to be borne by LSPS.
    (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the
purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Page  5
    Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the consultants' services required for Part C
(4) of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Parts A, B and  C (1), (2) and (3) of the Project
shall be carried out by LSPS pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
    Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with sound environmental policies and practices
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the
preparation by August 30, 1995, of: (a) an asbestos management
and disposal plan; (b) a polychloroninated biphenyl (PBC)
survey; and in the event that PBCs are found, preparation of a
PBC management plan; and (c) a fuel spill control and action
plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part C (4) of the
Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year, the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records and accounts and
                the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                time to time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                Account or payment out of the Special Account was
                made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
                bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
                such expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                examine such records; and
Page  6
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
    Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views with
regard to the Borrower's power pricing policies and its plans
in respect of the overall development of the energy sector.
    (b)   The Borrower agrees, as long as it exercises control
over the setting of prices of LSPS, to establish prices for
heat and electricity sold by LSPS, and to provide subsidies for
the operating costs of heat services which would: (i) allow
LSPS, under conditions of efficient operation at reasonable
levels of capacity utilization, to cover its costs, including
the costs of production, operations, maintenance, taxes,
depreciation and interest, earn an adequate return on funds
invested (calculated as a percentage of sales revenues), meet
its financial obligations and make a reasonable contribution to
future investment for expansion of capacity; and (ii) be
reasonably competitive with prices for heat and electricity in
other major producing countries.
    (c)   The Borrower shall, within fifteen (15) days of
receiving from LSPS a request, based on quarterly accounting
data, for remittance of subsidies for the operating costs of
heat services, make such remittance to LSPS in order to satisfy
the requirements of sub-paragraph (b) above.
    (d)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower agrees to
take all measures necessary to gradually reduce and eventually
eliminate all direct subsidies to LSPS.
    Section 4.03. The Borrower, together with the Bank, shall
carry out, by June 30, 1997, a comprehensive mid-term review of
implementation of the Project on the basis of performance
criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
    Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   LSPS shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that LSPS will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
    (c)   The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the ability of LSPS to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
    Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
    (a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower; and
Page  7
    (b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) or (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   the Borrower shall have increased the price for
electricity net of tax to not less than 11.5 LTc per kw hour
average and the price for residential heat to not less than 30
Lt per gigacalorie or shall have increased such prices to a
combination that provides the revenue equivalent;
    (b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and LSPS; and
    (c)   the Borrower shall have issued a Decree restricting the
Director General of LSPS from holding the position of Deputy
Minister of Energy of the Borrower.
    Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
    (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized by
LSPS and is legally binding upon LSPS in accordance with its
terms; and
    (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized by the Borrower and LSPS and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and LSPS in accordance with its terms.
    Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          Minister of Finance
          Ministry of Finance
          Sermuksniy 6
          2696 Vilnius
          Lithuania
                                         Telex:
                                           261252 FIMA SU
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
Page  8
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA
                       By /s/ A. Eidintas
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ B. Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.        The table below sets forth the Categories of items to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated             % of
                                (Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Materials and                  22,300,000         100% of foreign
    equipment under                                   expenditures,
    Parts A, B and                                    100% of local
    C (1), (2) and                                    expenditures
    (3) of the                                        (ex-factory
    Project                                           cost) and 85%
                                                      of local expen-
                                                      ditures for other
                                                      items procured
                                                      locally
(2) Consultants'                                      100% of foreign
    services:                                         expenditures
    (a)  For Part C (1),            1,350,000
         (2) and (3) of
         the Project
    (b)  For Part C (4)               350,000
         of the Project
Page  9
(3) Unallocated                     2,400,000
                                   __________
         TOTAL                     26,400,000
                                   ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and services not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the
operating efficiency of the electricity system thus reducing
the amount of imported fuel needed for its operation; (ii)
improve the safety, reliability and flexibility of the
electricity system, thus reducing power disruptions and
facilitating economic load management; and (iii) provide
support for the restructuring and commercialization of LSPS,
all in support of the Borrower's Energy Sector Development
Policy and Strategy.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:         Rehabilitation
    Rehabilitation of two thermal plants, namely, unit 6 at the
Elektrenai Thermal Power Station and two units (2x80 MW) at the
Mazeikiai combined-heat-and-power (CHP) station.
Part B:         Upgrading of the Electricity System
(1)       Upgrading of the dispatch center in Vilnius, including
the provision of modern remote terminal units and enhanced
computer equipment.
(2)       Upgrading of the communications and control equipment.
(3)       Replacement of equipment at high-voltage transmission
substations, including transformers, circuit breakers and
disconnectors.
Part C:         Technical Assistance
(1)       Restructuring of LSPS and its management.
(2)       Carrying out of a study for a least-cost, long-term
plan for a phased modernization of the communications system of
LSPS.
(3)       Strengthening of the capability of LSPS in managing and
Page  10
implementing the Project through the utilization of modern
project management methods.
(4)       Assistance in the development of a regulatory framework
for the energy sector, including the establishment of a
detailed structure, the provision of analytical tools, and the
introduction of modern methodologies and practices.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1998.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 1998                                625,000
May 1, 1999                                     650,000
November 1, 1999                                675,000
May 1, 2000                                     700,000
November 1, 2000                                725,000
May 1, 2001                                     750,000
November 1, 2001                                775,000
May 1, 2002                                     805,000
November 1, 2002                                835,000
May 1, 2003                                     865,000
November 1, 2003                                895,000
May 1, 2004                                     930,000
November 1, 2004                                965,000
May 1, 2005                                   1,000,000
November 1, 2005                              1,035,000
May 1, 2006                                   1,070,000
November 1, 2006                              1,110,000
May 1, 2007                                   1,150,000
November 1, 2007                              1,190,000
May 1, 2008                                   1,235,000
November 1, 2008                              1,280,000
May 1, 2009                                   1,325,000
November 1, 2009                              1,375,000
May 1, 2010                                   1,425,000
November 1, 2010                              1,475,000
May 1, 2011                                   1,535,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan on
                                   the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    0.18
Page  11
    before maturity
More than three years but                    0.35
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                      0.65
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                   0.88
    more than 15 years
    before maturity
More than 15 years before                    1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                           Consultants' Services
Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C (4)
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ public utility
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satis- factory to the Bank on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants'
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by
the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines
requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each
or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception
to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference
for such contracts, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by
the Bank or to amendments of contracts for employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above or amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  The Borrower shall: (a) by September 30, 1994, inform the
Bank as to the measures to be taken with respect to the actions
specified in sub-paragraph (b) below; and (b) by June 30, 1995,
prepare, for review and comment by the Bank, on the basis of
terms of reference prepared in consultation with the Bank, the
first draft of a least-cost development plan for the power
sector, which plan shall, with respect to the safety of the
nuclear power plant of the Borrower, be consistent with the
Nuclear Safety Account Agreement between the Borrower and the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, dated
February 10, 1994.
Page  12
2.  The Borrower shall: (a) by September 30, 1995, carry out, on
the basis of terms of reference prepared in consultation with
the Bank, a study on the measures required to strengthen the
EPC; (b) promptly after completion of said study, furnish the
Bank for review and comment the recommendations of said study
for strengthening the EPC; and (c) by October 30, 1995, consult
with the Bank on the plan for implementing said
recommendations.
3.  The Borrower, together with the EPC and LSPS, shall carry
out the Plan of Action for the restructuring of LSPS and for
the reform of the power sector as set forth in the Borrower's
Energy Sector Development Policy and Strategy.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.        For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) and (2) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.        Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.        After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.        For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Page  13
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.        Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.        (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
