                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 25944

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (CPL-37370)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 26.4 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                      REPUBLIC OF LITHUANIA

                              FOR POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                             JUNE 17, 2003




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective February 11, 2003)

                             Currency Unit = Litas (LTL)
                                    1 LTL = US$ 0.31
                                    US$ 1 = LTL 3.23

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CBEM  Common Baltic Electricity Market
CHP   Combined Power and Heat Plant
EPC   Energy Prices Commission
ERR   Economic Rate of Return
FSU   Former Soviet Union
INPP  Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant
LE    Lietuvos Energija (Joint Stock Power Company, LPC)
LPC   Lithuanian Power Company
OPGW  Optic Power Ground Wire
QAG   Quality Assurance Group
SAL   Structural Adjustment Loan
SBA   Stand-by Arrangements
SDH   Synchronous Digital Hierarchy



                            Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
                         Country Director:    Roger W. Grawe
                          Sector Manager:     Henk Busz
                       Task Team Leader:      Gary Stuggins

                                         LITHUANIA
                          POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                      31
Annex 9. Summary Financial Statements of LPC, 1994-2001                          35

Project ID: P008537                                                      Project Name: POWER REHAB
Team Leader: Gary Stuggins                                               TL Unit: EWDEN
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 17, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: POWER REHAB                                              L/C/TF Number: CPL-37370
   Country/Department: LITHUANIA                                                          Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (98%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    01/15/1993                                        Effective: 06/25/1994              11/21/1995
   Appraisal:    01/24/1994                                            MTR:                           05/10/1999
    Approval:    05/24/1994                                         Closing: 06/30/1999               07/01/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF LITHUANIA/Lietuvos Energija
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Johannes F. Linn                                    Wilfried P. Thalwitz
Country Director:          Roger W. Grawe                                      Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:            Henk Busz                                           Dominique Lallement
Team Leader at ICR:        Gary Stuggins                                       Achilles Adamantiades
ICR Primary Author(s): Gary Stuggins


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                 S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background

At the time of appraisal of the project, Lithuania was three years into a program or political, social and
economic reform following the restoration of national independence in 1990. Substantial progress had been
made in transition to a market economy, most notably in the areas of price reform, privatization, trade
reform and social safety net design. The decline in real GDP which followed Lithuania's separation from
the Soviet Union was being arrested, and by the end of 1994 the economy was growing. The
hyper-inflationary rise in prices was starting to abate. A new national currency had been introduced and
was pegged to the U.S. dollar by means of a currency board arrangement. The Government had made
constructive use of standby agreements with the IMF and a Rehabilitation Loan from the World Bank.
However, as in other transition economies, the exposure of the various sectors of the economy to market
conditions was painful, and the progress of reform was hindered by the weakness of the banking sector, the
limited application of effective accounting standards and bankruptcy/liquidation provisions, the persistence
of significant inter-enterprise arrears, and the widespread use of subsidies to protect the population from
the short-term effects of transition.

As in other former Soviet Union (FSU) economies, the Lithuanian energy sector was both economically
highly significant and politically very visible. Lithuania has no significant indigenous supplies of primary
energy and was at the time almost wholly dependent on Russia for supplies of oil and gas. The ending of
cheap supplies of primary energy at a time of stagnant or falling personal incomes placed predictable
strains on the enterprises in the sector, on domestic and industrial consumers, and, particularly, on the State
budget. The difficulties of consumers were increased by Lithuania's historically high energy intensity and
by the fact that there were few incentives for energy efficiency and conservation.

The electricity sub-sector was also distinguished by the lopsided structure of the supply/demand equation.
The restoration of independence found Lithuania in possession of two very large generating assets--the
1800 MW thermal power station at Elektrenai, commissioned in the 1960s, and the 2600 MW nuclear
power station at Ignalina, whose two units were commissioned during the 1980s. Both of these were
constructed to serve the electricity needs, not of Lithuania, but of the north-west region of the USSR, and
either was capable of serving Lithuania's entire electricity needs virtually unaided. Indeed, even since 1990
Lithuania had continued to be a major source of power for neighboring countries, particularly Belarus,
Russia and Latvia. Given the relative cost structures, Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant (INPP) had been the
base load plant at all times that it had been available, contributing about 80% of total electricity output,
with supplies also being provided by the CHP plants at Vilnius, Kaunas and Mazeikiai. Elektrenai has
served primarily as reserve capacity.

The international community, represented by the G7 Nuclear Safety Account administered by the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), had focused for some years on finding modalities
which would allow all reactors of the RBMK type (as in Chernobyl) to be closed down safely. INPP has
two such reactors, and agreement was reached with the Government of Lithuania that the older of these
would be decommissioned by 1998. It was in the light of this expectation that Lithuania's future
generating needs were assessed in 1994.

The other critical factor in the electricity sector was the need to adapt institutional structures to the
requirements of a modern market economy. All the country's electricity generation, transmission and
distribution assets belonged to the Lithuanian Power Company, except for Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant


                                                       - 2 -

which was and remains a separately-held State company. During project implementation, Lithuania's
objective of membership of the European Union became an important objective. Physical rehabilitation,
therefore, would need to be paralleled by the unbundling and reform of what was, at the time of appraisal, a
vertically- and horizontally-integrated, State-owned monopoly. Thus, considerable legal and regulatory
changes were required to permit the development of an efficient and competitive electricity sector.

The project concept, therefore, was based on the need to update thermal capacity and to put in place the
improvements in dispatch, transmission, communications and institutions which would allow the electricity
industry to function in the emerging market environment.

Objectives of the Project

     i. Improve the operating safety, efficiency, reliability, and environmental performance of the
         electricity generating system, thus reducing the amount of imported fuel needed for its operation;
    ii. Improve the safety, reliability and flexibility of the electricity transmission system, thus reducing
         power disruptions and facilitating economic load management; and
    iii. Support the restructuring and commercialization of LPC (at the time of loan effectiveness, the
         corporate entity was Lietuvos Valstybines Energetikos Sistemos, or Lithuanian State Power
         System (LSPS). It was renamed Lietuvos Energija or Lithuanian Power Company (LPC) in 1995.
         In this report the abbreviation LPC is used throughout, except when use of the legally exact name
         is necessary for clarity in explaining changes in corporate structure.)

The project objectives were clear and fully consistent with both the Bank's country assistance strategy and
its 1994 Energy Sector Review (11867-LT). They were important for the electricity sector, representing an
appropriate response to the critical priorities and changing situation in the sector, in particular the phased
shutdown of Ignalina NPP which was expected to cause a significant change in the structure of generating
capacities from 1998 onwards. Furthermore, the modernization of dispatch and transmission in parallel
with the restructuring of the power sector would be important elements in the development of national and
regional power markets.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not formally revised during its lifetime. The deferral, subsequent to
appraisal, of the Ignalina closure program was not judged to be a reason for revising project targets.
However, the reallocation of those portions of the loan originally intended to fund the Mazeikiai
rehabilitation and the upgrading of the Dispatch Center permitted an increased focus on the upgrading of
the communication and control systems to get the full benefit of the enhanced Dispatch Center.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project included three components to be implemented under the direction of LSPS:

     i. Rehabilitation of two thermal plants: unit 6 at the Elektrenai Thermal Power Station and two
         units (2X80 MW) at the Mazeikiai combined-heat-and-power (CHP) station. It was intended
         that these measures should increase the operational efficiency, reliability, safety and environmental
         performance of these plants. The scale of the benefits expected from the rehabilitation was
         predicated on the eventual closure of the Ignalina nuclear power plant and the consequent need for
         additional thermal units in the system. The main packages for Elektrenai included: (a) control
         system modernization of Unit 6 (300 MW); (b) installation of low NOx burners for boilers 6A &
         6B; and (c) installation of motor operated control valves for steam and water pipes. Broadly
         similar investments were planned for Mazeikiai. Technical assistance for the design and



                                                      - 3 -

         commissioning of these installations, as well as on site training, were also foreseen.

    ii. Upgrading of the electricity system, including upgrading of the dispatch center in Vilnius,
         system communications and control equipment, and replacement equipment at high-voltage
         transmission substations. It was expected that the upgrading of the dispatch center would
         improve operational functionality by applying a state-of-the-art Supervisory Control and Data
         System (SCADA) with modern hardware and advanced software. Upgrading of the
         communication system subcomponent with the removal of existing limitations was essential for the
         real-time control and operation of the power system. The main packages in the communications
         subcomponent included installation of: (a) integrated voice/data wide area network; (b) microwave
         links (digital radio relay equipment); (c) optic power ground wire (OPGW) type optical cables on
         various 330-110 kV overhead electric lines with eventual ring of optical cables; (d) synchronous
         digital hierarchy (SDH) equipment and network. The transmission subcomponent focused on the
         Kaunas 330/110/10 kV substation and included installation of: (a) 125 MVA power
         autotransformers - 2 units; (b) switchgear equipment with relevant current, voltage transformers
         and surge arresters; (c) protection relays and control equipment. These transmission upgradings
         were well justified since replacement of existing old equipment was mandatory if service
         disruptions were to be avoided. Technical assistance for the design, commissioning and training for
         these installations was also necessary.

   iii. Restructuring of LPC and other technical assistance for consultants' services to perform
         technical studies, project engineering, and management. This component provided consulting
         services to LPC to assist in its transition from a centrally controlled entity in a command economy
         towards greater market orientation. The restructuring would include the transfer of the district
         heating utilities to municipal ownership, the improvement of accounting and management
         information systems and the phased implementation of the Government's Energy Sector Action
         Plan. Assistance would also be provided in the development of the regulatory framework, in an
         Electricity System Communications Strategy Study, and in project management and
         implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:
The first amendment to the loan agreement (1997) was necessitated by a recognition that sales of heat by
Mazeikiai Elektrenai to the neighboring oil refinery were, and were likely to continue to be, at such a low
level compared to the level projected at appraisal that the economic justification for investment there had
been undercut. This part of the loan was therefore cancelled, and efforts in the generation area focused
exclusively on Elektrenai.

Furthermore, in the same year, and following an abortive tendering exercise, LPC decided to finance the
Vilnius Dispatch Center component from its own resources.

The funds originally provided for these two components were reallocated, firstly to a major expansion of
the communication and control system component, and secondly to an increase in the transmission system
element involving accelerated reconstruction of 110kV and 330kV substations.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
At the time of appraisal, the Bank did not carry out prior QAG assessments of projects. However, Bank
management judged that the project objectives were consistent with the Bank's strategy in Lithuania in
1994, as well as with the Government's priorities at that time, and that project design took appropriate
account of these and of lessons learned from other projects in the sector and region.



                                                        - 4 -

To a considerable extent the investments were predicated on an early shutdown of the INPP units--an
Agreement with the Nuclear Safety Account (NSA) administered by the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (EBRD) envisaged the retirement of Unit 1 as early as 1998. In the event it was agreed
during Lithuania's entry negotiations with the European Union that the closure date should be deferred by
approximately seven years. However, while this arguably rendered the Elektrenai rehabilitation premature,
the project as a whole was well founded and appropriate to its time. Perhaps most importantly, the
rehabilitation model developed at Elektrenai and the experience of implementing it will be invaluable when
the time comes to rehabilitate the other units.

The project was given a satisfactory rating based on the results. The project was designed to help stabilize
the reliability of power supply and move the company in the direction of commercial viability. Both of
these targets have been achieved, with the commercialization aspects exceeding the original expectation.
The proposed technical assistance was an important component in supporting both the company and the
Government to achieve commercialization of the sector, enabling Lithuania to meet EU Directives early in
its EU Accession process.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. All foreseen objectives and development
outcomes were fully achieved, though with some changes and delays. Generally, the project components
brought the desired benefits and these will become more apparent in the coming years as the radical
restructuring and unbundling of LPC carried out in 2001-2002 transforms the sector. The new
communications system enables the company to provide essential information for the operation of the
Lithuanian electricity market and for the eventual Baltic common electricity market. The project will
contribute to the future interconnection of the electricity system with Western European networks. At the
same time the legal basis and regulatory framework of the power sector have been brought into line with
European Union requirements. Finally, the financial condition of the Lithuanian power system and of its
various entities has improved significantly. The detailed results are outlined below.

     i. Improve the operating safety, efficiency, reliability, and environmental performance of the
         electricity generating system, thus reducing the amount of imported fuel needed for its
         operation: rehabilitation of the Elektrenai thermal power plant contributed to the improvement of
         operating safety, efficiency, reliability, and the environmental performance of the electricity
         generating system. Although control system modernization for unit 6 was the main investment
         (US$5.1 million from total investment of US$8.16 million), the main benefits achieved so far were
         due to the installation of low NOx burners. However, as one unit of Ignalina NPP will be shut
         down in 2005, additional thermal power units will then be needed in the system. The control
         system modernization for unit 6 is envisaged by LPC as a pilot project to be replicated for the
         remaining generating units at Elektrenai.
    ii. Improve the safety, reliability and flexibility of the electricity transmission system, thus
         reducing power disruptions and facilitating economic load management: the upgrading of the
         electricity system had a beneficial impact on the electricity sector by improving the safety,
         reliability and flexibility of the electricity transmission system, thus reducing power disruptions
         and facilitating progress in creating a competitive electricity market. The improvement in
         communication systems comprised the installation of a new ring of reliable and high-capacity
         optical cables using 330-110 kV electricity transmission towers. This allowed LPC to connect all
         major system components in an integrated information medium and also to provide additional data
         transmission services. Before the project, the power transmission and distribution equipment was


                                                          - 5 -

     near the end of its life. The replacement of equipment at high-voltage transmission substations was
     very beneficial in terms of enhanced reliability and helped reduce losses. The duration of
     maintenance outages for switchgear has been substantially reduced. Before the project, circuit
     breakers were shut down for maintenance for two weeks after every three years' operation, and for
     four weeks after every six years. This has now been reduced to one day per annum. Voltage
     fluctuations in the transmission system have been stabilized considerably.
iii. Support the restructuring and commercialization of LPC: the electricity business of LPC has
     been unbundled and five new State-owned joint stock companies have been established:
    l AB "Lietuvos Energija" (AB=Akcinè Bendrovè, Joint Stock Company) which owns the
         transmission network and dispatching facilities as well as the hydropower plant at Kaunas and
         the hydro pumped storage plant at Kruonis;
    l AB "Lietuvos Elektrine" which owns the thermal power station at Elektrenai;
    l AB "Mazeikiu Elektrine" which owns the CHP station at Mazeikiai;
    l AB "Rytu ST" which is responsible for electricity distribution in the eastern portion of
         Lithuania; and
    l AB "Vakaru ST" which distributes electricity in western Lithuania.


     The great majority of the shares in all five companies remain in State ownership (85.7% of the
     shares of LPCE were in State ownership prior to the reorganization of the company on 1 January
     2002, while 10.9% were held by E.ON Energie AG, 0.1% by Municipalities, and the balance of
     3.3% by miscellaneous private shareholders. These proportions have been maintained in the new
     companies.) However, the privatization program for the two distribution companies and for AB
     Mazeikiu Elektrine is to be developed in the first quarter of 2003 and these companies are expected
     to be privatized by the end of 2003 (privatization of the distribution companies was intended to
     occur in 2002, but has been delayed (November 2002)). The eventual sale of AB Lietuvos
     Elektrine is also envisaged. AB Lietuvos Energija (LPC), as the national grid operator, will be
     retained in State ownership. All of the non-core activities of the former company have been sold or
     liquidated or are on the list of entities for privatization (except for Kauno Energetikos Remontas,
     which will remain in the ownership of Lietuvos Energija until 2005). The six district heating
     networks owned by LE were transferred to municipal ownership in 1997, and negotiations for the
     sale of the CHP generating station in Kaunas are ongoing. Private expertise has been introduced
     into the management of the district heating businesses in Vilnius, Kaunas and other cities through
     concession and leasing arrangements.

     LPC has, particularly since 1996, made vigorous efforts to improve its management structures and
     processes. These have included the establishment of commercial operational norms throughout the
     organization and the establishment of new functions--for example, an active international treasury
     capability.

     Such developments have, in recent years, been supported by the Government's implementation of
     improved structures of governance, including the appointment of outside directors with relevant
     expertise. Following repeated urging by Bank missions, the Government initiated a series of
     changes to the management board, supervisory board and shareholders' assembly arrangements at
     the end of 1997. While these changes were initially negative in their impact, an effective
     non-executive Board has been in place since early 2000, peopled by outsiders with backgrounds in
     finance, law and other relevant fields, and chaired by the Director of the Lithuanian Energy
     Institute. This Board has been prepared to stand up to political pressure and has given an
     important focus and consistency to reform efforts ever since.




                                                    - 6 -

Another crucial development was the restructuring in 1997 o f the State Commission for Pricing of
Energy Resources and Energy Activity Control (commonly known as the Energy Prices
Commission, or EPC) on the basis of enhanced independence and resourcing. This change
facilitated a progressive move towards economic pricing of all energy products. The steady
adherence to sound economic principles maintained by the EPC and its Chairman has provided an
essential policy underpinning to unbundling and restructuring.

Further evidence of Government commitment to reform was provided by the decisive moves it
made to deal with the problem of non-payment or slow payment of the energy debts of budgetary
entities.

Taken together, these improvements have provided a solid basis for operating companies in the
sector to develop strong management and financial structures, and will enhance the privatization
revenues accruing to the Government.

The restructuring and commercialization of Lithuania's electricity sector, as described above, have
taken place at a pace and with a determination which have fully met, and in some respects even
exceeded, the Bank's expectations. The initiatives described have been facilitated by parallel
moves in the areas of regulation and market development. A new Electricity Law came into force
in July 2001, and a new Energy Law in July 2002. The power market in Lithuania is being opened
in stages with regulated transmission prices and provisions for the licensing of operators: in the
first stage of market opening, customers purchasing more than 20 GWh per annum have been free
since 1 April 2002 to contract directly with suppliers for power. There are now 11 independent
suppliers of electricity and for 2003, there will be 25 eligible consumers, accounting for
approximately 26% of the electricity market. At the same time, Lithuania is an active player in
moves to establish a Common Baltic Electricity Market (CBEM) together with Latvia and Estonia.

Furthermore, the very real transformation which has occurred in the regulation, governance and
management of the power sector has enabled the Government to terminate all production subsidies
in the sector, with the consequent removal of what had been a continuing budgetary overhang.

In financial terms, the improvement in the financial status of the power sector has been striking. In
1994, the company's auditors estimated that LPC incurred a net loss (calculated in accordance
with International Accounting Standards) of LTL 513 million on sales of LTL1,500 million. The
outturn for 2001 (the last year for which LPC's financial statements represent an integrated picture
of the industry) the company earned a net profit of LTL 180 million on revenues of LTL 1,664
million. While the separation in 1997 of the heavily loss-making district heating business was a
factor in the turnaround, evaluation of the company's recent financial statements reveals a stable
organization with satisfactory financial ratios and the potential, through continuing attention to
cost control and operational improvement, to be solidly profitable into the future. The financial
performance of LPC in recent years has been such that in May 2002 it was able to prepay $8
million of the World Bank Power Rehabilitation Loan. The cost of debt has dropped from 450
basis points over LIBOR in 1999 to roughly 75 basis points today with a much-improved
repayment profile. At the beginning of the project the Government subsidized fuel import prices.
Now LPC is able to prepay debt, and the government is expecting to receive dividends from 2002.
(Annex 9 contains summarized financial statements for 1994 to 2001.) The story of financial
improvement was not without interruptions: in 1999 a combination of inadequate tariffs,
non-performing sales to Belarus, and an expensive debt profile led to heavy losses in LPC and
provoked the Bank to suggest suspension of the loan unless a satisfactory recovery plan were put


                                             - 7 -

       in place: this was done, with positive results in 2000 and subsequently.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The Project outputs were generally in line with the plan, with three exceptions:

       l The Mazeikiai CHP subcomponent of Component (i) (power plant rehabilitation) was
            cancelled as a consequence of the diminishing role of this plant in the power system;
       l Component (ii) (transmission system enhancement) was restructured as a result of LPC's
            decision to carry out the upgrading of the dispatch center in parallel with the Bank project by
            using its own resources. In consequence, the dispatch center sub-component was removed
            from Component (ii) of the Bank loan;
       l Following a reallocation of the loan proceeds, Component (ii) was refocused to allow for an
            increased investment in the modernization of the communications system.
    i. Rehabilitation of two thermal plants: unit 6 at the Elektrenai Thermal Power Station and two
       units (2X80 MW) at the Mazeikiai combined-heat-and-power (CHP) station: the
        modernization of the supervisory control for Unit 6 at the Elektrenai thermal station together with
        installation of low NOx burners was satisfactory. The control system was modernized using
        modern data collection hardware and software which allows real time monitoring and operation of
        power Unit 6. There is a joint control room for Units 5 and 6, which makes it easy to compare the
        operation of the 40-year-old control system for Unit 5 with the new one for Unit 6. New low NOx
        burners have modern fire protection systems, which is integrated with the modern control system of
        Unit 6. Tests have confirmed 50% reductions in emissions (mg/Nm3) for the new burners
        compared with burners of the old type (from 850 to 425 mg/Nm3 for heavy fuel oil and from700 to
        330 mg/Nm3 for natural gas). Since rehabilitation, emissions at Unit 6 have been within allowable
        limits. Unfortunately, because of the substantial electricity generation overcapacity in Lithuania,
        the Elektrenai power plant operates for very short periods of time. Since the new control system
        was installed in July 2001 Unit 6 has been in operation for only 292 hours in 2001 and 71 hours in
        2002 (load factor 0.03). Staff have therefore had very limited possibilities to gain operational
        experience with this system. It is expected that this situation will change after closure of Ignalina
        NPP starts in 2005. The cancellation of the Mazeikiai Power Plant upgrade has been fortunate.
        As the sector has been unbundled it has become increasingly apparent that this is a stranded asset.
        The government will address this issue as part of the privatization program.
    ii. Upgrading of the electricity system, including upgrading of the dispatch center in Vilnius,
        system communications and control equipment, and replacement equipment at high-voltage
        transmission substations: the upgrading of the system communications equipment, and the
        replacement of equipment at high-voltage transmission substations was satisfactory. The old
        analogue type data equipment was replaced by modern open structure digital hardware and
        software, substantially contributing to very accurate and reliable real time monitoring and
        management of the power system, including the newly emerging electricity market. The new ring
        of optical cables is linked with neighboring states, an essential for the development of the Baltic
        electricity market. The data transmission system is integrated with the upgraded Vilnius dispatch
        center control equipment (information complex XA-21 of GE Harris Company). The upgrading of
        the dispatch and control systems is estimated to result in an annual saving of US$530,000 in staff
        and travel costs. The installation of optical cables using of optic power ground wire (OPGW)
        technology has also facilitated the rehabilitation of HV transmission lines at the same time. The
        replacement of 330 kV power transformers and switchgear equipment at Kaunas substation has
        had a very positive impact, as this equipment was nearing the end of its life. In addition, new
        digital protection relays with self-test features were installed at key points of the substation, which



                                                      - 8 -

        reduced the fault rate and response time. Generally, the reliability of Kaunas substation has
        increased markedly, while maintenance costs have decreased. LPC has also been able to lease
        some of the bandwith in its fiber optic network to telecommunications companies.
   iii. Restructuring of LPC and other technical assistance for consultants' services to perform
        technical studies, project engineering, and management: Under the project, consultants were
        hired for several tasks.

       l LPC Restructuring and Management Consultancy: In early 1995, following international
            restricted tendering procedures, Price Waterhouse Ireland, in association with ESB
            International, were appointed to provide Restructuring and Management Consultancy advice,
            financed by the EU-PHARE program. The consultants' Interim Report, presented in October
            1995, proposed radical restructuring of LPC and substantial internal management
            improvements. This was accepted by the Government, but initially resisted by the company.
            Following extensive discussions involving the Government, the World Bank, the European
            Commission and the local PHARE office, LPC management and the consultants, the Final
            Report was submitted to the Commission in September 1996. The restructuring program set
            out in the Report provided a road map for much of the reform of the electricity sector which
            followed.
       l In the meantime, following the acceptance by the Government of the Interim Report and the
            appointment of a new General Director, the company established a number of Working
            Groups, coordinated by a consultant hired by the World Bank to oversee the implementation of
            the Price Waterhouse report and financed by the Irish Consultancy Trust Fund at the World
            Bank. The Working Groups analyzed and recommended on key issues of reorganization and
            management improvement, including how best to set up Business Units, as a precursor of
            unbundling, the improvement of management information systems, the development of
            corporate planning, the disposal of non-core activities, and the development of a power market.

       l USAID provided funding for Regulatory Framework Assistance, under which Bechtel
            consultants worked within the Energy Prices Commission in the development of methodologies,
            coordinating this work within a Baltic framework.
       l An Electricity System Communications Strategy Study was carried out by LPC's own
            experts.
       l Project Management and Implementation Assistance was provided by various contractors,
            including Preussen Elektra in respect of the thermal power plant at Elektrenai and Electrotek
            Concept Inc. for the dispatch center, and Pauwels for the Kaunas transformer element. A
            consultant hired under the project was attached to TENA, the procurement subsidiary of LPC,
            and provided procurement assistance in 1996/97.
       l Training was arranged by LPC itself for every component of the project. In most cases, this
            included secondment of staff to overseas utilities for on-job learning purposes.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal, the economic rate of return (ERR) for the whole project (including environmental benefits and
associated investment costs) was calculated to be 21.1%. The ERR on the Thermal Power Plant
Rehabilitation element was calculated at 16.3% and that on the Electricity Dispatch System Upgrade
34.5%.

The current recalculations of project ERRs are 32% for the Elektrenai thermal power plant rehabilitation
without taking account of the costs and benefits of the environmental investments, and 26% when these are
included. The higher ERR for Elektrenai (compared to the estimate made at appraisal) reflects the


                                                     - 9 -

significantly lower cost of the investments in burner and control systems--$8.2 million (excluding related
consultancy assistance, which amounted to about $0.5 million) against $13.2 million estimated at
appraisal. The life extension benefit estimated at appraisal (which remains unaltered) is by far the largest
source of economic benefit from this component.

No recalculation of the economic rate of return from the dispatch and transmission system upgrade was
possible. However, in addition to the benefits foreseen at the time of appraisal, LPC has been able to earn
extra revenue from the system by leasing capacity on its optical fiber network to telecommunications
operators.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return for the project was not calculated at the time of appraisal. At the time the project
was appraised (1994), financial rates of return were usually not calculated for power projects. Consistent
with this approach, the project was assessed from the technical and economic standpoints. The financial
aspects were dealt with by projecting the future financial performance of LPC and by including legal
covenants designed to ensure that the company's financial performance would be satisfactory.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
In 1994, Lithuania was in the early stages of its transition from Soviet times, and the State's ability to face
and deal with the challenges posed by an uneconomic energy sector was a key test of the strength of the
re-established democracy. LPC, at the time of appraisal, was not only the dominant entity in the
Lithuanian energy sector, but also the largest State-owned asset and employer.

In the event, the Government of Lithuania met the challenge. This is the more praiseworthy for the fact
that there have been several changes of government in the intervening eight years, involving significant
differences of social and economic ideology. The outcome of the efforts made by government, regulators,
LPC management, the World Bank and other international agencies--namely, the reform and restructuring
of a key economic sector--demonstrated to Lithuanians, and to the citizens of other transition economies,
that the results merited the effort, that reform need not mean the destruction or demeaning of the
achievements of the past, and that substantial economic and political gains could be made through
consistency of policy.

While this may have been the most important institutional development impact of the Power Rehabilitation
Project, at enterprise level the project drove major improvements in the management of LPC--in project
management, in procurement, in capital expenditure planning, and, particularly, in financial management.
The company moved to full implementation of International Accounting Standards, created separate
revenue, cost and profit centers to support unbundled accounting, and established a Treasury Management
capability which has enabled it to operate effectively in capital markets, with consequent savings in
financial costs. Additionally, the corporate governance aspect of LPC's operations was boosted when the
Government decided in 2000 to expand its Management Board to include outside directors with appropriate
knowledge and experience of law, finance, and energy.

Covenant Compliance: The Loan Agreement, Subsidiary Loan Agreement and Project Agreement
required that the borrower and LPC meet target values in relation to certain financial ratios and other
indicators. The table below sets out actual performance for 2001 in relation to the target values.




                                                      - 10 -

Table 1: Covenants

Indicator                                                 Target value    1           Actual value 2001
Collection period for domestic electricity bills                 45                            552


(days' sales)
Debt service coverage ratio                                     1.5                            2.0
Average domestic electricity tariff (net)                 Lc. 11.5/kWh    3             Lc. 18.6/kWh

    1According to the projections prepared at time of appraisal, the loan would have been fully disbursed in 1999.
    In the Table, the target values shown are those for 1999, or for the latest year specified (but see Note 7).
    2The value for 2001 is not directly comparable with the target value, because of different calculation methods.
    The collection for 2001 is accounts receivable, which includes a 30 day period for the customer to make their
    payments. It is assumed that the target was designed as arrears and hence the intention of the collection target
    was met.
    3The Loan Agreement specifies the setting of an average domestic tariff of 11.5 Lithuanian cents per kWh as a
    condition of effectiveness. Adjusting for changes in the Consumer Price Index between 1994 and 2001 yields
    a target value for 2001 of 20.3 Lc./kWh.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Over the 1994-2001 period, the population of Lithuania declined by nearly 5%, to just under 3.5 millions.
Real GDP rose by an average of 3.7% p.a. and stood at 13.4 billion euro in 2001. Economic growth has
been fairly consistent, except in 1999, when output was seriously affected by the economic crisis in Russia.
Table 1 below illustrates the trend in final energy consumption over the period. The only sector to register
growth is transport. It seems reasonable to attribute a major part of the decline in household consumption
to improved energy economy, whereas the declines in the productive sectors are likely also to reflect
changes in scale and structure. Overall, the energy intensity of the Lithuanian economy, which the World
Bank measured as being quite high in the early nineteen-nineties, fell from 210 toe per million LTL in 1994
to 136 toe per million LTL of GDP in 2001 (at constant 1995 prices).

Table 2: Final Energy Consumption

                                               1994 million toe                 2001 million toe

Industry                                       1101                             815
Transport                                      999                              1279
Agriculture                                    248                              104
Households                                     1814                             1410
Commerce and public services                   744                              484
Total final energy consumption                 4906                             4092

A major factor in the electricity sector continued to be export demand, based on the productive potential of
Ignalina. In 1994, Lithuania had net electricity imports of 1,000 GWh (imports which Lithuania was
compelled to accept from Russia in lieu of transit fees due on power wheeled to Kaliningrad), while there
have been substantial net exports in every other year, peaking at over 6,000 GWh in 1998. The
development of electricity supply and demand is shown in Table 2 below. The growth in household and
commercial/public service demand has been quite striking. At the time of project appraisal, the Bank's
base case scenario was for GDP growth to average 5.6% p.a. between 1994 and 2001 and for final



                                                       - 11 -

electricity demand in 2001 to be approximately 7.85 TWh. Calculating as far as possible on the same
basis, the actual outturn for 2001 was 9.03 TWh, which, combined with substantially slower GDP growth
than forecast in 1994, reflects a slower reform process, and a continuing higher electricity intensity, than in
the base case (the figure of 9.03 TWh is reconcilable with the amount of 6.4 TWh shown in the table by
adding to the latter 50% of the "system own use" consumption and 80% of the network losses estimated for
2001, in accordance with the Bank's 1994 methodology (Lithuania: Energy Sector Review, Report No.
11867-LT)).

Table 3: Electricity Balance

                                                 1994 GWh                   2001 GWh
Generation:
Ignalina                                          7706                      11362
Thermal and CHP                                   1597                      2674
Hydro                                             718                       701
Total                                             10021                     14737
Net imports/exports                               1099                      -3964
Losses, own use etc.                              4608                      4326
Net domestic supply                               6512                      6447
Industry                                          2795                      2347
Transport                                         102                       91
Agriculture                                       574                       197
Households                                        1541                      1817
Commerce and public services                      1500                      1995
Total final consumption                          6512                       6447

The load factor in Ignalina recovered from its very low level (47%) in 1994 to consistent levels of 70% to
80% in the following years. However, it fell to 58% in 1999 and to 50% the following year, recovering
somewhat to 67% in 2001. Apart from 1998, when exports peaked, Elektrenai's load factor has
consistently been in the range 9% to 14%. This has prevented the realization of the output levels projected
for Unit 6.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The policies adopted and actions taken by the Government of Lithuania were generally positive in their
effects on the project's outcome. The government has been responsive to the changing international
environment, particularly the new responsibilities which it assumed consequent on Lithuania's application
for membership of the European Union. It has been ready to interact with and listen to the World Bank and
other international agencies. In general, it has created an environment in which the reform process has been
less of an uphill struggle than it might otherwise have been, and indeed has been in so many other countries.
The steady commitment to an independent price regulator, often at times when the political pressures to
compromise such independence must have been hard to resist, has been at the heart of reform in the energy
sector. The implementation of radical solutions to the overdue energy receivables problem and the
separation of district heating from LPC (with consequent severe tariff increases for some communities) also
required strong political will. After some false starts, a Board has been installed in LPC which gives a fair
degree of protection to the organization from possible governmental interference in operational matters. (A
notable issue which emerged during the supervision phase of the project was the direction by the Minister
of Economy in 1998 and 1999 that power should be sold to Belarus even though LPC's prospects of
receiving timely, or indeed any, payment were slim: it is unlikely that such a situation could be repeated



                                                     - 12 -

under the governance structures now in place.) On the other hand, it appears that key appointments to the
most senior management positions in the company are still made by the Minister rather than the Board.
Also, the enactment of the new energy and electricity legislation was hampered and delayed by
administrative and political problems, although it is now satisfactorily in place. (Despite these difficulties,
however, the power market has reached a more developed state than in some neighboring countries.)

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
LPC implemented the project through its Procurement Department together with the company's technical
and financial staff, including local specialists at project sites in Elektrenai and Kaunas. In order to ensure
that the project would be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with best
engineering practices, foreign consultants were appointed including a procurement adviser. The main
factor within the control of LPC that contributed to implementation delays was LPC's limited
implementation capacity, especially at the initial project phase, and frequent turnover of higher
management staff. Despite delays, LPC ultimately successfully managed the project to completion,
including the own restructuring and unbundling of its own operations. LPC turned certain opportunities to
its advantage, for example improving dispatch center facilities using its own resources, and rehabilitating
HV electricity lines during the installation of optical cables on ground wires (OPGW technology). It also
proactively sought to work with the Ministry of Economy and the Energy Prices Commission to develop
economic tariffs. After initial reluctance, LPC recognized the need to reform its operational and
management structures. It appropriately redesigned the company's organizational structure in the context
of unbundling, and it achieved improvements in all key organizational, operational and financial areas. The
company also respected environmental issues in the implementation of the Project, especially in relation to
Elektrenai thermal power plant. Evidence of the improvement in operational performance is provided by
the reduction in distribution losses from 19% in 1993 to 13.5% in 2001. In the same period, transmission
losses were reduced from 4% to 2.7% (losses split between transmission and distribution at 330 kV).

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project costs amounted to $32.5 million, compared to the appraisal estimate for baseline costs of
$32.90 million. The details of costs and financing are given in Annex 2. The main differences between the
appraisal estimates and the outcome centered on the reduction of the power rehabilitation element arising
out of the decision not to proceed with the upgrade at Mazeikiai power plant, thus reducing this component
from $16.78 million to $9.50 million. The transmission and electricity system upgrade component was
increased from $5.02 million at appraisal to $22.50 million. Technical assistance was less than envisaged
at appraisal. The overall financing required, at $32.50 million, was slightly less than the appraisal estimate
of $32.90 million. Disbursements from the World Bank loan totaled $26.4 million, leaving a balance of
$6.1 million which was covered from LPC's resources.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Looking towards the future, the project is clearly sustainable. There is a firm date for the closure of at
least one of the Ignalina units: this will increase the potential demand for the output of the rehabilitated
Elektrenai unit. The development of the power market (Baltic as well as Lithuanian) will also provide
further underpinning of the investments in transmission and in communications and control. The
independence of the regulator and the transformed cost/revenue balance of LPC--now guided by
well-structured governance arrangements--will substantially support the continued financial strength of the
borrower. The factors which drained that company's vitality in the past--below cost tariffs, the district
heating millstone, forced sales of power to Belarus, unprofitable non-core subsidiaries--have been
removed. Further comfort that the reform process is irreversible is provided by the undertakings entered
into by the government in its dealings with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund during


                                                      - 13 -

SAL and Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) negotiations. There are uncertainties, of course. Prime among
these is the future of Ignalina--any decision to defer closure would have serious consequences for other
units in the industry. Also, the independence of the LPC Board may need to be underpinned by legislation
in order to reduce the temptation to future governments to become involved in commercial issues.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Even though generation, transmission and distribution operations have been separated, LPC retains almost
all of the assets acquired under the Project as it continues to be responsible for transmission & load
dispatch as well as for hydropower plant operations. Of the entities benefiting from the loan, only
Elektrenai thermal power plant became a separate company. LPC and Lietuvos Elektrine (Elektrenai) have
already commissioned the new facilities, which are fully deployed in day-to-day operations (within the
limits imposed by the electricity overcapacity problem, referred to above) and regular operations are being
carried out now. Additionally, in order to expand the coverage of the power system improvements, similar
investments are being made according to appropriate development plans up to 2006 for: i) transmission
grid development; ii) dispatch center and communications system development; iii) modernization of
Kaunas hydropower plant and Kruonis hydro pumped storage plant and iv) development of electricity
metering and accounting between the transmission and distribution networks. These plans were developed
by LPC specialists taking into account the results of consultancy studies carried out by international
experts and experience from visits to western companies. Sustainable improvements, in relation to the
establishment of the electricity market in January 2002, transmission system operator performance for
national balancing services, private capital flows to the sector and financial performance of the sector, etc.,
can be expected.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in appraising and negotiating the loan was satisfactory.        The Bank team
provided strong support both to the government's energy policies and to Bank/IMF programs in Lithuania.
Appropriate flexibility was shown in adapting the loan to the evolving needs of the electricity sector.

7.2 Supervision:
The supervision of the project was satisfactory. Supervision missions were conducted on a regular basis
with competent staff who established productive relationships with LPC's project and general management
and with Government representatives. However, the company had some difficulty complying with the
financial covenants contained in the Loan Agreement, Project Agreement and Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Specifically, in several years net revenues were not adequate to provide the covenanted 1.5 times cover of
prospective debt repayments and the covenanted collection period for domestic electricity bills was not met.
In addition, in several years tariffs were not adequate to cover all costs. The Bank, the Borrower and LPC
engaged on these issues on several occasions. However, on such occasions the Bank concluded that the
general direction of financial progress was positive, and thus did not object to financing operations
proposed by LPC. There were three amendments to the project, reflecting primarily reallocations of funds
between the various components.

In early 2000, following a significant deterioration in LPC's financial performance in 1999, the Bank
suggested that the loan be suspended unless a satisfactory financial recovery plan was implemented. LPC
proposed the following set of actions: (a) a 20% price increase; (b) the cessation of electricity sales to
Belarus because of non-payment problems; and (c) the restructuring of LPC's debt. These actions were
successfully implemented resulting in a considerable turnaround in LPC's financial status.




                                                     - 14 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the Bank's performance is rated as satisfactory.

A notable feature of the project was the close coordination which was maintained between the Bank's team
on the project and other ongoing Bank operations in Lithuania, particularly the first and second Structural
Adjustment Loans (SAL I and SAL II), as well as the IMF. The conditionalities for both SAL operations
included several clauses which reinforced the Bank's covenants and conditionalities in the Power
Rehabilitation Project. Conversely, the Bank's work to assist in the full implementation of the PRP
materially assisted in the achievement of SAL objectives--for example, the ending of producer subsidies in
the energy sector, and the control of inter-enterprise arrears.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The project was prepared by LPC at a time of intense international interest in the future of the Lithuanian
electricity sector, driven by safety concerns about Ignalina. There had been a succession of strategy
studies, including the Bank's 1994 Energy Sector Review and an Energy Strategy Study performed by a
consortium of European contractors under financing by the EU-PHARE program. In parallel, the US grant
agencies USAID and USTDA provided technical assistance for feasibility studies of thermal plant
rehabilitation and electricity system upgrading, and it was these which provided the basis for the
preparation of the Power Rehabilitation Project. Preparation was satisfactory and provided a strong basis
for appraisal of the project and subsequent implementation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance, both at the level of financial management through the Ministry of Finance and
(as already noted) at the level of institutional and policy development at the level of the Ministry of Energy
(later the Ministry of Economy), was generally satisfactory. Strong and positive relationships were
established, which allowed implementation to proceed smoothly, and which furthermore materially assisted
the dialogues underlying the first and second SAL efforts.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation performance by LPC was excellent. Adequate full-time local staff were selected to cover
the procurement, technical and financial areas of the project. Co-ordination of project activities and the
procurement of goods, works and services for the project proceeded smoothly. Experienced technical
consultants were retained to assist with implementation, and a full-time procurement advisor was
appointed. The management structure of LPC evolved during the years of implementation: noteworthy was
the development of a treasury function which facilitated much-improved management of the company's
debt and cash resources.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The Bank's experience in Lithuania since 1994 suggests a number of lessons which may be relevant to the
energy sector reform process in other states.
    l Given strong Government support, enabling good regulation and governance, and payment
         discipline on the part of budget entities, it is possible for a publicly-owned utility to be successful,
         well-run and financially robust, and to be a positive player in market reform, while remaining
         under state control;
    l Structural adjustment operations and project operations, if co-coordinated, are mutually




                                                       - 15 -

        supportive;
   l Reform policies should initially emphasize restructuring rather than privatization. Excessive
        concentration on privatization as an objective can have negative effects on the reform process,
        particularly in the early stages: in the case of Lithuania, given the variety of governments which
        held power, too much emphasis on privatization could have been counter-productive, whereas the
        benefits of institutional reform, restructuring, unbundling and corporatization could be readily
        demonstrated and were acceptable to the key players;
   l Achieving improved governance of utilities smoothes the institutional reform process. Good utility
        governance rests on the clear definition and separation of four pillars: policy, ownership,
        management and regulation. The Board forms the bridge between the second and third of these,
        and a Board of individuals chosen for their individual merits, clearly briefed on the shareholders'
        objectives and working free of ministerial interference can help management to optimize
        operational performance;
Most important of all, an independent, well-resourced regulator put in place at an early stage of the reform
process can be a firm bulwark against back-sliding.




                                                      - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                     - 17 -

(b) Cofinanciers:

There were no co-financiers in the project, other than LPC itself.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

There were no other partners.

10. Additional Information

For additional details see Annex 8 and Annex 9.




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
(i) Availability of the electricity system     The power system has remained at a level of The availability of the power system is in line
                                               reliability above that envisaged at the time of  with Western European standards. This
                                               appraisal as the Ignalina Nuclear Plant          outcome has been highly successful.
                                               remains fully operational (at the time of
                                               appraisal an agreement had been reached
                                               with EBRD to close Unit 1 by 6.30.98).
(ii) Restructuring and commercialization of    LPC has been unbundled into five separate        The Government has surpassed all of our
LPC                                            legal entities, consistent with the EU Directive expectations regarding sector restructuring.
                                               96/92 on establishing electricity markets.       The sector has been vertically unbundled in a
                                               The accounts have been separated,                manner consistent with the EU Directive.
                                               management and staff assigned and an             Horizontal unbundling has taken place to
                                               application for unbundled tariffs has been       foster competition. The Government has
                                               issued.                                          taken the final step of legal unbundling, going
                                                                                                beyond the current EU requirements.
(iii) Authority and independence of the        The regulator has been established and is        The regulator in Lithuania has been of the
Energy Pricing Committee                       successfully undertaking its duties. Its         more successful instances of regulatory
                                               independence appears to be satisfactory.         reform in our client countries. The
                                                                                                independence and operating rules and
                                                                                                pricing criteria are clear and consistently
                                                                                                adhered to.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
A. Technical Indicators:                                                                        The Elektrenai unit improvement has been
Elektrenai 300 MW Thermal Power Plant -                                                         completed and is fully successful.
Improvement in plant operating efficiency;                                                      The upgrading of the Mazeikiai power plant
improvement in plant reliability; reduction in                                                  was, fortunately, dropped. As this unit is now
NOx and particulate emissions; safety                                                           perceived as a potentially stranded asset, it
improvements.                                                                                   has been helpful that the Bank loan did not
Mazeikiai 160 MW CHP Plant: improvement                                                         add to this burden.
in plant operating efficiency; improvement in
plant reliability; reduction in NOx and
particulate emissions.
Electricity dispatch and transmission system
upgrade: loading of power plants; loss
reduction; reliability; management
information.
B. Environmental indicators:                                                                    This was reviewed by Bank environmental
Completion and implementation of asbestos                                                       staff and was found to be fully satisfactory.
management plan.
Completion of PCB survey and, if needed,
implementation of management plan.
Completion and implementation of oil spill
prevention and management plan.
Completion and implementation of the
environmental monitoring system.
C. Financial and economic indicators:                                                           The Government and LPC made a
Improvement in liquidity and working capital                                                    considerable turnaround in the financial
(current ration in excess of 1.6 and quick                                                      health of the sector in 2000 by increasing the
ratio not less than 0.8).                                                                       electricity price, restructuring debt (replacing
Compliance with covenants (debt service                                                         short-term debt with longer-term debt that
ration not lower than 1.5, electricity                                                          better matched the life of the assets) and
receivables not greater than 45 days, and                                                       cut-off supply to non-payers (Belarus in
heat receivables not greater than 70 days)..                                                    particular). As a result, debt service is about
Profitability (net income before tax                                                            2.0, enabling LPC to prepay its debt, further
consistently positive).                                                                         improving its balance sheet.
Fixed assets and depreciation (progress in                                                      Although the liquidity targets have not been
bringing fixed asset values and depreciation                                                    met, LPC has managed its liquidity well and




                                                                   - 19 -

charges closer to realistic values as                      is able to pay its creditors on time (or early in
measured by international industrial averages              the case of some of its debt obligations).
for the subsector).                                        The EIRR for the project remains
Recalculation of the Economic Internal Rate                satisfactory.
of Return.
D. Institutional restructuring indicators:                 Institutional restructuring has been
Commercial operation of LSPS.                              successfully completed well beyond the
Improvement in the articles and operation of               original expectations of the project.
the Regulatory Agency.
Progress in power sector restructuring.

1End of project




                                                 - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1. Power rehabilitation                                       16.78             9.50          56.6
2. Transmission and electricity system upgrade                 5.02           22.50          448.2
3. Technical assistance                                        1.68             0.50          29.8

Total Baseline Cost                                           23.48           32.50
 Physical Contingencies                                        2.26
 Price Contingencies                                           3.39
                         Total Project Costs                  29.13           32.50
                            Interest during construction       3.77
                   Total Financing Required                   32.90           32.50


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00         0.00          2.10        2.10
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                            21.20             0.00         3.50          0.00       24.70
                                    (21.20)          (0.00)      (3.50)          (0.00)     (24.70)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00         1.70          0.60        2.30
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.70)          (0.00)     (1.70)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                            21.20             0.00         5.20          2.70       29.10
                                    (21.20)          (0.00)      (5.20)          (0.00)     (26.40)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00        0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                            27.01             0.00        0.00           0.00      27.01
                                    (25.64)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (25.64)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00        0.79           0.00       0.79
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.55)         (0.00)     (0.55)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00        0.00           0.00       0.00

                                                  - 21 -

                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               27.01              0.00              0.79             0.00             27.80
                                      (25.64)            (0.00)            (0.55)            (0.00)           (26.19)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Lithuania: Power Rehabilitation Project
Demand Projections and Capacity of Power Plants
Key assumptions
Domestic Demand growth rate post 2001                              3 %
Exports p.a. post 2004 (TWh)                                       1.7
System losses                                                    10%
Own Use                                                          10%
Hydro storage use p.a. (TWh)                                       0.5
Actual demand
                                                       1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   1997   1998    1999     2000      2001    2002

Electricity Demand and Generation
Domestic Demand                               TWh     12.68     9.72    7.45    7.12   6.79    7.04   7.30   7.60     7.25     6.91      7.24    7.46
Exports                                       TWh     12.75     5.30    2.89    0.00   2.89    5.24   3.76   6.47     3.30     1.48      4.16    6.80
Total Net Demand                              TWh     25.43   15.02    10.34    7.12   9.68   12.28  11.06  14.07   10.55      8.39    11.40    14.26
                     System Losses (%)        %         5.83    9.15   13.81  18.47    14.82  11.06  10.96   8.78     9.85    11.52     9.86     0.10
System Losses                                 TWh       1.71    1.69    1.91    1.98   2.01    1.78   1.58   1.52     1.33     1.28      1.42    1.58
Less: Loss Red. From invest (2.5% of thermal) TWh                                                                                       -0.03   -0.08
Net System Losses                            TWh        1.71    1.69    1.91    1.98   2.01    1.78   1.58   1.52     1.33     1.28      1.45    1.66
                           Own use (%)       %          7.53    9.48   11.42  15.11    13.79  12.62  12.28   9.99   12.00     12.96   10.76      0.10
Own use                                      TWh        2.21    1.75    1.58    1.62   1.87    2.03   1.77   1.73     1.62     1.44      1.55    1.58
Electricity Production                       TWh      29.35   18.46    13.83  10.72    13.56  16.09  14.41  17.32   13.50     11.11    14.40    17.51
Hydro Storage Use                            TWh        0.00    0.24    0.28    0.39   0.54    0.77   0.67   0.68     0.64     0.45      0.55    0.50
Total Electricity Production                 TWh      29.35   18.70    14.11  11.11    14.10  16.86  15.08  18.00   14.14     11.56    14.95    18.01
Average Demand, MW                           MW        3350    2129    1611    1268    1610    1919   1721   2055    1614     1316      1707    2056
Peak Demand, MW                              MW        3131    2777    2165    2117    1965    1984   2051   2077    1918     1779      1916    2419
Capacity for Peak +20% reserves, MW          MW        3757    3332    2598    2540    2358    2381   2461   2492    2302     2135      2299    2902
Available Capacity with Ignalina, MW         MW        5209    5589    5589    5779    5779    5789   5791   5791    6001     6001      6004    6004
Available Capacity without Ignalina, MW      MW        2609    2989    2989    3179    3179    3189   3191   3191    3401     3401      3404    3404
Existing Available Capacity (reflecting down-
time for rehabilitation)
Ignalina #1 (Nuclear)                        MW        1300    1300    1300    1300    1300    1300   1300   1300    1300     1300      1300    1300
Ignalina #2 (Nuclear)                        MW        1300    1300    1300    1300    1300    1300   1300   1300    1300     1300      1300    1300
Elektrenai 1-8 TPP                           MW        1800    1800    1800    1800    1800    1800   1800   1800    1800     1800      1800    1800
Vilnius 1 & 2 CHP                            MW         364     364      364    364      364    364    364   364      364      364       364     364
Mazeikiai 1 & 2 CHP                          MW          99      99       99     99       99     99     99     99      99       99        99       99
Kaunas 1 & 2 CHP                             MW         178     178      178    178      178    178    178   178      178      178       178     178
Klaipeda CHP                                 MW          11      11       11     11       11     11     11     11      11       11        11       11
Panevezys CHP                                MW           0       0        0      0       0       0      0      0       0        0         1        1
Kaunas Hydro                                 MW         101     101      101    101      101    101    101   101      101      101       101     101
Kruonis (Pumped Storage--Peaking)            MW           0     380      380    570      570    570    570   570      760      760       760     760
Small Hydro                                  MW           5       5        5      5       5       5      7      7      15       15        15       15
Independent Producers                        MW          51      51       51     51       51     61     61     61      73       73        75       75
Excess (Deficit) Capacity                    MW        1452    2257    2991    3239    3421    3408   3330   3299    3699     3866      3705    3102
Excess (Deficit) Capacity without Ignalina   MW       -1148     -343     391    639      821    808    730   699     1099     1266      1105     502


Estimated demand
                                                     2003    2004     2005   2006     2007    2008   2009   2010   2011    2012      2013     2014    2015



                                                      7.70    7.93     8.18   8.43    8.70     8.96   9.24   9.53   9.82   10.13    10.44     10.77   11.10
                                                      5.70    5.70     1.70   1.70    1.70     1.70   1.70   1.70   1.70    1.70     1.70      1.53    1.15
                                                    13.40    13.63     9.88  10.13   10.40    10.66  10.94  11.23  11.52   11.83    12.14     12.30   12.25
                                                     0.10    0.10     0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10
                                                      1.49    1.51     1.10   1.13    1.16     1.18   1.22   1.25   1.28    1.31     1.35      1.37    1.36
                                                     -0.07   -0.07    -0.18  -0.18    -0.18   -0.19  -0.19  -0.27  -0.34   -0.35     -0.36    -0.37   -0.37
                                                      1.56    1.59     1.27   1.31    1.34     1.37   1.41   1.52   1.63    1.67     1.71      1.73    1.73
                                                     0.10    0.10     0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10     0.10
Own use                                     TWh       1.49    1.51     1.10   1.13    1.16     1.18   1.22   1.25   1.28    1.31     1.35      1.37    1.36
Electricity Production                      TWh     16.45    16.74    12.25  12.57   12.89    13.22  13.57  13.99  14.43   14.81    15.20     15.40   15.34
Hydro Storage Use                           TWh       0.50    0.50     0.50   0.50    0.50     0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50    0.50     0.50      0.50    0.50
Total Electricity Production                TWh     16.95    17.24    12.75  13.07   13.39    13.72  14.07  14.49  14.93   15.31    15.70     15.90   15.84
Average Demand, MW                          MW       1934    1963     1456    1492    1529    1562   1606   1654   1704    1743      1793     1815    1808
Peak Demand, MW                             MW       2358    2373     1744    1741    1777    1837   1886   1973   2033    2060      2128     2157    2143
Capacity for Peak +20% reserves, MW         MW       2830    2848     2093    2089    2132    2204   2263   2368   2440    2472      2554     2588    2572
Available Capacity with Ignalina, MW        MW       6004    6004     4704    4704    4704    4704   4704   4054   3404    3404      3404     3404    3404
Available Capacity without Ignalina, MW     MW       3404    3404     3404    3404    3404    3404   3404   3404   3404    3404      3404     3404    3404
Existing Available Capacity (reflecting
down-time for rehabilitation)
Ignalina #1 (Nuclear)                       MW       1300    1300         0      0        0       0      0      0      0       0         0        0       0
Ignalina #2 (Nuclear)                       MW       1300    1300     1300    1300    1300    1300   1300    650       0       0         0        0       0
Elektrenai 1-8 TPP                          MW       1800    1800     1800    1800    1800    1800   1800   1800   1800    1800      1800     1800    1800
Vilnius 1 & 2 CHP                           MW        364     364      364     364     364     364    364    364    364     364       364      364     364
Mazeikiai 1 & 2 CHP                         MW          99     99        99     99       99      99     99     99     99      99        99       99      99
Kaunas 1 & 2 CHP                            MW        178     178      178     178     178     178    178    178    178     178       178      178     178
Klaipeda CHP                                MW          11     11        11     11       11      11     11     11     11      11        11       11      11
Panevezys CHP                               MW           1       1        1      1        1       1      1      1      1       1         1        1       1
Kaunas Hydro                                MW        101     101      101     101     101     101    101    101    101     101       101      101     101
Kruonis (Pumped Storage--Peaking)           MW        760     760      760     760     760     760    760    760    760     760       760      760     760
Small Hydro                                 MW          15     15        15     15       15      15     15     15     15      15        15       15      15
Independent Producers                       MW          75     75        75     75       75      75     75     75     75      75        75       75      75
Excess (Deficit) Capacity                   MW       3174    3156     2611    2615    2572    2500   2441   1686    964     932       850      816     832
Excess (Deficit) Capacity without Ignalina  MW        574     556     1311    1315    1272    1200   1141   1036    964     932       850      816     832




                                                                                    - 23 -

Merit Order Loading of Power Plants

Actual
                                                    1991      1992     1993    1994   1995   1996   1997    1998     1999     2000     2001   2002
Generation for Domestic Demand             TWh      15.15     11.95     9.77   9.51    9.33   9.48   9.45    9.68     9.12    8.65     9.15    9.52
Generation to meet total demand            TWh      29.35     18.70    14.11   11.11  14.10  16.86  15.08   18.00    14.14    11.56   14.92   17.93
Minimum Thermal Generation (160MW)         TWh                          1.30   1.80    1.40   1.40   1.40    1.40     1.40    1.40     1.40    1.40
Energy Dispatch Projections (based on
order of merit loading)
Ignalina #1 (Max. 70% CF)                  TWh       8.50      7.32     6.13   3.86    5.91   6.97   6.01    6.78     4.93    4.21     5.68    6.93
Ignalina #2 (Max. 70% CF)                  TWh       8.50      7.32     6.13   3.86    5.91   6.97   6.01    6.78     4.93    4.21     5.68    6.93
Kaunas Hydro (36% CF)                      TWh       0.33      0.30     0.38   0.44    0.36   0.32   0.28    0.39     0.39    0.31     0.28    0.34
Kruonis Pumped Storage (5-17% CF)          TWh       0.00      0.16     0.19   0.27    0.38   0.55   0.47    0.48     0.45    0.30     0.38    0.46
Klaipeda CHP (33-70% CF)                   TWh       0.05      0.03     0.01   0.03    0.03   0.03   0.02    0.03     0.03    0.04     0.03    0.04
Mazeikiai 1 & 2 CHP (45-60% CF)            TWh       0.61      0.41     0.48   0.45    0.47   0.46   0.44    0.43     0.37    0.30     0.33    0.40
Vilnius 1 & 2 (5-35% CF)                   TWh       1.74      0.74     0.16   0.21    0.22   0.47   0.65    0.71     0.82    0.91     0.96    1.17
Vilnius HPP (35% CF)--small hydro and IPPs TWh       0.12      0.07     0.03   0.03    0.05   0.06   0.07    0.08     0.08    0.13     0.11    0.13
Kaunas 1, 2 CHP (0-35% CF)                 TWh       0.77      0.52     0.02   0.10    0.01   0.16   0.20    0.24     0.42    0.30     0.44    0.54
Elektrenai 1-8 TPP (3-75% CF)              TWh       8.75      1.82     0.58   0.77    0.55   0.79   0.69    1.70     1.09    0.71     0.82    1.00
Total Dispatch                             TWh      29.37     18.69    14.11   10.01  13.89  16.78  14.84   17.61    13.51    11.42   14.71   17.93
Total Thermal Generation                   TWh      11.87      3.49     1.24   1.53    1.25   1.88   1.98    3.08     2.70    2.22     2.55    3.11
Electricity supplied by Elektrenai Unit 6
(after rehabilitation)
Capacity needed to meet demand             MW       1404                 96
Supply from Unit 6 (300 MW)--max. 50% of TWh         1.31      0.29     0.01   0.02    0.00   0.03   0.02    0.49     0.00    0.02     0.29    0.50
total Elektrenai Supply



Estimated
                                                 2003    2004     2005    2006  2007  2008  2009   2010   2011   2012     2013   2014  2015  2016
Generation for Domestic Demand            TWh     9.63   9.90     9.61    9.90  10.20 10.51 10.82  11.15 11.49   11.84   12.20   12.54 12.87 13.21
Generation to meet total demand           TWh    16.87   17.16    12.58  12.89  13.21 13.53 13.87  14.22 14.59   14.96   15.34   15.53 15.47 15.42
Minimum Thermal Generation (160MW)        TWh     1.40   1.40     1.40    1.40   1.40  1.40  1.40   1.40  1.40    1.40    1.40    1.40  1.40  1.40
Energy Dispatch Projections (based on
order of merit loading)
Ignalina #1 (Max. 70% CF)                 TWh     6.52   6.63     0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00
Ignalina #2 (Max. 70% CF)                 TWh     6.52   6.63     4.86    4.98   5.10  5.23  5.36   2.75  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00  0.00  0.00
Kaunas Hydro (36% CF)                     TWh     0.32   0.33     0.24    0.25   0.25  0.26  0.26   0.27  0.28    0.28    0.29    0.30  0.29  0.29
Kruonis Pumped Storage (5-17% CF)         TWh     0.44   0.44     0.32    0.33   0.34  0.35  0.36   0.37  0.38    0.39    0.40    0.40  0.40  0.40
Klaipeda CHP (33-70% CF)                  TWh     0.03   0.04     0.03    0.03   0.03  0.03  0.03   0.03  0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03  0.03  0.03
Mazeikiai 1 & 2 CHP (45-60% CF)           TWh     0.38   0.39     0.28    0.29   0.30  0.30  0.31   0.32  0.33    0.34    0.34    0.35  0.35  0.35
Vilnius 1 & 2 (5-35% CF)                  TWh     1.10   1.12     0.82    0.84   0.86  0.88  0.91   0.93  1.79    2.02    2.26    2.39  2.39  2.39
Vilnius HPP (35% CF)--small hydro and IPPsTWh     0.13   0.13     0.09    0.10   0.10  0.10  0.10   0.11  0.11    0.11    0.11    0.12  0.12  0.12
Kaunas 1, 2 CHP (0-35% CF)                TWh     0.50   0.51     0.38    0.39   0.39  0.40  0.42   0.43  0.88    0.99    1.10    1.17  1.17  1.17
Elektrenai 1-8 TPP (3-75% CF)             TWh     0.94   0.96     5.56    5.69   5.84  5.98  6.13   9.03 10.80   10.80   10.80   10.80 10.80 10.80
Total Dispatch                            TWh    16.87   17.16    12.58  12.89  13.21 13.53 13.87  14.22 14.59   14.96   15.34   15.53 15.47 15.42
Total Thermal Generation                  TWh     2.92   2.98     7.04    7.21   7.39  7.57  7.76  10.70 13.79   14.14   14.51   14.71 14.71 14.71
Electricity supplied by Elektrenai Unit 6
(after rehabilitation)
Capacity needed to meet demand            MW
Supply from Unit 6 (300 MW)--max. 50%     TWh     0.47   0.48     1.97    1.97   1.97  1.97  1.97   1.97  1.97    1.97    1.97    1.97  1.97  1.97
of total Elektrenai Supply




                                                                                 - 24 -

Project Economic Analysis
Base Benefits                                            Value
Fuel Cost Savings                           $/MWh              0.35
Non-fuel operating cost savings             $/MWh              0.10
Total base beneifts                         $/MWh              0.45

Other benefits
NOx emission reductions                     $/MWh              0.13
Particulate reduction                       $/MWh              0.01
Total other benefits                        $/MWh              0.14

Heat efficiency improvement, BTU/kWh


                                                      1998      1999     2000      2001      2002     2003     2004    2005     2006
Supply from rehabilitated unit
Capacity factor                       %                                             3%       19%      18%      18%     75%      75%
Production                            GWh                                            87      500       470      478    1971     1971
Base incremental benefits             000$                                           39      225       212      215     887      887
Other incremental benefits            000$                                           13       72        68       69     284      284
Total benefits                        000$                                           52      297       279      284    1171     1171
Base costs--excluding environmental   000$              42     1,874    2,549     1,020
Costs--environmental                  000$             556     1,871      250
Total incremental costs               000$             598     3,744    2,799     1,020      -        -         -       -        -
A. Net base (costs) benefits          000$             (42)   (1,874)  (2,549)     (980)     225      212      215     887      887
B. Net total (costs) benefits         000$            (598)   (3,744)  (2,799)     (968)     297      279      284    1,171    1,171

ERR, Case A                                  32%
ERR, Case B                                  26%
NPV, Case A                                15,536
NPV, Case B                                14,416


                                                  2007     2008      2009      2010      2011     2012      2013    2014     2015       2016
Supply from rehabilitated unit
Capacity factor                     %             75%       75%       75%       75%       75%      75%       75%     75%      75%        75%
Production                          GWh           1971     1971      1971      1971      1971     1971      1971    1971     1971       1971
Base incremental benefits           000$           887      887       887       887       887      887       887     887      887        887
Other incremental benefits          000$           284      284       284       284       284      284       284     284      284        284
Total benefits                      000$          1171     1171      1171      1171      1171     1171      1171    1171     1171       1171
Base costs--excluding environmental 000$                                                                 -300000                      300000
Costs--environmental                000$
Total incremental costs             000$           -        -         -         -         -        -    (300,000)    -        -      300,000
A. Net base (costs) benefits        000$          887       887       887       887       887      887   300,887     887      887   (299,113)
B. Net total (costs) benefits       000$         1,171    1,171     1,171     1,171     1,171    1,171   301,171   1,171    1,171   (298,829)

ERR, Case A                              -1%
ERR, Case B                              -1%
NPV, Case A                           43,734
NPV, Case B                           45,478




                                                                    - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/19/1992                3    TASK MANAGER; ENERGY
                                             SPECIALIST; CONSULTANT
              03/24/1993                3    TASK MANAGER; ENERGY
                                             SPECIALIST; CONSULTANT
              07/03/1993                3    TASK MANAGER; ENERGY
                                             SPECIALIST; CONSULTANT
              10/01/1993                8    TASK MANAGER;
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (2);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.;
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT;
                                             ENERGY SPECIALIST (2);
                                             CONSULTANT

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/03/1994                7    TASK MANAGER;
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                             (2); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ASSISTANT (1); ENERGY
                                             SPECIALIST (2)

 Supervision

              06/15/1995                4    OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1);        U               S
                                             ENERGY SPECIALIST (2);
                                             FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
              12/13/1995                7    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (2);        S               S
                                             DIVISION CHIEF (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1);
                                             ENERGY SPECIALIST (2)
              03/29/1996                4    ENERGY SPECIALIST (2);           S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1)
              07/19/1996                3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           U               U
                                             OPERATION ASSISTANT (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1)
              02/07/1997                3    OPERATION ASSISTANT (1);         U               U
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL CONSULTANT
                                             (1)
              05/07/1997                5    DIVISION CHIEF (1);              S               S
                                             OPERATION ASSISTANT (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL CONSULTANT
                                             (2)



                                              - 26 -

               12/12/1997              4   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           ENGINEERING
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL CONSULTANT
                                           (1); OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                           (1)
               09/25/1998              4   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           ENGINEERING
                                           CONSULTANT (1);
                                           OPERATIONS ASSISTANT (1);
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
               05/21/1999              3   ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL           S    HS
                                           ANALYST (1); RESIDENT
                                           REP. (1)
               02/09/2000              3   ECONOMIST (1); FINANCIAL           S    HS
                                           ANALYST (1); RES REP (1)
               04/13/2001              2   ECONOMICS/TECHNICAL (1);           S    HS
                                           FINANCE (1)
               04/13/2001              2   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    HS
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
               04/26/2002              2   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    HS
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)

 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                     294,366.88
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                    493,902.26
  ICR
  Total                                                          788,269.14




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Lithuania Power Rehabilitation Project - Completion Report, by Lietuvos Energija AB. November 5,
2002.
2. Letter from Ms. Kamarauskiene, Director of the State Debt Management Department, Ministry of
Finance, Republic of Lithuania, dated April 30, 2003.




                                                  - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR

                         LITHUANIA POWER REHABILITATION PROJECT

                                       LOAN NUMBER 3737 LT

                                        COMPLETION REPORT

                                                 VILNIUS
                                                   2002
1. Basic Loan information

The Loan Agreement between the Republic of Lithuania and International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development for USD 26.4 million was signed on the 27th January 1995, and became effective on the 21st
November 1995.
The first General Procurement Notice was published in Development Business in November 1993, updated
in February 1995 and the last updating was made in January 1998.

The first Amendment to the project scope was based on The World Bank Review Mission December 1-12,
1997 that approved the reallocation of loan funds and the project scope was revised as follows:
Part A, (Rehabilitation) was decreased to focus it exclusively on Elektrenai Unit 6 and the rehabilitation of
the Mazeikiai CHP was cancelled.

Part B1, (Upgrading the Dispatch Centre in Vilnius) will be financed by other lender.

Part B2, (Upgrading of the communication and control equipment) increased in communication system
strengthening to accommodate the full capabilities of the enhanced Dispatch Centre.

Part B3, (Replacement of equipment at high voltage transmission substations) increased in transmission
system rehabilitation to accelerate reconstruction of 110kV and 330kV substations.

The project, as revised, was expected to complete by December 31, 2000, i.e. two years behind the
original schedule and the updated General Procurement Notice was published in January 1998.

The second Amendment to the loan Agreement was based on The World Bank Review Mission June
21-25, 1998 that approved the reallocation of loan funds considering the actual contract amounts and
updated project implementation dates. No changes in the project scope were introduced.

 The third Amendment to the loan Agreement has been approved by The World Bank Review Mission
 September 21-25, 1998 updating the loan funds taking into consideration the actual contract amounts and
 the project implementation dates. Considering the actual procurement finished up to date, the sufficient
 savings of the loan funds was foreseen. As a result of the World Bank Mission discussions with JSC
 "Lietuvos Energija" two new projects were included to part 4 (Transmission and Substations
 Rehabilitation), namely:
 4d 110kV Equipment
 4e Control and Relay Protection

 The Loan closing date: The Loan closing date indicated in Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement by the
 World Bank's notice dated 12 February 1999 was extended from 30 June 1999 to 31 December 2000. By
 a further notice, dated December 27, 2001 to Ministry of Finance Republic of Lithuania, the Loan



                                                   - 31 -

termination date was extended to 30 June 2002.

Reallocation of the Loan Categories: In order to maximise the achievement of Project objectives, the
reallocation of the amounts under the Loan Categories have been recorded and signed on 1st August
2001. These amounts were reallocated in light of the Ministry of Finance request.

2. Project Implementation

2.1. Execution management

In accordance with the provisions stated in the Loan Agreement Article III - Execution of the Project
adequate full time local staff was selected to cover procurement, technical and financial areas of the
project. These persons had to co-ordinate, manage, monitor and evaluate all Project implementation
aspects, including the procurement of goods, works and services for the project. In order to cause the
Project to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with engineering and business
standards and practices, the technical consultants were appointed. PreussenElektra was engaged for
preparation of three Technical Specifications for Lithuanian Power Plant and later implementation of the
projects and Electrotek Concepts for preparation and implementation of Dispatch Centres project.
Further, for the local staff assistance through the execution of the Project, an expatriate procurement
adviser was engaged.

2.2. Procurement Information

Procurement of goods, works and services, including consultants' services, required for the Project and
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan were carried out in accordance with the requirements of Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement. It should be underlined that Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits were followed without any deviation during the Project Implementation process.
In accordance with provisions of Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement, a Procurement Plan was prepared.
All components indicated in this plan and procurement procedures applied for these components were
reviewed and approved by the Bank. The adjustments to the plan with the Bank's concurrence have been
continued as needed throughout the duration of the project. Several revisions of the Procurement Plant
were experienced.
The overall Procurement Activities included thirteen (13) Open Single Stage Tenders, two (2) Open Two
Stage Tenders, one (1) tender for consultants selection and two (2) single source consultants selection
procedures. All procurement procedures were carried out and successfully completed mainly by the end of
the year 2001.

2.3. Contracting

On completion of competitive procedures, the evaluation of all tenders received was followed. All tenders
were compared on the basis of the evaluation criteria listed in the tender documents. The tender evaluation
process up to the award of the contract was confidential and a close collaboration with the evaluation
committees was established. This in fact helped to complete the evaluation process and submit to the
Bank a report containing the results without any delay. The Bank reviewed all findings and
recommendations and confirmations were obtained as needed. Further, the signing of 18 contracts took
place.




                                                    - 32 -

3. Financial Information

Close relations with the Ministry of Finance were established in compliance with the Loan Agreement.
This successful co-operation resulted in correct reallocations of funds available and ensured timed
extensions of the loan, quarterly reports and disbursements for the suppliers. The first disbursement out of
the Loan was made in July 1996 and the last disbursement was made in June 2002. All disbursements
procedures were completed within 71-month period. No serious deviations or delays in payment
procedures were experienced.

In compliance with the requirements of Section 3.01 of the Loan Agreement, the Borrower's attention in
respect of project's completion was directed at the solutions, which resulted promptly installation of almost
all components procured.

4. Co-operation and reporting

Good co-operation with the End-Users resulted successful Project Implementation process. All
requirements re necessary equipment, any technical details and other relevant information was closely
discussed and agreed. This in fact helped to procure components in a best efficient way. A good
collaboration with all consultants involved and with the IBRD ensured efficient monitoring on Project
Implementation and resulted possibilities to avoid problems in advance.

5. Brief information on Borrower's status

The Government policy has initiated the restructuring of energy sector and attracting private investments.
The law on the reorganisation of the JSC "Lietuvos Energija" and transfer of District Heating and its
management to municipalities was approved. This law defined the decentralisation of district heating by
means of separating district heating from JSC "LE" and establishing a new special purpose JSC and
transferring their property and share capital held by the state to municipalities. Starting from 1997 the
core activities of the company involve only electricity energy. The separation of the JSC "Lietuvos
Energija" into electricity production, transmission and distribution components were the next step initiated
by the Government and implemented since year 2002. The existing JSC "Lietuvos Energija" management
structure is attached.

6. Achievement of the Loan Objectives

The purpose of the Project was to improve the operating efficiency of the electricity system, improve the
safety, reliability and flexibility of the electricity system and provide support for the restructuring and
commercialisation of JSC "Lietuvos Energija". These objectives remained unchanged during the project
implementation period and were completely achieved. The Project consisted of the following parts: Part
A: Rehabilitation. Part B Upgrading of the Electricity System. Part C Technical Assistance.




                                                       - 33 -

The equipment procured and the services provided were fully consistent with the international standards.

Yours sincerely,




Rymantas Juozaitis
General Director of SC "Lietuvos Energija"

Report prepared by:

Linus Lukosevicius, JSC "Lietuvos Energija" Procurement Specialist
and
Aldona Sasnauskiene, JSC "Lietuvos Energija" Procurement department




                                               - 34 -

Additional Annex 9. Summary financial statements of LPC, 1994-2001

INCOME STATEMENT                                 1994    1995   1996    1997     1998     1999     2000    2001
Revenues
      Electricity-Domestic                       n.a.    n.a.   1,128   1,141    1,190    1,131    1,289   1,358
                 Export                          n.a.    n.a.     362     298      539       272      102   215
      Total Electricity                            718   1,220  1,490   1,439    1,729    1,403    1,391   1,573
      Heat                                         543     -      -       -        -         -        -      -
      Other                                        239     62      78     119      185       140      107    91
Total Revenues                                   1,500   1,282  1,568   1,558    1,914    1,543    1,498   1,664
Operating Costs
      Electricity                                  810
      Heat                                         980     -      -       -        -         -        -      -
      Other                                        272
Total Operating Costs                            2,062   1,047  1,521   1,329    1,842    1,587    1,318   1,472
Operating profit (loss)
      Electricity                                  (92)    -      -       -        -         -        -      -
      Heat                                        (437)    -      -       -        -         -        -      -
      Other                                        (33)    -      -       -        -         -        -      -
Total Operating Profit (Loss)                     (562)   235      47     229       72       (44)     180   192
Subsidies Received                                  86     95     819     132      284        (9)     -      -
Other Income and Expenses                          (37)   (545)  (508)   (295)    (198)      (64)     (68)   (12)
Net Profit (Loss)                                 (513)   (215)   358      66      158      (117)     112   180



BALANCE SHEET                                    1994    1995   1996    1997     1998     1999     2000    2001
Fixed Assets                                     2,002   2,975  3,061   2,007    2,172    2,193    2,153   2,172
Current Assets                                     480    728   1,409     507      884       608      532   598
TOTAL ASSETS                                     2,482   3,703  4,470   2,514    3,056    2,801    2,685   2,770


Shareholders' Equity                             1,445   2,105  2,477   1,601    1,759    1,593    1,713   1,842
Long-term debt and other long-term liabilities     512    700     754     572      311       341      406   414
Current Liabilities                                525    898   1,239     341      986       867      566   514
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS'
EQUITY                                           2,482   3,703  4,470   2,514    3,056    2,801    2,685   2,770
Notes:
(i) comparisons over the years 1994 to 1997 are complicated by the fact that over that period the company
was withdrawing from the district heating business. For the years 1995-97 the losses on this business are
included under "Other Income and Expenses".
(ii) large subsidy payments received by the company in the years 1996-98 related to district heating losses
in the years up to 1997.




                                                   - 35 -

- 36 -

