LOAN NUMBER 3737 LT
Project Agreement
(Power Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
LITHUANIA STATE POWER SYSTEM
Dated              &44q    2;, 1995


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3737 LT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       V" 04Iq          7   , 1995, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND CVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
LITHUANIA STATE POWER SYSTEM (LSPS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Lithuania (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-six million four hundred thousand
dollars ($26,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that LSPS agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and LSPS, a part of the proceeds of the loan
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to LSPS on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
WHEREAS LSPS, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) LSPS declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B and C (1),
(2) and (3) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and


﻿-2-
other resources required for Parts A, B and C (1), (2) and (3) of
the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Bank and LSPS shall otherwise
agree, LSPS shall carry out Parts A, B and C (1), (2) and (3) of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
Parts A, B and C(1), (2) and (3) of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. LSPS shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and   schedules,  records  and   reports,  maintenance  and   land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts A, B and C (1), (2) and (3) of the Project.
Section 2.04. LSPS shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, LSPS shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) LSPS shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A,
B and C (1), (2) and (3) of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   LSPS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
Parts A, B and C (1), (2) and (3) of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by LSPS of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of LSPS
Section 3.01. LSPS shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. LSPS shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
Section 3.03. LSPS shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) LSPS shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   LSPS shall:
(i)    have  its  records,   accounts  and   financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal  year   audited,   in  accordance   with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank;
(ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by


﻿-4-
said auditors of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
LSPS shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the
revenues and expenditures of LSPS shows that the estimated net
revenues of LSPS for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to
be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service
requirements of LSPS in such year on all debt of LSPS including the
debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the Durposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of LSPS
maturing by its terms more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations and net non-
operating income; and
(B)   the  sum  of  all  expenses related   to
operations   including   administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
for depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on
debt.


﻿-5-
(iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above.
(7)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate  amount   of  repayments   (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt.
(vi)    The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by LSPS not earlier than twelve months
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
which both the Bank and LSPS accept as
reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified
LSPS of its acceptability, provided that no
event has occurred since such notification which
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future
to have, a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or future operating results
of LSPS.
(vii)    Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. LSPS, together with the Borrower and the Bank,
shall carry out, by June 30, 1997, a comprehensive mid-term review
of implementation of the Project on the basis of performance
criteria satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of LSPS thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify LSPS thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 7-
Cable address:                 Telex:
INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For LSPS:
Lithuania State Power System
14 Zveju St.
2600 Vilnius
Lithuania
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of LSPS, or by LSPS on behalf of the Borrower
under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the General
Director or such other person or persons as the General Director
shall designate in writing, and LSPS shall furnish to the Bank
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By/SI  ;I!egional V ce President
Europe and Central Asia
LITHUANIA STATE POWER SYSTEM
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For  fixed-price contracts, the invitation     to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and
the other to the local currency component of the bid price. Such an
increase shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part
A, LSPS shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Bank shall have
agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no
relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank,
LSPS shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof , goods manufactured in Lithuania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 10 -
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least three different countries eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
2.     Contracts for spare parts which are of a proprietary nature,
estimated to cost in the aggregate the equivalent of $2,500,000, may
be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account
in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.


﻿- 11 -
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist LSPS in carrying out Parts C (1), (2) and
(3) of the Project, LSPS shall employ public utility consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall
be  selected   in  accordance  with  principles   and  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" -published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, LSPS
shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
LSPS shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultants' Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to (a) contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.
However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the
terms of reference for such contracts, to single source selection of
firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined
by the Bank or to amendments of contracts for employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent
or above or amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultnats raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    The International Relations Department (IRD) of LSPS, through
a project manager and an assistant project manager, together with
adequate and qualified staff satisfactory to the Bank, shall be
responsible for coordinating all activities under Parts A, B and
C(1), (2) and (3) of the Project, including the carrying out,
together with the Borrower, of the Plan of Action referrd to in
Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
2.    LSPS shall carry out, through its IRD, Parts A, B and C (1),
(2) and (3) of the Project in accordance with an implementation
schedule and Project indicators agreed with the Borrower, the Bank
and LSPS.
3.    LSPS shall, by December 31, 1995, adopt all measures necessary
to ensure (i) the maintenance of the average collection period at 45
days for domestic electricity bills, and (ii) the reduction of the
average collection period for heat bills to 100 days by December 31,
1994, 90 days by December 31, 1995, 80 days by December 31, 1996, 70
days by December 31, 1997 and 60 days by December 31, 1998.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


