Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3755-1 - CV 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for a Growth and Competitiveness Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 30, 2007
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3755-1 - CV 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 30, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF CAPE 
VERDE (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to two 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000) (variously, 
“Credit” and 
“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consist of, namely the Recipient has 
updated the Project Implementation Manual, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association.  
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
4.03. 
For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister at the time responsible for finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Public Administration 
 
C.P. 30 
 Praia 
 Cabo 
Verde 
 
Cable: 
   Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
COORDENACAO 
 
608 MCECV 
 
(238) 261 38 97 
 Cape 
Verde 
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
 
By  /s/  Emmanuel Duarte 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  /s/  Hartwig Schafer 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Recipient to broaden the base of 
private sector participation in economic growth, strengthen its financial sector, and 
enhance the competitiveness of its private sector. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A
:
Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial Sector
Pension Reform
Support to the Recipient for the implementation of pension sector reforms aimed 
at establishing a sustainable pension system through payment to INPS of 
liabilities incurred by the Recipient due to the transfer of civil servants to the 
INPS pension scheme to contribute to the sustainability of the pension system 
through broadening the base of contribution.  
 
Part B
:
Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness
1. 
Investment Climate Reform
(a) 
Alleviation of Administrative Barriers to Investment 
 
Support to the Recipient for establishing a central data center for 
computer systems, including an architectural assessment of the building 
and specification of all requirements for the acquisition and installation 
of a safe room.  
 
(b) 
Improvement of the Legal Environment for Business 
 
Support to the Recipient for disseminating business laws among the legal 
profession and the business community, and establishing a national legal 
information website. 
 
2. 
Post Privatization and Divestiture
Support to the Recipient for finalizing steps required for bringing TACV and 
ENAPOR to the point of sale for privatization, including but not limited to the 
finalization of the investment memorandum and launching of the sale offer. 
Page  7
-
6
-
3. 
Private Sector Capacity Building
Support to the Recipient
’s two Chambers of Commerce for: 
 
(a) 
providing Matching Grants to Beneficiaries for the following types of 
activities: (i) provision of business services to Beneficiaries; and 
(ii) carrying out training courses for Beneficiaries;  
 
(b) 
carrying out of a 
dissemination campaign of business related-
information; and 
 
(c) 
strengthening their institutional capacity building, through: (i) 
carrying out of training for the Chamber of Commerce staff and 
their members; (ii) support for the improvement the quality of 
delivery of their services to their members; and (iii) provision of 
goods, including equipment, books and software.
 
Part C
:
Support for Project Implementation
Provision of technical and financial support to the PCU for the administration, 
procurement, financial management and monitoring and carrying out of audits of 
the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
Project Steering Committee 
 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the 
Project, the Project Steering Committee established under the Original Project, in 
form and with membership, functions, staffing and resources as provided in the 
Original Financing Agreement. 
 
2. 
Project Coordination Unit 
 
The Recipient shall maintain at all times during the implementation of the Project 
within MFPA the Project Coordination Unit established under the Original 
Project, with the functions and responsibilities, and staff in numbers, and with 
qualifications and experience as provided in the Original Financing Agreement. 
 
B. Implementation 
Arrangements
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual (PIM) prepared under the Original Project and 
updated to cover the Additional Financing including the implementation 
of the activities under Part A.2. (iv), B.1.(b)(ii) and (d)(vii), 2.(ii), and 4, 
and Part C of the Project. 
(b) 
Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if in the 
opinion of the Association, such amendment or waiver may materially 
and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
C. Matching 
Grants 
1. General 
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section B of this Schedule, the 
Recipient shall appraise, or cause to be appraised, approve, or cause to be 
approved, and monitor, or cause to be monitored the activities under Part B.3 of 
the Project, and administer the Matching Grants in accordance with the 
provisions and procedures set forth in this Section C and in the PIM.   
 
Page  9
-
8
-
2. 
Eligibility Criteria, Terms and Conditions
(a) 
Eligibility Criteria for Extending Matching Grants 
 
No Matching Grant activity shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Grant unless the Recipient has determined, or caused to 
be determined, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with 
this Section and the guidelines set forth in the PIM, that the Matching 
Grant activity satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and in more 
detail in the PIM, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following:  
 
(i) 
the Matching Grant activity shall be initiated by a 
registered enterprise or a not-for-profit association which 
shall have been legally established and operating under 
the laws of the Recipient, and which shall not be a public 
institution, a public enterprise, or an enterprise in which 
the Recipient or a public entity holds equity greater than 
25%;
 
(ii) 
the Matching Grant activity shall qualify either as 
consultant services or training under Part B.3 of the 
Project; 
 
(iii) 
a Beneficiary shall not be eligible for subsequent 
Matching Grants unless it has completed the previous 
Matching Grant activity in a manner satisfactory to the 
Recipient and the Association; and 
 
(iv) 
unless the Association may otherwise agree, the 
cumulative financing per Beneficiary for the duration of 
the Project shall not exceed an aggregate amount  
equivalent to 10% of the Association’s contribution to 
the Matching Grant activity. 
 
(b) 
Terms and Conditions of Matching Grants:
 
(i) 
Matching Grant activities shall be carried out pursuant to 
a
Matching Grant Agreement, to be concluded between 
the respective Chamber of Commerce and the 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions described in 
more detail in the PIM and satisfactory to the Association, 
which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
(A) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to contribute in cash 
for
 
at least 50% of the proposed Matching Grant 
costs;  
 
(B) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to carry out the 
Matching Grant activities with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, business, financial, managerial and 
administrative practices; and maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the resources and 
expenditures used in carrying out the Matching 
Grant activities; 
 
(C) 
the requirement that the consultants’ services to 
be financed from the proceeds of the Matching 
Grant shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and 
in accordance with the provisions of the PIM, 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the Matching Grant activities; and  
 
(D) 
the right of the respective Chamber of 
Commerce to: inspect by itself, or jointly with 
the Association and the Recipient, if the 
Association or the Recipient shall so request, the 
activities financed by the Matching Grants; 
obtain all information as the Chamber of 
Commerce, the Association or the Recipient 
shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operation and financial 
conditions of the Matching Grant activities; and 
suspend or terminate the right of any Beneficiary 
to use the proceeds of the Matching Grant upon 
failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its 
obligations under the Matching Grant 
Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
The Recipient shall cause the Chambers of Commerce to 
exercise their rights under the Matching Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect their interests 
and the interests of the Association and the Recipient 
and accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except 
as the Recipient shall otherwise agree, the Chambers of 
Commerce shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
Page  11
-
10 -
the Matching Grant Agreements or any provision 
thereof. 
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and  
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 
4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth 
below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project Report shall 
cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five days after the end of the period 
covered by such report.  
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:  
 
(i) 
the investment memorandum for the privatization of  TACV and 
ENAPOR has been advertised internationally and offer has been 
launched; 
 
(ii) 
investment climate improved measured by a reduction in the cost 
of starting a business, measured by a percentage of income per 
capita and time (number of days) to start a business which has 
been reduced by at least 10%;  
 
(iii) 
those companies benefiting from the Matching Grant Facility  
have experienced an increase of 5% in their efficiency as defined 
by
 
the ratio of operating costs over revenue generated; 
 
(iv) 
all legislation published in the 
Recipient’s Official Gazette prior 
to August 31, 2006, has been made publicly available online; and 
 
(v) 
the merger of the Recipient’s two social security systems 
remains on track and liabilities are being funded by the Recipient 
on a regular basis.
 
Page  12
-
11 -
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section II, the Recipient 
shall prepare in a quarterly basis and furnish to the Association an interim 
un-audited financial reports (IFR) in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association. The IFR shall be furnished to the Bank no later than one month after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year. The audited 
Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than six months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 Goods 
and Services (other than Consultants’ Services).  All goods and services 
(other than Consultants’ Services) required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services 
and Services (other than Consultants’ Services).  All 
consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements 
set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and 
with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods.  
The following table specifies the 
methods of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, which 
may be used for goods.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Limited International Bidding 
(b)  National Competitive Bidding 
(c)  Shopping 
(d)  Procurement from Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Co
nsultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2.
 
For the purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short 
list  for consultants  estimated to cost less than $ 75,000 equivalent, per 
contract, may include only consultants from the country of the Recipient.  
 
3.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS) 
(c)  Single-source Selection 
(d) Established Private or Commercial Practices which have been found
acceptable to the Association 
(e)  Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(f)  Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
Page  14
-
13 -
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. For consultant services under Post Review, the Terms of 
Reference and the short list of firms will be submitted to the Association for its 
review and no objection 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  15
-
14 -
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods other than 
 
under Part B.3 (c)  
340,000 
90% of local 
expenditures 
(2) 
 Consultants’ services
and audits other than
under Part B.3 (c)  
460,000 
100% of foreign and 
90% of local 
expenditures 
(3)  Training and 
 
Workshops 
130,000 100% 
(4)  Matching Grants 
 
under Part B.3 (a) of 
 
the Project  
(5)  Goods, Consultants’ 
 
services and services 
 
(other than 
 
Consultants’ 
 
services) under 
 
Part B.3 (c) of the 
 
Project 
340,000 
 
130,000 
 
50% of eligible 
expenditures 
 
50% of eligible 
expenditures 
(6)  INPS debt repayment
under Part A of the 
 
Project  
340,000 100% 
(7)  Operating Costs 
260,000 
90%
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
2,000,000  
Page  16
-
15 -
B. Withdrawal 
Conditions, 
Withdrawal 
Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with respect to 
Category (4) withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 200,000 
equivalent may be made for payments in respect of Eligible Expenditures made prior to 
this date but on or after June 1, 2007. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2009. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
The Recipient’s counterpart funds to the Project shall be no less than the total 
amount of $700,000 (seven hundred thousand Dollars). 
Page  17
-
16 -
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each 15 April and 15 October: 
 
Commencing October 15, 2017  to and including 
April 15, 2027 
1% 
commencing October 15, 2027 to and including 
April 15, 2047 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions 
 
Page  18
-
17 -
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Beneficiary” means an SME (as hereinafter defined), which has met the 
eligibility criteria specified in Section I.C of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in 
the Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) and, as a result, has 
been extended, or is to be extended, a Matching Grant (as hereinafter defined) for 
the carrying out of activities under Part B.3(a) of the Project; and “Beneficiaries” 
means each such Beneficiary collectively. 
 
2. 
“Chambers of Commerce” means the chamber of commerce of Sotavento and the 
chamber of commerce of Barlavento, both established and operating under the 
laws of the Recipient. 
 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
5. “ENAPOR, 
S.A.” 
means 
Empresa Nacional de Administracao de Portos, 
Sociedade Anonima
,
the Recipient’s national entity for the administration of 
ports, established under Regulating Decree 4/2001 published in the Recipient’s 
Official Gazette on June 4, 2001. 
6. 
“Foreign Expenditures” means expenditures in the current of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient. 
7. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
8. “INPS” 
means 
Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social
,
the Recipient’s
 
National 
Social Security Institution established under Decree-Law No.135/91 published in 
the Recipient’s Official Gazette on October 20, 1991. 
9. 
“Local Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient.  
10. 
“Matching Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made through the 
Chambers of Commerce out of the proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary, for 
the purpose of financing activities under Part B.3(a) of the Project, as described 
Page  19
-
18 -
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in more details in the Project 
Implementation Manual.  
11. 
“Matching Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Chambers of 
Commerce and a Beneficiary setting forth the terms and conditions under which 
a
Matching Grant shall be made available to the Beneficiary for the purpose of 
financing activities under Part B.3(a) of the Project. 
12. 
“MFPA” means the Recipient’s Ministry in charge of finance. 
13. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenditures which would not exist 
absent the Project, incurred on account of the Project for office supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, bank charges on 
the Designated Account, rental expenses, office maintenance costs, utilities, 
travel cost for Project staff and salaries of support contractual staff for the 
Project, but excluding salaries of Recipient’s civil service officials. 
 
14. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for a 
Growth and Competitiveness Project between the Recipient and the Association, 
dated June 3, 2003, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Credit No 3755-CV). 
15. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
16. 
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit, referred to in Section I.A of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 10, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
19. 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual referred to in 
Section 4.01 and Section I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
20. “TACV” 
means 
Transportes Aereos de Cabo Verde, SA
,
the Recipient’s national 
airline, established under Decree-Law No. 21/2000 published in the Recipient’s 
Official Gazette on May 15, 2000. 
21. 
“Training and Workshops” means educational programs financed under Project 
activities, including purchase of training materials, rental of training facilities, 
Page  20
-
19 -
cost of tuition and fees, health insurance for travel abroad, per diem and related 
travel costs.  
 
