Report No. PID11489
Project Name                     CAPE VERDE-Growth and Competitiveness Project (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           General industry and trade sector (40%); General
finance sector (20%); Compulsory pension and
unemployment insurance (20%); General public
administration sector (20%)
Project ID                       P074055
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLAN
Address: Avenida Amilcar Cabral, 100, C.P. 30
Contact Person: Dr. Joao Santos
Tel: (238) 238-607-505
Email: JOAOS@GOV1.GOV.CV
PCU
Address: P.O. Box 323
Praia, Cape Verde
Contact Person: Isabel Inahony
Tel: (238) 61-47-48 / 612319
Fax: (238) 61-23-34
Email: cvprivatization@cvtelecom.cv
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 25, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              February 12, 2003
Bank Approval Date               May 15, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Cape Verde is a volcanic archipelago of 10 islands, 600 kilometers west of
Senegal. It is a country with limited natural resources but a recent
history of democracy and economic stability and a well-educated labor
force. The country's sahelian climate means that rainfall is limited and
arable land is scarce. There are no known mineral or non-renewable energy
resources in Cape Verde. This limited economic potential has led to a
history of emigration. In 2000, there were approximately 435,000 persons
living in the country and it is believed that about twice as many Cape
Verdeans live abroad.
The last two years (2001-02) have been a time of change and
experimentation with institutional arrangements and policies, while
redressing a difficult macroeconomic situation. The Government has
achieved substantial progress in the area of macroeconomic reforms,
cutting the fiscal deficit, including grants, from 19 percent of GDP to 2
percent of GDP and these achievements have not been at the expense of a
slow-down in sector reforms.
Cape Verde has a well-developed poverty strategy based on the 1997-2000
National Development Plan, which sets macroeconomic stability,



private-sector led growth and social and environmental sustainability as
key objectives. Government has recently completed the National
Development Plan for 2002-2005, that forms the foundation of the poverty
reduction strategy paper (PRSP). It expects to complete it in 2003. The
cornerstone of Cape Verde's poverty reduction strategy remains economic
growth and employment, in conjunction with improvements in infrastructure
and social services. The program calls for the renewal of economic growth
with equity and improvement in the productive capacities of the poor, by
focusing on training. In addition, Government has updated its development
framework, or the Grand Options Plan, which outlines Government's
priorities, including (i) promotion of good governance; (ii) support of
private-sector led growth and the broadening of the productive base; (iii)
development of human capital; and (iv) balanced development of
infrastructure. High rates of real economic growth will be necessary to
significantly reduce poverty. The Government intends to give priority to
the following:
Maintaining macroeconomic balances that were weakened during 1999/2000 by
internal (domestic consumption) and external (oil shock) factors and
undertaking structural measures;
Continuing progress achieved in restructuring and modernizing the
financial sector and reforming the pensions system; and
Sustaining high growth through increased private sector competitiveness,
improved business environment and the development of     sectors with
untapped potential including tourism, fishing, trade and transport.
Macroeconomic Stability. Progress made in both structural reforms and
policy coordination over the past two years has considerably strengthened
the macroeconomic situation. It represents the firmest evidence of the
Government's commitment to economic stability, a critical prerequisite for
sustaining export-led, broad-based growth and private sector confidence.
These strong and concerted signals have helped sustain economic growth in
2002 at close to 4% of GDP.
In the context of a macroeconomic program supported by the IMF's Poverty
Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF), covering the period January
2002-December 2004, fiscal deficits have been gradually brought down from
26.5 ? of GDP (excluding grants) in 2000, to about 9.5 ? in 2001, and 8.0
% in 2002.  Lower financing requirements from the central government have
(i) allowed it to lower the interest rate it pays on T-Bills (currently
6.5% for 6 months bills, down from double digits in 2001), (ii) limited
the crowding out of private lending by commercial banks, and (iii) allowed
the Central Bank to decrease its discount rate by 1.5 percentage points,
to 10%.  Commercial banks subsequently lowered their lending rates to the
private sector to 13.7 percent, but they remain high in real terms. This
has contributed to a limited expansion of credit to investors beyond
credit secured by collateral (e.g. mortgage loans), while the amount of
unremunerated cash in the banks has increased substantially, and raises
concerns about their operating margins.
In addition, a comprehensive tax reform program has been initiated which
will also covers private sector taxation. In June 2002, the Government
significantly simplified import duties. There are now only seven (7)
rates of customs duties (from 0 percent to 50 percent), and other taxes
due on imports were eliminated. As a result, capital goods and raw
- 2 -



materials now carry total customs duties of either 0 percent or 5 percent,
down from a level of about 20 percent. The next step would be to to
around 0-20 with 3-4 rates. The Government also modified domestic
indirect taxes, with the introduction of a single-rate VAT of 15 percent,
and the elimination of a consumer tax. Lastly the Government began a
process of reforming direct taxation, including the reducing corporate
income tax to 30 percent of net profits, down from 35 percent; and
changing the treatment of dividends.    FIAS has recommended additional
changes in the tax structure which are being considered by Government.
The financial sector is comprised of four commercial banks, one off-shore
bank, one venture capital company, a foreign exchange agency and a credit
card company. In addition, there are two main pension schemes for formal
sector workers, while some companies are starting corporate pension plans
to supplement future income.
During the last several years, Cape Verde's banking system has been
modernized as key state-owned banks were privatized, new financial
instruments have been introduced into the system and Central Bank
operations have been strengthened. Over the past twelve months, banking
sector deposits in the two dominating banks have increased by about 9.5
percent and the loan portfolio by about 15 percent. Non-performing loans
(NPL) have been stable (between 8 and 10 percent of portfolio
outstanding) at both banks but must be closely watched given the recent
growth of loan portfolios. Both banks are well provisioned for NPL and
showed a positive result for 2001. The banking sector has an imbalance of
maturities, with about 80 percent long-term loans (primarily real estate
loans) and 20 percent short-term against only about between 36 to 48
percent long-term deposits. The challenge for further developing the
financial sector remains the absence of long-term capital for investment
which will be partly addressed by strengthening the pension systems. In
that context, the Government intends to undertake studies which will
provide policy guidance to access international capital markets (including
the necessary legislation and regulations), the creation of new financial
instruments (e.g. leasing, venture capital), develop the necessary steps
to access long-term financial resources.
In its effort to modernize the financial system in Cape Verde and further
develop private-partnerships in the financial sector, the Sociedade
Interbancaria e Sistemas de Pagamentos, SARL (SISP) was created in 1997.
SISP was created with 100 million escudos with shareholders consisting of
the Banco de Cabo Verde (BCV), the four commercial banks, Cabo Verde
Telecom, the Government (Department of the Treasury), and two private
enterprises (SIBS and UNICRE). The institute's mandate is to manage
activities related to electronic banking, including the payment systems,
ATMs, and electronic transfers. Since its creation, over 30 ATMs have
been installed on five islands and clients can make automatic payments on
their bills (more than 140 terminals have already been installed). SISP
is ready to move on to the next phase of its financial sector strategy by
working with VISA International to extend the electronic VISA services,
which will boost tourism as well as provide business opportunities.
Monetary policy, in the next few years, will be oriented towards price
stability and the continued strengthening of international reserves. In
early 2002, the Government drafted a revised central bank law which was
- 3 -



unanimously approved by the National Assembly. The new law: (i)
establishes price stability as the overriding objective of the central
bank; (ii) prohibits the extension of central bank credit to Government
except for a temporary overdraft facility that must be cleared at the end
of each year; (iii) limits the central bank's "lender of last resort"
financial support to commercial banks; and (iv) establishes a transparent
process for appointing the central bank governor and board members. The
conduct of monetary policy was strengthened with the new Central Bank
organic law, which established more clearly its independence. In this
context of improved definition of roles and policy coordination, the
Central Bank has lead an adroit monetary policy, accumulating more than
US$60 million of international reserves (more than its program target)
while lowering the discount rate. External developments remain cautiously
favorable, as tourism shows surprising resilience in the face of a
worldwide economic downturn (both in the form of FDI and tourist
arrivals). However, the trade balance has deteriorated somewhat, with
export levels remaining disappointingly steady, and imports increasing to
more than 6 times the level of exports.
In addition, efforts have been made in recent years to improve regulations
governing financial institutions. The Banco de Cabo Verde (BCV) is
implementing a number of measures designed to reinforce its operational
and oversight responsibilities by continuing to strengthen banking
supervision through the training of staff, increasing the number of
on-site examinations, updating the off-site reporting system and
strengthening supervision of its offshore financial institutions. The
National Assembly approved a new anti-money laundering law December 16,
2002. With respect to insurance, the Government intends to improve
regulations, as well as build the supervisory capacity.
Pensions represent an important element of the social safety net put in
place by the Government. They also represent an important potential
source for longer-term resources for investment financing. There are two
main pension schemes for formal sector workers which together cover one
quarter of the formal labor force and pay pensions to about 6,000 people.
The Adminstracao Publica (AP) covers approximately 13,000 civil servants
while the Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social (INPS) had an estimated
31,000 contributors in 2001. Government is concerned about the
sustainability and fiscal effect of the present system and the impact of
pension liabilities on the budget and plans to implement a pension reform
program.
The INPS was designed as a partially funded, defined-benefit scheme.
While it continues to run surpluses in its pension scheme, previous
governments have effectively forced the INPS to purchase government bonds
in order to finance central budget deficits. As a result, the INPS
portfolio is heavily weighted towards non-tradeable government bonds which
has a direct effect on the long-term finances of the scheme. A number of
issues  face the pension system.    Civil service pension liabilities are
high both by international standards and relative to the INPS, and has
resulted in a large and increasing burden on the budget. Since only a
fraction of annual spending is covered by the six percent contribution
levied on civil service salaries, and no assets have been set aside to
meet this obligation, future pension spending represents a significant and
unreported liability of the Government. Government has issued a treasury
- 4 -



bill to the INPS that cover most of the outstanding obligations.
Government recognizes the importance of strengthening the pension system
and will implement reforms. Government intends to undertake a more
comprehensive reform and passed a framework law in January 2001 which
establishes the broad parameters of the pension system. This law takes in
account the need for a safety net for the elderly poor as the first tier
of the system; a mandatory, contribution based scheme as the second, and a
third tier comprising voluntary, private pension provision. Draft
legislation, which includes changes to the benefit formula, indexation,
eligibility requirement for disability and pension, retirement age and
others during 2003. This legislation will be the first steps towards
reducing the existing liability and would help to meet the objective of
reducing the liability by 20 percent or more.
There are two formal pension schemes operating in Cape Verde. Government
has made the decision to shift civil servants into the INPS. The expected
eventual merger of the two schemes will help ensure efficiency and
equity. Technical work to prepare the sector reform was initiated during
Fall 2001 and these studies are expected to form the basis of a sector
policy reform strategy. However, a study needs to be carried out so that
the appropriate legislative changes required are based on solid fiscal
numbers and that the budget for 2004 reflects, explicitly, the costs to
the Government of taking this measure. Cape Verde has been selected as
one of the African countries to be included in a nine-country World Bank
pilot pension reform program which for strengthening pension systems in
the Africa region.
Investment Climate. International experience points to the importance of
improving the investment climate as part of the private sector-led growth
strategy. The concept of investment climate relates to rules and
regulations pertaining to the entry and operations of private firms and to
questions that affect the competitiveness of the economy, such as a level
playing field, execution of contracts and property right enforcements and
so on. The broad concept encompasses diverse areas such as reduction of
administrative barriers, tax reform, the legal environment in which they
operate, etc. As noted above, substantial work on tax reform has already
been undertaken. Government will now move forward on issues linked to the
legal environment and reducing administrative barriers.
Government recognized that, in light of its limited natural resources,
Cape Verde was sensitive to external shocks. High costs associated with
the economy, it needed to implement its best policy to compensate. The
present environment in Cape Verde has led to a real sector which has shown
economic growth of approximately 4 percent in 2002 with inflation around
1.5 percent. The recent effectiveness of certain African Growth and
Opportunity Act (AGOA) clauses is expected to result in new
export-oriented foreign investments. The Government is aware that growth
is not sustainable unless critical issues such as factor costs and
availability of service infrastructure are addressed. While standards in
terms of telecommunications are high, access to water and electricity are
relative low. Moreover, the price of utilities is high and has a negative
impact on the viability and profitability of business. With support of
the SAC and PRCBP, reforms in the utility sector are already underway,
including:  (i) the adoption of a modernized legal and regulatory
- 5-



framework to increase competition wherever possible; (ii) privatization
and private participation in infrastructure; and (iii) creation of a
multi-sectoral regulatory agency. The Government's public investment
program will continue to focus on improving the basic infrastructure
(roads, water, power and telecommunications) to set the foundations for
private investment. Additionally, Government is currently reviewing the
country's labor laws to further remove constraints to employment and is
working to eliminate administrative barriers to foreign and domestic
investment.
Administrative barriers are seen as those constraints that private
investors face when establishing and operating a business in Cape Verde.
Government has already begun to take measures to reduce administrative
barriers facing private enterprises. As a result, Cape Verde compares
favorably to other African countries. Given Cape Verde's potential
exposure to external shocks, it needs to be able to do better than other
countries in order to remain competitive. A recent survey (Regulatory and
Administrative Cost Survey, August 2002), which included 120 companies,
was undertaken by Government with support by FIAS. The study revealed
that only about one out of five companies is in some way dissatisfied
with the quality of regulations, administrative requirements and
bureaucratic behavior. About 25 percent of surveyed companies consider
that the regulations which most affects the proper functioning and growth
of their companies are customs and taxes. Surveyed companies considered
that the cost of financing is the main problem to the development of their
companies (37.5 percent). More than one out of three companies ranked the
excessive price of money as a major or very grave obstacle. Electricity
(30.8 percent ) informal or unlawful competition (29.2 percent), and Tax
and Tax Administration (23.2 percent) follow as major problems. The
Government recognizes that its new policies to attract more foreign
investment are being frustrated by red tape and has incorporated measures
to alleviate the problem in its strategy. Previous analytical work by
FIAS in Cape Verde has suggested that, in spite of significant
improvements in the FDI climate achieved by the authorities, specific
bottlenecks and hurdles remain and there is a need for additional
improvements in several areas of the administrative and procedural
environment for investment.    In October 2002, FIAS launched the
Administrative Barriers to Investment Study. On the basis of this study,
the Government and stakeholders will formulate an action plan to improve
the interface between the public and private sector.
Development of Supply Chains. Increasingly, enterprises compete through
the efficiencies and the adaptability of the supply chains of which they
are a part. As part of its private sector strategy and to complement its
work on tax reform and reduction of administrative barriers, Government
will target three sectors, which may include tourism, fishing, trade,
construction and/or transport and develop a clear sector strategy. A
supply chain analysis will be carried out on the selected sector to
establish what prerequisite actions are needed to resolve constraints by
Government (infrastructure, regulation etc), and by the private sector
(gaps in technical skills or lack of upstream and/or downstream
activities). These studies will identify the cross cutting issues within
the sector, defining the policy, as well as sector specific requirements.
These recommendations will be fed back to the public and private sector
for debate and development of a clear strategy and sector policy.
- 6 -



Improving the legal environment for business development is essential to
private sector activity. The Government has recently completed a
comprehensive study on the "State of Justice in Cape Verde" which
identifies legal constraints in Cape Verde's judicial framework. These
constraints, which may also be considered "administrative barriers", have
a direct negative impact on the private sector and which the Government
intends to address the following areas:
The company registry is efficient and inexpensive, but the registration of
intellectual property rights (critical element in setting-up a business)
is not reliable. Moreover, the linkage between different registries and
government agencies (company registry; social security administration;
intellectual property; payment incidents) is inadequate. In addition, the
company registry does not ensure adequate information and protection of
third parties and creditors, as payment incidents and bankruptcy
procedures (not commonly used), are kept separate. The procedure for
registration as a foreign investor remains complex, involves a relatively
large number of agencies and has a rather elaborate screening process.
Enforcement of judicial decisions is a major constraint and the study
supports reform of the legal system (including the civil procedure code)
in order to speed up and simplify the enforcement of judicial decisions
(and in the future of arbitral awards).
Arbitration, which is an effective means to resolve business disputes, is
not provided for in the Cape Verdean legal system. The adoption of an
arbitration law, the creation of arbitration centers, and the
ratification of the New York Convention of 1958 on the recognition and
enforcement of arbitral awards thus consititutes a prioirty.
Land titling, which affects investment and bank lending, is a serious
issue. There is no land registry and therefore no reliable land zoning and
delimitation programs. The transfer of real property is done by public
deed, but the registration in the land registry is not immediately
compulsory. The demand for public deeds is so great that public notaries
cannot meet it. In addition, land belonging to the State or to the
Municipalities is not clearly defined, and there is uncertainty regarding
the ownership status of lands which were expropriated a few years ago
without appropriate compensation to the owners.
Cape Verde is a candidate to World Trade Organization (WTO) accession and
officially applied on November 12, 1999. To become a member, Cape Verde
will have to reform some of its legislative framework and present a
Legislative Action Plan, particularly in the area of intellectual property
which suffers from a legislative vacuum. This is extremely important to
Cape Verde, which has a great potential, particularly in the area of
author rights for music. The Government thus intends to create a legal
framework including the establishment of an national institute for
intellectual property ("INPI").
Legal information and legal training. Although Cape Verde has an efficient
system for the publication of laws in the official gazette ("Diario
Oficial da Republica de Cabo Verde"), improvement of dissemination of
laws and related information is necessary. Legal training is also a
priority, not only for the judiciary but for civil society in general and
- 7 -



for entrepreneurs in particular.
Labor law. The main issue for the private operators is the lack of
flexibility of the present labor legislation. Enterprises complain, in
particular, about the high cost of severance payments (equivalent to two
months payment per year worked in the company). In order to obviate this
cost, all new companies hire their personnel through short-term contracts.
A new labor law has been approved but new regulations need to be
prepared.
Post Privatization and Divestiture Process. During the past decade, Cape
Verde's economy has gone through a remarkable change during which private
ownership and participation became dominant in all sectors of the economy,
including infrastructure and utilities. At present, the port and the
national airline (TACV) remain the main activities whose privatization has
been initiated, but will only be completed during 2003/2004. Airports are
the only publicly-owned infrastructure without private participation.
Some of the expected benefits of private participation have already
accrued. Nevertheless, there is still room for improvement in terms of
access. While standards in telecommunication are high, both access to
water and electricity are relatively low, due in part, to factors specific
to Cape Verde, such as the lack of underground water resources and the
highly fragmented generation system split between 15 cities. Other
factors have also contributed to the situation in water and electricity,
especially the poor performance of infrastructure entities due in part to
non-economic pricing and cross-subsidies, a lack of service definition and
standards for monopolies, high costs due to operational inefficiencie;
lack of competition and an uncertain regulatory framework. The record so
far indicates two shortcomings in the reform process. First, insufficient
attention was paid to competition in the context of sector reform and
divestiture. Second, an effective regulatory mechanism that would, among
others, regulate prices of private monopolies is yet to be established.
The Government strategy, when the program was initiated in 1997, called
for divestiture actions to be accompanied by the establishment of a
multi-sector regulatory agency (ARM), and related capacity building to
ensure that it would quickly become operational. ARM never became
operational, partly because there was no national consensus and
understanding of the importance of regulation, and partly because of the
broad scope envisaged for ARM (multi-sector and multi-purpose, covering
economic, technical and environmental regulation).
Faced with urgent regulatory issues in telecommunications, water and
energy (electricity and petroleum), following a National Seminar
facilitated by international experts and regulators, the Government
decided in November 2002 to abolish ARM and create a new agency
responsible for economic regulation of key infrastructure sectors.
Regulatory reform and capacity building was strongly supported by IDA
through the ongoing PRCBP which closes in December 2003. Activities which
have not been completed before its closing date, will be supported under
the proposed project.
Support to public sector institutions dealing with the private sector. To
promote domestic investment, the Government intends to support SMEs. There
are three public or partially public agencies that offer services to SMEs:
(a) IADE, which offers a range of Business Development Services to SMEs,
- 8-



(b) SDE (Enterprise Development Agency), which provides a line of
financing to MSMEs, and (c) IEFP (the Institute for Professional and Job
Training), which targets micro and small informal enterprises for
financing and subsidized training. Currently, these agencies target a
segment of roughly 7,000 formal and informal businesses in Cape Verde and
are not effective. Within the context of its private sector development
strategy, the Government will rationalize the operations of these agencies
by consolidating operations where appropriate or liquidating them.
PROMEX (Center for the Promotion of Tourism Investment and Exports) is the
agency responsible for attracting foreign investment and promoting
exports. PROMEX was created in 1989 and took a leading role in Cape
Verde's promotional activities after the revision of the Law of External
Investment in 1993. Through the years, it became the centerpiece in Cape
Verde's external investment promotion strategy. In the late 90s, foreign
investment started slowing down due to increased competition from
comparable destinations. This coincided with increased pressure on the
country's public finances which limited the Government's ability to
further improve infrastructure. The slowdown in investment increased
demands on PROMEX, which had a weak institutional structure, and its
operations were further compromised by the reduction in Government's
financial support as a result of the Government's financial problems. In
addition, the functioning of statutory bodies which govern PROMEX lapsed
during this vulnerable period and have not been re-established. The
President is making all of key decisions on the institution's operations.
PROMEX has the potential to once again become a key player in the
country's external investment strategy and Government intends to support
PROMEX by supplying the necessary financial resources to refocus on its
core activities and improve its corporate governance structure.
The Ministry of Finance, Plan and Regional Development (MoFP) will to play
a key role in the formulation of Government's private sector policy.
However, MoFP lacks the necessary technical and material resources to be
able to fulfill this role. Government intends to improve the capacity of
the MoFP to monitor and provide financial management of autonomous public
institutions, as well as manage government shares in private companies.
Private Sector Capacity Building. During recent years, the private sector
has become more vibrant and organized. There are two Chambers of
Commerce; one for each group of islands (Sotavento and Barlavento) which
were created to represent private enterprises' interests in all sectors.
While the chambers do not cover all of the private sector, membership is
growing. The chambers are responsible for building private/public
partnerships and under this mandate, organize, at least twice a year, a
forum for private enterprises to further the dialogue between the
Government and the private sector. The forums provide the opportunity for
Government agencies dealing with private enterprises to meet and discuss
issues concerning the private sector. The chambers also play an important
role in providing private enterprises with resources for training, studies
and technical assistance. However, this revenue is insufficient to meet
all of the demands by the private sector for training opportunities and
technical support. The funds are obtained through their import licensing
operations. As the policy framework evolves and regulatory changes have a
possible effect on import licensing arrangements, the project will build
in a program within th project to address their sustainability.
-9-



2. Objectives
The project's overall objective is to broaden the base of private
participation in Cape Verde's economic growth and enhance private sector
competitiveness, as well as further develop its financial sector. This
would be achieved through a series of actions supported by the project,
notably (a) financial sector reform, including pension reform; (b)
investment climate reform, which includes, but is not limited to (i) tax
reform; (ii) alleviation of administrative barriers; (iii) improved supply
chains and (iv) legal reform; (c) post privatization and divestiture
reforms; and (d) private sector and institutional capacity building. The
project would thus help sustain the Government's poverty alleviation
efforts by generating increased employment opportunities through improved
international competitiveness.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is seen by the local actors, donor community and private sector
as having credibility in the field of privatization, legal and regulatory
issues and competition policy. The Bank has successfully supported
Government's previous efforts in these areas through its policy dialogue
and various technical assistance projects. Its participation in the
modernization of the financial sector, as well as private sector
development through improvement of the enabling economic and regulatory
environment would enhance the credibility of Government's efforts,
particularly regarding the transparency and soundness of its regulatory
framework. Bank support will further provide resources to Government to
implement key policy reforms and capacity building efforts which is
essential to the country's macroeconomic stability and sustainable
development. In undertaking this type of Project, the Bank provides an
umbrella under which Government could pull resources from other bilateral
and multilateral sources to support the development of its financial and
private sector development program.
4. Description
The proposed project would support the following major elements in the
Government's private sector-led poverty alleviation strategy.
Component 1. Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial
Sector (US$3.4 million, of which US$2.8 million is financed by IDA). As
the financial sector in Cape Verde deepens, it becomes critical to
strengthen the institutional infrastructure of the central bank to fulfill
its mandate as a regulator and the broader financial sector as financial
intermediaries. The main activities included in the financial sector
component are summarized below.
The project would support the update of a financial sector study to
determine the required policy measures, as well as legislative and
regulatory changes which are needed to further its development. The
project will also provide funding for technical assistance requirements
identified in the financial sector study. These requirements would likely
include updating of the regulatory framework for leasing, off-shore
banking and venture capital.
The project will provide support to strengthen financial infrastructure
and regulation. More specifically, the project will support strengthening
the regulator (both in terms of its human resource skills as well as its
- 10 -



technological base), improving credit information, strengthening the
national payments system, including international integration (VISA) and
establishing deterrents to financial fraud and money laundering. The
component would finance technical assistance, training and equipment,
especially information technology to upgrade the equipment at the central
bank and provide real time connection with the commercial banks for the
payment system, credit risk and loan concentration databases This would
improve the availability of credit information on both the corporate and
consumers clients which has been a constraint for financial institutions
in making informed lending decisions. Non-banking services and
availability of new financial instruments are key to the development of
the economy.   During the last several years, SISP has implemented ATMs
and TPA (debit system used at commercial establishments). SISP
anticipates adopting the infrastructure necessary to implement a network
of VISA and create a critical mass of transactions which permit the
economic and financial sustainability of the system. The project would
provide funds (only Government and BCV's share) for the necessary
hardware, software and training for the implementation of the VISA
applications.
The objective of the pension reform subcomponent would be to help
Government implement reforms aimed at establishing a sustainable pension
system. In addition to alleviating a potential contingent liability risk
in the budget, another expected result of the reform is that it would help
mobilize longer-term resources that could be channeled through the
financial sector to finance private investments. The project would
provide financing for technical assistance in the following areas: (a)
independent audits and an actuarial review; (b) an information system
needs assessment; (c) purchase of hardware and software; (d) consultancies
to (i) produce a new investment policy; (ii) evaluate valuation rules,
reporting and disclosure standards; (iii) civil service integration
study/cost analysis; (iv) study the development of contractual savings,
regulatory/supervision issues; (v) analysis of the social assistance
scheme and FAIMO; and (vi) coverage strategy; (e) training programs for
(i) trustees and (ii) technical workshops; and (f) translation of
technical materials. INPS is also receiving support from the International
Labor Organization (ILO), the Government of Portugal and the Bank in the
context of the preparation of the proposed project.
Component 2. Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness (US$7.75 million of
which US$6.4 million is financed by IDA.) As discussed in Section B of
this report, companies in Cape Verde have responded well with the opening
of markets to private initiatives. However, growth in private sector
activities has not been accompanied by sufficient measures to modernize
the administrative requirements for business operations, the legal
framework and the judiciary and improve incentives. The aim of this
component is improve the investment climate, institutional capacity
building and improving supply chains in key subsectors, as well as
continuing work on post privatization and divestiture process which
started under the PRCBP but may not have been fully completed prior to the
closing of the project. The main subcomponents are described below.
A. Investment Climate Reform (US$1.9 million financed by IDA Building on
work already done under the CBPPSP, the subcomponent would focus on the
following inter-related issues:
Tax reform (US$300,000). Government recognizes that the large number of
customs and tax exemptions undermine its objectives of creating a level
- 11 -



playing field in the business environment and fiscal policy and could
subsequently provide more resources for its anti-poverty programs. As
such, the Government recently took important steps to rationalize private
sector taxation. The project would finance specialized legal assistance
to the tax office at the Ministry of Finance and Plan on the Investment
Code and specialized assistance on the evaluation of the fiscal revenue
impact of the proposed measures over time, as well as related capacity
building initiatives. In addition, the project would finance the cost of
disseminating information on the new tax rules, as well as providing
necessary training for Government staff and the private sector.
Alleviation of Administrative Barriers (US$500,000). The Administrative
Barriers to Investment Study, which follws several World Bank sponsored
FIAS studies in Cape Verde, was launched in October 2002. Based on the
report, Government and stakeholders would formulate an action plan for
further reforms in this area that would improve the interface between the
public and private sector. This plan and subsequent updates, would be
implemented with the support of the project. This commitment of Government
on how it would address these issues will be addressed in the letter of
Sector Development policy issued in the context of this project.
Development of Efficient Supply Chains (US$300,000). The project would
support supply chain studies for trade and transport, fishing and tourism
with a view to making transactions along the productive/distribution
network more efficient. In particular, it will finance 3-4 studies, as
well assome key technical assistance and training requirements identified
under the studies.
Modernizing the Legal Environment for Business (US$800,000). The component
would provide assistance for further improvements in laws and regulations
which affect the the private sector, a program which was started under
the PRCBP. The project would provide legal technical assistance, as well
as some needed equipment to the Ministry of Justice. In particular, the
project would provide support to the Department of the Registry, Notary
and Identification to speed up the process of registering companies,
buildings, etc. from almost 2 weeks to 48 hours by developing computerized
links among the various municipal offices on the different islands.
Second, in an effort to respond to the requests of the citizens in general
and the investors in particular, to simplify procedures, the project
would finance technical support to elaborate the regulations for the
commercial registry, housing registry and civil registry. Substantial
work has already been undertaken (also under PRCBP) on the Labor Code; the
project would finance technical assistance necessary to elaborate the
regulations and procedures which accompany this code. Finally, the project
would also provide support for efforts to improve timeliness and quality
of judgments of business cases and enforcement of property rights through
capacity building in the courts, especially registrars. The Project will
finance the preparation of an Arbitration Law and support the creation of
two arbitration centers.
The project would provide support to efforts to making laws and judgments
more accessible by publishing the related documents and making key laws
available on the internet. In particular, the Project would finance
business law dissemination and information by (i) making laws and
judgments more accessible and available through the publication of
business laws and judicial decisions, and (ii) organizing training and
- 12 -



capacity building sessions (including, but not limited to PROMEX and in
the Chambers of Commerce) for Judges, Lawyers, Businessmen and all
interested public or private stakeholders, WTO, intellectual property,
anti-money laundering and arbitration.
The project would support work needed in connection with Cape Verde's
accession to the the WTO (World Trade Organization). The project would
finance technical assistance not envisaged under a USAID program in this
area.   Specifically, the project would support the development of a legal
and institutional framework for the effective exercise of intellectual
property rights, which is required as part of the measures to gain WTO
membership. Finally, the project will finance the costs of dissemination
of information, as well as training judicial and legal staff.
B. Post Privatization and Divestiture (US1.3 million to be financed by
IDA). This component will support activities which may not be completed
under the Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project prior to
its closing. These include: (a) completion of telecoms reform which would
encompass: (i) the renegotiation of the existing contract to remove
internal inconsistencies, clarify the liberalization of value-added
service, revised pricing policy, including access fees, and liberalization
of the sector in line with WTO commitment concerning local and
international markets; and (ii) award of a new cellular license; (b)
support to multi-sector regulatory agency in the form of structured and
on-the-job training; (c) Port and Airport reform and divestiture for which
the project will provide resources to complete the privatization of the
port and study the scope for private participation in airports; and (d)
and international or local advisor to help the Ministry of Transport
address outstanding policy issues
C. Institutional Capacity Building (US$2.0 million to be financed by
IDA). This subcomponent is designed to address three key objectives: (a)
enhancing the capabilities of public institutions to deliver business
support services; (b) supporting Government agencies in their efforts to
provide business facilitation and promotion services, including improving
their capability to identify and ease bureaucratic rigidities and (c)
reinforcing staff at the MoFP to play its role in private sector
development.
First, the project will provide support to public institutions that
interface with private sector (US$500,000). There are several public
institutions that work with the private sector which, in the spirit of
changing the Government into a facilitator, would (i) need to establish a
clear, well-defined strategy, with guidance from Government on the focus
of their core activities and (ii) will need support for internal
strengthening and programs which have a limited focus with expected high
returns. The project will support Government effortsto develop a
framework for its support the private sector and financial and technical
capacity building for its implementation.
Second, capacity building assistance will be extended to PROMEX for (i)
the development of a strategically focused investment promotion strategy
and business plan; (ii) an institutional capacity/skills building for
PROMEX staff; (iii) the preparation of up-to-date marketing materials,
including revamping the PROMEX website; (iv) introduction and upgrading of
- 13 -



necessary systems and processes (investor tracking system, Intranet); and
(v) support of a number of outreach/promotion activities in priority
sectors.
Finally, the project will provide support to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning in its efforts to develop the necessary environment for private
sector development. The project would there provide support for (i)
technical assistance to provide financial management of autonomous public
institutions and manage government shares in private companies; (ii)
capacity building for MoFP's staff, including two trade missions during
the four years; and (iii) institutional support for the research and
studies department.
D. Private Sector Capacity Building (US$1.33 million to be financed by
IDA). The mechanisms by which private firms transfer technology and raise
their technical capabilities are weak and while foreign investment in the
country is increasing, technology transfer remains limited. Until
recently, all tertiary education, as well as vocational and technical
training, had to be obtained abroad. The private sector strategy calls
for capacity building within private operators, especially SMEs. There is
substantial demand by the private sector for these services, which the
two Chambers of Commerce are trying to accommodate with their programs.
The project would support this demand by private operators and enable the
Chambers to expand the services to their members, as well as other
associations (example is Association of Micro-enterprises) through a 50:50
matching-grant, using an approach and procedures successfully developed
and tested in other countries. This subcomponent would focus on the
technical capabilities of Cape Verdean firms, in manufacturing and
services (both domestic and for export). Funding will be used to (i)
improve firm competitiveness by providing access to supporting services
external to the firm in the form of technical assistance or managerial
expertise; and (ii) address the constraints in staff training. The two
Chambers of Commerce, whose mandate is to represent the private sector
with Government, as well as provide these services, will also benefit from
the grant as manager/administrator of the matching grant. They would also
be able to access this grant to strengthen their apacity to deliver
services to their members The grant would be demand-driven and managed on
a first come/first serve basis. However, the Chambers may target certain
industries which are priority sectors, but not at the exclusion of other
Cape Verdean enterprises. In addition the project would finance, as
needed, the dissemination of business related-information which would (i)
widen the dialogue on business environment reforms, (ii) help raise
awareness among the business community as well as policymakers, and (iii)
educate and build consensus among the concerned actors.
Component 3. Supporting Project Implementation (US$1.13 million, of which
US$1.13 million is financed by IDA).
The project would support the operations of the Project Implementation
Unit (PCU), discussed below. Specifically, the project would finance the
project implementation team and about 48 person-months of short-term
international or local experts to assist the PCU team in the
implementation of its work program, as well as other PCU staff, training,
equipment, and incremental operating costs. Refinancing of the proposed
PPF is included in the this component.
- 14 -



1. Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial Sector
A. Financial Sector Development/BCV
B. Pension Reform
2. Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness
A. Investment Climate Reform
B. Post Privatization Process
C. Institutional Capacity Building
3. Project Implementation
4. PPF Refinancing
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.22
IBRD
IDA $11.50
SUB-BORROWER(S) $1.78
Total Project Cost $13.50
6. Implementation
Implementation Period: Four years, September 2003-August 2007, with the
closing date of February 2008.
The project will be overseen by a Steering Committee, headed by the
Minister of Finance and supported by a professional project implementation
unit (PCU), which was established under the ongoing PRCBP. Ot will
monitor project implementation on a quarterly basis, review achievements,
work programs and budgets.The PCU will be responsible for all aspects of
financial management, including budgeting and auditing, procurement,
quality assurance, monitoring and evaluation and reporting, etc.
Responsibility of the remaining privatization program will also be the
responsibility of the PCU. The PCU is headed by a project coordinator,
who will be supported on a full time basis by a team of professional
national counterparts, most of whom already work in the PCU of the PRCBP.
The PCU includes a procurement specialist, an accountant, technical
specialists (who will deal with cross cutting issues), a program officer,
and an administrative assistant. The PCU will be responsible for
providing the necessary guidance for the selection of consultants, the
procurement of goods and services, and monitoring and evaluation, and will
be directly involved cross cutting issues such as investment climate, post
divestiture issues and public/private dialogue, and pension reform.     By
using an existing PCU, the Government will benefit from existing
experience and create economies of scale. the PCU will also be
strengthened on a continuous basis through appropriate training. As needs
arise, it will contract short-term national or international specialists
to assist the PCU team in the implementation of its work program. At the
conclusion of the project, it is expected that the PCU would cease to
exist, unless the Government decides to use the established capacity and
mandates it to implement a yet undefined project funded by IDA or another
donor.
Implementation arrangements seek to delegate the maximum feasible
operational responsibility to the institutions or government departments
- 15 -



selected to implement the project components. For example, the BCV and
other financial sector institutions will each implement a part of the
financial component, and the Ministry of Justice will take the lead role
in the legal component. Each beneficiary will be responsible for
preparing the terms of reference for the required technical assistance as
well as quarterly reporting on the status of its component and preparing
the quarterly work plan.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation of project
activities are key functions that will be carried out by the PCU. A
quarterly monitoring table and progress reports would be prepared by the
PCU and discussed with the Steering Committee. A draft Project
Implementation Plan (PIP), a Financial Management Plan and overall
Procurement Plan are being prepared and will be incorporated in a Project
Implementation Manual (PIM). The PIM includes among others, all period
reporting, and monitoring and evaluation throughout the project cycle.
Apart from periodic reports and standard monitoring arrangements, an
impact assessment will be carried out approximately 18 months into the
project. In addition, a mid-term review is planned for 30 months into the
project, which would include an update of the administrative barriers
study. Another assessment will be carried out one year prior to the
project's closing. The objective of the review would be to assess
progress and, if necessary, redirect the project integrating additional
lessons learned and the realities on the ground.
Retroactive financing: Some of the components of the project are already
under implementation, which in some cases, such as the BCV, is quite
advanced. A PPF for US$600,000 had been substantially delayed (almost 8
months) due to discussions between the Bank and the Government on the
standard disbursement percentages. Therefore retroactive financing of up
to US$300,000 for eligible expenditures up to 120 days prior is requested
by the Government. The type of expenditures which would be financed would
be the equipment for the Ministry of Justice, equipment for the BCV
(primarily for VISA) and training which took place prior to the
effectiveness of the PPF (in January 2003).
7. Sustainability
The project provides financial, technical assistance and associated
institutional and policy support for a well-defined, time-bound process
involving financial sector strengthening, investment climate reform and
promotion of private sector investment. The irreversible nature of most
of these actions and the undisputed comittment of the current Government
on these reforms, enhances the likelihood that, once implemented, they
will be sustainable. One risk concerns the possibility that the
implementation of some of the measures may be incomplete. This risk is
being mitigated by IDA support that would help ensure that human and other
resources are available for implementing the programs, and by the
participatory approach built into the design of the project, timely
feedback would be ensured and corrective measures could be taken. The
sustainability will also depend on the success of the cost-sharing grant
scheme in catalyzing the private sector; the demand for the grant scheme
was established during preparation of the project, and the participatory
approach built into the project implementation arrangements will help
ensure that private sector concerns in the operations of the grant are
- 16 -



addressed as they arise. Sustainability is also contingent on the
receptivity of public agencies to ease regulatory obstacles.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Particular attention has been paid to ensuring that the project design
reflects not only the Bank's experience in Cape Verde and Sub-Saharan
Africa, but also integrates approaches being currently pursued in other
developing countries. Project preparation significantly benefited from
the inputs of various parts of the Bank Group including FIAS and MIGA.
The important lessons and approaches integrated in to the project include
the following:
Building on existing work helps maintain a momentum towards reform. The
project builds upon work already completed under the recently closed
private sector support projects (PSPCBP) and work already started under
ongoing projects PRCBP and the SAC, as well as other bank projects
A simple and delegated project design: i.e. compatibility with political
realities and institutional absorptive capacity. The scope and design of
the project will be flexible to take into account existing and changing
local conditions. The project design is based on the I-PRSP, as well as
the National Development Program which Government is committed to
implement.
Stakeholder involvement in the design and execution of the project and
development of local expertise. Experience dictates that local ownership
of a project results in a better definition of the constraints faced by
the private sector and the initiatives to address them, effective project
execution and sustained achievement of project objectives. The Government
has delegated a substantial amount of responsibility to the PCU to manage
its privatization program, as well as shown its confidence in the team by
enabling it to also manage the proposed project.
Use of local capacity which has been developed through other projects
lowers the learning curve and increases efficiency and productivity. By
using an existing PCU, the Government can consolidate experience and
create economies of scale. This would enable a transfer of skills from
one project to another, including procurement, financial management and
disbursement expertise. In addition, the implementation arrangements
would ensure that there is an entity formally responsible for project
technical coordination and monitoring that would be in a position and has
the incentives to solve problems in a timely manner.
Matching grant fund operational procedures must ensure expeditious
processing of the applications while ensuring the stakeholders fiduciary
and governance responsibilities. The present project builds upon the
Chamber of Commerces' past satisfactory experience, and goes a step
further to (i) strengthen the institutional and financial sustainability
of the two Chambers; (ii) maintain sufficient independence of the grant
management and risk of capture by special interests; and (iii) ensures
good monitoring and evaluation capacity. The Chambers of Commerce are
already implementing a participatory grant program so the private sector
has been exposed to this type of support. The project will enable the
Chambers to enlarge the program, using the same stringent criteria, and
reach more of their members, as well as expanding the program to other
- 17 -



associations, such as the Microfinance Association and the Women Jurist
Association.
Business Environment - Thanks to the participation of FIAS in the design
and implementation of tax and administrative barrier reforms, Africa-wide
and international experience is fully reflected in the project. One
lesson learnt is that initially promising reforms do not necessarily lead
to sufficient improvements in the investment climate. In view of this,
reforms need to be underpinned by surveys and quantitative methods, and
monitored vis-a-vis national as well as international indicators. The
other lesson learnt, especially with respect to alleviation of red-tape,
is that the reform process is iterative, and requires strong stakeholder
participation and ownership.
Improving the legal environment - The experience under several projects
has shown the limitation of implementing reforms without full implication
of the Ministry of Justice. This has been taken into account in project
design and should be a key to sustaining reforms started earlier and
addressing immediate needs. Such operations should recognize that: (i)
judicial reforms are part of long term process; (ii) sustainability of the
reforms depend on building strong institutions; and (iii) the right
balance should be found between guidance provided by comparative law
experience and the particular requirements of the national legal systems.
Pension Reform - The conceptual ground for the pensions reform in Cape
Verde has began with support from ILO. Bank lending in support of such
reforms is usually through fairly substantial adjustment operations (see
for instance the examples of the Russian Federation, and Bulgaria). This
approach facilitates the financing necessary financial restructuring, but
suffers from the fact that the timeframe for adjustment operations is
shorter than the one needed to ensure sustainability through appropriate
systems and capacity building. There are also examples of pension reform
being supported under investment operations, for instance in Mali and at
the municipal level in Brazil. Such approaches are partial as they tend
to respond to capacity building needs without tackling significant policy
reforms. Taking this experience into account, and even though financing
of government liabilities to pensions scheme is not yet eligible under
investment operations, the present project aims to support both ambitious
policy reforms together with comprehensive capacity building. This
approach seems feasible because the reform will benefit from additional
support envisaged under the proposed Private Sector Adjustment Credit
(PSAC). It parallels World Bank support to divestitures programs in some
South American countries. The team also looked to lessons learned from
pension reform projects in other regions, where more had been done than
in Africa. In all cases, a strong and stable implementing unit was key.
In addition, a Steering Committee was essential to ensure strong
management support from within the Borrower organization that could make
strategic decisions and make commitments to ensure that the project
continues to drive forward. The members of the Steering Committee should
come from parts of the organization which are most involved in the project.
Infrastructure Regulation - The importance of adequate regulatory capacity
in the context of sustainable infrastructure reform has been clearly
identified in the context of the recent workshop on regulatory reform.
The project builds on the current Privatization and Regulatory Reform
- 18 -



Project, as well as international experience, notably Latin America, where
the importance of building-up and independent regulatory capacity,
preferably prior to divestiture, has been demonstrated. In practice most
of the support under the project is focused on the new multi-sectoral
agency and cross-cutting issues will be identified and will be tackled.
Public-Private Consultations - The importance of building in effective
means of private-public dialogue is identified as a key area in the Africa
region's private sector development strategy. Since the late 1990's Cape
Verde has attempted to improve public-private dialogue, however it is
recognized that this remains weak and that a concerted effort needs to be
made on both side to improve this.
Institutional Support for Investment Promotion - While Cape Verde has been
receiving support in this area for over eight years; IDA has been
supporting promotion agencies in Africa since at least the early 1990s.
This experience has highlighted the importance of good corporate
governance, independence of the agency, and clear directions, all of which
would apply to PROMEX.
Implementation Arrangements - The implementation arrangements follow
current best practice in private sector projects (e.g., Mozambique Cr.
3317) whereby by and large beneficiaries manage their own subcomponent,
while strong financial management, procurement, and monitoring and
evaluation capacity, is provided by a centralized project management
unit.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        No environmental issues, Category C
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Sherri Ellen Archondo
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-1799
Fax:   (202) 477-2978
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 7, 2003.
- 19 -



