ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                           A 'orld Frea ol Poverty
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/11/2002                             24957
Section I - Basic Information                                  October 1 1, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CAPE VERDE                             Project ID: P074055
Project: Growth and Competitiveness Project     Task Team Leader: Sherri Ellen Archondo
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 6, 2003    IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: March 27, 2003                   IDA Amount ($m): 11.50
Managing Unit: AFTFS                            Sector: General industry and trade sector (40%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  General finance sector (20%); Compulsory pension
Status: Lending                                 and unemployment insurance (20%); General public
administration sector (20%)
Theme: Other financial and private sector
development (P); Regulation and competition policy
(S); Other public sector governance (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Project's overall objective would be to broaden the base of private participation in Cape Verde's
economic growth and enhance private sector competitiveness, as well as further develop its financial
sector. This would be achieved through a series of actions supported by the project, notably (i)
investment climate reform and improved supply chains; (ii) private sector and institutional capacity
building; and (iii) financial sector reform, including pension reform. Cape Verde's strategic approach to
reducing poverty identified in the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP) includes: (i) the
renewal of economic growth with equity; (ii) the linkage between poverty reduction strategies and
macroeconomic and sectorial policies; and (iii) the improvement in the productive capacities of the poor,
by focusing on the need to improve microfinance policy and to provide training. The project would thus
help sustain the Government's poverty alleviation efforts by contributing to economic stability as well as
providing the necessary mechanism to perpetuate continued growth and permanent improvements in
Cape Verde's international competitiveness.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component 1. Modernizing, Strengthtening and Restructuring the Financial Sector (US$4.4 million,
of which US$3.5 million is financed by IDA)This component would deepen the reforms initiated
under the earlier IDA project (Cr. 2864) and would consist of the two subcomponents described below,
the largest of which is pension reform.
*   Pension Reform (US$2 million financed by IDA). Support Government to implement a series
of reforms aimed at establishing a sustainable pension system. In addition to alleviating a



2
ISDS
potential contingent liability risk on the government budget, another expected result of the
reform is that it would help mobilize term resources that could be channeled through the
financial sector to finance private investments.
* Financial Sector Development (US$1.5 million financed by IDA'Support Government to
strengthen the financial sector through improved regulation and supervision (FSD) by the Central
Bank of Cape Verde and encourage the development of new instruments such as improved
leasing regulation, more efficient payment systems, etc.
Component 2. Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness (US$8.5 million, of which US$6.4 million is
financed by IDA-more accurate costing to be determined during pre-appiaisaThe aim of the
component is to sustain high private sector growth and increased competitiveness, by enhancing the
investment climate, institutional capacity building and improving supply chains in key subsectors. The
main subcomponents are described below.
*   Investment Climate Reforn(US$2.5 million to be financed by IDAhe short- to
medium-term of this subcomponent is to address key policy constraints to enhance the business
environment and encourage private sector development. The medium- to long-term objective
(end of project) would be to bring about permanent improvements in the quality of the interface
between the private and public sector. This would be measured through decreased financial and
time cost of doing business.
*   Institutional Capacity Building (US$2.0 million to be financed by IDA)Or the strategy to
succeed, public/private partnerships and related institutional arrangements would have to be
strengthened. The following institutions could receive support under the project: (i) PROMEX;
(ii) IADE; (iii) Stock Exchange; and (iv) the Ministry of Justice.
*   Private Sector Capacity Building (US$1.5 million to befinanced by IDA) It is expected that
the strategy will call for capacity building within private operators, especially SMEs. The
project would support this area through a 50:50 matching-grant, using an approach and
procedures successfully tested and developed in other IDA projects. The two Chambers of
Commerce, who represent the private sector, and as manager/administrator of the matching grant,
would benefit from the project to strengthen its capacity to deliver services to its members and
manage the grant (on a first-come, first-serve basis). In addition the project would finance, as
needed, the dissemination of business related-information which would: (i) widen the dialogue
on business environment reforms; (ii) help to raise awareness among the business community as
well as policymakers; and (iii) educate and build consensus among the concerned actors.
Component 3.   Supporting Project Implementatr"$3 million, of which US$2 million is
financed by IDA) This component would finance a professional project management team (Director,
Accountant, Procurement Specialist), attached to the Secretariat described below, as well as the required
monitoring and evaluation (audits and so on). It should be noted that refinancing of the proposed PPF is
included in the above component allocations.
Components:
1. Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial Sector
A. Pension Reform
B. Financial Sector Development/BCV



3
ISDS
2. Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness
A. Investment Climate Reform
B. Institutional Capacity Building
C. Private Sector Capacity Building
3. Project Implementation/PPF
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will not be "island specific". The objective of the project is to develop a vibrant and
competitive private sector. Each island has different characteristics, for example there are wineries on the
island of Fogo, services industries on Santiago and textiles on Mindelo (in an industrial park). Through the
two Chambers of Commerce (located on Santiago and Mindelo), all eligible Cape Verdean enterprises may
take the opportunity to avail themselves to training and technical expertise. With respect to the pension
reform and financial sector development, while the majority of actions will take place in the capital, Praia,
financial sector development will be initiated in the other islands where there are financial services.
Institutional capacity building may also be undertaken in any targeted island.
B. Chieck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The overall objective to this project is to broaden private sector participation. In order to do this,
the components consist of capacity building, addressing policy constraints, and implementing financial
reforms. There are no environmental or safeguard issues.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          .            Yes * No      TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       3 Yes * No       TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                  Yes * No      TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 ..Yes *No       lTBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                  .Yes *No                         TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         Yes *No        TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   Yes * No   '&TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)                                    Yes * No   i TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*              Yes * No     . TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         1 Yes * No      l TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' clairms
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
not applicable



4
ISDS
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
not applicable
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
not applicable
IL.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
not applicable
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
not applicable
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
There will be several methods to ensure stakeholder participation. It will be the responsibility of the PIU
to ensure that stakeholder participation is consistent. First there are the beneficiaries themselves, who
will be actively involved in preparing the project, based on their commitment to the National
Development Plan, as well as Investment Strategy. Most of the proposed beneficiaries already have 2-5
year work plans under these programs and a subset will be drawn out and developed into project
components, with performance indicators which they feel are reasonable, rational and attainable within
the project timeframe. Second, during preparation, there will be meetings with the donor community to
avoid duplication of support and to seek their views on the economic and financial environment in
CapeVerde. Finally, there will be two mini-private sector forums organized by the Chambers of
Commerce (for geographical representation) to ensure that the issues are well discussed and appropriate
solutions presented, which can be translated into project subcomponents.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionially manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank



5
ISDS
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework.                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Darn Safety Management Plan:                                  ExVected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explail why.
Signed and submitted by        Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Sherri Ellen Archondo                        October 10, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Serigne Omar Fye                        October 10, 2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                          October 10, 2002
Sector Manager/Director:       Demba Ba                                    October 10, 2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
REARCH         FEEOBACK       SITE MAP       SHOWCASE      m



