.a2SS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
InSfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/26/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: CAPE VERDE                             Project ID: P074055
Project: Growth and Competitiveness Project     Task Team Leader: Sherri Ellen Archondo
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 12, 2003  IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 15, 2003                     IDA Amount ($m): 11.50
Managing Unit: AFTFS                            Sector: General industry and trade sector (40%);
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  General finance sector (20%); Compulsory pension
Status: Lending                                 and unemployment insurance (20%); General public
administration sector (20%)
Theme: Other financial and private sector
development (P); Regulation and competition policy
(S); Other public sector governance (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project's overall objective is to broaden the base of private participation in Cape Verde's economic
growth and enhance private sector competitiveness, as well as further develop its financial sector. This
would be achieved through a series of actions supported by the project, notably (a) financial sector
reform, including pension reform; (b) investment climate reform, which includes, but is not limited to (i)
tax reform; (ii) alleviation of administrative barriers; (iii) improved supply chains and (iv) legal reform;
(c) post privatization and divestiture reforms; and (d) private sector and institutional capacity building.
The project would thus help sustain the Government's poverty alleviation efforts by generating increased
employment opportunities through improved international competitiveness.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project would support the following major elements in the Government's private sector-led
poverty alleviation strategy.
Component 1. Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial W6W.4
million, of which US$2.8 million is financed by IDA). As the financial sector in Cape Verde deepens, it
becomes critical to strengthen the institutional infrastructure of the central bank to fulfill its mandate as a
regulator and the broader financial sector as financial intermediaries. The main activities included in the
financial sector component are summarized below.
The project would support the update of a financial sector Widytermine the required policy
measures, as well as legislative and regulatory changes which are needed to further its development. The



2
ISDS
project will also provide funding fortechnical assistance requirements identified in the financial sector
study. These requirements would likely include updating of the regulatory framework for leasing,
off-shore banking and venture capital.
The project will provicport to strengthen financial infrastructure and regulatiMore
specifically, the project will support strengthening the regulator (both in terms of its human resource
skills as well as its technological base), improving credit information, strengthening the national
payments system, including international integration (VISA) and establishing deterrents to financial
fraud and money laundering. The component would finance technical assistance, training and
equipment, especially information technology to upgrade the equipment at the central bank and provide
real time connection with the commercial banks for the payment system, credit risk and loan
concentration databases This would improve the availability of credit information on both the corporate
and consumers clients which has been a constraint for financial institutions in making informed lending
decisions. Non-banking services and availability of new financial instruments are key to the development
of the economy. During the last several years, SISP has implemented ATMs and TPA (debit system
used at commercial establishments). SISP anticipates adopting the infrastructure necessary to implement
a network of VISA and create a critical mass of transactions which permit the economic and financial
sustainability of the system. The project would provide funds (only Government and BCV's share) for
the necessary hardware, software and training for the implementation of the VISA applications.
The objective of thepension reformsubcomponent would be to help Government implement reforms
aimed at establishing a sustainable pension system. In addition to alleviating a potential contingent
liability risk in the budget, another expected result of the reform is that it would help mobilize
longer-term resources that could be channeled through the financial sector to finance private investments.
The project would provide financing for technical assistance in the following areas: (a) independent
audits and an actuarial review; (b) an information system needs assessment; (c) purchase of hardware and
software; (d) consultancies to (i) produce a new investment policy; (ii) evaluate valuation rules, reporting
and disclosure standards; (iii) civil service integration study/cost analysis; (iv) study the development of
contractual savings, regulatory/supervision issues; (v) analysis of the social assistance scheme and
FAIMO; and (vi) coverage strategy; (e) training programs for (i) trustees and (ii) technical workshops;
and (f) translation of technical materials. INPR also receiving support from the International Labor
Organization (ILO), the Government of Portugal and the Bank in the context of the preparation of the
proposed project.
Component 2. Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness (US$7.75 million of which US$6.4 million
is financed by IDA.) As discussed in Section B of this report, companies in Cape Verde have responded
well with the opening of markets to private initiatives. However, growth in private sector activities has
not been accompanied by sufficient measures to modernize the administrative requirements for business
operations, the legal framework and the judiciary and improve incentives. The aim of this component is
improve the investment climate, institutional capacity building and improving supply chains in key
subsectors, as well as continuing work on post privatization and divestiture process which started under
the PRCBP but may not have been fully completed prior to the closing of the project. The main
subcomponents are described below.
A. Investment Climate Reform (US$1.9 million financed by IDA Building on work already done under
the CBPPSP, the subcomponent would focus on the following inter-related issues:
* Tax reform(US$300,000). Government recognizes that the large number of customs and tax
exemptions undermine its objectives of creating a level playing field in the business environment and
fiscal policy and could subsequently provide more resources for its anti-poverty programs. As such,
the Government recently took important steps to rationalize private sector taxation. The project



3
ISDS
would finance specialized legal assistance to the tax office at the Ministry of Finance and Plan on the
Investment Code and specialized assistance on the evaluation of the fiscal revenue impact of the
proposed measures over time, as well as related capacity building initiatives. In addition, the project
would finance the cost of disseminating information on the new tax rules, as well as providing
necessary training for Govemment staff and the private sector.
*   Alleviation of Administrative Barriers (US$500,000) The Administrative Barriers to Investment
Study, which follws several World Bank sponsored FIAS studies in Cape Verde, was launched in
October 2002. Based on the report, Government and stakeholders would formulate an action plan for
further reforms in this area that would improve the interface between the public and private sector.
This plan and subsequent updates, would be implemented with the support of the project. This
commitnent of Government on how it would address these issues will be addressed in the letter of
Sector Development policy issued in the context of this project.
*   Development of Efficient Supply Chain&US$300,000). The project would support supply chain
studies for trade and transport, fishing and tourism with a view to making transactions along the
productive/distribution network more efficient. In particular, it will finance 3-4 studies, as well
assome key technical assistance and training requirements identified under the studies.
*   Modernizing the Legal Environment for BusineslS$800, 000). The component would provide
assistance for further improvements in laws and regulations which affect the the private sector, a
program which was started under the PRCBP. The project would provide legal technical assistance,
as well as some needed equipment to the Ministry of Justice. In particular, the project would provide
support to the Department of the Registry, Notary and Identification to speed up the process of
registering companies, buildings, etc. from almost 2 weeks to 48 hours by developing computerized
links among the various municipal offices on the different islands. Second, in an effort to respond to
the requests of the citizens in general and the investors in particular, to simplify procedures, the
project would finance technical support to elaborate the regulations for the commercial registry,
housing' registry and civil registry. Substantial work has already been undertaken (also under
PRCBP) on the Labor Code; the project would finance technical assistance necessary to elaborate
the regulations and procedures which accompany this code. Finally, the project would also provide
support for efforts to improve timeliness and quality of judgments of business cases and enforcement
of property rights through capacity building in the courts, especially registrars. The Project will
finance the preparation of an Arbitration Law and support the creation of two arbitration centers.
The project would provide support to efforts to making laws and judgments more accessible by
publishing the related documents and making key laws available on the internet. In particular, the
Project would finance business law dissemination and information by (i) making laws and judgments
more accessible and available through the publication of business laws and judicial decisions, and
(ii) organizing training and capacity building sessions (including, but not limited to PROMEX and in
the Chambers of Commerce) for Judges, Lawyers, Businessmen and all interested public or private
stakeholders, WTO, intellectual property, anti-money laundering and arbitration.
The project would support work needed in connection with Cape Verde's accession to the the WTO
(World Trade Organization). The project would finance technical assistance not envisaged under a
USAID program in this area. Specifically, the project would support the development of a legal and
institutional framework for the effective exercise of intellectual property rights, which is required as
part of the measures to gain WTO membership. Finally, the project will finance the costs of
dissemination of information, as well as training judicial and legal staff.



4
ISDS
B. Post Privatization and Divestiture (USI.3 million to be financed by IDA)bis component will
support activities which may not be completed under the Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building
Project prior to its closing. These include: (a) completion of telecoms reform which would encompass:
(i) the renegotiation of the existing contract to remove internal inconsistencies, clarify the liberalization
of value-added service, revised pricing policy, including access fees, and liberalization of the sector in
line with WTO commitment concerning local and international markets; and (ii) award of a new cellular
license; (b) support to multi-sector regulatory agency in the form of structured and on-the-job training;
(c) Port and Airport reform and divestiture for which the project will provide resources to complete the
privatization of the port and study the scope for private participation in airports; and (d) and international
or local advisor to help the Ministry of Transport address outstanding policy issues
C. Institutional Capacity Building (US$2.0 million to be financed by IIJTis subcomponent is
designed to address three key objectives: (a) enhancing the capabilities of public institutions to deliver
business support services; (b) supporting Government agencies in their efforts to provide business
facilitation and promotion services, including improving their capability to identify and ease bureaucratic
rigidities and (c) reinforcing staff at the MoFP to play its role in private sector development.
First, the project will provide suppqvtbfw institutions that interface with private sector
(US$500,000). There are several public institutions that work with the private sector which, in the spirit
of changing the Government into a facilitator, would (i) need to establish a clear, well-defined strategy,
with guidance from Government on the focus of their core activities and (ii) will need support for
internal strengthening and programs which have a limited focus with expected high returns. The project
will support Government effortsto develop a framework for its support the private sector and financial
and technical capacity building for its implementation.
Second, capacity building assistance will be extended to PROMEX for (i) the development of a
strategically focused investment promotion strategy and business plan; (ii) an institutional capacity/skills
building for PROMEX staff; (iii) the preparation of up-to-date marketing materials, including revamping
the PROMEX website; (iv) introduction and upgrading of necessary systems and processes (investor
tracking system, Intranet); and (v) support of a number of outreach/promotion activities in priority
sectors.
Finally, the project will provide support to theMinistry of Finance and Planning in its efforts to develop
the necessary environmentfor private sector development. The project would there provide support for
(i) technical assistance to provide financial management of autonomous public institutions and manage
government shares in private companies; (ii) capacity building for MoFP's staff, including two trade
missions during the four years; and (iii) institutional support for the research and studies department.
D. Private Sector Capacity Building (US$1.33 million to be financed by IDA,rhe mechanisms by
which private firms transfer technology and raise their technical capabilities are weak and while foreign
investment in the country is increasing, technology transfer remains limited. Until recently, all tertiary
education, as well as vocational and technical training, had to be obtained abroad. The private sector
strategy calls for capacity building within private operators, especially SMEs. There is substantial
demand by the private sector for these services, which the two Chambers of Commerce are trying to
accommodate with their programs. The project would support this demand by private operators and
enable the Chambers to expand the services to their members, as well as other associations (example is
Association of Micro-enterprises) through a 50:50 matching-grant, using an approach and procedures
successfully developed and tested in other countries. This subcomponent would focus on the technical
capabilities of Cape Verdean firms, in manufacturing and services (both domestic and for export).



5
ISDS
Funding will be used to (i) improve firm competitiveness by providing access to supporting services
external to the firm in the form of technical assistance or managerial expertise; and (ii) address the
constraints in staff training. The two Chambers of Commerce, whose mandate is to represent the private
sector with Government, as well as provide these services, will also benefit from the grant as
manager/administrator of the matching grant. They would also be able to access this grant to strengthen
their apacity to deliver services to their members The grant would be demand-driven and managed on a
first come/first serve basis. However, the Chambers may target certain industries which are priority
sectors, but not at the exclusion of other Cape Verdean enterprises. In addition the project would
finance, as needed, the dissemination of business related-information which would (i) widen the
dialogue on business environment reforms, (ii) help raise awareness among the business community as
well as policymakers, and (iii) educate and build consensus among the concerned actors.
Component 3. Supporting Project Implementatiol(US$1.13 million, of which US$1.13 million is
financed by IDA).
The project would support the operations of the Project Implementation Unit (PCU), discussed below.
Specifically, the project would finance the project implementation team and about 48 person-months of
short-term international or local experts to assist the PCU team in the implementation of its work
program, as well as other PCU staff, training, equipment, and incremental operating costs. Refinancing of
the proposed PPF is included in the this component.
Components:
1. Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial Sector
A. Financial Sector Development/BCV
B. Pension Reform
2. Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness
A. Investment Climate Reform
B. Post Privatization Process
C. Institutional Capacity Building
D. Private Sector Capacity Building
3. Project Implementation
4. PPF Refinancing
5. Unallocated
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will not be "island specific". The objective of the project is to develop a vibrant and
competitive private sector. Each island has different characteristics, for example there are wineries on the
island of Fogo, services industries on Santiago and textiles on Mindelo (in an industrial park). Through the
two Chambers of Commerce (located on Santiago and Mindelo), all eligible Cape Verdean enterprises may
take the opportunity to avail themselves to training and technical expertise. With respect to the pension
reform and financial sector development, while the majority of actions will take place in the capital, Praia,
financial sector development will be initiated in the other islands where there are financial services.



6
ISDS
Institutional capacity building may also be undertaken in any targeted island.
B. Chieck Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The overall objective to this project is to broaden private sector participation. In order to do this,
the components consist of capacity building, addressing policy constraints, and implementing financial
reforms. There are no environmental or safeguard issues.
C Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     C, Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             C, Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        C Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                 C Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  C Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          C Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                 C: Yes 0 No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
not applicable
II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
not applicable
lI.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
not applicable
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
not applicable
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
There will be several methods to ensure stakeholder participation. It will be the responsibility of the PIU
to ensure that stakeholder participation is consistent. First there are the beneficiaries themselves, who
will be actively involved in preparing the project, based on their commitment to the National
Development Plan, as well as Investment Strategy. Most of the proposed beneficiaries already have 2-5



7
ISDS
year work plans under these programs and a subset will be drawn out and developed into project
components, with performance indicators which they feel are reasonable, rational and attainable within
the project timeframe. Second, during preparation, there will be meetings with the donor community to
avoid duplication of support and to seek their views on the economic and financial environment in
CapeVerde. Finally, there will be two mini-private sector forums organized by the Chambers of
Commerce (for geographical representation) to ensure that the issues are well discussed and appropriate
solutions presented, which can be translated into project subcomponents.
E. Safeguards Classifcation. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. -No safeguard issues
[  SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:         Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:             Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                               Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.



8
ISDS
Signed and submitted by       Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Sherri Ellen Archondo                         February 26, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Serigne Omar Fye                         February 26, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                          Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Serigne Omar Fye                          February 26, 2003
Sector Manager/Director:       Demba Ba                                    February 26, 2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH  _   _SHOWCASE



