Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25799-CV
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.5 MILLION
(US$11.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR A
GROWTH AND COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
Apnl 21, 2003
Private Sector Unit
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 10, 2003)
Currency Unit = Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
108.95 CVE = US$1
US$.00918 = CVI
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGOA          African Growth Opportunities Act
AP            Adminstra,ao PuTblica
ARM           Multi-sector Regulatory Agency
ATM           Automatic Teller Machines
BCV           Banco de Cabo Verde
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBPPSP        Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion
CIMA          Conference Inter-Africaine sur les Marches d'Assurance
CPAR          Country Procurement Assessment Review
CQ            Consultant's Qualifications
DCA           Development Credit Agreement
EGA           Emolumentos gerais
ERR           Expected Rate of Return
FAIMO         Frente de Alta Intensidade de Mdo de Obra
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
FIAS          Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FMR           Financial Management Report
FMS           Financial Management System
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GLIN          Global Legal Information Network
GPN           General Procurement Notice
IADE          Institute for Enterprise Development
IAPSO         Inter-agency Procurement Service Office
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
ILO           International Labor Organization
IMF           International Monetary Fund
INPS          Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social
I-PRSP        Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
IS           International Shopping
LC            Least Cost
MIGA          Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MFPRD         Ministry of Finance, Planning and Regional Development
MOJ           Ministry of Justice
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NDP           National Development Plan



NPL           Non-performing Loans
NPV           Net Present Value
NS            National Shopping
OHADA         Organisation pour I 'Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des Affaires
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PIM           Project Implementation Manual
PIP           Project Implementation Plan
POS           Point of Sale
PRCBP         Privatization and Regulation Capacity Building Project
PRGF          Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PROMEX        Center for the Promotion of Tourism Investment and Exports
PRSP          Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSM           Pensdo Social Minima
QCBS          Quality and Cost Based Selection
SAC           Structural Adjustment Credit
SISP          Sociedad Interbancaria e Sistemas de Pagamentos
SME           Small and Medium Enterprises
SOE           Statement of Expenses
SPN           Specific Procurement Notice
SS            Single Source
TACV          Transportes Aereos de Cabo Verde
UEMOA         Union Economique et Monetaire OuestAfrican
VAT           Value-added Tax
WTO           World Trade Organization
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  John McIntire
Sector Manager/Director:  Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sherri Archondo






CAPE VERDE
GROWTH AND COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                   Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices              12
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   16
3. Benefits and target population                                                  17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   18
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       19
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies   20
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        24
2. Financial                                                                       25
3. Technical                                                                       25
4. Institutional                                                                   25
5. Environmental                                                                   27
6. Social                                                                          27
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              28



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  29
2. Critical risks                                                                   29
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   30
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         30
2. Other                                                                            31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      32
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        33
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      49
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         50
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  54
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                 55
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                66
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                67
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          68
Annex 11: Post Privatization and Divestiture Reform                                    70
Annex 12: INPS: Diagnosis and Reforms                                                  73
Annex 13: Letter of Sector Development Policy                                          80
MAP(S)
IBRD 27215



CAPE VERDE
Growth and Competitiveness Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTPS
Date: April 21, 2003                             Team Leader: Sherri Ellen Archondo
Sector Manager/Director: Demba Ba                Sector(s): General industry and trade sector (40%),
Country Manager/Director: John McLntire          General finance sector (20%), Compulsory pension and
Project ID: P074055                              unemployment insurance (20%), General public
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  admmistration sector (20%)
Theme(s): Other financial and private sector development
(P), Regulation and competition policy (S), Other public
sector governance (S)
Project Financing Data
[]Loan      [X] Credit   [ Grant       ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $11.5
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Service charge: 0.50%
Financing Plan (US$nm):  'Source                         -Local!",     '-'Foreign       Total
BORROWER                                                      0.12           0.10          0.22
IDA                                                           6.30           5.20         11.50
SUB-BORROWER(S)                                               1 08           0.70          1.78
Total:                                                        7.50           6.00         13.50
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF FINANCE, PLANNING AND REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Address Avenida Amilcar Cabral, 100, C.P. 30
Contact Person: Dr. Joao Santos
Tel: (238) 618282          Fax:             Email: CVPRIVAT.COORD@CVTELECOM.CV
Other Agency(ies):
PCU
Address: P.O. Box 323
Praia, Cape Verde
Contact Person: Isabel Inahony
Tel: (238) 61-47-48 / 612319        Fax: (238) 61-23-34          Email: cvprivatization@cvtelecom.cv
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2004.      2005       2006      2007   -  2008
Annual      2.30      3.50      3.00       2.20      0.50
Cumulative     2.30      5.80       8.80     11 00      11.50
Project implementation period: September 2003-August 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2003 Expected closing date: 02/28/2008



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objectAve: (see Annex 1)
The project's overall objective is to broaden the base of private participation in Cape Verde's economic
growth and enhance private sector competitiveness and further develop its financial sector. This would
be achieved through a series of actions supported by the project, notably: (a) financial sector reform,
including pension reform; (b) investment climate reform, which includes, but is not limited to: (i) tax
reform, (ii) alleviation of administrative barriers, (iii) improved supply chains, and (iv) legal reform; (c)
post privatization and divestiture reforms; and (d) private sector and institutional capacity building. The
project would thus help sustain the Government's poverty alleviation efforts by generating increased
employment opportunities through improved international competitiveness.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The principal indicators selected for measuring progress towards the project development objective are
the following:
Pension reform is well underway and by end-project, measures have been adopted to ensure the
pension system's sustainability, namely: (a) a strategy is in place to gradually unify the two
existing schemes; (b) criteria of benefits for the labor intensive work program (Frentes da Alta
Intensidade da Mao de Obra - FAIMO) have been clearly defined; (c) parametric changes have
been made to the structure of the national institute of social security (Instituto Nacional da
Previdencia Social - NPS).
The financial sector is strengthened and by mid-term review: (a) at least one on-site visit is made
to each commercial bank every two years and all banks are in compliance with prudential norms;
(b) the commercial banks have a reduction in non-performing loans to 8 percent of the total
portfolio; and (c) three islands are linked with VISA, which would generate 600 transactions
totaling US$5 million annually. By end-project: (a) the commercial banks will have a further
reduction in non-performing loans to 7 percent of the total portfolio; and (b) six islands are
linked with VISA, which would generate 950 transactions totaling US$8 million.
As a result of tariff and tax reform, by end-project, the corporate tax rate has been reduced to 25
percent and tariffs are consistent with international best practice and regional UEMOA (Union
Economique et Monetaire Ouest African) norms.
Investment climate has improved and by mid-term review, an action plan including measures for
reducing administrative barriers has been adopted and by end-project, at least two
recommendations from the action plan have been fully implemented.
With respect to the post privatization and divestiture, by mid-term review: (a) a new telecom
regulatory framework has been adopted; (b) at least one value-added service has been developed;
and (c) a draft strategy for private participation for infrastructure in relation to airport
management has been prepared. By end-project, at least three value-added services have been
introduced into Cape Verde.
Measures will be introduced to improve the judicial climate and by mid-term review:  (a)
regulations and procedures for the labor code have been adopted; (b) a draft arbitration
legislation, as an alternative means for commercial disputes, has been completed; (c) a system for
-2 -



the dissemnination of legal information (either through web-site or another means) has been
established; and (d) a legislative action plan, for accession to the World Trade Organization
(WTO), has been prepared. By end-project, the notaries on all islands are electronically
inter-connected and the time to register a business has been reduced from three weeks to 72
hours, once the request file is complete.
At least one report on the status of governmental participation in private enterpnses has been
produced by the Ministry of Financing, Planning and Regional Development (MFPRD) by
mid-term review, and by end-project, the research and studies department at the MFPRD is
established and operational.
Through investment promotion efforts, by mid-term review, foreign direct investment (FDI) in
the country has increased by US$100 million with 2,000 jobs created and by end-project, FDI in
the country has increased by US$225 million with 5,000 jobs created.
Finally, as a result of the matching grant fund, on average, by mid-term review, the entrepreneurs
have: improved efficiency ratios, which will be measured by the percentage of operating costs
over revenue (sales) of at least 5 percent; and an increase in production and/or services of at least
5 percent. By end-project, these ratios are 10 percent.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22506     Date of latest CAS discussion: 8/28/2001
The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) progress report for Cape Verde was considered by the Board
on August 28, 2001. The last full CAS was presented to the Board in December 1997. IDA has
supported Government programs aimed at creating an enabling environment for private sector
development. The proposed project complements other projects in the Bank's CAS, which also relate to
advancing Cape Verde's international competitiveness. These projects include the ongoing Privatization
and Regulatory Capacity Building Project (PRCBP, Cr. 3121-CV), as well as the Capacity Building
Project for Private Sector Promotion (CBPPSP, Cr. 2864-CV) which closed in 1999. The proposed
project, which was highlighted in the CAS Progress Report as a complement to the ongoing privatization
project, would support the CAS by addressing problems associated with hidden and/or contingent
liabilities of the Government, such as underfunded pension plans, as well as providing support to growth
through the development of the private and financial sectors. The project also reflects the CAS emphasis
on an integrated Bank Group approach to private sector development, including FIAS (Foreign
Investment Advisory Services) on tax reform and administrative barriers, SME (Small and Medium
Enterprises) Department which evaluated institutions working with SMEs, and MIGA (Multilateral
Investment Guarantee Agency) which works with investment promotion agencies. These institutions
were associated with project preparation and will be involved in the implementation phase.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Cape Verde is a volcanic archipelago of 10 islands, 600 kilometers west of Senegal. It is a country with
limited natural resources, but a recent history of democracy and economic stability and a well-educated
labor force. The country's sahelian climate means that rainfall is limited and arable land is scarce. There
are no known mineral or non-renewable energy resources in Cape Verde. This limited economic potential
has led to a history of emigration. In 2000, there were approximately 435,000 persons living in the
country and it is believed that about twice as many Cape Verdeans live abroad.
-3 -



Cape Verde has a well-developed poverty reduction strategy based on the 1997-2000 National
Development Plan (NDP), which sets macroeconomic stability, private-sector led growth and social and
environmental sustainability as key objectives. An interim poverty reduction strategy paper (I-PSRP)
was completed in March 2002. Government has recently completed the NDP for 2002-2005, that forms
the foundation of the poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP) which it expects to complete in 2003. The
cornerstone of Cape Verde's PRSP remains economic growth and employment, in conjunction with
improvements in infrastructure and social services. The program calls for the renewal of economic
growth with equity and improvement in the productive capacities of the poor, by focusing on training. In
addition, Government has updated its development framework, or the Grand Options Plan, which
outlines Government's priorities, including: (i) promotion of good governance; (ii) support of
private-sector led growth and the broadening of the productive base; (iii) development of human capital;
and (iv) balanced development of infrastructure. High rates of real economic growth will be necessary to
significantly reduce poverty. The Government intends to give priority to the following:
o Maintaining macroeconomic balances that were weakened during 1999/2000 by internal (domestic
consumption) and external (oil shock) factors, and undertaking structural measures to make the
budget process more sustainable;
a Continuing progress achieved in modernizing the financial sector and reforming the pensions
system; and
o Sustaining high levels of growth by increasing private sector competitiveness, improving the
business environment and developing sectors with untapped potential including tourism, fishing,
trade and transport.
Macroeconomic Stability. Progress made in both structural reforms and policy coordination over the past
two years has considerably strengthened the macroeconomic situation. It represents the firmest evidence
of the Government's commitment to economic stability, a critical prerequisite for sustaining export-led,
broad-based growth and private sector confidence. These reforms have helped sustain economic growth
in 2002 at close to 4 percent of Growth Domestic Product (GDP).
The last two years (2001-02) have been a time of change and experimentation with institutional
arrangements and policies, while redressing a difficult macroeconomic situation. Through a
macroeconomic program supported by the IMF's Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF),
covering the period January 2002-December 2004, fiscal deficits have been gradually brought down from
26.5 percent of GDP (excluding grants) in 2000, to about 9.5 percent in 2001, and 8.0 percent in 2002.
Lower financing requirements from the central government have: (i) allowed it to lower the interest rate
it pays on Treasury Bills (currently 6.5 percent for six months bills, down from double digits in 2001);
(ii) limited the crowding out of private lending by commercial banks; and (iii) allowed the Central Bank
to decrease its discount rate by 1.5 percentage points, to 10 percent. Commercial banks subsequently
lowered their lending rates to the private sector to 13.7 percent, but they remain high in real terms. This
has contributed to a limited expansion of credit to investors beyond credit secured by collateral (e.g.
mortgage loans), while the amount of unremunerated cash in the banks has increased substantially, and
raises concerns about their operating margins.
In addition, a World Bank Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC, Cr. 3587-CV) supported a number of key
structural measures, mainly in the areas of privatization and tax reform and provided part of the budget
support needed to sustain macroeconomic stability. A major petroleum sector reform has been
implemented, which has reduced financial risks associated with fluctuations in oil prices. In addition, as
part of the program, a comprehensive tax reform program was initiated which also covers private sector
taxation. In June 2002, the Government significantly simplified import duties. There are now only seven
-4 -



(7) rates of customs duties (from 0 percent to 50 percent), and other taxes due on imports were
eliminated. As a result, capital goods and raw materials now carry total customs duties of either 0
percent or 5 percent, down from a level of about 20 percent. The Government also modified domestic
indirect taxes, with the introduction of a single-rate value-added tax (VAT) of 15 percent, and the
elimination of a consumption tax. Lastly, the Government began a process of reforming direct taxation,
including the reducion of the corporate income tax to 30 percent of net profits, down from 35 percent;
and changing the treatment of dividends. Following a study on the tax system (February 2002), FIAS has
recommended changes in the tax structure, which are being considered by Government.
The financial sector is comprised of four commercial banks, one off-shore bank, two insurance
companies, one venture capital company, a foreign exchange agency and a credit card company. In
addition, there are two main pension schemes for formal sector workers, while some companies are
starting corporate pension plans to supplement future income.
The Government's efforts for financial sector reform, which began in 1991, were accelerated in 1996
with the implementation of recommendations from the financial sector study and subsequent support
from the CBPPSP. Substantial reforms were successfully undertaken, including, but not limited to the
privatization of the two largest commercial banks (Banco Comercial do Atlantico and Caixa Econ6mica
de Cabo Verde, of which the public sector still has a share, although the golden share has been
relinquished), updating the Central Bank Act, implementing a credit risk system (manual), and creating a
stock exchange. The financial sector strategy (2000-2004), takes the reform to the next stage of
liberalizing the sector, while ensuring that sector institutions remain sound and that depositors funds are
safe. The primary objective of the strategy is to deepen the sector by expanding access and lengthening
the term structure, as well as introducing new instruments into the market. In particular, the strategy
emphasizes four principal areas: (a) development of the bankihg system on two levels: (i) the opening of
the financial sector to sound private institutions, and (ii) ensuring better financial discipline in the
system; (b) the strengthening of the capacity of the Banco de Cabo Verde (BCV) in its role to manage the
monetary policy and as the regulator and supervisor of the banking and insurance sectors; (c) the
promotion for the diversification of financial products; and (d) the development of non-banking financial
institutions, such as insurance companies.
During the last several years, Cape Verde's banking system has been modernized, as key state-owned
banks were privatized, new financial instruments were introduced into the system and BCV operations
were strengthened. In the past twelve months, banking sector deposits in the two dominating banks have
increased by about 9.5 percent and the loan portfolio by about 15 percent, while non-performing loans
(NPL) have been stable and in the case of the largest bank, have dropped to 8.5 percent of the total
portfolio. Both banks are well provisioned for NPL and showed positive results for 2001 and 2002.
Lack of credit information on both the corporate and individual clients has been a constraint for financial
institutions in making informed lending decisions. To facilitate accurate assessment of repayments and
better allocation of credit, a credit risk system was designed in 1999 with support from CBPPSP. The
commercial banks provide information to the BCV on a monthly basis and receive credit information on
potential borrowers upon request. However, commercial banks want more ready access through an
on-line system.
The banking sector has an imbalance of maturities, with about 80 percent long-term loans (primarily real
estate loans) and 20 percent short-term against only about between 36 to 48 percent long-term deposits.
Banking systems often have such mismatches; risks associated with maturity mismatch are compensated
through variable rates and collateralized with real estate. The challenge for further developing the
financial sector remains overcoming banks' reluctance to lend long-term resources for capital investment.
- 5-



Monetary policy, in the next few years, will be oriented towards price stability and the continued
strengthening of intemational reserves. In early 2002, the Government drafted a revised central bank
law which was unanimously approved by the National Assembly. The new law: (i) establishes price
stability as the overriding objective of the central bank; (ii) prohibits the extension of central bank credit
to Government except for a temporary overdraft facility that must be cleared by the end of each year; (iii)
limits the central bank's "lender of last resort" financial support to commercial banks; and (iv) establishes
a transparent process for appointing the central bank governor and board members. In its efforts to
improve the definition of roles and policy coordination, the BCV has led an adroit monetary policy,
slowly accumulating international reserves while lowering the discount rate. External developments
remain cautiously favorable, as tourism shows surprising resilience in the face of a worldwide economic
downturn (both in the form of foreign direct investment and tourist arrivals). However, the trade balance
has deteriorated somewhat, with export levels remaining disappointingly steady, and imports increasing
to more than six (6) times the level of exports. The gap is filled by services and capital transfers.
In addition, efforts have been made in recent years to improve regulations governing financial
institutions. The BCV is implementing a number of measures designed to reinforce its operational and
oversight responsibilities by continuing to strengthen banking supervision through the training of staff,
increasing the number of on-site examinations, updating the off-site reporting system and strengthening
supervision of its offshore financial institutions. A new anti-money laundering law was approved on
December 16, 2002, and work has already begun on the preparation of the regulations which will
accompany it. A training program for BCV, as well as the commercial banks and other implicated
institutions in this area, is anticipated.
In its effort to deepen the financial system in Cape Verde by strengthening financial infrastructure, as
well as strengthen private-partnerships in the financial sector, the Sociedade Interbancaria e Sistemas de
Pagamentos, SARL (SISP) was created in 1997. SISP was capitalized with 100 million escudos
(approximately US$1 million equivalent) with shareholders consisting of the BCV (30 percent), the four
commercial banks (40 percent), Cabo Verde Telecom (10 percent), the Government (Department of the
Treasury, 10 percent), and two private enterprises (SIBS and UNICRE, 5 percent each). The institute's
mandate is to manage activities related to electronic banking, including the payment systems, ATMs
(Automatic Teller Machines), and electronic transfers. Since its creation, over 30 ATMs have been
installed on five islands and clients can make automatic payments on their bills via the more than 150
point of sale (POS) machines that have already been distributed. SISP receives 3.5 percent on all credit
card transactions which is reinvested into its investment expansion program. SISP is ready to move on to
the next phase of its development strategy and has entered into an agreement with VISA International to
offer electronic VISA services, which will support tourism, as well as provide business opportunities and
bring foreign exchange into the country. With the development of the VISA program, Government
anticipates that within three years, three islands would be linked with VISA, generating 600 transactions
totaling US$5 million annually. By end-2007 six islands would be linked to the system, generating 950
transactions totaling US$8 million.
The insurance market of Cape Verde is limited. The major activity consists of providing mandatory
automobile insurance which provides little or no long-term capital, and life insurance which comprises
less than two percent of the total market. Legislation and regulation of the insurance sector are out-dated
and regulated tariffs appear inadequate. Within the framework of its strategy, Government intends to
continue working towards eliminating constraints to the development of the insurance sector, by
improving the regulations, as well as building the supervisory capacity in this area. Govermment had
- 6 -



considered joining CIMA (Conference Inter-Africaine sur les Marches d'Assurance), the regional body
for insurance regulation, however has decided, at this stage, against doing so.
Pensions represent an important element of the social safety net put in place by the Government. They
also represent an important potential source for longer-term resources for investment financing. There
are two main pension schemes for formal sector workers, which together cover one quarter of the formal
labor force and pay pensions to about 6,000 people.  The Adminstragao Publica (AP) covers
approximately 13,000 civil servants while the Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social (INPS) had an
estimated 31,000 contributors in 2001. The Pensao Social Minima (PSM) is available to the poor and
elderly in general. The PSM is paid to about 6,500 individuals. Finally, there are about 10,000 workers
participating in the labor intensive work program, FAIMO.
Government recognizes the importance of strengthening the pension system and intends to undertake a
comprehensive reform. In January 2001, Governnent passed a framework law which establishes the
broad parameters of the pension system. This law takes into account the need for a safety net for the
elderly poor as the first tier of the system; a mandatory, contribution-based scheme as the second, and a
third tier comprising voluntary, private pension provisions. Legislation, which includes changes to the
benefit formula, indexation, eligibility requirements for disability and pension, retirement age and others
will be drafted during 2003. This legislation will be the first step towards reducing the existing liability
and ensuring the sustainability of the system.
The INPS was designed as a partially-fiunded, defined-benefit scheme. While it continues to run
surpluses in its pension scheme, previous governments had effectively forced the INPS to purchase
government bonds in order to finance central budget deficits. As a result, the INPS portfolio is heavily
weighted towards non-tradeable government bonds which has a direct effect on the long-term finances of
the scheme. A number of issues face the pension system. Civil service pension liabilities are high both
by international standards and relative to the INPS resources, and has resulted in a large and increasing
burden on the budget. Since only a fraction of annual spending is covered by the eight percent
contribution levied on civil service salaries, and no assets have been set aside to meet this obligation,
future pension spending represents a significant and unreported liability of the Government. To cover its
arrears to INPS, Government has issued treasury securities to the INPS that covers most of the
outstanding obligations.
Government intends to gradually shift civil servants into the INPS. The expected eventual merger of the
two schemes will help ensure efficiency and equity. Technical work to prepare the sector reform was
initiated during Fall 2001 and will form the basis of a sector policy reform strategy. However, a study
needs to be carried out so that the appropriate legislative changes required are based on solid fiscal
numbers and that the budget for 2004 explicitly reflects the costs to the Government of taking this
measure. Cape Verde has been selected as one of the African countries to be included in a nine-country
World Bank pilot pension reform program.
Investment Climate. International experience points to the importance of improving the investment
climate as part of the private sector-led growth strategy and FDI for Cape Verde. The concept of
investment climate relates to rules and regulations pertaining to the entry and operations of private firms
and to questions that affect the competitiveness of the economy, such as a level playing field, execution
of contracts and property rights' enforcements. The broad concept encompasses diverse areas such as
reduction of administrative barriers, tax reform, as well as in the legal environment in which they
operate. Since 1988, Government has promoted the liberalization and diversification of the economy.
An ambitious privatization program has already resulted in the sale of a number of state-owned
- 7-



enterprises and Government is working to attract foreign investment in small-scale industry, fishing and
tourism.
Government recognizes that, in light of its limited natural resources, Cape Verde is sensitive to external
shocks. The present environment in Cape Verde has led to growth of the real sector by 4 percent in 2002
with inflation around 1.5 percent. The recent approval of certain African Growth and Opportunity Act
(AGOA) clauses is expected to result in new export-oriented foreign investments. The Government is
aware that growth is not sustainable unless critical issues such as factor costs and availability of service
infrastructure are addressed. While standards in terms of telecommunications are high, access to water
and electricity are relatively low. Moreover, the price of utilities is high and has a negative impact on the
viability and profitability of business. With support of the SAC and PRCBP, reforms in the utility sector
are already underway, including: (i) the adoption of a modernized legal and regulatory framework to
increase competition wherever possible; (ii) privatization and private participation in infrastructure; and
(iii) creation of a multi-sector regulatory agency (ARM). The Government's public investment program
will continue to focus on improving the basic infrastructure (roads, water, power and
telecommunications) to set the foundations for private investment. Additionally, Government is currently
reviewing the country's labor laws to further remove constraints to employment and is working to
eliminate administrative barriers to foreign and domestic investment.
Administrative barriers are seen as those constraints that private investors face when establishing and
operating a business in Cape Verde. Government has already begun to take measures to reduce
administrative barriers facing private enterprises. As a result, Cape Verde compares favorably to other
African countries. Nevertheless, given Cape Verde's potential exposure to external shocks, it needs to be
able to do better than other countries in order to remain competitive. A recent survey of 120 companies
(Regulatory and Administrative Cost Survey, August 2002), provided a first assessment of the main
bottlenecks (in terms of time and costs) that private investors face when they establish and operate an
enterprise in the country, as well as to provide a baseline for subsequent surveys to evaluate the impact of
ongoing reforms and improvement in the business environment. The study revealed that only about one
out of five companies is in some way dissatisfied with the quality of regulations, administrative
requirements and bureaucratic behavior. About 25 percent of surveyed companies consider that the
regulations which most affect their companies are customs and taxes, while the cost of financing is the
main problem to the development of their companies (37.5 percent). The Government recognizes that its
new policies to attract more foreign investment are being frustrated by red tape and in October 2002,
FIAS launched the Review of Administrative Barriers to Investment Study (or Investor's Road Map). On
the basis of this study, the Government and stakeholders will formulate an action plan to improve the
interface between the public and private sector.
Development of Supply Chains. Increasingly, enterprises compete through the efficiencies and the
adaptability of the supply chains of which they are a part. As part of its private sector strategy and to
complement its work on tax reform and reduction of administrative barriers, Government will target three
priority sectors and develop a clear sector strategy. A supply chain analysis will be carried out on the
selected sector to establish what prerequisite actions are needed to resolve constraints by Government
(infrastructure, regulation etc), and by the private sector (gaps in technical skills or lack of upstream
and/or downstream activities). These studies will identify the cross-cutting issues within the sector and
define the policy, as well as sector specific requirements. These recommendations will be fed back to the
public and private sectors for debate and the development of a clear strategy and sector policy.
Improving the legal environment for business development is essential to private sector activity. Cape
Verde had initially considered modernizing its business laws by joining OHADA (Organisation pour
I'Harmonisation en Aftique du Droit des Affaires).  It would have benefited from an efficient,
-8-



regionally-harmonized and comprehensive body of legal framework in the area of business law.
However, after careful consideration of the alternatives, Government decided that at this stage, it did not
wish to join. The Government has recently completed a comprehensive study on the "State of Justice in
Cape Verde" which identifies legal constraints in Cape Verde's judicial framework. These constraints,
which may also be considered "administrative barriers", have a direct negative impact on the private
sector and the Government intends to address the following areas:
*   Enforcement of judicial decisions is a major constraint and the study supports reform of the legal
system (including the civil procedure code) in order to speed up and simplify the enforcement of
judicial decisions (and in the future of arbitral awards).
*   Arbitration, which is an effective means to resolve business disputes, is not provided for in the Cape
Verdean legal system. The adoption of an arbitration law, the creation of arbitration centers, and the
ratification of the New York Convention of 1958 on the recognition and enforcement of arbitral
awards thus constitutes a priority.
*   The company registry is efficient and inexpensive, but the registration of intellectual property rights
(critical element in setting-up a business) is not reliable. Moreover, the linkage between different
registries and government agencies (company registry; social security administration; intellectual
property; payment incidents) is inadequate. In addition, the company registry does not ensure
adequate information and protection of third parties and creditors, as payment incidents and
bankruptcy procedures (not commonly used), are kept separate. The procedure for registration as a
foreign investor remains complex, involves a relatively large number of agencies and has an
elaborate screening process.
*   Cape Verde is a candidate to the WTO accession and officially applied on November 12, 1999. To
become a member, Cape Verde will have to reform some of its legislative framework and present a
Legislative Action Plan, particularly in the area of intellectual property which suffers from a
legislative vacuum. This is important to Cape Verde, which has an untapped potential, particularly in
the area of author rights for music. The Government thus intends to create a legal framework which
would include suitable institutional arrangements.
*   Land titling, which affects investment and bank lending, is a serious issue. There is no land registry
and therefore no reliable land zoning and delimitation programs. The transfer of real property is
done by public deed, but the registration in the land registry is not immediately compulsory. The
demand for public deeds is so great that public notaries cannot meet it. In addition, land belonging
to the State or to the Municipalities is not clearly defined, and there is uncertainty regarding the
ownership status of lands, which were expropriated a few years ago without appropriate
compensation to the owners.
*   Lack of flexibility of the present labor legislation remains an issue for the private operators.
Enterprises complain, in particular, about the high cost of severance payments (equivalent to two
months payment per year worked in the company). In order to obviate this cost, all companies hire
their personnel through short-term contracts. A new labor law has been approved, but new
regulations need to be prepared.
*   Legal information and legal training need to be more readily accessible. Although Cape Verde has
an efficient system for the publication of laws in the official gazette (Dioio Oficial da Republica de
Cabo Verde), improvement of the dissemination of laws and related information is necessary. Legal
-9-



training is also a priority, not only for the judiciary, but for civil society in general and for
entrepreneurs in particular.
Post Privatization and Divestiture Process. During the past decade, Cape Verde's economy has gone
through a remarkable change during which private ownership and participation became dominant in all
sectors of the economy, including infrastructure and utilities. At present, the port and TACV (
Transportes Aereos de Cabo Verde) remain the main activities for which privatization has been initiated,
but will only be completed during 2004. Airports are the only publicly-owned infrastructure without
private participation.
Some of the expected benefits of private participation have already accrued. Nevertheless, there is still
room for improvement in terms of access. While standards in telecommunication are high, both access to
water and electricity are relatively low (see Annex 11), due in part, to factors specific to Cape Verde,
such as the lack of underground water resources and the highly fragmented generation system split
between 15 cities. Other factors have also contributed to the situation in water and electricity, especially
the poor performance of infrastructure entities, due in part, to noneconomic pricing and cross-subsidies, a
lack of service definition and standards for monopolies, high costs due to operational inefficiencies, lack
of competition and an uncertain regulatory framework. The record so far indicates two shortcomings in
the reform process. First, insufficient attention was paid to competition in the context of sector reform
and divestiture. Second, an effective regulatory mechanism that would, among others, regulate prices of
private monopolies is yet to be established. The Government strategy, when the program was initiated in
1997, called for divestiture actions to be accompanied by the establishment of a multi-sector regulatory
agency, and related capacity building to ensure that it would quickly become operational. ARM never
became operational, partly because there was no national consensus and understanding of the importance
of regulation, and partly because of the broad scope envisaged for ARM (multi-sector and multipurpose,
covering economic, technical and environmental regulation).
Faced with urgent regulatory issues in telecommunications, water and energy (electricity and petroleum),
following a National Seminar facilitated by international experts and regulators, the Government decided
in November 2002 to abolish ARM and create a new agency responsible for economic regulation of key
infrastructure sectors. However, Government has decided that these would, for the moment, be addressed
through collaboration between the line ministries, the regulators and other agencies. In parallel, the
Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure would stimulate added competition to the telecom sector, with a
view to take further reform measures to reduce cost and improve economic competitiveness.
Support to public sector institutions dealing with the private sector. For the private sector strategy to
succeed, public/private partnerships and related institutional arrangements would have to be
strengthened. Government intends to concentrate on capacity building of selected Government ministries
and agencies which interact most intensively with private firms. This will be done in a manner to address
two key objectives: (a) enhancing the capabilities of private and public institutions to deliver business
support services; and (b) support Government agencies in their efforts to promote business development,
including improving their capability to identify and ease bureaucratic rigidities.
In addition to PROMEX (Center for Promotion of Tourism Investment and Exports), there are other
public institutions that work with private sector which would need to establish a strategy and focused
program. One example is LADE (Institute for Enterprise Development), that does not have a clear
strategic vision of its mission with respect to private sector development nor as a public sector interface
with the private sector. Government intends to provide a framework for these selected institutions to
support the private sector.
- 10-



PROMEX was created with the mandate to support the ongoing reforms and encourage FDI, as well as
exports. PROMEX has been successful so far by disseminating information to potential investors,
assisting the Government in its general promotion activities abroad, and in designing new regulations and
laws for FDI. Over time, PROMEX has been asked to do a little of everything; not only has the agency
been responsible for investment and export promotion, but also for managing industrial parks, sponsoring
tourism operations, and assisting small and medium local companies. Today, it faces a number of
challenges which require the agency to refocus on its core mandate and to adjust its operations on the
basis of a clearly defuned strategy.
According to PROMEX's Business Plan 2002, the agency's priorities for the immediate future will shift
to the promotion of Cape Verde's image abroad and encouragement of foreign investment in Cape Verde.
Major program areas include a marketing and communication program to disseminate information on
Cape Verde as an investment location, export base and tourism destination, and a program to attract
increased levels of FDI, not least in export-oriented industries and in the tourism sector. These priorities
will be supported by an institutional development program, through which the agency intends to
strengthen staff skills, as well as internal processes and systems.
The Ministry of Finance, Planning and Regional Development is expected to improve its capacity to
monitor and provide financial management of autonomous public institutions, as well as managing
Government shares in private companies. Government intends to strengthen the Ministry's capacity to
report on the status of government participation in private enterprises annually. In addition, it plans to
establish a research and studies department which would be capable of producing economic reports and
drafting the economic framework for the national budgeting process.
Private Sector Capacity Building. During recent years, the private sector has become more vibrant and
organized. There are two Chambers of Commerce; one for each group of islands (Sotavento and
Barlavento), which were created to represent private enterprises' interests in all sectors. While the
chambers do not cover all of the private sector, membership is growing. The chambers are responsible for
building private/public partnerships and under this mandate, organize, at least twice a year, a forum for
private enterprises to further the dialogue between the Government and the pnvate sector. The forums
provide the opportunity for Government agencies, dealing with private enterprises, to meet and discuss
issues concerning the private sector. Government plans to follow-up on the agreements made at the
forums. In an effort to systematize and strengthen the dialogue between Government and the private
sector, Government will work with the leaders of the private sector, as well as representatives of the
associations on a regular basis to exchange ideas on pending economic and social issues.
The environment for technical learning and assistance in Cape Verde continues to be underdeveloped.
The mechanisms by which private firms transfer technology and raise their technical capabilities are
weak and while foreign investment in the country is increasing, technology transfer via this channel
remains limited. Until recently, all tertiary education, as well as vocational and technical training, was
provided abroad. The private sector strategy calls for capacity building for private operators, especially
SMEs. There is substantial demand by the private sector for these services and the two Chambers of
Commerce are trying to accommodate it with their programs.
- 1 1 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Macroeconomic Framework. The Government has given priority to maintaining macroeconomic
balances and settling arrears, and it is working with the IMF and key donors in implementing measures
that ensure this objective. As described in section B2, tax reforms have been undertaken.  The
Government, in collaboration with stakeholders, will formulate an action plan for further tax reforms
(including implementation of VAT), which would result in a system that encourages investment while
minimizing economic distortions. This work will be implemented with support under the project.
Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial Sector. The financial sector has
improved over the past years. As described in section B2, new instruments have been established. Banks
have been linked to the SWIFT network, a credit risk system was developed, agreements with
international branches of credit card companies have been negotiated, and an interbank network for
automatic tellers has been established. In the context of its financial sector strategy, the Government,
with the leadership of the BCV, will continue its efforts to further strengthen and develop the financial
sector in Cape Verde. The CBPPSP provided support to get the process underway and the project will
provide the necessary support for the next phase of development. There are certain elements of the
strategy that require further analysis. Targeted studies in the financial sector will help define requisite
policy measures to improve financial intermediation, such as increasing access for investment to
long-term funds or accessing international capital markets (including the necessary legislation and
regulations) and the further development of new financial instruments (e.g. leasing, venture capital). The
previous study on the banking sector was in 1995.
While the regulatory framework and the supervisory capacity of the BCV over the financial sector has
improved, Government recognizes that its efforts in these areas need to continue, as well as provide
technical assistance to other financial institutions. Government will takes steps to strengthen the
financial infrastructure to improve sector efficiencies. To this end, with support of the project, it will
finance, on a cost-sharing basis with the BCV, updating its information technology network, including
the telecommunications system, modernizing the electronic payments and transfer systems, including the
introduction of VISA, as well improving the technology to enable the commercial banks to access the
credit risk system and monetary information. In addition, targeted training will be provided to strengthen
the Central Bank's analytical and regulatory capacities. The BCV will extend these training programs to
other Governmental institutions, as well as financial and non-financial enterprises that could benefit from
the training programs. These improvements would enhance the central bank's supervision capabilities,
reinforce the banking system by supporting their efforts to further strengthen their portfolios, as well as
enhance the attractiveness of Cape Verde as an international business center.
As described in section B2, the Government intends to create sustainable pension scheme for all formal
sector workers by creating a streamlined mandatory pension scheme that would encourage voluntary
private funds to play a role in the overall system. The project will support Government's efforts to
establish a procedure to ensure that its contributions are made on behalf of the civil servants to the INPS.
With support of the project, studies will be undertaken to get the necessary financial and actuarial
information to draft new legislation, which would include changes to: the benefit formula, indexation,
eligibility requirements for disability and pension, retirement age and others.  In the interim,
Government, with support of the project, will carry out an audit of AP of the current pensioner
population and install a mechanism for ensuring that accurate records are maintained.
To ensure the momentum of the pension reform, Government has formed a Steering Committee which
will be comprised of the Project Coordinator, the pension component manager, the INPS and two private
- 12-



sector individuals. The Steering Committee will formalize the process of consultation through a series of
workshops. The options for systemic reform will be studied under the project, but these are seen as
long-term issues to be dealt with only after the initial phase of the reform, including integration of the
civil servants into the INPS scheme were achieved. This would lay the foundation for any discussion
about privatizing part of the new, rationalized and unified system. An international pension expert would
visit Cape Verde several times a year to advise the committee on its next steps.
Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness. As described in section B2, since 1998, Government has
made important strides to enhance competition. With support of the project the Government intends to
address the issues which have been raised as constraints to Cape Verde's competitiveness. In addition, it
intends to address critical issues such as factor costs and availability of services in the infrastructure
sectors. Regulatory work which has not been fully completed at the time the PRCBP closes in December
2003 will continue under the project.
As described in Section B2, administrative barriers have been a serious brake on business activities.
Based on the Administrative Barriers Study, by FIAS, the Government and stakeholders will formulate
and implement an action plan for further reforms in areas that would improve the interface between the
public and private sector and reduce the cost of doing business. This "living" plan and subsequent
updates, would be implemented with the support of the project.
Improving the Legal Environment for Business. As described in section B2, the Government, under the
leadership of the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) who has shown a strong leadership in legal and judicial
reform, has taken a number of measures to improve the legal environment, including reforms in the areas
of access to justice and legal information. Under the Second Public Sector Reform and Capacity
Building, several important steps were taken such as extensive training programs for members of the
legal professions and the adoption of several codes (including the Labor Code). The project will buildpn
these reforms by supporting Government's efforts in the area of regulations, improvements of registries
and courts, dissemination of legal information and introduction of arbitration procedures and steps to
ensure Cape Verde's accession to the WTO.
Post Privatization and Divestiture Process. As described in section B2, it had been anticipated that this
project will provide the necessary support for the operations of a fully functional regulatory agency and
help Government resolve the main outstanding sector issues. These efforts will be continued under the
project.
Support of public sector institutions which work with private sector. Government intends to undertake an
intensive review of the role that Government ministries and agencies play in the development of the
private sector and particularly SME's. Following the study, Government will develop a strategy to
establish a governance structure and provide support for institutional strengthening of these institutions.
Capacity Building for SMEs. Government has made a strategic decision to support SMEs and other local
enterprises to build their technical capacities to be able to better compete in the international markets.
Through this project, Government will support national businessmen in these efforts by providing a
50:50 cost-sharing grant, using an approach and procedures successfully tested and developed in other
IDA projects. The Chambers of Commerce, who are increasing their membership on a steady basis and
are linked into the private sector community, will take the lead in this effort. They already manage such
a program, which provides training and technical services on a cost-sharing basis and have the
mechanisms in place to administer this program.
- 13-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project will support the following major elements in the Government's private sector-led
poverty alleviation strategy. The total cost of the project will be US$13.5 million, with IDA financing
totalling US$11.5 million equivalent.  The project will finance consultants, goods, training and
workshops, small civil works and funds for the matching grant facility. Cape Verde is not eligible for
grant financing.
Component 1. Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial Sector (US$3.40
million, of which US$2.80 million equivalent is financed by IDA). As the financial sector in Cape
Verde expands, it becomes critical for Government to increase its efforts to diversify and deepen the
financial instruments in the sector. Within the context of the financial sector strategy, the proposed
subcomponent aims to reinforce the foundations of the financial sector by strengthening capacity of the
Central Bank to play its role in regulation and supervision (both in terms of its human resource skills and
technology), as well as expanding the financial infrastructure by increasing the availability of credit
information, enhancing the national payments system, including international integration (VISA) and
establishing deterrents to financial fraud and money laundering. The component will finance technical
assistance, training and equipment, especially information technology to upgrade the equipment at the
BCV and provide real time connection with the commercial banks for the payment system, credit risk and
loan concentration databases. This will improve the availability of credit information on both the
corporate and individual clients, which has been a constraint for financial institutions in making informed
lending decisions. In addition, the project will support Government efforts to update the regulatory
environment for insurance, as well as undertaking some studies to develop other non-bank financial
instruments, such as leasing and venture capital. Given the financial sector's (including BCV) ability to
generate sufficient internal resources, activities will be financed on a 50:50 cost-sharing basis.
The pension reform subcomponent will support Government to implement a series of parametric reforms
aimed at establishing a financially viable and sustainable pension system. In addition to alleviating a
potential contingent liability risk in the budget, another expected result of the reform is to help mobilize
longer-term resources that could be channeled through the financial sector to finance private investments.
The project will provide financing for technical assistance in the following areas: (a) independent audits
and an actuarial review; (b) an information system needs assessment; (c) consultancies to: (i) produce a
new investment policy, (ii) evaluate valuation rules, reporting and disclosure standards, (iii) civil service
integration study/cost analysis, (iv) study the development of contractual savings, regulatory/supervision
issues, (v) analysis of the social assistance scheme and FAIMO, and (vi) coverage strategy; (d) training
programs for: (i) trustees and (ii) technical workshops; and (e) translation of technical materials. In
addition, the project will finance hardware and software.
Component 2. Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness (US8$.00 million of which US$6.70 million
equivalent is financed by IDA.) As discussed in Section B2 of this report, companies in Cape Verde
have responded well with the opening of markets to private initiatives. However, growth in private
sector activities has not been accompanied by sufficient measures to streamline the administrative
requirements for business operations, the legal framework and the judiciary. This component will be
comprised of four subcomponents. In an effort to improve the investment climate and make Cape
Verdean companies more competitive and attractive to investment, the credit will finance activities to
improve the investment climate which is comprised of tax reform, alleviation of administrative barriers
(which may include tariff studies), development of supply chains and modernization of the legal
- 14 -



environment. Post Privatization and Divestiture reform, including regulatory reform, will be continued.
The project will provide the necessary support for the operations of a fully functional regulatory agency
and help Government resolve the remaining issues for the telecom, airport and port sectors. For the
Government's strategy to succeed, public/private partnerships and related institutional arrangements
would have to be strengthened. Concentration will be on capacity building of selected Government
ministries and agencies which interact most intensively with private firms, which includes: (a) enhancing
the capabilities of these institutions to deliver business support services; and (b) supporting their efforts
to improve their capability to identify and ease bureaucratic rigidities. Finally, to develop capacity in the
private sector, the project will include a matching grant fund by which private firms, as well as informal
enterprises through associations, share the costs (50:50) in their efforts to improve their technical
capacities to become more competitive. The two Chambers of Commerce, whose mandate is to represent
the private sector with Government, as well as provide these services, will also benefit from the grant as
manager/administrator of the matching grant facility.
Component 3. Supporting Project Implementation (US$1.15 million, of which US$1.05 million
equivalent is financed by IDA).
The project will, in substance, be implemented by the beneficiaries. In addition, a professional project
coordination unit (PCU) has been established. The PCU will oversee the financial management,
procurement, reporting, monitoring and evaluation, audit, public information and related functions, as
well as manage several cross-cutting sector issues, such as pensions and regulatory reform. The credit
will thus finance a team of high caliber local professionals located at the PCU and the related support
staff. The PCU will also be responsible for ensuring adequate monitoring and evaluation, preparing
quarterly reports, and facilitiating the mid-term review and orderly closing of the project.
,Indicatlve           Bank-   c , %,of
4    Co'mponent,%of                                  ' firancing   Bank-
. \ta ,( M)  Total.:(US$M)  financing
1. Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the
Financial Sector
A. Financial Sector Development/BCV                  1.00       7.4      0.50       4.3
B. Pension Reform                                    2.40      17.8      2.30      20.0
2. Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness                     0.0                 0.0
A. Investment Climate Reform                         2.00      14.8      2.00      17.4
B. Post Privatization and Divestiture                1.30       9.6      1.30      11.3
C. Institutional Capacity Building                   2.10      15.6      2.10      18.3
D. Private Sector Capacity Building                  2.60      19.3      1.30      11.3
3. Supporting Project Implementation                 1.15       8.5      1.05       9.1
4. PPF Refinancing                                   0.60       4.4      0.60       5.2
5. Unallocated                                       0.35       2.6      0.35       3.0
Total Project Costs  13.50   100.0     11.50     100.0
Total Financing Required   13.50     100.0     11.50    100.0
- 15 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
With support of both the SAC, as well as the CBPPSP, the PRCBP, the Energy/Water Project, and the
Transport Infrastructure Project, Government has taken policy decisions which have included privatizing,
as well as liquidating several Govermnent-owned companies (as of May 20, 2002, divestiture
transactions have been concluded for 21 out of a total 28 public enterprises in the privatization program).
Work is underway to strengthen the regulatory capacity in three areas: (i) air transport; (ii) infrastructure
and economic regulation; and (iii) food safety and drugs regulation. In addition, work has begun on
improving the investment climate as well as has begun on pension reform. Finally, efforts are being
made on tax reform, with the new tariff law and code approved by Parliament.
The project will finance targeted key policy reforms and institutions, including the following:
o   Accelerated legal reform to modernize laws by updating the codes of the commercial registry, real
property registry and the civil registry. The project will also support efforts to improve contract
enforcement through arbitration and improve the distribution of legal information;
o   Alleviation of administrative barriers, elimination of red tape and strengthening supply chains. An
indirect effect of these reforms will be in the form of improved governance through the reduction of
rent-seeking behavior by public officials. In addition, this will reduce the transaction costs of doing
business and create efficiencies in the market system;
o   Continued simplification of the tax regime, expansion of the tax base and reduction of tax-induced
distortions;
o   A harmonized and sustainable pension scheme for all formal workers will be established. This will
ultimately result in less strain on budget resources and provide the financial market with a source of
long-term resources for investment;
o   Improved regulatory framework for infrastructure through the development of an operational
multi-sector regulatory agency;
o   Increased efficiency of public institutions that interface with the private sector, in particular,
PROMEX, to be able to play their role in providing business facilitation and investment promotion
services and improving their capacity to identify and ease bureaucratic rigidities;
o   Enhancing the regulatory capacity of the BCV to be able to fulfill its mandate for regulation and
supervision of commercial banks and insurance companies. There is a need for continued capacity
building at BCV for the supervision of bank and non-bank financial institutions in order to reach
international standards;
o   Increased financial services and improved financial intermediation, through the introduction of
VISA, electronic payments systems, as well as real-time access for credit information by commercial
banks; and
o   Enhancing the capabilities of private firms, particularly SMEs through a 50:50 matching grant fund
designed to boost competitiveness of private firms doing business in Cape Verde by supporting
technology transfer and strengthening their access to and use of support services external to the firm.
- 16 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed operation is a technical assistance project which aims to strengthen the capacity of the
financial sector to deliver financial services to the private sector, as well as strengthen the private to
compete in a very competitive environment. Several benefits have been identified, including:
Private sector (enterprises and promoters): The project is expected to enhance and stimulate private
sector-led employment and economic growth by improving the business environment, encouraging direct
and indirect viable private investment and increasing productivity. The project will benefit entrepreneurs
by reducing uncertainties and transaction costs of doing business in Cape Verde by: (a) providing
transparent commercial legislation and improving the function of the judiciary on commercial activities;
(b) reducing production costs through improved efficiencies in the administration and tax distortions; (c)
better working supply chains in three targeted sectors; and (d) improved technology and capacity in
private enterprises. A more sound funding strategy of the pension scheme by Government can strengthen
the certainty of incentives for labor market decisions. Finally by strengthening the financial sector to
deliver services to the private sector, as well as providing technical assistance and learning opportunties
via the matching grant fund, enterprises anticipate an increased output from production efficiencies, as
well as capital investment by long-term funding sources, which should lead to job creation.
Local population.  The project is also expected to increase the welfare of the local population, by
strengthening the pension system to ensure that pension promises that are made can be kept and that the
institution can deliver a fair allocation of resources between different generations. By strengthening the
enterprises capacity to compete, the project would create increased employment opportunities. By
improving the notary and modernizing the codes for the various registries (commercial, housing and
civil), civil society would be able to utilize real assets as collateral for securing financing for small
businesses and other economic activities.
Government. The project will benefit Government in a number of ways. First, public revenue collection
would be enhanced. By eliminating the administrative barriers, which encourage companies to by-pass
formal routes, more companies will operate in the formal, rather than the informal sector, which will
result in increased revenues from taxation. Better government financial management due to pension
reforms by putting less strain on budget resources.  Improved efficiency, governance and more
predictable decision-making in the judicial process would increase public confidence in the judiciary. By
enacting parametric reforms in the pension system which would reduce the costs to Govermnent of
supporting pension benefits, fiscal savings can be utilized for social safety nets and other vehicles
supporting the Government's efforts to alleviate poverty. It is anticipated that productivity gains in the
private sector will lead to additional income, in the form of increased taxes. Finally, improving the
technical skills of Government to manage their shares in private enterprises will reduce uncertainties in
financial management.
- 17 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Four years, September 2003-August 2007, with the closing date of February
2008.
Steering Committee
(3 private sector & 3 Government
(headed by Minuster of MFPRD)
Technical Team
Pension Reform
--focal point for pensions
f   Project Coordinating Unit    G                               --PRSP
Project Coordinator
Post Privatization & Divestiture
Financial Management & Administration
(procurement specialist, accountant, program officer)
Beneficiaries
BCV, Public Institution (working with private institutions), MFPRD
Chambers of Commerce, MOJ, (pension reform institutions, PROMEX
The project will be overseen by a Steering Committee, headed by the Minister of MFPRD and supported
by a professional project coordination unit (PCU), which was established under the ongoing PRCBP. It
will monitor project implementation on a quarterly basis, review achievements, work programs and
budgets. The PCU will be responsible for all aspects of financial management, including budgeting and
auditing, procurement, quality assurance, monitoring and evaluation and reporting, etc. Responsibility of
the remaining privatization program will also be the responsibility of the PCU. The PCU is headed by a
project coordinator, who will be supported on a full time basis by a team of professional national
counterparts, most of whom already work in the PCU of the PRCBP. The PCU includes a procurement
specialist, an accountant, technical specialists (who will deal with cross-cutting issues), a program officer
and an administrative assistant. The PCU will be responsible for providing the necessary guidance for
the selection of consultants, the procurement of goods and services, and monitoring and evaluation, and
will be directly involved cross-cutting issues such as investment climate, post divestiture issues and
public/private dialogue, and pension reform By using an existing PCU, the Government will benefit
from existing experience and create economies of scale. The PCU will also be strengthened on a
continuous basis through appropriate training. As needed, short-term national or intemational specialists
- 18 -



to assist in the implementation of its work program will be contracted. With the project closing, it is
expected that the PCU would cease to exist, unless the Government decides to use the established
capacity to implement a yet undefined project funded by IDA or another donor.
Implementation arrangements seek to delegate the maximum feasible operational responsibility to the
institutions or government departments selected to implement the project components. For example, the
BCV and other financial sector institutions will each implement a part of the financial component, and
the Ministry of Justice will take the lead role in the legal component. Each beneficiary will be
responsible for preparing the terms of reference for the required technical assistance, as well as quarterly
reporting on the status of its component and updating the quarterly work plan.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring and evaluation of project activities are key functions
that will be carried out by the PCU. A quarterly monitoring table and progress reports will be prepared
by the PCU and discussed with the Steering Committee. A draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP), a
Financial Management Plan and overall Procurement Plan have been prepared and incorporated in a
Project Implementation Manual (PIM). The PIM includes among others, all period reporting, and
monitoring and evaluation throughout the project cycle. Apart from periodic reports and standard
monitoring arrangements, an impact assessment will be carried out approximately 18 months into the
project. In addition, a mid-term review is planned for 30 months into the project, which would include
an update of the administrative barriers study. Another assessment will be carried out one year prior to
the project's closing. The objective of the review would be to assess progress and, if necessary, redirect
the project integrating additional lessons learned and the realities on the ground.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The breath and complexity of the project were considered. Many of the reforms and activities which are
being supported in the context of this operation are either underway but need technical support to
complete, or are part of the NDP and are expected to be implemented within the four-year time horizon
of the project. This project provides the financial and technical support needed by Government to
execute its program. As such, while the project appears to be complex and have many components, it
would not represent a burden to Government's institutional capacity to implement it.
Government and the World Bank considered a hybrid investment/adjustment credit. In August 2001, a
decision was made to separate the proposed macroeconomic reform component from the rest of this
project. As such, detailed work on pension and investment climate, which entailed considerable
technical assistance and institutional reform and which were initiated under the SAC, are continued
under the proposed project.
The creation of a separate PCU was considered. However, Government would like to strengthen its
capacity to manage donor projects, in particular those of the World Bank. As such, it was agreed that the
existing PCU of the ongoing PRCBP would be strengthened with new staff and trained to take over this
new function.
-19-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Water and Energy Sector Project:  Credit 3205-CV (ongoing)        S            S
Support to the sector reform, including
privatization of ELECTRA.
Transport and Infrastructure Project  Credit 2466-CV (ongoing)   S             S
Support to port, airport and
infrastructure development
Privatization Technical Assistance  Credit 2377-CV (closed on     S            S
Project: PE sector reform, divestiture December 31, 1997)
and private sector promotion
Capacity Building Project for Private  Credit 2864-CV (closed on  S            S
Sector Promotion: Support to private  December 1999)
and financial sector reform
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Credit 3121-CV (ongoing)    S            U
Building Project: Regulatory reform
and increasing private participation in
key economic sectors
Structural Adjustment Credit:key  Credit 3587-CV (ongoing)       HS           HS
structural measures, mainly in the area
of privatization and tax reform
Other development agencies
-Support to macroeconomic reform,  European Union
trade liberalization and EMPA
restructuring
-Development of local capital markets Swedish
to increase resource mobilization and
supply of medium-term financing
-Support to pension reform       ILO
-Support to banking supervision  Portuguese
-Support to WTO Accession; AGOA  American
web-site at PROMEX; Grant funding
to SMEs for capital and technology
-Studies on the 3 Industrial Zones  UNDP
IP/DO Ratings. HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 20 -



The Growth and Competitiveness Project will build upon efforts by Government under closed projects,
as well as ensure that reforms implemented under ongoing projects will be sustainable. For the financial
sector, this project will build upon activities by the CBPPSP whose development objective was to create
a well functioning financial sector.  As noted in section B2, the financial sector has seen substantial
progress during the last several years. This project will take it one step further by developing a VISA
system for payments, as well as strengthening the BCV as a monetary authority, regulator and supervisor
of the banking and insurance sectors.
On the private sector, the project will support efforts started by the CBPPSP to strengthen PROMEX to
fulfill its mandate for investment promotion activities and bringing new FDI into Cape Verde. The
project will also strengthen the Chambers of Commerce (also a recipient of support under the CBPPSP),
who are the primarily interlocutors between the private sector and Government, and who will work with
private sector and other associations to strengthen their operations by providing financing on a matching
grant basis to secure technical assistance, as well as training.
On judicial reform, the project will build upon efforts made by several of the above project, notably the
Second Public Sector Reform Project and the CBPPSP. Under the project, three codes will be completed
(commercial, civil and housing registries), the regulations for the labor code will be written. In addition,
judicial information will be disseminated, as well as the appropriate training provided to magistrates,
other judicial personnel, private sector and civil society.
Finally, the project will build on the work started by the PRCBP on privatization, divestiture and
regulatory reforms. It will ensure that steps taken for establishing a multi-sector regulatory body have
been completed and that the agency is operational. In addition, other post pnvatization and divestiture
activities will be completed in an effort to ensure sustainability, such as a PPI study on airport operations.
Although the project is currently rated "U" in achieving development objectives, this was due to the
slowness of the privatization program, given the fact that political decisions need to be made on very
sensitive issues, in which national consensus needs to be developed to facilitate the refeorms. However,
the other parts of the project, are working well and this performance will not affect the implementation of
this project.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Particular attention has been paid to ensuring that the project design reflects not only the Bank's
experience in Cape Verde and Sub-Saharan Africa, but also integrates approaches being currently
pursued in other developing countries. Project preparation significantly benefited from the inputs of
various parts of the Bank Group, including FIAS and MIGA. The important lessons and approaches
integrated into the project include the following:
*   Building on existing work helps maintain a momentum towards reform. The project builds upon
work already completed under the closed private sector support projects (CBPPSP and Second Public
Sector Reform Project) and work already started under ongoing projects PRCBP and the SAC, as
well as other bank projects.
*   A simple and delegated project design is compatibility with political realities and institutional
absorptive capacity. The scope and design of the project will be sufficiently flexible to take into
account existing and changing local conditions. The project design is based on the I-PRSP, as well
as the NDP, forming the basis of the PRSP currently being designed.
- 21 -



o   Stakeholder involvement in the design and execution of the project and development of local
expertise. Experience dictates that local ownership of a project of this type results in a better
definition of the constraints faced by the private sector and the initiatives to address them, effective
project execution and sustained achievement of project objectives.
o   Use of local capacity which has been developed through other projects lowers the learning curve
and increases efficiency and productivity. By using an existing PCU, the Government can
consolidate experiences and create econornies of scale. This will enable a transfer of skills from one
project to another, including procurement, financial management and disbursement expertise. In
addition, the implementation arrangements will ensure that there is an entity formally responsible for
project technical coordination and monitoring that has the incentives to solve problems in a timely
manner.
o   Matching grant fund operational procedures must ensure expeditious processing of the applications
while ensuring the stakeholders fiduciary and governance responsibilities. The present project
builds upon the Chamber of Commerces' past satisfactory experience to:  (i) strengthen the
institutional and financial sustainability of the two Chambers; (ii) maintain sufficient independence
of the grant management to minimize the risk of capture by special interests; and (iii) ensure good
monitoring and evaluation capacity. The Chambers of Commerce are already implementing a
participatory grant program so the private sector has been exposed to this type of support. The
project will enable the Chambers to enlarge the program, using the same stringent criteria and reach
more of their members, as well as expand the program to other associations, such as the
Microfinance Association and the Women Jurist Association.
o   Business Environment. Thanks to the participation of FIAS in the design and implementation of tax
and administrative barrier reforms, Africa-wide and international experience is fully reflected in the
project. One lesson learnt is that initially promising reforms do not necessarily lead to sufficient
improvements in the investment climate. In view of this, reforms need to be underpinned by surveys
and quantitative follow-up methods, and monitored vis-a-vis national and intemational indicators.
The other lesson learnt, especially with respect to alleviation of red-tape, is that the reform process is
iterative, and requires strong stakeholder participation and ownership.
o   Improving the legal environment. The experience under several projects has shown the limitation of
implementing reforrns without the full implication of the Ministry of Justice. This has been taken
into account in the project design and should be a key to sustaining reforms started earlier and
addressing immediate needs. Such operations should recognize that: (i) judicial reforms are part of a
long-term process; (ii) sustainability of the reforms depend on building strong institutions; and (iii)
the right balance should be found between guidance provided by comparative law experience and the
particular requirements of the national legal systems.
o   Pension Reform. The conceptual ground for the pensions reform in Cape Verde began with support
from the International Labor Organization (ILO). Bank lending in support of such reforms is usually
through fairly substantial adjustment operations (see for instance, the examples of the Russian
Federation, and Bulgaria). This approach facilitates the necessary financial restructuring, but suffers
from the fact that the timeframe for adjustment operations is shorter than the one needed to ensure
sustainability through appropriate systems and capacity building. There are also examples of pension
reform being supported under investment operations, for instance in Mali and at the municipal level
in Brazil. Such approaches are partial, as they tend to respond to capacity building needs without
tackling significant policy reforms. Taking this experience into account, and even though financing
- 22 -



of government liabilities to pension schemes is not yet eligible under investment operations, the
present project aims to support both ambitious policy reforms together with comprehensive capacity
building. The team also looked at lessons learned from pension reform projects in other regions. In
all cases, a strong and stable implementing unit was key. In addition, a Steering Committee was
essential to ensure strong management support from within the Borrower organization that could
make strategic decisions and make commitments to ensure that the project continues to drive
forward. The members of the Steering Committee should come from parts of the organization which
are most involved in the project.
*   Infrastructure Regulation.  The importance of adequate regulatory capacity in the context of
sustainable infrastructure reform has been clearly identified in the context of the recent workshop on
regulatory refortn in Praia. The project builds on the PRCBP, as well as international experience,
notably Latin America, where the importance of building independent regulatory capacity, preferably
prior to divestiture, has been demonstrated. In practice, most of the support under the project is
focused on the new multi-sector regulatory agency and cross-cutting issues will be identified and will
be tackled.
*   Public-Private Consultations. The importance of building an effective means of private-public
dialogue is identified as a key area in the Africa region's private sector development strategy. Since
the late 1990's Cape Verde has attempted to improve public-private dialogue, however it is
recognized that this remains weak and that a concerted effort needs to be made on both sides to
improve this.
*   Institutional Support for Investment Promotion. IDA has been supporting promotion agencies in
Africa since at least the early 1990s. This experience has highlighted the importance of good
corporate governance, independence of the agency, and clear directions, all of which would apply to
PROMEX.
*   Implementation Arrangements. The implementation arrangements follow current best practice in
private sector projects (e.g., Mozambique) whereby beneficiaries manage their own subcomponent,
while strong financial management, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation capacity is provided
by a centralized project management unit.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has been working consistently to improve the economic and business environment in
Cape Verde. These efforts will continue with the re-engineering of the Ministry of Industry, which has
become the Ministry of Industry, Growth and Competitiveness. The difficult decisions taken by the
Government to implement its structural reform, financial restructuring and privatization programs and the
resulting achievements are evidence of its commitment to providing an enabling environment for private
sector and export development. The Government requested additional support from the Bank (they are
currently implementing a SAC, as well as the PRCBP), to ensure that the momentum for improving the
economic and business environment continues. The Government requested this support for its private
sector development program fully recognizing the need to continue to include local entrepreneurs in the
economy's growth, to obtain political support for their ambitious economic reform program and the need
to create jobs.
As mentioned in sections B2 and B3, the Government has shown its high comittment with pension
reform. First, Government has taken the political decision to move the civil servants to INPS in the
future. This would enable the project to support the integration of the two small schemes for efficiency
- 23 -



and social policy reasons. Government has taken steps to clear up its arrears with INPS; it has issued
treasury securities to INPS to cover most of its outstanding obligations. At the same time, it is taking
steps to reduce further liabilities. Legislation has been proposed which will include changes to: the
benefit formula, indexation, eligibility requirements for disability and pension, retirement age and others.
Together, these would likely meet the objective of reducing the liability by 20 percent or more. Finally,
the Government is also taking steps to increase internal efficiency and reduce administrative costs of the
INPS. The INPS is also working with the ILO on improving internal processes, and human resource
capacity.
As mentioned in section D3, the proposed program, with support from MIGA and FIAS, Government's
will continue its efforts to improve the competitiveness of the economy and make the private sector the
main engine of growth. It builds upon efforts of previous World Bank projects and provides continuity
of the reform program, which the Government has publicly and officially committed itself to, and which
is embodied in its Letter of Sector Development Policy and the NDP which was recently adopted by
Parliament.
To ensure upfront stakeholder ownership, the project has been prepared in a participatory manner. This
approach will be continued during project implementation where project and component oversight will
be ensured by a Steering Committee and varnous task forces.  Substantial responsibility for the
implementation of the reform and financial sector components will be devolved respectively to the
MFPRD and the BCV. The establishment of a joint private-public steering committee to oversee the
project is a further signal of Borrower commitment. The PCU has been empowered to orchestrate the
privatization program, which is progressing at a steady pace.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is seen by the local actors, donor community and private sector as having credibility in the
field of privatization, legal and regulatory issues and competition policy. The Bank has successfully
supported Government's previous efforts in these areas through its policy dialogue and various technical
assistance projects. Its participation in the financial sector and private sector development through
improvement of the enabling economic and regulatory environment would enhance the credibility of
Government's efforts, particularly regarding the transparency and soundness of its regulatory framework.
Bank support will further provide resources to Government to implement essential policy reforms and
capacity building efforts. In undertaking this type of project, the Bank provides an opportunity for other
bilateral and multilateral sources to leverage the Government's effort to develop its financial and private
sector development program.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic analysis of this type of private sector development project presents special difficulties,
particularly when there is an indirect relationship between the project's actions and the stream of
benefits. Moreover, for the project's matching grant's scheme, it should be noted that it is difficult to
estimate the amounts and types of investment, incremental production and exports generated from the
supported firms. Nevertheless, a cost-benefit analysis has been used to calculate the Net Present Value
(NPV) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) in a "with" and "without" project framework for the
matching grant component and is summarized in Annex 4 to this report.
- 24 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Given the technical assistance nature of the project, there are no clear revenue streams that would pennit
a straightforward financial analysis. However, it is assumed that financial costs and benefits are equated
to economic costs and benefits.
Fiscal Impact:
The main beneficiaries of the project will be: (i) the two chambers of commerce, their member
associations, and a minimum of 200 small and medium enterprises with better access to business
development services; (ii) the private sector with a more business friendly environment and a reduction
in the cost of doing business, which should lead to increased taxable income; (iii) the financial sector
with better regulations, more financial services and products, and improved financial intermediation; and
(iv) the public sector, the Government in particular, with strengthened and streamlined institutions.
These improvements m the business environment should bring about an expected increase in jobs by
1,200 and an anticipated fiscal impact of approximately US$4.2 million.
3. Technical:
The project is technically sound and takes into account international best practices in its design. The
project's two major components are mutually reinforcing, building upon work which is ongoing or has
been completed under other World Bank operations. The project will complete activities initiated under
other operations, thus assuring their technical success and sustainability. Best technical practices are
reflected in the reform programs, such as the pension and legal reform, as well as in the setup for
project-supported schemes, such as the matching grant. The project will help attract private investment,
bringing new technology and management know-how to the private sector. New entrepreneurs may avail
themselves to services offered by the Chambers of Commerce and the matching grant fund for training
and technical support, using practices which have been developed elsewhere and which are proving to be
successful vehicles of improving local skills and strengthening operations and governance practices.
4. Institutional:
As mentioned in C4, The project institutional arrangements seek to ensure stakeholder participation and
will use a PCU and experienced staff who have managed other World Bank-financed private sector
support projects. Informal and formal mechanisms to ensure coordination of all parties concerned (i.e.
various ministries, private sector representatives and donors) will be established.  Stakeholder
consultations are thus an integral part of the project design. Project and component oversight will be
ensured by a high level Steering Committee representing beneficiary institutions, as well as the private
sector.  The committee will act as an advisory board for the project and will monitor project
implementation, review achievements, work programs and budgets. Additional coordination mechanisms
may be created as needed.
- 25 -



An indepth review will be carried out on the institutional capacity of PROMEX during mid-2003. A new
strategy and well-defmed work program will enable the institution to become more focused and
goal-oriented (its focus is currently very fragmented, trying to do too much with its available resources).
The staff are very qualified and committed to the job, but an operational assessment will permit
management to realign the skills necessary for PROMEX to carry out its mandate. At the same time, the
governing body which had been dissolved during the past year due to financial constraint of Government,
will be reinstated.
The Chambers of Commerce are well-positioned to manage the matching grant program. The Chambers
are integrated into the private sector community and also manage a cost-sharing program which provides
training and technical assistance to their members. They are well-run organizations and have a
satisfactory governing board in place. Their financial statements are well prepared. The project will
offer resources to the Chambers, in lieu of a management fee, for them to continue to reinforce their
organizations and expand their services to their members.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The MFPRD will have overall responsibility for implementing the project. Each beneficiary will be
responsible for the technical aspects of its program in a manner consistent with their strategies and
business plans which have been agreed between the Government and IDA.
4.2 Project management:
The Ministry has already established and staffed the PCU (under the ongoing PRCBP) and delegated
project management to it. The scope of responsibility of the PRCBP PCU has been expanded so that it
can provide administrative, financial and procurement support to all private sector projects. The PCU
team is taking steps to reinforce its capacity to ensure the high levels of performance which it previously
showed are maintained.
As described in C4, monitoring and evaluation of project activities will be carried out by the PCU. A
quarterly monitoring table and progress reports will be prepared each semester. A draft PIP, Financial
Management Plan and overall Procurement Plan has been designed and has been incorporated in a PIM.
The PIM includes, inter alia, all period reporting, monitoring and evaluation throughout the project
cycle. Apart from periodic reports and standard monitoring arrangements, an impact assessment will be
carried out approximately 18 months into the project. In addition, a mid-term review is planned for 30
months into the project. Another assessment will be carried out one year prior to the project's closing.
The objective of the reviews will be to assess progress and, if necessary, redirect the project integrating
additional lessons learned and the realities on the ground.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no procurement issues. The PCU will be the coordinating and responsible agent for all
procurement carried out under the Project. This function will be handled by a team in the PCU which
has a good track record in World Bank procurement. The team will handle the procurement requests
according to monthly procurement schedules submitted by each implementing agency. A procurement
plan for the first twelve months has been prepared.
- 26 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
There are no financial management issues. The PCU will be responsible for ensuring that financial
management and reporting procedures under the proposed project are acceptable. An action plan has
been prepared to reinforce the capacity of the staff. A financial management assessment for the project
was carried out, as part of project appraisal, based on the Guidelines established by the World Bank. The
financial management team will be the same one that is currently operating for the PRCBP and which has
proven its ability to maintain good financial accounts and prepare quality financial statements. The
assessment confirmed that the PCU has put in place acceptable financial management arrangements as
required by the Bank's policies, including a reliable system of accounting, reporting, auditing and internal
controls. The accounting and financial management system of the PCU will update the chart of accounts
for the project and will segregate the various project accounts, in a manner satisfactory to IDA. The
procedures will be included in the project manual. Independent auditors acceptable to the Association
will be recruited to audit the project accounts.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No environmental issues.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
not applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The major social issue is the strengthening of the INPS and AP to ensure that there is a secure and
sustainable pension system. Pensions represent an important element of the social safety net put in place
by the Government. The program calls for measures that will ensure that the Government can meet the
needs of the people, without putting an undue strain on the fiscal situation.
-27 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
There will be several methods to ensure stakeholder participation. It will be the responsibility of the
PCU to ensure that stakeholder participation is consistent. First, the beneficiaries have been actively
involved in preparing the project. Most of the beneficiaries already have 2-5 year work plans under the
NDP and Investment Strategy, a portion of which have been developed into project components, with
performance indicators which they feel are attainable within the project timeframe.
Second, during preparation, there were extensive consultations with the donor community to avoid
duplication of support and to seek their views on the economic and financial environment in Cape Verde.
The donor community is not very active in private sector development in Cape Verde. The Americans
are working in three areas: (a) WTO accession, of which the project would finance only those areas
which are not being covered; (b) AGOA, in which they have established a web connection at PROMEX;
and (c) they are planning to scale up a current program for support to SMEs, which provides funds for
capital investment and technical know-how. Finally, private sector forums organized by the Chambers of
Commerce (for geographical representation) were organize. The forums discussed key issues affecting
the sector and remedial actions translated into project subcomponents.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
(see 6.2 above)
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
A Steering Committee, comprised of Government and representatives from the pension institutions (AP
and INPS) has been established to work with Government on pension reform. In addition, there is one
member of the PCU dedicated to pension reform. Technical expertise, on an "as needed" basis will be
provided to ensure that these reforms are implemented according to international best practices.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project will put into place measures to ensure the pension system's sustainability so that when
liabilities to its members are due, the system will have the resources to pay.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the project?
Policy                                     Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          U Yes C No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  U Yes U No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   ( ) Yes ( No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     U Yes U No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 ( Yes U No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                (U) Yes (U9 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                        (U9 Yes (9 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            (U9 Yes (9 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)        U Yes U No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      (U) Yes U No
- 28 -



7 2 Descnbe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
not applicable
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project provides financial, technical assistance and associated institutional and policy support for a
well-defined, time-bound process involving financial sector strengthening, investment climate reform and
promotion of private sector investment. The irreversible nature of most of these actions and the
undisputed commitment of the current Government on these reforms, enhances the likelihood that, once
implemented, they will be sustainable. One risk concerns the possibility that the implementation of some
of the measures may be incomplete. This risk is being mitigated by IDA support that will help ensure
that human and other resources are available for implementing the programs.  By building the
participatory approach into the design of the project, timely feedback will be ensured so that corrective
measures can be taken. The sustainability will also depend on the success of the cost-sharing grant
scheme in catalyzing the private sector. The demand for the grant scheme was established during
preparation of the project, and the participatory approach built into the project implementation
arrangements will help ensure that private sector concerns in the operations of the grant are addressed as
they arise. Sustainability is also contingent on the receptivity of public agencies to ease regulatory
obstacles.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
The Government has shown its commitment to improving private sector competitiveness. As mentioned
in section B2, with support of the SAC, Government has surpassed its commitment to implement tough
refonns, elevating the project rating to highly satisfactory. A new central banking act has been enacted,
substantial tax reforms have been undertaken, several measures for the privatization program have
already been undertaken, as well as steps taken to improve the regulatory mechanisms. The team does
not foresee any substantial risks to the success of this project.
Risk                   Risk Rating   -       Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Macroeconomic and political stability is  M         Continued dialogue with Government in the
not maintained                                      context of the Public Expenditure Review and
proposed Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
Government deviates from its              N         Ongoing Government partnership with
commitment to strengthening the                     commercial banks; on-site supervision and
financial system                                   capacity building. Recruitment of qualified
consultants as needed
Systemic and parametric pension reforms   M        Strong upfront policy commitment from
are not implemented                                institutional stakeholders and technical
assistance will be provided under project
Matching grant fund does not yield        N         Strong monitoring and evaluation; partnerships
results                                             with beneficiaries and advertising
- 29 -



Improvement to investmnent climate is     M         Upstream participatory forums (FIAS), strong
insufficient due to incomplete tax and              comittment and technical assistance
administrative barrier reforms, as well as
legal reform
Backtracking/delays in implementing        S        Strong Government policy comnmittment and
regulatory and divestiture reforms                  Government understanding with stakeholders;
capacity building resources.
Evolving institutional framework for key  M         Involvement of MIGA and technical assistance
promotion agencies (notably PROMEX)
undermines their performance
Inadequate design of reforms and no       N         Consultancies and public information
uptake for funds
From Components to Outputs
Project complexity hinders                M         Training and capacity building will be on an
implementation                                      ongoing basis to ensure that the necessary
expertise is available at the PCU to carry out
the project.
Government does not provide sufficient     N        Government has indicated its intention to
counterpart funds                                   allocate the necessary budgetary resources. In
addition, activities which require counterpart
funds, will have the funds delivered on an
"upfront" basis prior to the purchase of the
goods and/or services
No uptake for the matching grant funds     N        Public information campaigns
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The cost implications of merging the two pension plans and establishing procedures to ensure that
Government can pay its financial obligations to INPS (in the form of treasury securities), both sides
(INPS and Administra ao Publico) are working together in an effort to create sustainable pension reform.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
o   The Government has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association;
o   The Project Account has been opened and the initial deposit equivalent to $30,000 has been paid into
the Account;
o   A memorandum of understanding (MOU) between the Government and the Chambers of Commerce
- 30 -



has been executed in a manner aceptable to the Association;
* the Government has established a financial management and accounting system for the Project, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and
* The Government has appointed an independent auditor
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
* Before signing the legal documents, the Association must receive from the Borrower letters or
telexes appointing a representative to execute and deliver the Development Credit Agreement and
related documents for the above-mentioned Project
* A report will be prepared by the Government and reviewed by IDA by June 30 and December 31 of
each year, which integrates the results of monitoring and evaluation activities in the implementation
of the project and achievements of project objectives.
* Accounts will be audited annually by a qualified auditor and the audits will be sent to IDA no later
than March 31 of each year (which is the standard six months following the year-end).
* Conduct in collaboration with IDA a mid-term review of the project no later than March 31, 2006
* Maintenance of the PCU under MoFP in the form and with functions, staffing and resources
acceptable to IDA
* Meeting the agreed performance indicators
Disbursement Condition
* The Board of Governors for PROMEX will be established and operational in a manner satisfactory to
the Association (a separate category 3a has been established in the DCA).
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
X 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
As noted in section, items (c), (d), and (e) are included in an agreed on action plan and will be completed
prior to the proposed effectiveness date
(a) The Project Account has been opened and the initial deposit equivalent to $30,000 has been paid into
the Account;
(b) A memorandum of understanding between the Government and the Chambers of Commerce has been
executed in a manner aceptable to the Association;
(c) The Government has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory
to the Association;
(d) The Government has established a financial management and accounting system for the Project, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and
(e) The Government has appointed an independent auditor
- 31 -



0. Compliance with Bank Policies
0  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Sherri Ellen Archondo           b       a                            Mclntire
Team Loader                     Sector Manager/Director          Country Manager/Director
-32-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
Ke'y'P'rformance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy,of Objectives          Indicators      .                               Critical Assum'ptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Increased private sector-led  Achieve private investment of Macro-economic reports  * Continued
economic growth            at least 8 percent of GDP by                             macroeconomic and
year-2007                  Trade Statistics              political stability
* Govemment's
commitment to economic,
financial and trade
reforms;
* Continued support for
private sector
development through
decreased in rent-seeking,
fraudulent behavior
Project Development        Outcome / Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
The Project's overall objective Measures have been adopted  Baseline survey and then  * Macroeconomic and
would be to broaden the base  to ensure the pension  follow up survey               policy stability is
of private participation in  sustainability, namely: (a) a                          maintained
Cape Verde's economic      strategy is in place to   Government reports and
growth and enhance private  gradually unify the two  statistics                  * Direct jobs created by the
sector competitiveness and  existing schemes; (b) criteria                          project lead to "indirect"
further develop its financial  of benefits for FAIMO have                          job creation of 1:2
sector.                    been clearly defined; (c)
parametric changes have been                           * Folitical commitment to
made to the INPS                                         PSD reform is sustained
Financial system  has been                             * Master plans result in
strengthened    and     all                              investment
commercial banks are in
compliance with prudential
norms; NPL decreases to 8
percent by June 2005 and 7
percent by August 2007
Tariff and tax reform brings a
reduction of the corporate tax
rate to 25 percent, as well as
having tariffs consistent with
international best practice and
regional UEMOA norms
Investment climate has
improved and by mid-term
review, an action plan
including measures for
reducing administrative
barriers has been adopted and
- 33 -



by end-project, at least two
recommendations from the
action plan have been fully
implemented.
With respect to the post
privatization and divestiture,
by mid-term review: (a) a new
telecom regulatory framework
has been adopted; (b) at least
one value-added service has
been developed; and (c) a
draft strategy for private
participation for infrastructure
in relation to airport
management has been
prepared. By end-project, at
least three value-added
services have been introduced
into Cape Verde.
Improvement in the judicial
climate which includes: (a)
regulations and procedures for
the labor code have been
adopted; (b) draft arbitration
legislation has been
completed; (c) a system for the
dissemination of legal
information has been
established (either through
web-site or other means); (d)
Cape Verde has completed a
legislative action plan for
accession to the WTO and (e)
the notaries on all islands are
electronically inter-connected
and the time to register a
business has been reduced
from three weeks to 72 hours,
when the request file is
complete;
At least one report on the
status of governmental
participation in private
enterprises has been produced
by MFPRD and the research
and studies department at the
MFPRD is established and
operational;
Through promotion efforts,
FDI has increased by US$100
million with 2,000 jobs
-34 -



created by mid-2005 and
US$225 million with 5,000
jobs created by end project.
As a result of the matching
grant facility, on average, by
mid-term review, the
entrepreneurs have: (a) an
improvement in the efficiency
ratios, which will be measured
by the percentage of operating
costs over revenue (sales) of at
least 5 percent; and (b) an
increase in production and/or
services of at least 5 percent;
and by end-project, these
ratios will increase to 10
percent.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Financial Sector
has been modernized,
Strengthening and
Restructuring the
1.0 The financial sector has
been strengthened
1.1 Quality of loan portfolio  Banking supervision is  Supervision reports       Government remains
has improved               efficiently implemented with  BCV progress reports    committed to strengthening the
at least one on-site visit will be                    financial system and
made to each commercial bank                          eliminating distortions
every two years
All banks are connected to a
real-time, credit risk system
1.2 Increase in foreign    Through the implementation
exchange in the country as a  of an electronic VISA system,
result of global payment   600 transactions totaling US$5
system (VISA)              million in foreign exchange
annually by mid-term and 950
with US$8 million by
end-project
1.3 Insurance sector can   Legislation has been updated
provide long-term resources to Life insurance has increased
financial sector           from 2 percent of total to 5
- 35 -



percent of total insurance
business by end project
1.3. A sustainable pension  Improved targeting of public  INPS reports          Government sustains its
system is established      pension payments and                                  commitment to social security
actuarial performance of                              reform and pays its arrears
pension system by end-project.                        due to the system
Government does not
Government liabilities to INPS                        undertake parametric reforms
are paid and a system is in                           partially
place to ensure timely
payments for civil servants
who move to the private sector
by mid-term review
Audits and actuarial reviews
are carried out and work plans
prepared by mid-term review
Equipment (hardware and
software) has been purchased
and installed by end-project
Evaluation of technical rules,
reporting and disclosure
standards has been carried out,
as well as a study of the
development of contractual
savings by mid-term review.
Coverage strategy has been
prepared by mid-term review
New investmnent policy has
been prepared and investment
policy for the portfolio has
been developed for the
pension fund by end-project
Administrative efficiency will
be improved as measured by
an increase in timeliness and a
decrease in error rates in
recordkeeping, while costs
will be reduced
1.4 Other non-bank financial  Targeted sector studies are
instruments are developed  completed  (leasing, venture
capital, etc) and strategy is
prepared
- 36 -



Private Sector
Competitiveness is enhance
2.0 Business Environment has
improved
2.1 New tax and tariff reform  VAT will become effective  Progress reports, supervision  * Govemment is committed
will be implemented                                   reports by implementing        to reducing barriers by
Existing incentive scheme will agencies                  simplifying regulations
be streamlined by end-project                             and tax structures,
Supervision reports
Imposto de Selo of 0.7 percent Updated FIAS/RPED study
on sales will be eliminated by  IMF reports
end-project
A study on tax treatment for
export processing zones will  Baseline survey and
be carried out by mid-term  subsequent survey
review
2.2 Administrative barriers for Report on Reduction of
investors has been reduced  Administrative Barriers Study
will be reviewed and an action
plan prepared by mid-term
review
Procedures to sell or transfer
state-owned land and real
estate will be simplified by  Supervision reports
end -project               Codes
A study to create a land
registry (cadastre) system will
be prepared by mid-term
review and work will be
started by end-project
Company registration fees will
be reduced and import license
fees will be analyzed by
end-project
2.3 Supply response and    At least three sector studies
competitiveness stimulated in  will be completed and                             Financial resources to develop
key sectors or entry points  strategic plans for developing                      the communication network
the sector will be prepared by                        will be available
end-project
2.4 Legal and Judicial     Computers and software have
institutional framework    been installed to link notaries
on all islands by end-project
- 37 -



codes for commercial, housing
and civil registries will be
completed by mid-term review
legal information is brought
together to make it available to
the public by mid-term review
3.0 Post Privatization Reform  Support to multi-sector  Progress report and Bank  o Public sector institutions
regulatory agency - structured supervision report       prepared to change their
and on-the-job training, study                          corporate cultures
tours and exchange programs,
and advisory service for post
training aftercare will be
completed.
Advisor to Minister of
Transport will be hired and an
action plan to address
outstanding issues will be
prepared
4.0 Investment facilitation is  Strategically-focused  Quarterly progress report,
supported through an effective investment plan will be  supervision report, MIGA
and efficient investment  developed by mid-term review assessment, client surveys and
promotion agency                                     operational audit
PROMEX's annual business
plan will be implemented
(annually)
At least four master
development plans have been
prepared (by mid-term review)
Marketing materials will be
updated including the web-site
by mid-term review
Staff skills will be realigned to
fit PROMEX focus by
mid-term review
Investor tracking system will
be installed and intranet will
be upgraded by end-project
5.0 MFPRD is actively     Status of govemment shares in Annual reports
managing the PEs and      private enterprises would be
govemment shares          produced; and
The research and studies
department at MFPRD will be
established and operational
(capable of producing
- 38 -



economic reports and drafting
the economic framework for
the national budgeting
process) by end-project
6.0 Firm learning, skill  Outreach campaign is
acquisition and technological  implemented by mid-term                          * Firms and workers build
and managerial knowledge are review                                               on training received, are
enhanced                                                                          responsive to
At least 80 percent of the                              recommendations for
objectives proposed by the                              change, use available
matching grant beneficiaries                            business services
will be achieved by                                     effectively
end-project
6.1 Private-public dialog has  At least 20 percent of the total
improved                  actions agreed upon at the
forums will be carried out by
mid-term review and an
additional 20 percent will be
completed by end-project.                             * Government remains
committed to
Government and private sector                           private-public dialog as a
representatives are meeting at                          method of improving the
least twice annually by                                 business environment
mid-term review
Project Implementation
7.0 High quality project  Effective project management Progress reports and bank  * PCU does not have the
implementation will be    and coordination          supervision reports            capacity to fulfill its
ensured                                                                            mandate in institutional
Timely budgeting, reporting  Operational and financial  reform and project
and auditing              audits                        implementation.
High quality financial    Prior and post-procurement
management and procurement review
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
Component 1. Modernize,   US$ 3.40 million          Disbursement reports       Government does not continue
Strengthen and Restructure                          Progress reports           partnership with the financial
financial sector                                     Supervision mission reports  sector institutions on reform
US$ 1.00 million
Subcomponent l.A -
Financial Sector Reform
Subcomponent l1.B -       US$ 2.40 million
IPension Reform
Component 2. Enhance      US$ 8.00 million
- 39 -



Private Sector
Competitiveness
Subcomponent 2.A -        US$ 2.00 million
Investment Climate Reform
Subcomponent 2B- Post     US$1.30 million                                     Government remains
Privatization & Divestiture                                                   committed to implement
regulatory framework in a
Subcomponent 2.C -        US$ 2.10 million                                    manner to promote
Institutional Capacity Building                                               competition and efficiency
Subcomponent 2.D - Private  US$ 2.60 million                                  Private sector is not receptive
Sector Capacity Building                                                      to the increase in cost-sharing
for business services (from
30/70 to 50/50)
Component 3. Supporting   US$ 1.15 million                                    Government does not provide
Project Implementation                                                        counterpart funds on a timely
basis.
Project complexity hinders
implementation
PCU is not capable of
managing program
PPF Reimbursement         US$ 0.6 million
Non-allocated             US$0.35 million
TOTAL PROJECT COST        US$13.50 million
-40-



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
The project's overall objective is to broaden the base of private participation in Cape Verde's economic
growth and enhance private sector competitiveness, as well as further develop its financial sector. This
will be achieved through a series of actions supported by the project, notably: (a) financial sector reform,
including pension reform; (b) investment climate reform, which includes, but is not limited to: (i) tax
reform, (ii) alleviation of administrative barriers, (iii) improved supply chains, and (iv) legal reform; (c)
post privatization and divestiture reforms; and (d) private sector and institutional capacity building. The
project will thus help sustain the Government's poverty alleviation efforts by generating increased
employment opportunities through improved international competitiveness.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.40 million
Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial Sector (US$3.4 million, of which
US$2.8 million equivalent is financed by IDA). Government recognizes the importance of a strong
financial sector to support private sector development and economic growth. With support of the project,
it will take requisite actions to improve the health of the financial sector and particularly the country's
commercial banks and other financial institutions and instruments, including the pension schemes and
payment systems. Much work has already been undertaken and this component will deepen the reforms
initiated under the CBPPSP. It will consist of the two subcomponents described below, the largest of
which is pension reform.
A. Financial Sector Development/BCV (US$0.50 million equivalent is financed by IDA). As the
financial sector in Cape Verde expands, it becomes critical to strengthen the institutional infrastructure of
the Central Bank to be able to play its role as a regulator and enable the broader financial sector to
integrate itself into the international financial arena. Within the context of the financial sector strategy,
the proposed subcomponents aim to reinforce the foundations of the financial sector by strengthening the
regulator (both in terms of its human resource skills, as well as its technological base), enhancing the role
of credit information, strengthening the national payments system, including international integration
(VISA) and establishing deterrents to financial fraud and money laundering. Given the financial sector's
(including BCV) ability to generate sufficient internal resources, the following financial sector activities
will be financed on a 50:50 cost-sharing basis.
BCV Supervision and Regulation. The project will provide financial support to the central bank to
improve its capacity to regulate and supervise the banking and insurance sectors. BCV has established
its supervisory department and economic database systems, but continues to lack sufficient institutional
capacity. Government recognizes, however, that institution building is a long-term effort that needs to be
sustained for several more years. The project will therefore finance capacity building for bank
supervision. Training under the project includes, but is not limited to: (i) accounting and auditing; (ii)
insurance regulation; (iii) analysis and management of bank risks; (iv) implementation of the anti-money
laundering law; and (v) banking supervision under the new Basel 2 criteria. The training programs will
be made available to other Governmental institutions, as well as other financial and non-financial
enterprises which could benefit from this training. This assistance will also include the purchase some
equipment.
Lack of credit information on both the corporate and consumers clients has been a constraint for financial
- 41 -



institutions in making informed lending decisions. To facilitate accurate assessment of repayment
problems and better allocation of credit, the commercial banks provide information to the BCV on a
monthly basis and receive information on an "as needed" basis. However commercial banks feel that
they would benefit by having more ready access through an on-line credit risk and loan concentration
system, with the goal of reducing the NPL further to 7 percent by the end of the project. In the area of
information technology, the system must be further developed in order to link the financial institutions on
a real time basis. The system will be housed at the Central Bank and no fees for information will be
charged; the commercial banks confirmed their confidence in the security of the information in this
arrangement. The project will finance equipment, especially information technology (including on-line
connection to payment system and bank IT networks for risk and loan concentration databases) and
training.
The project will also support the strengthening of financial infrastructure. SISP manages activities
related the development of electronic banking and payment systems. During the last several years, SISP
has implemented ATMs and TPA (debit system used at commercial establishments). It anticipates
adopting the infrastructure necessary to implement a network of VISA and create a critical mass of
transactions which permit the economic and financial sustainability of the system. This would also be a
beginning for international integration of the financial system. The project will provide funds (only
Government and BCV's share) for the necessary hardware, software and training for the implementation
of the VISA applications.
The life insurance market of Cape Verde is limited. The major activity consists of providing mandatory
automobile insurance, which provides little or no long-term capital. Legislation and regulation of the
insurance sector are out-dated and regulated tariffs appear inadequate. The project will therefore finance
an updated study of the insurance sector, as part of a series of studies on specific needs of the financial
sector. Subsequently, the project will provide funding for technical assistance to the insurance sector,
which will likely include the updating of the regulatory framework.
Finally, the project will finance some targeted studies for expanding financial intermediation through
non-bank financial instruments, which includes leasing and venture capital, both of which are included in
the context of the financial sector strategy.
B. Pension Reform (US$2.30 million equivalent isfinanced by IDA). Pensions represent an important
element of the social safety net put in place by the Government. They also represent an important
potential source for longer-term resources for investment financing. The Government intends to create a
sustainable pension scheme for all formal sector workers by creating a streamlined mandatory pension
scheme that would encourage voluntary private funds to play a role in the overall system. The objective
of this subcomponent will be to help Government implement a series of parametric reforms aimed at
establishing a sustainable pension system. Reforms will: (a) ensure any pension promises that are made
can be kept. The project will support efforts by Government to establish a procedure to ensure that
Government contributions are made on behalf of the civil servants to the INPS. This may have to be tied
into the way the payment system works for paying public servants; (b) avoid the need for a call on the
Government budget to meet future benefits; and (c) deliver a fair allocation of resources between
different generations. Since the decision has been made by Government to shift civil servants into the
INPS, the studies must be conducted quickly so that legislative changes required are based on solid
financial information. Finally, in the interim, the project will support a unit within the AP to audit the
current pensioner population and install a mechanism for ensuring that records are accurate. This will
facilitate the integration of civil servants into INPS.
- 42 -



The technical work to prepare the sector reform will form the basis of a sector policy reform strategy
which will adopted by Government. Cape Verde has been selected as one of the African countries to be
included in a World Bank pilot pension reform program and has already participated in several
workshops on pension reform. The project will provide financing for technical assistance in the
following areas: (a) independent audits and an actuarial review; (b) an information system needs
assessment; (c) purchase of hardware and software; (d) consultancies to: (i) produce a new investment
policy, (ii) evaluate valuation rules, reporting and disclosure standards, (iii) civil service integration
study/cost analysis, (iv) study the development of contractual savings, regulatory/supervision issues, (v)
analysis of the social assistance scheme and FAIMO, and (vi) coverage strategy; (e) training programs
for: (i) trustees, and (ii) technical workshops; and (f) translation of technical materials.
Project Component 2 - US$8.00 million
Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness (US$8.00 million of which US$6.70 million equivalent is
financed by IDA). Companies in Cape Verde have responded well with the opening of markets to
private initiatives. Since 1995, there has been an acceleration in the emergence of new companies and
the development of the private sector has also involved direct foreign investments through the allocation
of export-onented foreign companies. However, the dynamics of the private sector has not been
accompanied by sufficient judicial and legal measures to modernize the sector and make it more supple.
In addition companies report that there continues to be excessive state regulation and bureaucratic
procedures and emphasizes the need for greater clarity in establishing corporations and activity
regulation processes, including tax reform.
The "second generation" of reforms which Cape Verde intends to call for a sustained long-term
commitment across multiple fronts. The immediate challenge is to make sufficient progress in
addressing the obstacles so that progressively more private actors can share in the fruits of economic
growth. The aim of the following component is to sustain high private sector growth and increased
competitiveness, by enhancing the investment climate, institutional capacity building and improving
supply chains in key subsectors. Its activities will work towards improving the enabling investment
environment, especially by facilitating the policy, legal and regulatory interface, and the dialogue process
between the public and private sectors. The medium-to long-term objective (end of project) is to bring
about permanent improvements in the quality of the interface between the private and public sector. This
will be measured through decreased financial and time costs of doing business. The objective will be
achieved through judicial reform, a better business environment and trade facilitation, enhanced capacity
to regulate and resolve post-privatization issues. Once activities by the project are implemented, private
transactions would be facilitated and transaction costs (in terms of delays and financially) would be
reduced.
A. Investment Climate Reform (US$2.0 million equivalentfinanced by IDA). In an effort to improve
the investment climate and promote new investment opportunities, as well as make Cape Verdean
companies more competitive, the credit will finance the following activities:
* Tax reform (US$300,000 equivalent). Government recognizes that the large number of customs and
tax exemptions undermine its objectives of creating a level playing field in the business environment
and fiscal policy and could subsequently provide more resources for its anti-poverty programs. As
such, the Government recently took important steps to rationalize private sector taxation. The project
will finance specialized legal assistance to the tax office at the MFPRD on the Investment Code and
specialized assistance on the evaluation of the fiscal revenue impact of the proposed measures over
time, as well as related capacity building initiatives. In addition, the project will finance the cost of
disseminating information on the new tax rules (including VAT), as well as providing necessary
- 43 -



training for Government staff and the private sector.
O   Alleviation of Administrative Barriers (US$500,000 equivalent). The Administrative Barriers to
Investment Study, which follows several World Bank sponsored FIAS studies in Cape Verde, was
launched in October 2002. Based on the recommendations from the study, Government and
stakeholders will formulate an action plan for further reforms in this area that would improve the
interface between the public and private sector. This plan and subsequent updates, will be
implemented with the support of the project.
O   Development of Efficient Supply Chains (US$300,000 equivalent). As part of its private sector
strategy and to complement its work on tax reform and reduction of administrative barriers,
Government will target three sectors, which may include tourism, fishing, trade, construction and/or
transport, and develop a clear sector strategy. A supply chain analysis will be carried out on the
selected sector to establish what prerequisite actions are needed to resolve constraints by
Government (infrastructure, regulation etc), and by the private sector (gaps in technical skills or lack
of upstream and/or downstream activities). These studies will identify the cross-cutting issues within
the sector, defining the policy, as well as sector specific requirements. These recommendations will
be fed back to the public and private sector for debate and a clear strategy and sector policy will be
defined. Activities to support the implementation of the sector policy will be financed under the
project.
O   Modernizing the Legal Environment for Business (US$900,000 equivalent). This component will
support work that had been started under the PRCBP and provide assistance in putting in place an
institutional and a legal framework conducive to the development of the private sector. The project
will provide legal technical assistance, as well as some equipment which is necessary to undertake
this task. In particular, the project will provide support to the Department of the Registry, Notary
and Identification to speed up the process of registering companies, buildings, etc. from almost three
weeks to 72 hours by developing computerized links among the various municipal offices on the
different islands. The software has already been developed, therefore the project will finance the
hardware (computers). The communication link will be provided with support from the RAFE
project.
In an effort to respond to the requests to simplify the procedures, the project will finance technical
support to elaborate the code for the commercial registry, housing registry and civil registry. In
addition, the project will finance the technical assistance necessary to elaborate the regulations and
procedures which accompany the labor code; of which substantial work on the code has already been
undertaken (under PRCBP). Workshops and training sessions will accompany the process.
Arbitration has been identified as an effective means of resolving commercial disputes. The two
Chambers of Commerce of Sotavento and Barlavento could be used as arbitration centers. (Ministry
of Justice will prepare the appropriate legislation and regulation, while the Chambers of Commerce
will establish the Arbitration Centers). The project will therefore finance capacity building and
equipment in order to set two arbitration centers in Cape Verde.
Cape Verde is in the process of joining the WTO. In 1993-1994, Cape Verde lost the historical
opportunity to become a founding member of the WTO. It must now undergo an accession
procedure. While the USAID is offering some technical assistance in order to help Cape Verde in
the accession procedure, the project will finance important technical assistance not covered or
envisaged under the USAID accession scheme (such as training in legal and policy aspects of
international trade, harmonization of domestic laws, etc.) In the partial context of the accession to
-44 -



the WTO (including TRIPS, Agreement on Trade Related Intellectual Property Rights), Cape Verde
will have to set up a legal and institutional framework for the effective exercise of intellectual
property rights. Indeed, this aspect has been stressed as being a pressing and urgent necessity among
business circles. This is all the more important in a country such as Cape Verde whose music is
exported worldwide.
The project will provide support to efforts to making laws and judgments more accessible by
publishing the related documents and making key laws available on the internet. One of the
identified bottlenecks in the improvement of the business enviromnent in Cape Verde is the total or
partial ignorance of the legal business framework by domestic and international investors. The
project will therefore finance business law dissemination and information by: (i) making laws and
judgments more accessible and available through the publication of business laws and judicial
decisions (including on the internet perhaps through the Global Legal Information Network, GLIN),
and (ii) organizing training and capacity building sessions (possibly in PROMEX and in the
Chambers of Commerce) for Judges, Lawyers, Businessmen and all interested public or private
stakeholders, WTO, intellectual property, anti-money laundering and arbitration. Finally, the project
will finance the costs of dissemination of information, as well as training judicial and legal staff.
B. Post Privatization and Divestiture (US$1.3 million equivalent is financed by IDA). Regulatory
reform and capacity building was strongly supported by IDA through the ongoing PRCBP. It had been
anticipated the PRCBP would provide the necessary support for the operations of a fully functional
regulatory agency and help Government resolve the main outstanding sector issues. In view of its closing
date, these objectives will only be partially reached. To sustain important actions, this subcomponent
was added to the design of this project. It will be aimed at addressing the main outstanding divestiture
actions and thus improve Cape Verde's competitiveness in the infrastructure sector. . The intended
outputs and outcomes of the subcomponent include: (a) a fully operational multi-sector regulatory agency
capable of handling routine issues internally and more complex ones with limited expert support; (b)
completion of the private participation agenda, including the port and, possibly, the airport; (c) a more
competitive telecommunication sector, with at least one more operator present and number internet users
per 1,000 people similar to relevant comparators; and (d) well-functioning inter-island and urban
transport systems that do not require significant subsidies from the state.
More specifically the project will finance mainly consultants and training to help implement the
following activities: (a) completion of telecoms reform and with the sector law, which encompass: (i)
the renegotiation of the existing contract to remove internal inconsistencies, clarify the liberalization of
value-added services, revised pricing policy, including access fees, and liberalization of the sector in line
with WTO commitment concerning local and international markets, and (ii) award of a new cellular
license; (b) support to multi-sector regulatory agency, which will be mainly in the form of structured and
on-the-job training, study tours and exchange programs, and advisory service for post training aftercare.
The latter would involve availing experts to the regulators to help them resolve specific regulatory cases
brought to the regulator; (c) port and Airport reform and divestiture in which the project will provide
resources to complete the privatization of the port and study the scope for private participation in
airports; and (d) Other transport reform. The project will finance international and local advisors to help
the Ministry of Transport address outstanding policy issues mentioned earlier.
C. Institutional Capacity Building (US$2.1 million equivalent isfinanced by IDA). For the strategy to
succeed, public/private partnerships and related institutional arrangements would have to be
strengthened. The project comprises just part of a broader program of pro-private sector reforms.
Concentration will be on capacity building of selected Government ministries and agencies which
- 45 -



interact most intensively with private firms. This subcomponent is designed to address two key
objectives: (a) enhancing the capabilities of private and public institutions to deliver business support
services; and (b) supporting Government agencies to improve their capability to identify and ease
bureaucratic rigidities. Capacity building assistance will be extended to the following institutions:
PROMEX (US$1. 0 million equivalent) was created with the mandate to support the ongoing reforms and
encourage foreign direct investment as well as exports. PROMEX has been successful so far by
disseminating information to potential investors, assisting the Government in its general promotion
activities abroad, and in designing new regulations and laws for FDI. According to PROMEX's Business
Plan 2002, the agency's priorities for the immediate future will shift back towards the promotion of Cape
Verde's image abroad and towards the encouragement of a stronger internationalization of Cape Verde's
economy. Major program areas include a marketing and communication program to disseminate
information on Cape Verde as an investment location, export base and tourism destination, and a
program to attract increased levels of foreign direct investments, not least in export-oriented industries
and in the tourism sector. These substantial priorities will be supported by an institutional development
program, through which the agency intends to update staff skills, internal processes and systems. The
subcomponent will assist PROMEX in this process by providing support for strategy development,
capacity building and the preparation and execution of key operational activities related to the core
functions of the agency. In particular, the support will focus on: (i) the development of a strategically
focused investment promotion strategy; (ii) an institutional capacity/skills building for PROMEX staff;
(iii) the preparation of up-to-date marketing materials, including revamping the PROMEX website; (iv)
introduction and upgrading of necessary systems and processes (investor tracking system, Intranet); and
(v) support of a number of outreach/promotion activities in priority sectors.
PROMEX has emphasized that having area master plans are important for land development, particularly
for the industrial and tourism sectors, where special care is taken to conserve the environment. Two
plans, for the islands of Maio and Boavista have already been completed and investors are waiting for
approval by Government. In addition, there are a substantial number of potential investors interested in
investing on the islands of Sao Vincente and Santiago (in four areas) who have put their investment plans
on hold while awaiting the preparation of these master plans. The project, therefore will finance the
preparation of four (4) master plans to be carried out on the basis of priority to maximize investment
opportunities.
Public institutions that interface with private sector (US$500,000 equivalent). In addition to PROMEX,
there are other public institutions that work with private sector, which would need: (i) to establish a
strategy, with guidance from Government; and (ii) support for internal strengthening and programs. The
project will provide support to Government to establish a framework for private sector development, as
well as implement its program.
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Regional Development (US$600,000 equivalent). The MFPRD is
expected to play an important, but indirect role in promoting private sector development. A more
proactive stance under MFPRD's responsibility could significantly contribute to private sector promotion
by improving its capacity to monitor and provide financial management of autonomous public
institutions, as well as managing Government shares in private companies. The project will provide
financing for: (i) technical assistance to provide financial management support of autonomous public
institutions and manage government shares in private companies; (ii) capacity building for MFPRD's
staff, including two trade missions during the four years; and (iii) institutional support for the research
and studies department, which would include equipment and training.
- 46 -



D. Private Sector Capacity Building (US$1.30 million to be financed by IDA). The environment for
technical leaming and assistance in Cape Verde continues to be underdeveloped The mechanisms by
which private firms transfer technology and raise their technical capabilities are weak and while foreign
investment in the country is increasing, technology transfer via this channel remains limited. Until
recently all tertiary education, as well as vocation and technical training, had to be provided abroad,
leaving a gap in the ability to train staff on modern technology and processes. The private sector strategy
calls for capacity building within private operators, especially SMEs. There is substantial demand by the
private sector for these services, of which the two Chambers of Commerce are trying to accommodate
with their programs.
The project will support this additional demand by private operators and enable the Chambers to expand
the services to their members, as well as other associations, such as the Association of Micro-enterprises
or the Association for Women Jurists, through a 50:50 matching-grant, using an approach and procedures
successfully tested and developed in other IDA projects. This subcomponent will focus on the technical
capabilities of Cape Verdean firms, in manufacturing and services (both domestic and for export).
Funding will be used to: (i) improve firm competitiveness by providing access to supporting services
extemal to the firm (this may be in the form of technical assistance or managerial expertise); and (ii)
address the constraints in staff training. The two Chambers of Commerce, whose mandate is to represent
the private sector with Govemment, as well as provide these services, will also benefit from the grant as
manager/administrator of the matching grant. They will be able to also access this grant to strengthen
their capacity to deliver services to its members. The grant will be demand-driven and managed on a first
come/first serve basis. However, the Chambers may target certain industries which are priority sectors,
but not at the exclusion of other Cape Verdean enterprises. In addition the project will finance, as
needed, the dissemination of business related-information which would: (i) widen the dialogue on
business environment reforms, (ii) help to raise awareness among business community, as well as
policymakers, and (iii) educate and build consensus among the concemed actors.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.15 million
Supporting Project Implementation (US$1.15 million of which US$1.05 equivalent is financed by
IDA). The project will, in substance, be implemented by the beneficiaries. In addition, a professional
PCU has been established. The PCU will report to a Steering Committee, comprised of high level public
and private sector professionals. The PCU will oversee the financial management, procurement,
reporting, monitoring and evaluation, audit, public information and related functions, as well as manage
several cross-cutting sector issues, such as pensions and regulatory reform.  While most of the
institutions have the capability to manage the activities supported by the project, strong complementary
implementation capacity may be needed to ensure that the project objectives are met. The credit will
thus finance a team of high caliber local professionals located at the PCU and the related support staff.
The PCU will be comprised of a project coordinator, procurement specialist, accountant, technical
specialists (who will deal with cross-cutting issues), program officer and an administrative assistant. It
will be responsible for providing the necessary guidance to the beneficiaries for procurement of
consultants, as well as goods and services, monitoring and evaluation, and be implicated in the overall
pension reform and cross-cutting issues such as investment climate, post divestiture issues and
public/private dialog. To minimize project implementation costs, the accountant and procurement
specialist, who are currently attached to the PRCBP, will also provide support to this project during the
first year. At the close of the PRCBP, the necessary staff will be transferred to the project unless an
altemative arrangement is proposed by Government and accepted by IDA. Use of local capacity which
has been developed through other projects lowers the learning curve and increases the efficiency and
productivity. By using an existing PCU, the Government can consolidate experiences and create
- 47 -



economies of scale. However, wherever necessary, technical assistance (on a punctual basis) will be
sought to strengthen the team. This will enable a transfer of skills from one project to another, including
procurement and disbursement expertise. In addition, the implementation arrangements will ensure that
there is an entity formally responsible for project technical coordination and monitoring and has the
incentives to solve problems in a timely manner.
-48 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
. Local     Foreign       Total
-Project Cost.By Component' US,$million               JS $nillion  US $million
1. Modernize, Strengthen & Restructure Financial Sector  1.50         1.90         3.40
2. Enhance Private Sector Competitiveness                5.20         2.80         8.00
3. Supporting Project Implementation                     0.75         0.40         1.15
4. Reimbursement of PPF                                  0.00         0.60         0.60
5. Non-allocated                                         0.05         0.30         0.35
Total Baseline Cost                                      7.50         6.00        13.50
Physical Contingencies                                  0.00         0.00         0.00
Price Contingencies                                     0.00         0.00         0.00
Total Project Costs              7.50         6.00        13.50
Total Financing Required              7.50        6.00         13.50
.,  Local';  Foreign     -Total
'"P project Cost.By.Category'          US $million  .,:US.$millidn  US!$miliion
Goods and equipment                                        1.85         0.70         2.55
Works                                                     0.05          0.05         0.10
Consultant services, including audits                     3.35          2.60         5.95
Training and workshops                                    0.70          0.90         1.60
Operating Costs                                           0.30          0.45         0.75
Matching Grant                                            1.20          0.40         1.60
Reimbursement of PPF                                      0.00          0.60         0.60
Non-allocated                                             0.05          0.30         0.35
Total Project Costs     7.50          6.00        13.50
Total Financing Required     7.50          6.00        13.50
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 13 5 (US$m) Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 85 19%
of total project cost net of taxes
- 49 -



Annex 4
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
Economic Anzlysis
Introduction
The economic analysis of this type of private sector development project presents special difficulties
particularly when there is an indirect relationship between the project's actions and the stream of
benefits. Moreover, for the project's matching grant's scheme, it should be noted that it is difficult to
estimate the amounts and types of investment, incremental production and exports generated from the
supported firms. Nevertheless, a cost-benefit analysis has been used to calculate the Net Present Value
(NPV) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR) in a "with" and "without" project framework.
The economic analysis has produced an NPV of about US$ 4.5 million at a discount rate of 12 percent
and an ERR of 18.8 percent.
Table 1: Economic Analysis Summary (a)
Matching Grant    Institutional     Overall
Development
Net Present Value                $3.5 million    $4.7 million       $8.2
ERR                                 40.2            19.5            23.0
(a) Using a discount rate of 12 percent.
Cost-Benefits Analysis
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis Financial Analysis (b)  Taxes            Subsidies
Benefits (US$ million)    20.4                                 4.2               n.a.
Costs (US$ million)       12.2
Net Benefits (US$         8.2                                  4.2               n.a.
million)
IRR(%)                23.0
Note: The discount rate usedfor the economic analysis is 12percent.
It is assumed that the financial costs and benefits are equated to economic costs and benefits.
Base Case Results.
The cost-benefits analysis of this type of competitiveness project is delicate and presents the limits
encountered in all similar project evaluation. The difficulty in quantifying the economic benefits results
mainly from the indirect relationship between the project's interventions and the stream of benefits; and
- 50 -



from the lagged effects of the project on the performance of the different sectors directly supported.
Nevertheless, a cost-benefit analysis has been used to calculate the NPV and ERR in a "with" and
"without" project framework. The numeraire used in the objective function is output, which is expected
to grow mainly as the result of: (i) improved efficiency of the matching grant-supported SMEs, and (ii)
increased private national and FDI.
The NPV of the overall project is estimated at about US$8.2 million for a 12 percent discount rate. The
corresponding internal economic rate of return is estimated at 23.0 percent. A minimum of 1,160 jobs
are expected to be directly created by the matchinggrant-supported SMEs. Jobs generated through a
multiplier effect are also expected. The positive impact on government income estimated at about $4.2
million result from increased direct and indirect corporate taxes, and taxes on incremental wages.
The cost-benefit analysis was done for two main categories: (i) matching grant (private sector capacity
building), which is analyzed separately, since the estimation of its direct impact on output growth and job
creation can be isolated; and (ii) institutional development, which, for the purpose of the analysis,
includes the two components "enhancing private sector competitiveness" (excluding the matching-grant
sub-component) and "modernizing, strengthening and restructuring the financial sector". For both
categories, as shown in the table below, the ERRs are greater than the discount rate of 12 percent,
indicating that the project is robust.
Table 1: Summary results by components
Matching Grant      Instttutional   Overall
(Private sector     Develooment     Proied
capactty
buildino)
NPV (US$ million)   3.5                4.7           8.2
ERR                40.2                19.5          23.0
Main Assumptions:
1. Stable macroeconomic environment as projected in the I-PRSP with a 5 percent real GDP per annum
on average; and an inflation rate under 2.5 percent.
2. Capacity at PROMEX is effectively and timely strengthened to better attract FDI.
3. A minimum of 200 firms are expected to benefit, either directly or through their associations, from the
matching grant scheme with an average amount of US$7,500 per firm. It is assumed that the scheme,
through the provision of technical assistance and training, would increase productivity of the recipients
and would yield an increase in outputs at a multiple of 8 times the amount of support. This conservative
assumption is made based on empirical evidence in similar schemes in East Asian countries, where
output increase at a multiple of 15 times the matching grant amount
4. For the supported firms, the rate of job creation has been calculated using recent labor productivity
indicator with an estimated worth of output per worker of US$3,500.
- 51 -



5. The additional output created by assisted firms is defined as the difference between the level of output
achieved by firms assisted by the project and the level of output these same firms would have achieved in
the absence of the project.
6. It is assumed that financial and institutional sustainability of the two chambers of commerce
implementing the matching grant scheme will be timely strengthened. This is necessary to better serve
their members and reach other associations such as the Microfmance Association and the Women Jurist
Association. It is also assumed that the matching grant scheme will be correctly managed, especially with
respect to decisions and allocations of the grant.
7. It is assumed that there is no mismanagement of grant received by firms or associations.
8. In the base case, the increase in firms' output is discounted by 66 percent to take into account the
social costs of other crucial resources in the economy that are diverted into the project from other
activities not directly supported by the project.
9. Measurement of economic benefits of the financial sector and private sector competitiveness
components of the project is difficult because they furnish provision of services to firms indirectly. It was
assumed that the support provided would, with an average lag of two years, increase efficiency of the
supported recipients and would yield an increase in economic outputs at a multiple of 2 times the amount
of support.
Sensitivity Analysis
Four sensitivity tests were carried out by switching values of critical variables. The results are presented
in table 2 below.
(i) The first test decreased the social cost of resources diverted into the project from 66 percent to 50
percent; the NPV jumped to US$22.0 million with a corresponding ERR of 36.4 percent.
(ii) The second test assumed a 75 percent social cost of resources diverted into the project, the NPV
sharply decreased to US$1.8 million while the ERR dropped to 14.8 percent.
(iii) The third test assume a higher increase in output for each firm from 8 to 15; the results showed a
NPV of US$13.4 million and ERR of 29.0 percent.
(iv) The fourth test elongates the disbursement period by two years, the NPV decreased to US$7.5
million while the ERR came down to 21.6 percent.
The project has a positive impact on government income in all of the different scenarios analyzed. In
terms of job creation, it should be noted that although the number of new jobs generated under the base
case scenario and under the slow disbursement scenario are the same, the effect is mainly on the
employment rate which, ceteris paribus, increases faster in the base case scenario. The overall results
confirm the project's soundness.
- 52 -



Table 2: Sensitivity Analysis Summary
Scenario       Sensitivity Performed  Cases        Variable Amount       NPV      ERR      Fiscal    Jobs
(SMill)    (%)    Impact    create
($Mill)
Overall Project
Delayed Project   Elongated disbursement  (a) Base  (a) Regular Disbursement  8.2    23 0      4 2     1,166
Implementation           penod
(b) Alternate  (b) Slow Disbursement  7 5     21 6      3 8     1,166
Change in Diversion  Percent reduction in  (a) Base     (a) 66% Reduction     8 2      23        4 2     1,166
Assumption        increase in Output
attributed to diversion  (b) Alternate  (b) 75% Reduction  1.8     14 8      2 9     857
from other sources
(c) Alternate  (c) 50% Reduction     22 0     36 4       7.0    1,714
Expected Change in   Increase in expected  (a) Base        (a) 8 Times        8 2      23 0      4 2     1,166
Output for each firm  change in output for
each firm      (b) Alternate     (b) 15 Times        13.4     29.0      5 4     2,186
Benefits from the project
The main economic benefits and the monitoring tools are presented below:
Nature of benefits / Indicators                    Monitoring Tools
increased pnvate national and Foreign direct Investment statistics
nvestments
Increased productivity and outputs in the    Base case / end of project output levels
matching-grant supported SMEs
Job creation in the SMEs sector              Number of employees at beginning / end of
roject
Improved business environment (reduced       End-of-project survey on administrative
administrative barriers, reduced effective   barmiers and cost of infrastructure services
marginal tax rate; reduced cost of
infrastructure services, etc)
Improved financial system                    New financial services; compliance with
rudential regulation - BCV progress report
Improved pension system                      Reduction of the unfunded pension liabilities
in the two formal pension schemes - INPS
report
Main Beneficiaries.
The main beneficiaries of the project would be: (i) the two chambers of commerce, their member
associations, and a minimum of 200 small and medium enterprises with better access to business
development services; (ii) the private sector, with a more business friendly environment; (iii) the
financial sector, with better regulations, more financial services and products, and improved financial
intermediation; and (iv) the public sector, the Government in particular, with strengthened institutions,
and wider tax base and healthier fiscal position.
-53 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
Years Ending
June
Year I    Year 2  | Year 3   | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year6    | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.4        3.7       3.2       2.3        0.4       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.3        0.3        0.4       0.3       0.2        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          2.7        4.0       3.6       2.6        0.6       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              2.7        4.0       3.6       2.6        0.6       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  2.3        3.5        3.0       2.2       0.5       0.0       0.0
Government                0.1        0.1        0.1       0.1       0.1       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.3        0.4       0.5       0.3        0.0       0.0       0.0
Other-non-allocated          0.0        0.0                            0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     2.7        4.0       3.6       2.6        0.6       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 54 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
Procurement
Introduction: A national procurement code does not exist in the Republic of Cape Verde except for
some specific arrangements for procurement of works; this is the reason why no Country Procurement
Assessment Review (CPAR) has been conducted to date. One is scheduled during fiscal year 2005.
Nevertheless, the general procurement environment is good since the person responsible for procurement
matters of the project, understands the World Bank procedures of an IDA-financed project. Besides
referring to World Bank procurement procedures and using the standard bidding documents, it is
important for the country to have a national procurement code. This would enable National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) for goods and works under national procedures and simplify the procurement process.
General: IDA will finance civil works, goods, consultancies, training and other local activities
necessary to implement the project. The procurement of goods, works and services will be done in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January
1995, Revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999) and the Guidelines on
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September
1997, January 1999 and May 2002). The Bank's standard bidding documents for goods and the standard
forms of contract and request for proposals for consulting services will be used under the project. Any
goods or services not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with the public procurement
regulations of the country or the co-financing institution's procurement regulations.
Advertisement: A general procurement notice (GPN) has been prepared, approved by IDA and was
published in the United Nations Development Business, announcing goods and consultant services to be
procured and inviting interested eligible suppliers and consultants to express interest.  Specific
Procurement Notice (SPN) in Development Business will also be required for all consulting assignrments
exceeding US$200,000 per contract. Notification and advertising will be carried out in accordance with
the provisions in the Guidelines. The GPN will be updated annually to include those contracts still to be
let. The GPN will be issued in the national press of the official gazettes for contracts to be let under
NCB and the SPN for goods and works will be advertised in the national press which has a wide
circulation and internationally for large contracts. Sufficient time should be allowed to obtain the bid
documents.
Implementation: As mentioned in section C4, responsibility for all procurement under the project rests
with the PCU. The project provides for strengthening of the procurement capacity, however, this project
will be utilizing an existing PCU, which has been instrumental in executing two other World Bank
projects (PRCBP and SAC) and which has shown a good track record in procurement according to World
Bank procurement rules.
General assessment of procurement unit capabilities: An assessment of the PCU capacities in
procurement was conducted during appraisal and found to be satisfactory. The PCU has had significant
experience with the World Bank procedures and the person responsible for procurement is qualified and
has experience in fulfilling the procurement tasks which are required. Her contract expires December
2003, at which time, the performance will be evaluated and if satisfactory, the contract will be
renegotiated for an additional period.
*   Historical and general environment of the PCU. The PCU has been functioning since 1999. At first,
- 55 -



the agent responsible for procurement matters also handled other tasks. In July 2001, with increased
staffing of the PCU, the procurement position became more focused on procurement and the PCU
has shown a good performance in terms of reducing delays and improving the quality of procurement
documents.
o   Organization and distribution of roles. Within the PCU, there will not be a procurement unit, but an
individual assigned to procurement of goods and services (there is not sufficient work to warrant
more than one person). This person will report to the project coordinator, which removes it from
situations where there may be a conflict of interest. The procurement specialist will be fully
responsible for procurement matters and ensuring expedition of processing and quality of the
procurement documents and evaluation reports. The procedures manual will fully define the role and
responsibility of each staff within the PCU. The manual will also include a section on "ethics".
o   The rules which will be used. Generally, the World Bank procedures are used and fully respected by
the Cape Verdeans. As noted above, there is no national code in procurement with adequate standard
bidding documents. Consequently, there will be no proposition of exception included in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
o   Management of the procurement cycle. In general, the procurement cycle is well managed by the
PCU, although there have been some cases of delay in awarding the contract. These exceptional
situations have been generally caused by the lack of availability of evaluation committee members
who are not always available at the same time. One of the reasons is lack of motivation because this
committee is not paid and they have more urgent activities to follow-up in their offices or job sites.
o   Quality of procurement documents filing and recordkeeping.  The filing of procurement
documentation is excellent; it is done by the procurement specialist. However, it is recommended
that this task be assigned to an assistant-level staff to enable the procurement specialist to focus
better on her main activities.
o   Ethics and basis of transparency. In general, there is low risk of corruption in Cape Verde and lack
of transparency has not been a major problem in any of the PIUs. The PCU for the PRCBP, which
will continue working for this project, has performed to high standards, ensuring that relevant
information on procurement are distributed to the interested bidders; it is, for example, mandatory to
make the written records on procurement (results of the contract award) publicly available. There
have been few complaints from bidders and these complainants have accepted the reasons provided
to them.
o   General conclusion on the procurement environment analysis and risk assessment. The reputation of
the PCU on procurement is very good and the risk of poor performance is "low". An action plan has
been prepared and discussed with the PCU to further strengthen it to be able to implement an
additional project. Carrying out the action plan in the agreed timeframe ensures that the project team
will be ready for implementation upon effectiveness.
Procurement methods (Table A)
A general procurement plan reflecting the bid packages for the entire period has been prepared. This
plan will include contract cost estimates, contract packaging and applicable selection criteria. Procedures
will be furnished to the World Bank for its review and approval prior to the issance to consultants of any
requests for proposals. These plans will be updated semi-annually during project implementation and
- 56 -



each update will be provided to the World Bank for its review and approval. The procurement includes
relevant information on all goods and service contracts under the project as well as the timing of each
milestone in the procurement process. The detailed procurement schedule will be updated every six
months and submitted to IDA. The procurement specialist will monitor the progress of procurement and
implementation of each contract under the project and will ensure effective and timely project execution.
Procurement of Consulting Services
As noted above, the selection and employment of consultants will be in accordance with the guidelines,
the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002). Except otherwise stipulated, all consulting service
contracts will be awarded using the Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) method. Consulting
service contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 for finms may be awarded through the
Consultants Qualifications (CQ) selection method in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1
and 3.7 of the Guidelines. For contracts of a routine nature estimated to cost less than US$50,000 and
where well established practices and standards exist, such as financial audits, Least-cost (LC) selection
method may be used in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant's
Guidelines. All consulting services of individual consultants will be procured under individual contracts
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines. In exceptional cases and/or
services which are estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract, may, with IDA's prior
agreement, be procured by a Single-source (SS) selection would be used in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.8-3.11 and 5.4. Concerning specifically the recruitment of consultant under
the matching grant facility, the beneficiaries may procure services in accordance with commercial
practices acceptable to the World Bank and defined in more details in the PIM.
The Bank standard request for proposals will be used and forms of contracts as needed (lump-sum,
time-based and/or simplified contracts for short-term assignments and individual consultants) as well as
the sample form of evaluation report for the selection of consultants.
Procurement of Goods
As noted above, the purchase of goods and services will be in accordance with IDA procurement
guidelines. All contracts for goods estimated to cost over US$100,000 equivalent per contract shall be
subject to International Competitive Bidding (ICB). To the extent possible, contracts for goods will be
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost US$100,000 or more each. There is a preference for
domestically manufactured goods and domestic contracts; the provisions 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines
and Appendix 2 will apply to goods manufactured in Cape Verde. Goods and works estimated to cost
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000
equivalent for goods and $300,000 equivalent for works, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. Goods estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$3.5 million
equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of intemational or national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Goods,
including vehicles and computers, estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be
procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (LAPSO), up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$1.5 million equivalent, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Civil Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to
exceed US$ 300,000 equivalent, may be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Works
- 57 -



estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis
of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully.
Operational Costs
Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation,
management and supervision, including office supplies, communication costs, travel allowance of project
staff, but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil service.
Tlraining
Training will generally cover individual training attached to specific institutions, group training,
on-the-job training of technical staff assisted by consultants and international experts, and hiring
consultants for developing training materials, conducting training and support for training activities
through seminars, workshops and training abroad based on individual needs as well as group
requirements. A detailed training program, giving categories of training, number of trainees, duration of
training, staff months, timing and estimated costs, etc. will be submitted to IDA for review and approval
on a semi-annual basis.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
-Expenditure Category           ICB            MCB          -Other        N.B.F.' Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00           0.10          0.00         0.00        0.10
(0.00)          (0.09)       (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.09)
2. Goods                            0.92            0.70         0.62         0.31        2.55
(0.75)          (0.31)       (0.46)        (0.14)     (1.66)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         7.55         0.00        7.55
including training and workshops   (0.00)         (0.00)        (7.35)        (0.00)     (7.35)
4. Operating Costs                  0.00            0.00         0.75         0.00        0.75
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.65)        (0.00)     (0.65)
5. Matching Grant                   0.00           0.00          1.60         0.00        1.60
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.80)        (0.00)     (0.80)
Ref PPF & non-allocated             0.00           0.00          0.95         0.00        0.95
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.95)        (0.00)     (0.95)
Total                            0.92            0.80         11.47         0.31       13.50
_ _________(0.75)            (0.40)       (10.21)       (0.14)     (11.50)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 58 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review Thresholds
Goods. All contracts for goods and equipment estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more would
be subject to IDA review of bidding documents, including draft contracts and technical specifications
prior to inviting bids and IDA review of the bid evaluation prior to the award of the contract prior to
signatuie and notification to the supplier.
Consultant Services. With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$ 1 00,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix
I to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole
source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of
the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, experience terms of reference and
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its pnor review and
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts.
With respect to each contract for the employment of: (i) consulting firms estimated to cost more than
US$50,000 equivalent but less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (ii) individual consultants estimated to
cost more than US$30,000 equivalent but less than US$50,000 equivalent, the terms of reference of the
consultants shall be fumished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
Post Review Thresholds
Contracts that are not subject to prior review would be selectively reviewed by the Bank during project
implementation and would be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the
guidelines.
- 59 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                      >200,000                  ICB                       0
<100,000                  NCB
<50,000            Proc of small works
2. Goods                      >100,000                  ICB                      1,644
<100,000                  NCB
<50,000            Nat. or int. Shopping
3. ServicesFirms              >100,000              QCBS and other              3,905
Individual                             Individual Consultants          1,625
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$7.17 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 60 -



Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
A financial management assessment was carried out in March 2003. The objective of the assessment was
to evaluate whether the PCU, which will be responsible for the implementation of the Project, has put
into place acceptable financial management arrangements as required by the Bank's policies, including
entities' system of accounting, reporting, auditing and internal controls. Overall, the PCU has satisfactory
financial management capacity. Financial management will be undertaken by the same PCU for the
PRCBP. Staff have been trained and have a good track record for financial management. The chart of
accounts is being updated in the current financial management system (FMS) to accomodate the new
project prior to effectiveness. An action plan to further strengthen its capacity for financial management
had been agreed with the PCU. The plan includes updating the computenzed financial management
system which includes customizing the agreed format for the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMR), finalizing the PIM and selecting an auditor.
Staffing and Implementation arrangements. The PCU, since it is the same for the ongoing PRCBP
will benefit from its experience in managing IDA funds. This PCU comprises a project coordinator, an
accountant, a procurement specialist, technical specialists, a program officer and an administrative
assistant. The PCU will be responsible for providing especially the necessary guidance for all
procurement and financial management aspects of the project.  By using an existing PCU, which is
familiar with IDA procedures, the Government will benefit from existing experience and create economy
of scale. A computerized financial management system was installed for PRCBP in 1998 and will be
used for the current project to generate the FMR. The accountant of the project will assume all the
accounting and financial duties of the project. She has satisfactory qualifications and professional
experience and has been trained in World Bank procurement, disbursement and financial management
procedures.
Accounting Policies and Procedures. The PCU has been applying satisfactory procedures under
PRCBP and the SAC. A manual of administrative, accounting and financial procedures was developed
for the PRCBP in November 1998 and a new manual will be prepared to include administrative,
accounting and financial procedures for this project. It will also include procedures foi implementing
accounting policies, definition of respective duties with a good segregation, budgeting system and all
relevant administrative and financial procedures, as well as relationships between the components of the
project. All the institutions or Government department and private institutions which will implement the
project components must trained in those new procedures.
Reporting and Monitoring. The PCU will prepare quarterly FMRs. The format of the FMRs was
discussed and is included as part of the action plan. The quarterly reports will cover financial
management, procurement and physical progress monitoring, covering all activities financed under the
project regardless the source of funding. No major problem is expected with the financial and
procurement reports Areas of concern are with the physical progress monitoring report, where the PIM
lacks experience and which would requires additional efforts. Those physical progress reports will be
based on the outcomes indicators.
- 61 -



2. Audit Arrangements
The accounting and administrative procedures for the annual audits will be handled by the current PCU.
Although the PCU will be in charge of the financial arrangements for this project and PRCBP, the audit
function for the current project will be procured under a competitive process prior to effectiveness.
Project accounts, special accounts and disbursements under SOE's will be audited annually according to
international auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The annual report will be
submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. An independent auditor must be
recruited by the project before effectiveness. The terms of reference and the short list will be submitted
to IDA for review.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
The project will disburse using traditional disbursement mechanisms which are transaction-based
disbursements (as opposed to report-based disbursements). The overall project FMS will include project
management reporting capabilities from the start of the project's implementation. As the financial team
is the same as that of PRCBP, the same procedures, which have been successful, will also be utilized.
Disbursements will be made for goods and services that are eligible for IDA financing.  All
replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submitted monthly or when the Special Account is
reduced by one-third, whichever comes first. All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be
fully documented except for contracts under the prior review threshold to be determined as a result of the
procurement assessment. SOE documentation will be retained at the PCU for review by Bank staff and
annual audits.
Disbursement will be made for eligible services contracted under the matching grant facility. All
replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submited for the full amount of the expenditure.
IDA will reimburse 50 percent of the total costs. The Chambers of Commerce would administer the
program based on eligibility criteria agreed to between the Borrower and the Chambers and incorporated
into the PIM and the DCA. On a regular basis, the Chamber would send a list of eligible grant recipients
to the PCU against which the PCU would advance the funds to the Chambers to pay to the suppliers.
When the PCU submits a replenishment application of the Special Account to IDA, a copy of the list
would accompany the request.
- 62 -



Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
'Expenditure Category      Amount,in US$million -,  - ': Finarncing,Percentage
Goods, including vehicles                 1.66                   100% of foreign
expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures
Consultant Services including audits      6.03                   100% of foreign
expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures
Matching Grants for sub-projects and      0.80            50% of all eligible expenditures
institutional support for Chamber of
Commerce
Training and Workshops                    1.32                       100%
Operating Costs                           0.65                       90%
Minor Civil Works                         0.09                       90%
Reimbursement of PPF                      0.60
Non-allocated                             0.35
Total Project Costs                      11.50
Total                                    11.50
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Goods: expenditures under contracts of less than US$100,000 equivalent;
Individual consultants: contracts of less than US$ 50,000 equivalent;
Consulting Firms: contracts less than $100,000 equivalent; and
Training, workshops, matching grants and operating expenses less than $50,000 equivalent (consultants
that provide training would be paid out of consultant category)
Special account:
A special account will be opened at the BCV for IDA's share of eligibile expenditures.
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Bank, a special account in the Banco de Cabo Verde (BCV). The total
authorized allocation of the special account will be US$800,000, which will be made upon effectiveness.
Replenishment applications should be submitted at least once per month and must include reconciled
bank statements, as well as other appropriate supporting documents. In order to make a direct payment
to the supplier, the minimum application amount must be greater than or equivalent to 20 percent of
account deposit. Disbursement categories and the percentage financed are shown in Table C above.
- 63 -



Project account
Prior to credit effectiveness, the Government will be required to make the initial deposit of the
counterpart funds equivalent to US$30,000 to the Project account. Government will also maintain the
value of the project account throughout its implementation, by replenishing it when it has reached a level
of 25 percent its requirement, or in this case US$6,500.
- 64 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
Project' Scheduie                 ;          -Pl'ann"d     ,Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)           09/10/2001                  09/10/2001
Appraisal mission departure                   01/07/2003                  02/15/2003
Negotiations                                  03/27/2003                  04/04/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 09/15/2003
Prepared by:
Ministry of Finance, Planning and Regional Development
Ministry of Justice
Central Bank of Cape Verde
SISP (of which commercial banks are members)
Chamber of Commerce of Sotavento
Chamber of Commerce of Barlavento
Project Coordination Unit
Preparation assistance:
PPF No. Q348-0-CV, totalling US$600,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                   Speciality
Sherri Archondo                  Sr. Operations Officer, AFTFS
Iradj Alikhani                   Sr. Economist, AFTPS
Shenhua Wang                     Sr. Private Sector Development Specialist, AFTPS
Robert Palacios                  Sr. Economist, HDNSP
Xavier Forneris                  Sr. Investment Policy Officer, PSAFI
Isabella Micali-Drossos          Sr. Counsel, LEGAF
Beat Heggli                      Sr. Investmnent Promotion Officer, MIGIM
Siaka Bakayoko                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist., AFTFM
Fily Sissoko                     Financial Management Specialist, AFTFM
Bourama Diaite                   Sr. Procurement Specialist, AFTPC
Amadou Dem                       Economist, AFTPS
Charles Schlumberger             Sr. Financial Sector Specialist, AFTFS
Hermina Martinez                 Consultant (Quality Assurance), AFTPS
Mark Dorfman                     Sr. Economist (Peer Reviewer), PRMHP
Marie-Adele Tchakounte           Assistant (Costab), AFTU2
Sidonie Jocktane                 Program Assistant, AFTPS
- 65 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Detailed Cost Tables
Draft Project Implementation Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoires from identification, pre-appraisal and appraisal
FIAS: Study of Administrative Barriers - 2002
Tax Assessment Study
INPS Diagnostic Study (summary is included as Annex 12)
C. Other
Government Draft Private Sector Policy Statement
Financial Management Assessment
Procurement Assessment
Regulatory and Administrative Costs Survey (MoFP)
Banco de Cabo Verde, Strategy 2000-2004
Chamber of Commerce (Sotavento) Strategy 2003-2005
State of Justice in Cape Verde
*Including electronic files
-66 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
26-Mar-2003
Difference between expected
and actual
Onginal Amount In US$ Millions                        disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                  IBRD       IDA                GEF    Cancel   Undisb      Ong   Frm Rev'd
P075700      2003 Structural Adjuestment Supplement            0 00      4 00               0 00     0 c0     0 00      0 00     0 00
P074249      2002 HfV/AIDS                                     0 00      9 00              0 00      0 00     9 21      1 06     0 s0
P075700      2002 Structural Adjustment Credit                 0 00     15 00              0 00      0 00     0 00     -4 51     0 00
P040990      1999 CV ENERGYhSATER PROJECT                      0 00     17 50               5 50      00      10 06    10 36     0 00
P000432      1999 SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT                    000      1610                000      000      403       311      000
P055467      1999 PRIVATIZATION TA                             0 00      9 00               0 00     0 00     1 75      1 22     0 93
P055468      1999 EDUC & TRAINING CONSOLID. & MODERNIS         0 00      6 03               0.00     0 00      1 59     1 42     0 00
P000435      1993 TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE                     0 00      5 00               0 00     0 00     3 64     -1 49     1 21
Total       000      8163               550       000       3048     1117      264
CAPE VERDE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval             Company                             Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity     Quast     Paric
1992                   AEF Growela                          0.15      0 00      0 00      0.00      0.15      0 00      0.00      0 00
2001                    SEF Moura                            0.55      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00     0 00
Total Portfolio:              0.70      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.15      0.00      0 00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                 Loan      Equity       Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
- 67 -



Annex 10: Country at a GOance
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
Sub-    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Cape    Saharan   middla-
Verde     Africa   Income       Dovolopment dlamond'
2001
Populatfon, mid-year (millons)                         0.45       674     2,164                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atas method, USS)                     1,310       470      1,240
GNI (Atas method, US$ billions)                        060        317     2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                          2 9       2 5        10      G                                G
Labor force (%)                                         3 9       2 6        1.2     GNI                              Gross
per                             pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199541)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of totalpopulabon)                   63        32        46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        69         47        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 37        91        33
Child malnutntlon (% of children under 5)                            ,       11           Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)     74        55        80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulatbon age 15+)                      25        37        15
Gross primary enrollment (%of school-age population)    144        78       107               CapeVerde
Male                                                  146        85       107               Lower-middle-Income group
Female                                                143        72       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991       2000      2001
Economic rntlos-
GDP (USS billions)                                     0 35      0.56       0.59
Gross domestic investmentUGOP                   .      26 2       19 3      17.8
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                      11 0       23 4      25.6                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       .     -4 2      -19.0     -13.5
Gross nabonal savingslGDP                        .     21 4        28        8.3
Current account balancelGDP                             -4 8     -16.5     -11.3     Domestc                      Ivte
Interest paymentslGDP                           .       0.8        0.6       0 6     saviInvesment
Total debtGDP                                          38.4       52 5      511      s
Total debt servicelexports                              8 9       16 3      14 7
Present value of debWGDP                                  ,,      31 5      30 7
Present value of debt/exports                                     84 6      73 3
Indebtedness
1981-91  199141      2000       2001   200145
(average annual growth)
GDP                                            83       68         3.0       40              Capa Verde
GDP per capita                                 3 4      3 6        01        1 5               Lower-middle-ncome group
Exports of goods and services                 14.8     29 2       13 7       3.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991       2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           20
Agriculture                                            134        118       110
Industry                                               214        17.6      16 8      o
Manufactunng                                           96        91        81      -20           "          i     05  0  01
Services                                               851        70.6      72 2     *40
Pnvate consumption                                     88 5       93 7     100.6
General govemment consumption                          15 7       25 3      12 9                     GDI     -GDP
Imports of goods and services                          41 5       61.7      571
(1981-91  199141       2000      2001     Growth of oxports and Importo (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                             6.6        3 6       15      40
Industry                                                53        12 2       4 5
Manufactunng                                   .       56        45        47      20
Services                                         .      6 5        5 9       2 8
a
Pnvate consumpbon                                       1 5        1 9      10 6                              s.   oi9
General govemment consumption                           61        39 3     -47.6    -20
Gross domestc investment                                -2 3      -1 4      -5.0                   Exports  =Imports
Imports of goods and services                           8 3       14 0      -4.6
Note 2001 data are preliminary eslimates.
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) oompared with its Income-group average. If dale are missing, the diamond will be lncomplete
- 68 -



Cape Verde
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Infaton
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer pnces                                        2.5      -2.4      5 0
Implicit GPP deflator                       14 8      4 3       0 3      4.3
Government flnance                                                               o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                     go    07    98    99          01
Current revenue                                      22 7      20 5     19 9
Current budget balance                                4 9     -13 5      -11            -    GDP deflator '-O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -4 3     -24 6      -8 6
TRADE
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                   Export end Import levelr (USS mii.)
Total exports (fob)                                    4         24       31     300
Bananas                                               2         2        2
Fish                                                  0         1        j     2W
Manufactures                                          1         0        0
Total imports (cif)                                  147        238      236
Food                                                 41        55       58     10    *
Fuel and energy                                       8        20       26
Capital goods                                        65       106      106       a
flu  to   9    98   es   to   01
Export pnce Index (1995=100)                          85        126      131
Import price index (1995=100)                         74        136      135                UExporls     a impOrts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             114        92       97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
S s19    1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 24      39        131      152      o
Imports of goods and services                103     146        344      336
Resource balance                             -79     -107      -214     -184     -s
Net Income                                     1       0        -12      -14
Net current transfers                         35      89        133      132    .10
Current account balance                      -43      -17       -92       -6 6    5
Financing Items (net)                         38        7        71       71
Changes In net reserves                        5       10        21       -5     -20
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (USS millions)        38       65        93      106
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)            48 7     714      115.9     118 2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 2001 debt (USS mill)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          39      135       293      301
IBRD                                         0       0          0        0
IDA                                          0       17        89       98
Total debtservice                              0        9        34       36                                  B as
IBRD                                         0       0          0        0
IDA                                          0       0          1        1
Composilon of net resource flows
Official grants                             34      69         82
Official creditors                          21       0         23       10
Private creditors                            0       0          0        0
Foreign direct investment                   0        1         31       23
Portfolio equity                             0       0                                     D 125
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0       0          3       20      A - IBRD                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                0       3         10        8      a - IDA  0 - Other mulUlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         0       0          0        0      C - IMF                   G - Short-tarm
Net llows                                    0        3        10        8
Interest payments                            0       0          1        1
Net transfers                                0       3          9        7
ueveiopment Economics                                                                                             YIZJIU
- 69 -



Additional Annex 11
Post Privatization and Divestiture Reform
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
During the past decade, Cape Verde's economy has gone though a remarkable change during which
private ownership and participation became dominant is all sectors of the economy, including
infrastructure and utilities. At present, the port and the national airline, TACV, remain the main
activities whose privatization has been initiated, but will only be completed during 2003/2004.
Otherwise, the airports are the only publicly-owned infrastructure without private participation.
Some of the expected benefits of private participation have already accrued. Nevertheless, Table I
below, which compares some selected indicators of Cape Verde with a regional benchmark (Egypt) and
other regions with similar levels of economic income, show there is still room for improvement in terms
of access.
Table 1: Selected Indicators of Infrastructure and Development
Indicators 2000                        Cape      EGYPT    LStL America  MSIDDLE EAST    EAST ASIA &
(1999 DATA In parentheses)            Verde               & caribboan     & NORTh         PACIFIC
______   ____ _____  AFRICA
Gross National Income per capita (USS)  1,330    1,490       3,640          1,427          1,060
Access to water (% total pop )          74 0       95.0        84.9           89.5          74.8
Access to sanitation (% total pop.)     95 0       98.0        87.0           93.3           73.9
Freshwater resources/capita (m3)        680.3     1,070.7    32,904.5        1,427.4         NA
Energy use per capita (KwH)              NA       (899.7)    (1,470.1)      (1,288.8)      (814 5)
Teledensity (main + mobile)/1,000 people  171.6    107.7      270.6          121.9          170.6
Aver. Cost of local call (US$/3 mm)      0.0       0.0         0.1            0.0            0.0
Personal computers/1,000 people          NA        22.1        43.6           31.2           21.7
Intemet users (in 1,000's of people)     8         450        19,100         1,900          51,900
Paved Roads (% of total)                78.0       78 1       (29.4)         (66.4)         (23.8)
Aircraft departures (in thousands)     13.0       47.4        1,951          440           1,437
Sources World Development Indicators (2002), ITU, ICAO
The above benchmarking shows that results achieved so far in term of access vary largely from sector to
sector. While standards in term of telecommunication are high, both access to water and electricity are
relatively low due in part to factors specific to Cape Verde such as the lack of underground water
resources and the highly fragmented generation system split between 15 cities. Despite these constraints,
other factors have also contributed to that situation, especially:
o       The poor performances of infrastructure firms due in part to noneconomic pricing and
cross-subsidies;
o       A lack of service definition and standards in the case of monopolies;
o       High costs, due in part to inefficiency and lack of competition; and
o       Uncertain regulation framework that is not yet fully operational.
With hindsight, the record so far indicates two inter-related shortcomings in the reform process. First,
insufficient attention was paid to building in the possibility of competition in the context of sector reform
and divestiture. Second, an effective regulatory mechanism that would, amongst others, regulate prices
of private monopolies, is yet to be establish. From this standpoint, Cape Verde's reform experience
- 70 -



differs from international best practice (such as Chile) where regulatory capacity led or was put in place
in parallel with the opening of the infrastructure to private competition. Such a situation had not been
anticipated in 1997, the time when the private participation program in Cape Verde infrastructure was
conceived. Indeed, the Government strategy called for divestiture actions to be accompanied by the
establishment of a multi-sector regulatory agency (ARM), and related capacity building to ensure that it
would quickly become operational. Due to a series of setbacks, ARM never became operational. One of
the reasons was that there was no national consensus and understanding of the importance and the role of
regulation in the privatized economy.  The broad scope envisaged for ARM  (multi-sector and
multipurpose, covering economic, technical and environmental regulation) also contributed to these
problems.
Faced with urgent regulatory issues in telecoms, water and energy (electricity and petroleum) issues,
following a National Seminar facilitated by international experts and regulators, the Government
decided, in November 2002, to abolish ARM and create a new agency responsible for economic
regulation key infrastructure sectors. The importance of technical and environmental regulation was also
recognized in the new approach. However, it was decided that these would, for the moment, be
addressed through collaboration between line ministries, the regulators and other agencies. In parallel,
the Ministry of Transport decided to stimulate added competition in key sector, notably telecoms, with a
view to take further reform measures to reduce cost and improve economic competitiveness.
Regulatory reform and capacity building was strongly supported by IDA through the PRCBP. It had
been anticipated that this project would provide the necessary support for the operations of a fully
functional regulatory agency and help Government resolve the main outstanding sector issues. In view of
the closing date of December 31, 2003, these objectives will only be partially reached.
To sustain important actions initiated in the context of PRCBP the proposed project will thus include a
subcomponent of about US$1.3 million, aimed at addressing the main outstanding divestiture actions and
thus improve Cape Verde's competitiveness in the infrastructure sector. The intended outputs and
outcomes of the subcomponent would include: (a) a fully operational multi-sector regulatory agency,
capable of handling routine issues internally and more complex ones with limited expert support; (b)
completion of the private participation agenda, including the port and, possibly, the airport; (c) a more
competitive telecommunication sector, with at least one more operator present and number internet users
per 1000 people similar to relevant comparators; and (d) well-functioning inter-island and urban transport
systems that do not require significant subsidies from the state.
More specifically the project will finance mainly consultants and training to help implement the
following activities:
* Completion of telecoms reform - This would encompass: (i) the renegotiation of the existing
contract to remove internal inconsistencies, clarify the liberalization of value-added service, revised
pricing policy, including access fees, and liberalization of the sector in line with WTO commitment
concerning local and international markets; and (ii) award of a new cellular license.
* Support to multi-sector regulatory agency - The support will be mainly in the form of structured
and on-the-job training, study tours and exchange programs, and advisory service for post training
aftercare. The latter would involve availing experts to the regulators to help them resolve specific
regulatory cases brought to the regulator.
- 71 -



o Port and Airport reform and divestiture - The project will provide resources to complete the
privatization of the port and study the scope for private participation in airports.
o Other transport reform - The project would finances international and local advisor to help the
Ministry of Transport address outstanding policy issues mentioned earlier.
The design of this subcomponent integrates lessons learnt in Cape Verde and internationally. First and
foremost, the actions supported by the project, especially on the regulation side, have been derived by a
good understanding of the reasons underlying them and a consensus amongst stakeholders concerning
their importance. It was the lack of such a consensus that derailed the efforts under PRCBP. Second,
international experience (for instance, see Sri Lanka, Cr. 2837, ICR, report number 22398, dated June 22,
2001) clearly shows that building a long-term sustainable regulatory and institutional capacity in newly
created entities takes time. The project would thus help avoid the risk of the multi-sector regulatory
agency failing because it does not have sufficient capacity. Third, much has been learnt during the past 5
years on how to design telecom reforms, especially the need to take into account the rapid technological
advancement that is taking place and to ensure a transparent bidding procedures to attract new operators.
Project implementation will benefit from these lessons. Finally, stakeholders believe that the most
effective advisory services are those that match international experience with solid in-country
knowledge, and both types of expertise will be financed by the credit.
- 72 -



Additional Annex 12: INPS: diagnosis and reforms
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
Overview
1.    Pensions represent an important element of the social safety net put in place by the Government.
They also represent an important potential source for longer-term resources that could fuel investments.
Government is concerned about the sustainability and fiscal effect of the present system and the impact
of pension liabilities on the budget. There are two main pension schemes for formal sector workers. The
Adminstracao Publica (AP) covers approximately 13,000 civil servants while the Instituto Nacional de
Previdencia Social (INPS) had an estimated 31,000 contributors in 2001. Together the schemes cover one
quarter of the formal labor force and pay pensions to about 6,000 people. The Pensao Social Minima
(PSM) is available to the poor and elderly in general. The PSM is paid to about 6,500 individuals. In
addition, there are about 10,000 workers participating in the FAIMO program.
2.     Membership of the INPS is mandatory for workers in the private sector. Taking account also of
the special scheme for civil servants, roughly one in five of the labor force is a member of a formal
pension scheme. The INPS pension scheme only began operation in 1983. INPS's demographics, like
the scheme itself, are young. With a small ratio of pensioners to contributors, the scheme has run
surpluses and has accumulated substantial assets. These surpluses will continue for a number of years
even if the INPS is untouched. However, the benefit level in the current system is unsustainably high.
Five primary issues face the pension system in Cape Verde which are summarized below.
(a) Civil service pension liabilities. In general, civil servants receive pensions after reaching age 60,
although teachers, police and the military can retire at lower ages. After 34 years of employment, a
new retiree would receive 100 percent of his pre-retirement salary. The target benefit is high both by
international standards and relative to the INPS, and has resulted in a large and increasing burden on
the budget. Since only a fraction of annual spending is covered by the eight percent contribution
levied on civil service salaries, and no assets have been set aside to meet this obligation, future
pension spending represents a significant and unreported liability of the Government.
(b) Government arrears to the INPS. Currently, the INPS claims that Government owed it 2.6 billion
escudos (approximately US$25 million) including interest and penalties which it has subsequently
covered with treasury securities. There are three sources of arrears. First, when early retirement was
used during the privatization process to shed excess labor, the Government promised to transfer
funds to cover the incremental liability of the INPS but had not done so. Second, contributions for
approximately 1,000 employees at institutes and decentralized entities have not been made to the
INPS. The situation is made worse by the fact that the Government apparently deducts the eight
percent contribution from the employee before making the budget transfer to these entities. Finally,
for civil servants who move to the private sector, the law requires that they be credited with the
years they participated in the AP and that the Government make a transfer to cover this liability, a
transfer which has not been made in most cases.  Continuing this practice has several negative
effects. First, it makes it increasingly difficult to implement a policy shifting younger civil servants
into the INPS, a policy that would have positive fiscal and labor market impacts. Second, it increases
the unfunded liability at the INPS and weakens its long run sustainability. The arrears problem needs
to be resolved in short order so as not to impede progress in other areas of pension reform.
- 73 -



(c) INPS investment policy and partial funding. The INPS was designed as a partially funded,
defined benefit scheme. While it continues to run surpluses in its pension scheme, previous
governments have effectively forced the INPS to purchase government bonds in order to finance
central budget deficits. As a result, the INPS portfolio is heavily weighted towards non-tradable
government bonds. This has a direct effect on the long-term finances of the scheme since it reduces
risk-adjusted returns relative to a diversified portfolio. Moreover, it suggests that Government
spending has been greater than it would have been if this source of financing had not been available.
(d) Governance. The use of pension reserves as way to finance deficits is one example of the
conflict of interest that governments face when they run public pension funds. In order to avoid
conflict of interest problems in Cape Verde, reforms to the current governance structure will be
considered and a number of measures designed to remove political discretion implemented.
(e) Financial deterioration in other programs administered by the INPS. In addition to pensions, the
INPS administers programs for sickness and maternity, family allowances and other benefits.
Currently, the INPS faces financial problems related to a rapid increase in health related spending,
especially pharmaceuticals where fraud is known to be a serious problem. This indirectly affects
pension system finances because pension reserves may be used to cover health system deficits in the
future. Also, given that pensioners are major consumers of health services, as their number grows
dramatically in the coming years, so too will health expenditures.
3.     Reforms are needed rapidly to ensure any pension promises that are made can be kept, to avoid
the need for a call on the Government budget to meet future benefits, and to deliver a fair allocation of
resources between different generations. Delaying reform until the short-term financial position requires
it would disproportionately benefit older generations at the expense of younger ones. If the Govermnent
were to pay for unfunded liabilities, this would be costly for all Cape Verdeans, not just the members of
INPS.
Benefits
4.     The INPS benefit formula is: pension = eamings base x (20% + 0.015% x years of coverage).
The earnings measure used in the formula is the best three years' salary during the final five years of
participation in the scheme. Only three years of membership are required to receive a pension. The
'replacement rate' relative to the scheme's earnings measure is 86 percent. The replacement rate relative
to average real earnings is higher than the replacement rate relative to the eamings measure used in the
INPS formula (142 compared with 86 percent). This is because real earnings are assumed to rise
constantly across the career, so final earnings are above lifetime average pay. In contrast, measured in
earmngs terms, the replacement rate is lower than the formula rate (77 compared with 86 percent). This
is because the best three of final five years earnings are not adjusted for growth in eamings or inflation.
Eamings as measured by the formula are lower than the lifetime revalued average. Replacement rates in
Cape Verde are very high by intemational standards.
- 74 -



Women
5.     The INPS is more generous to women than it is to men because they can retire at 60 rather than
65. Women also tend to live longer than men do. Both of these factors increase the average length of
retirement for women relative to men. However, earlier retirement means that women accrue fewer
years' pension rights. This means that their replacement rate at the point of retirement after a full career
is 78.5 percent compared with 86 percent for men. This translates into replacement rates of 137.5
percent relative to average real earnings and 68.5 percent relative to average revalued earnings.
Earnings measure
6.     There are two main reasons commonly cited for adopting short averaging periods for earnings in
the formula of defined-benefit pension plans: first, they are a simple way to correct the effects of high
and volatile inflation; and secondly, they are administratively simpler than tracking work and
contribution records right across the working life. However, they can lead to high costs, strategic
manipulation of earnings profiles and disproportionately higher benefits going to higher-income workers,
because they tend to have more steeply rising age-earnings profiles.
7.     In the baseline case, the individual's earnings grow in line with the economy-wide average. Two
alternative paths for individual earnings have been considered: a steeper one and a shallower one.
Individual earnings grow one percentage point faster and slower than the economy-wide in these
alternative scenarios. In the case of steeper earnings growth, earnings measured by the INPS final salary
formula are higher than the measures looking at lifetime average pay. Thus, the replacement rate relative
to average real earnings increases from 142 to 165 percent and that relative to average revalued earnings
increases from 77 to 94 percent. In contrast, the individual with a shallow age-earnings profile loses out.
The real replacement rate falls from 142 to 120 percent while the revalued replacement rate falls from 77
to 63 percent. These results show the arbitrary way in which pension benefit formulae, based on a
limited number of final or best years, redistribute systematically between different groups of individuals.
The redistribution from workers with shallow age-earnings profiles to those without is why many
countries have moved to extend the averaging period in their defined-benefit pension formula.
Accrual structure
8.     The INPS accrual rate (the pension earned for an additional year's contributions) varies with the
number of years' contributions. The structure of pension benefits relative to years of participation in the
INPS is called 'non-linear'. The first three years' contributions yield a benefit of 8.17 percent of
earnings while for subsequent years', the reward is 1.5 percent of pay. As noted previously, three years
of coverage gives a pension of 20 + 4 x 0.015 = 24.5 percent. This is equivalent to 23 percent of average
real earnings and 22 percent of average revalued earnings. The replacement rates are also shown for
workers with 10 and 20 years' contributions.
9.     This accrual structure is exceptionally generous to workers with short contribution periods by
international standards. The majority of public and mandatory pension systems around the world have a
'linear' accrual structure: each year of participation - from the first to the last - earns the same
percentage of pay in pension. All OECD countries (except Austria and Spain) and most low-income
countries fall into this category.
10.    The INPS is clearly exceptional in two ways. First, the scale of the accrual rate in this range is
well beyond that found in any other countries' pension system. The maximum accrual rate in other
- 75 -



countries at any point is four percent a year, while in Cape Verde it exceeds eight percent for the first
three years. Secondly, the vesting period of three years is very short. The next shortest vesting period is
eight years, and this is adopted in just three countries. The average period is nearly 18 years.
A ceiling
11.   The next notable feature of the INPS is the absence of a ceiling to the earnings eligible for
contributions and benefits. Only four of the 15 countries have no ceiling. But these countries have
radically different pension systems to Cape Verde. In Finland and the Netherlands, these benefits come
from occupational pension schemes (that are statutory in Finland and have near universal coverage in the
Netherlands through industrial-relations agreements). In Australia, the public pension is means-tested,
but there is no ceiling to mandatory contributions to a private, defined-contribution pension plan. The
average ceiling for public pension programs is double economy-wide average earnings.
12.   The question of whether to have a pension ceiling or not, and if so, how large it should be,
depends on the relative weight of two views of Government's role in retirement income provision:
o if the Government's objective is to ensure that all workers have a reasonable pension relative to
their pre-retirement living standards, then there should be an earnings-related pension scheme with
no ceiling at all; but
o if the Government's aim is to ensure all pensioners meet a basic standard of living, then there
should be a flat-rate or means-tested pension and workers above with earnings above this minimum
level should then voluntarily provide for retirement incomes.
13.   Few governments have based their pension system purely on the latter objective. (The only
examples that come to mind are Botswana, Namibia, New Zealand and South Africa.) There are more
that have adopted the former: what can be termed a 'comprehensive social-insurance' system,
particularly in continental Europe. But most countries lie on a spectrum in between. Canada and the
United Kingdom, for example, have public pension schemes that are heavily weighted towards universal
flat-rate and means-tested benefits. Their earnings-related schemes have relatively low ceilings. This
means that replacement rates for higher-income workers are relatively low. Nevertheless, the outcomes
for retirement incomes look little different from other OECD countries. This is because the provision of
low public pensions for middle- and high-income workers leaves space for private, voluntary provision to
develop. Both of these countries have occupational and personal pension plans with broad coverage.
(See Disney and Whitehouse, 2002 and OECD, 2001 on this issue of substitution of public and private
pension provision.)
14.   The argument for a ceiling is therefore that low- and middle-income earners are guaranteed a
certain replacement rate. High-income workers are left to their own devices. The Government has
ensured that they meet a generous retirement standard of living already. Secondly, this leaves space for
the growth of private pension savings among higher-income workers, with benefits for the development
of financial-services industries and capital markets. A ceiling of 150 to 200 percent of economy-wide
average earnings, upgraded annually in line with earnings, is probably appropriate.
- 76-



Indexation
15.   Pensions in payment have been adjusted periodically, as shown in the table below. There is no
automatic procedure for indexation. Over the period 1984-1997, indexation overall has been
approximately half of prices.
Periodic adjustments to pensions in progress, 1984-97
Year               Monthly pension amounts       Increase (%)
1984               under 4000$00                     35.0
from 4000$00 to 8000$00           28.0
above 8000$00                     25.0
1986               all                               17.5
1988               all                               16.2
1994               below 10000$00                    15.0
from 100001$00 a 20000$00         12.5
200001$00 to 40000$00             10.0
above 40000$00                     8.0
1995               All pensions in payment            5.0
1997               All pensions in payment            5.0
Source Sociedade Nacional de Empreendimentos e Desenvolvimento Economico (1999)
16.   Most countries have now adopted some sort of automatic indexation procedure in their pension
systems. In OECD countries, these changes were made in the 1960s and 1970s in response to the rise of
inflation against a period when prices had remained relatively stable. Today, most index pensions in
payment to prices. Protecting the real living standards of pensioners is important. Pensions can be paid
for periods of 20 years or more. Even relatively low inflation over such a period erodes much of the real
purchasing power of the pension. It is estimated that the increases in Cape Verde in the table come to
around one half the rate of price inflation over the period.
Sustainability
17.    Simple measures of replacement rates provides little indication of the viability of the current
INPS in the long-term. Two measures are shown. The first is the rate of return on contributions. This
compares the flow of pension contributions made to INPS with the flow of benefits received. It is
calculated as follows. First, the flow of pension benefits is turned into a 'stock' figure: the net present
value of future benefits at the time of retirement. This uses standard actuarial techniques. Using the
Cape Verde mortality data, an 'annuity factor' is calculated as the sum over time of the probability that
an individual will survive to that age, discounted by a fixed rate, multiplied by the pension value at that
point. This calculation therefore allows for the effect of post-retirement indexation procedures on
pension values. The rate of return on contributions is then calculated such that the sum of contributions
and the (notional) returns equal this stock of pension wealth at retirement.
18.   The second measure is the equilibrium contribution rate. This shows, in steady state, the
contribution rate that would be necessary to finance INPS benefits. In the baseline case, the rate of return
on contributions for a full-career worker is 4.7 percent for men and 6.6 percent for women (the difference
reflecting women's earlier retirement and longer life expectancy).
- 77 -



19.    What, then, is a viable rate of return? The sustainable rate of return on contributions in a
pay-as-you-go system is the rate of growth in the contribution base. This is simply the growth of the
number of contributors plus the growth of earnings over time. This is the central result of the economic
analysis of pensions. If the rate of return paid to contributors were any higher, then benefit expenditure
would increase more quickly than contribution revenues. Thus, the contribution rate would have to rise
or there would be permanent deficits requiring external financing (typically from the general government
budget). In the case of Cape Verde, continued expansion of the labor force is anticipated and real
earnings growth, giving a sustainable rate of return of 4-5 percent over the coming decades. In the long
term, however, the rate of labor force growth is likely to slow. Thus, in steady state, it is shown that the
contribution needed to finance INPS benefits is 15 percent for men and nearly 22 percent for women
compared with the ten percent of the lNPS contribution presently ear-marked for pensions. Note that the
INPS administers a number of social programs. The total contribution is 8 percent of earnings for
employees and 15 percent for employers. Of this total, 10 percent is ear-marked for the pension system,
divided 3/7 percent between employees and employers respectively.
20.    This full-career case is extremely unrealistic. First, the scheme has only been in existence for the
short time (in pension-system terms) of 20 years. So the average length of membership of recent retirees
is less than 15 years. Secondly, even in steady state, it is expected that people to spend less than full
careers in formal sector, INPS-covered employment. Although replacement rates are lower for shorter
contribution periods, the effect is a less than proportional reduction because of the non-linearities on the
accrual structure. Thus, a worker with 20 years' contributions effectively earns a return of nearly nine
percent of those contributions compared with less than five percent for a full career of contributions. At
ten years, the rate of return exceeds 20 percent a year. For a worker with the minimum three years'
coverage, the rate of return is a whopping 134 percent. For this worker, the contribution rate that would
finance this benefit would be over 60 percent. Even for longer contribution histories of 10 to 20 years,
the equilibrium contribution rate is around double the current rate. For women, the rates of return and
equilibrium contribution rates would be higher still.
21.    It is important to note that current indexation practices have been incorporated in these
simulations. An automatic procedure is recommended to up rate pensions in payment in line with
changes in prices. This increases the cost of providing pensions by 17 percent. Thus, the rate of return
on contributions is 5.3 percent with a price-indexed benefits compared with 4.7 percent for the
under-indexed pension. For women, price updating pensions in payment increases the rate of return from
6.6 on current practice to 7.5 percent. The equilibrium contribution rate increases from 15 to 17.4
percent for men and from 21.8 to 26.7 percent for women.
22.    These results from an individual-level model suggest that the INPS is not sustainable in the long
term. Changes will be necessary to the benefit formula to avoid increases in contribution rates in the
future.
- 78 -



Reform
23.    Two changes to the INPS benefit formula have been considered. The first would abolish the
extra accrual for the first years of service. The accrual rate would then be 1.5 percent per year of service;
that is, a fully linear schedule. The male replacement rate relative to the INPS measure falls from 86 to
66 percent and by the same 20 percentage points for women. The reduction in the other replacement
rates is proportionally the same. This target replacement rate of 59 percent for men and 51 percent for
women is close to that of the OECD countries. This reform would reduce the rate of return on
contributions from 4.7 to 3.6 percent for men and from 6.6 to 5.3 percent for women. The equilibnum
contribution rate is then just 11.5 percent for men and 16.2 percent for women.
24.    If this change were introduced along with price updating, the gains would be rather smaller.
Although the replacement rate at the point of retirement is the same, the cost of providing pensions is
increased because the flow of pensions is higher than with a policy of under-indexation of pensions in
payment. The rate of return on contributions in this scenario is 4.2 percent for men and 6.2 percent for
women and the equilibrium contribution rates are 13.3 and 19.9 percent respectively.
25.    The third scenario includes these two changes plus a shift to average lifetime earnings in the
benefit formula rather than the measure of final salary currently used. Again, it can be argued that
pension systems around the world are moving to longer averaging periods, to avoid arbitrary
redistribution between different beneficiaries and to prevent manipulation. This reform reduces the rate
of return on contributions to just two percent for men and 3.6 percent for women. The equilibrium
contribution rate falls below the current rate for men and is only 11.4 percent for women.
26.    Most OECD countries have shifted to equal retirement ages for men and women. This would
seem to be a sensible long-term goal in Cape Verde. An equal retirement age can be phased in over a
period of ten-to-twenty years, to protect older female workers' reasonable expectations about the age at
which they are able to retire. Once in place, this will increase women's replacement rates at the point of
retirement because they will accrue more years of service. Women's rate of return on contributions falls
from 6.6 percent in the baseline case to 5.4 percent. It remains above the rate of return for men, of
course, because of women's longer life expectancy. The last line shows the effect on women of the full
reform package (equalizing pension ages, abolishing the 20 percent additional accrual, prices indexation
of pensions in payment and using the lifetime average in the earnings formula). The rate of return on
contributions for women is three percent (compared with two percent for men) and the equilibrium
contnbution rate is 10 percent.
- 79 -






Additional Annex 13: Letter of Sector Development Policy
CAPE VERDE: Growth and Competitiveness Project
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington, DC
Apnl 4th, 2003
Subject: Statement of Development Policies for Private Sector Development
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
For the past twelve years, the Government of Cape Verde has taken major steps to steer the economy
from a state-run economy into one based on market forces. These reforms have significantly
contributed to improve the business climate and to private sector participation in the development
process. However, these reforms need to be strengthened and furthered in order to fully realize the
private sector's potential.
In the spirit of productive dialogue and cooperation that exists between Cape Verde and the World
Bank, I would like to present you the program of policy reforms that the Government has already
undertaken or intends to develop and implement initiated to strengthen the domestic private sector as
well as further promote private sector investment in Cape Verde address the additional needs of the
private sector, aiming at its full participation in Cape Verde's development process.
I will also refer to the policies, programs and activities the Government intends to develop and
implement over the coming four years in the context of promoting domestic private sector
development.
Recent developments
Macro-economic stability is one of the main objectives set forth in the Government Program for
2001-2006 period. Accordingly, the Government has elected as top priorities fiscal and budget
policies aimed at a sustainable reduction in the budget deficit and consolidation of the parity of the
Cape verdean currency.
In line with the above policies, over the past two years the Government has been actively working to
correct the major macro-economic imbalances which had occurred in the years 1999 and 2000. To this
end, comprehensive stabilization programs were drafted and implemented with technical and financial
support of the donor community, namely the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the
European Union. In particular, the
With the World Bank, Government signed a Structural Adjustment ProgramCredit with the World
Bank, which provided for the definition and implementation of structural reforms to the Cape verdean
economy.
- 80 -



In addition, Further, after a four-month informal program with the IMF (SMP-Staff Monitored
Program), Cape Verde signed a formal, three-year program with the Fund, supported under the
Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF); and a.
A third structural adjustment support program was signed with the EU, launching further reform
initiatives.
Cape Verde has performed well under these programs and, in fact, even surpassed some of the
performance criteria agreed upon: the inflation rate is lower, real economic growth is higher, the fiscal
deficit is smaller, and the balance of payments is stronger. Real economic growth in 2002 was in the
order of 5%, against the projected 2.5%, whereas inflation was about 1.7%, against the 3% forecasted
in the program.
The improvement in the macro-economic situation registered during the second half of 2001 continued
throughout 2002, as shown by the compliance with the criteria established under the PRGF. This
improvement is particularly evidenced by the correction of the budget and external imbalances, as
well as by the trend for lower inflation, which in turn led to stronger external competitiveness and
lower interest rates.
The lower interest rates reflect the lower rates applicable to Treasury securities, which in turn are a
result of lower financing needs of the Government. This positive trend is a direct result of the
measures applied in 2001 and continued throughout 2002 - general expenditure contention, improved
fiscal collection, and resumption of foreign aid as a result of renewed donor confidence.
Performance on the fiscal front was also better than programmed, reflecting stronger revenue
performance and the restraint of current expenditures. Capital expenditures were also higher than
programmed, owing to a more rapid pace of donor disbursements than programmed. The Government
has also cleared all domestic arrears and honoured all rescheduled external arrear payments.
There has also been considerable progress in key structural areas: (i) a new Central Bank organic law
was approved by Parliament, establishing the independence of the central bank, namely by prohibiting
credit to the Government; (ii) significant progress was made in the process of implementation of an
automatic and transparent mechanism for retail petroleum products, aimed at shielding the budget
from fluctuation in world crude prices and in improving the efficiency of the sector; (iii) a new value
added tax (VAT) law and a new customs tariff schedule were approved, thus reducing the cost to users
while also simplifyiing the process; (iv) two large loss-making public enterprises were liquidated (food
import/distribution, and urban transportation) thus reducing the indirect drain on the national budget,
while also opening up new opportunities for private operators.
The new central bank law addresses key problems with the previous law. It (i) establishes price
stability as the overriding objective of the central bank; (ii) prohibits the extension of central bank
credit to Government except for a temporary overdraft facility that must be cleared at the end of each
year; (iii) limits the central bank's "lender of last resort" financial support to commercial banks; and
(iv) establish a transparent process for appointing the central bank governor and board members.
At the sectoral level, it is worth pointing out recent developments in the financial sector. During the
last several years, Cape Verde's banking system underwent a period of fundamental transition and
modernization. Over the past twelve months, the banking sector of the country has further improved.
The banking sector has grown during that period by an overall estimated increase of 9.5% in deposits,
and 14.8% in loans. Both major banks, Banco Comercial do Atlantico (BCA) and Caixa Economica
- 81 -



de Cabo Verde (CECV) have increased both their deposits and their loan portfolio, while reducing the
non-performing loan portfolio. Both banks as well as have shown had a positive result for 2002.
In a further effort to modernize the financial system in Cape Verde, the Sociedade Interbancaria e
Sistemas de Pagamentos (SISP) was created in 1997. Its shareholders include the Banco de Cabo
Verde (BCV), the four commercial banks (BCA, CECV, BTA and BI), Cabo Verde Telecom, the
Government (Department of the Treasury), and two Portuguese corporations (SIBS and UNICRE).
SISP's mandate is to manage activities related to electronic banking, including the payment systems,
ATMs, and electronic transfers. Since its creation, over 30 ATMs have been installed on five islands
and clients have the opportunity to make automatic payments on their bills (more than 140 terminals
have already been installed).
The Government recognizes that without a solid legal system, the fostering of private sector
development would be constrained. Having due regard to this fundamental pillar of economic
development, and with resources from an earlier IDA project (Capacity Building Project for Private
Sector Promotion) the legal environment has significantly been improved in the last few years,
including steps towards simplification of company registration procedures, and strengthening of law
enforcement conditions, including preparation of new civil and penal codes. Work is also under way
to reform the labour code, to raise its flexibility, a major concern for private operators at present; a
draft Labour Code is currently under discussion among all stakeholders.
On the strategic front, the Government completed the National Development Plan (NDP) for
2002-2005 and made significant progress in preparing a poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP).
Cape Verde's strategic approach to reducing poverty identified in the interim-PRSP, which was
presented to the World Bank in January 2002 (full PRSP is scheduled for the current year) includes:
(i) the renewal of economic growth with equity; (ii) the linkage between poverty reduction strategies
and macroeconomic and sector policies; and (iii) the improvement in the productive capacities of the
poor, by focusing on the need to provide training. The growth policy underlying the NDP, on which
the i-PRSP is built, seeks to promote sustainable, long-term economic, social and human development,
reflected in growing improvement in the welfare and living conditions of the population and in the
progressive reduction of poverty. Promoting entrepreneurial capacity, competitiveness and growth,
and expanding the productive base is one of the five major pillars of the NDP.
The excellent macro-economic performance notwithstanding, the Government has been aware from
the beginning that macro-economic stability is not an end in itself but a groundwork for a new era of
economic development, based on a sustainable growth pattern, focused on adequate supply of goods
and services to the population, without disregard for social concerns.
With this in mnind, the Government Program also calls for raising the competitiveness of the domestic
private sector, by means of its modernization, export promotion and promotion of partnerships with
external investors.
The current trend of improvement in the macro-economic situation is very important considering the
role reserved for the private sector in the development process: first, lower financing needs of the
Government has meant more resources available to the private sector; second, the stability and
predictability associated to the macro-economic stability gives renewed confidence to the private
sector to undertake new investment ventures.
- 82 -



To achieve the twin objectives of stabilization and rapid economic development, the Government
intends to improve economic management, push ahead with economic modernization and promote
sectors with untapped potential, by addressing the following key areas:
* Maintaining macroeconomic balances that were weakened during 1999/2000 by internal
(domestic consumption) and external (oil shock) factors and undertaking structural measures;
* Continuing progress achieved in restructuring and modernizing the financial sector and
reforming the pensions system; and
Sustaining high growth through increased private sector competitiveness, improved business
environment and the development of promising sectors, primarily tourism,fishing and transport.
The private sector should be a natural partner to the Government in pursuing the objectives in the
economic area, namely with regards to increasing output and raising competitiveness, employment
promotion and poverty alleviation. Indeed, following a period of some 18 months during which the
Government's focus was on recovering macro-economic stability, the Government is now re-focusing
its attention on the real sector, aiming at resuming economic growth in a sustained and sustainable
fashion.
The National Development Plan (NDP) Main Options are the framework for this new focus, which
will be set in motion by means of specific programs. The overall goal of this strategy is to bring about
significant changes in the real sector, particularly with regards to private initiative. This new strategy
will be further developed and implemented through initiatives in various areas, including investment
climate improvement, private sector development, tax reform, financial sector development,
infrastructure development, and external investment and export promotion
A. Investment climate improvement
Cape Verde's experience with private sector development points to the importance of improving the
investment climate, as part of the private sector-led growth strategy, and foreign direct investment
(FDI) is crucial.
The immediate challenge is to make sufficient progress in addressing the obstacles so that,
progressively more private actors can contribute to the economic growth. The objective is to improve
the enabling investment environment, especially by facilitating the policy, legal and regulatory
interface, and the dialogue process between the public and private sectors. The objective will be
achieved through judicial reform, a better business environment and trade facilitation, enhanced
capacity to regulate and resolve post-privatization issues.
In this regard, the Government will address the following inter-related issues:
Reduction of Administrative Barriers. In November 2002, FIAS launched the Administrative Barriers
Study, which was received by the Government in March 2003. Based on the results of the survey, the
Government and stakeholders will formulate an action plan which will be implemented. As part of the
process, Government will establish clear and transparent procedures to sell or transfer state-owned
land and a land registry (cadastre) system will be developed. Based on these actions, Government
expects to see an improvement in the business environment, which has lead to reduction of time and
- 83 -



costs of starting and operating a business (based on subsequent surveys).
In the end the Government intends, among many other aspects, to reduce company registration fees.
Import license fees will be re-analysed, as they are perceived by potential investors as an unnecessary
cost of business. At the same time, Government is aware that these license fees are a significant
source of the Chambers' revenue and an alternate mechanism to earn resources will have to be
established before their elimination can be considered.
An important aspect of this process is that it will be a participatory one. In fact, the Government plans
to continue the productive dialogue enjoyed this far on the study of these matters, with active
participation from stakeholders, both public and private. To this end specific task forces and steering
committees will be set up to ensure adequate stakeholder participation.
Development of Efficient Supplv Chains. As part of its private sector strategy and to complement its
work on tax reform and reduction of administrative barriers, Government will target three sectors,
which may include tourism, fishing, trade, construction and/or transport, and develop a clear sector
strategy. A supply chain analysis will be carried out on the selected sector to establish what
prerequisite actions are needed to resolve constraints by Government (infrastructure, regulation etc),
and by the private sector (gaps in technical skills or lack of upstream and/or downstream activities).
These studies will identify the cross cutting issues within the sector, defirung the policy, as well as
sector specific requirements. These recommendations will be fed back to the public and private sector
for debate and a clear strategy and sector policy will be defined.  Activities to support the
implementation of the sector policy will be implemented in the coming four years. As outcomes, at
least three studies will be carried out, a strategy defined and implementation begun. Through
implementation of appropriate policies, the Government hopes to stimulate the growth of these
sectors.
Modernizing the Legal Environment for Business. Intervention in this area will support work that had
been started in putting in place an institutional and a legal framework conducive to the development of
the private sector. In particular, the Department of the Registry, Notary and Identification will take the
necessary steps to speed up the process of registering companies, buildings, etc from almost 3 weeks
to 72 hours by developing computerized links among the various municipal offices on the different
islands. The software has already been developed, therefore the hardware (computers) will be
purchased. Comrnunication link will be provided with support from the RAFE project.
In an effort to respond to the requests of the citizens in general and the investors in particular to
simplify the procedures, the Government will elaborate the codes for the commercial registry, housing
registry and civil registry. In addition, the Government will elaborate the regulations and procedures
which accompany the labor code; of which substantial work on the code has already been undertaken.
Workshops and training sessions will accompany the process.
Government and the private sector agree on the need to establish "arbitration" as a means of resolving
commercial disputes. To this end, the two Chambers of Commerce of Sotavento (Praia) and
Barlavento (Mindelo) will house the arbitration centers. The Ministry of Justice will prepare the
appropriate legislation and regulation, while the Chambers of Commerce will establish the Arbitration
Centers. Specific initiatives include capacity building activities and provision of equipment in order to
set up two arbitration centers. At present, the Government is reviewing the different arbitration
options available in order to decide on the basis of the arbitration law and regulations.
- 84 -



Cape Verde is a candidate to World Trade Organization (WTO) accession and officially applied on
November 12, 1999. To become a member, we will have to reform some of the legislative framework
and present a Legislative Action Plan, particularly in the area of intellectual property which suffers
from a legislative vacuum. Indeed, this aspect has been stressed as being a pressing and urgent
necessity among business circles. This is all the more important in a country such as Cape Verde
whose music is exported worldwide. The Government anticipates to finalize the accession process in
the coming four years.
One of the identified bottlenecks in the improvement of the business environment in Cape Verde is the
total or partial ignorance of the legal business framework by domestic and international investors.
The Government will disseminate business law and information by (i) making laws and judgments
more accessible and available through the publication of business laws and judicial decisions, through
workshops as well as maintaining the web-site on a regular basis, and (ii) organizing training and
capacity building sessions (possibly in PROMEX and in the Chambers of Commerce) for Judges,
Lawyers, Businessmen and all interested public or private stakeholders, WTO, intellectual property,
anti-money laundering and arbitration.
Post Privatization and Divestiture During the past decade, Cape Verde's economy has gone though a
remarkable change during which private ownership and participation became dominant in all sectors
of the economy, including infrastructure and utilities. At present, the port and the national airline
(TACV) remain the main activities whose privatization has been initiated, but have not been
completed. The Government is currently working on these two cases to have their privatization
completed by 2004. Otherwise, the airports are the only publicly-owned infrastructure without private
participation. Some of the expected benefits of private participation have already accrued.
With hindsight, the Government recognizes two inter-related shortcomings in the reform process.
First, insufficient attention was paid to building in the possibility of competition in the context of
sector reform and divestiture. Second, an effective regulatory mechanism that would, amongst others,
regulate prices of private monopolies is yet to be established.
This situation had not been anticipated in 1997, the time when the private participation program in
Cape Verde infrastructure was conceived. Government strategy had called for divestiture actions to
be accompanied by the establishment of a multi-sector regulatory agency (ARM), and related capacity
building to ensure that it would quickly become operational. Due to a series of setbacks, ARM never
became operational. One of the reasons was that there was no national consensus and understanding
of the importance and the role of regulation in the privatized economy. The broad scope envisaged for
ARM (multi-sector and multi-purpose, covering economic, technical and environmental regulation)
also contributed to these problems.
Faced with urgent regulatory issues in telecommunications, water and energy (electricity and
petroleum) issues, a National Seminar facilitated by international experts and regulators, was held in
November 2002. The Government has abolished ARM and is in the process ofwill create creating a
new agency responsible for economic regulation of key infrastructure sectors. The National Assembly
has approved a framework law for the establishment of regulatory agencies. The importance of
technical and environmental regulation was also recognized in the new approach. However, it was
decided that these would, for the moment, be addressed through collaboration between line ministries,
the regulators and other agencies. In parallel, the Government decided to stimulate added competition
in a key sector, notably telecommunications, with a view to take further reform measures to reduce
cost and improve economic competitiveness.
- 85 -



To sustain important actions regulatory capacity building will be part of the Govermment's efforts to
improve the investment climate. In addition, the Govermment intends to (a) establish a fully
operational multi-sector regulatory agency capable of handling routine issues intemally and more
complex ones with limited expert support; (b) complete the private participation agenda, including the
port and, possibly, the airport; (c) establish a more competitive telecommunication sector and develop
information and communication technology opportunities, with more value-added services and the
number of internet users per 1,000 people similar to relevant comparators; and (d) create a
well-functioning inter-island and urban transport systems that do not require significant subsidies from
the state.
Specifically, in order to improve the regulatory environment, the Government will (a) complete the
telecommunications reform, which encompass: (i) the renegotiation of the existing contract to remove
intemal inconsistencies, clarify the liberalization of value-added service, revised pricing policy,
including access fees, and liberalization of the sector in line with WTO commitment concerning local
and international markets; and (ii) additional value-added services; (b) develop a multi-sector
regulatory agency, through structured and on-the-job training, study tours and exchange programs, and
advisory service for post training aftercare; (c) proceed with Port and Airport reform and divestiture,
whereby the privatization of the ports will be completed and a study of the scope for private
participation in airports will be undertaken.
Infrastructure development: a number of important economic infrastructure projects with direct and
immediate impact on the investment climate were recently completed, are currently under way or will
take off shortly, including: (a) completion of the Praia airport and respective access road, thus
improving the city's image as a business hub, and facilitating the development of the island of
Santiago's potential in the sectors of agriculture and rural tourism; (b) studies for the construction of a
beltway around the city of Praia, which will facilitate circulation in the capital and communication
with the hinterland; (c) construction of a new power plant in the city of Praia, thus improving
electricity and water supply to domestic as well as industrial clients; (d) recent completion of new
power plants in the islands of Sal and Sao Vicente, therefore improving conditions for the main
activities in these islands, respectively tourism and light manufacturing; (e) rehabilitation of power
plants for the other islands are currently under way; (f) major road projects under way in the islands of
Santiago (Sao Domingos - Assomada), Fogo (Campanas - Atalaia) and Santo Antao (Janela - Porto
Novo); (g) rehabilitation of the ports of Praia and Palmeira; and (h) considerable investments in the
telecommunications sector, including an optic fiber network linking the different islands. These
activities, which will be fully developed and/or completed over the next four years are hard proof of
the government's commitment to further improving the country's investment climate by means of
improvement to its basic infrastructure.
B. Private sector development
In the last few years the Government has made important strides to enhance competition, although
high barriers persist. It lifted all quantitative import and export restrictions, and has also abolished the
legal import monopolies of EMPA, the state commodity trading company. The dominant sector in
Cape Verde is services (approximately 72 percent of GDP in 2000). The development of tourism has
supported gradual growth of the sector in absolute terms and as a share of GDP. Industry represents
slightly less than 20 percent; its growth prospects are limited by high factor costs and the absence of
economies of scale, but encouraged by the availability of qualified labor and a steady improving
investment climate.
- 86 -



The Government is aware that growth is not sustainable unless critical issues such as factor costs and
availability of service infrastructure sectors are addressed.  While standards in terms of
telecommunications are high, access to water and electricity are relative low. However, the price of
utilities are high and have an impact on the viability and profitability of business. Reforms in the
utility sector are underway, including: (i) the adoption of a modernized legal and regulatory
framework with the view of increasinge competition wherever possible; (ii) privatization and private
participation in infrastructure sector policies; and (iii) creation of a multi-sector regulatory agency.
With support of the recently closed World Bank (Capacity Building Project for Private Sector
Promotion), the private sector has taken strides to become more vibrant and organized. There are two
Chambers of Commerce; one for each group of islands (Sotavento and Barlavento) which were
created to represent private enterprises' interests in trade, manufacturing, construction, civil
engineering, transport and fisheries. While the chambers do not cover all of the private sector,
membership is growing.
The chambers are responsible for building private/public partnerships and under this mandate,
organize, at least twice a year, a forum for private enterprises to further the dialogue between the
Government and the private sector. The forums provide the opportunity to Government agencies
dealing with private sector and private enterprises to meet and discuss issues concerning the private
sector. It is the Government's intention to follow-up on the agreements made at the forum. In an
effort to systematize and strengthen the dialogue between Government and the private sector,
Government will work with the leaders of the private sector, as well as representatives of the
associations on a regular basis to exchange ideas on pending economic and social issues.
The Chambers also play an important role in providing private enterprises with resources for training,
studies and technical assistance. The operating funds are obtained through their import licensing
operations. However, while the funds help, they are insufficient to meet all of the demands by a
growing private sector for training opportunities and technical support. Government recognizes that
the environment for technical learning and assistance in Cape Verde continues to be underdeveloped
and that the mechanisms by which private firms transfer technology and raise their technical
capabilities are weak. While foreign investment in the country is increasing, technology transfer via
this channel remains limited. In this spirit, Government will support the Chambers' efforts through a
matching grant facility. This facility will enable the Chamber to expand its efforts to support local
businesses on a cost sharing (50:50) basis. The grant would be available to all Cape Verdean firms
and informal enterprises, working through their associations. In addition, the Chambers, as managers
of the facility will also be able to access the funds to strengthen its capabilities.
Private sector led economic growth is crucial to Cape Verde's poverty reduction strategy and external
viability. It is the Government's objective to promote exports, especially manufactured goods,
tourism and transportation services and to attract a higher level of foreign direct investment and other
private sector capital inflows. This strategy will require a dynamic private sector that is able to
compete effectively in world markets and structural reforms, human development, legal reforms and
investment promotion will all be necessary to achieve these objectives.
The Government's public investment program will continue to focus on improving the basic
infrastructure (roads, water, power and telecommunications) toward this end.  Additionally,
Government is currently reviewing the country's labor laws with a view to remove barriers to
employment and is working to eliminate administrative barriers to foreign and domestic investment.
- 87 -



To promote domestic investment the Government intends to support SMEs. Government's strategy
vis-a-vis SME development is at a crossroads. While it has articulated a vision of efficient business
development services provision, the private sector forum for public/private dialogue, and facilitating a
favorable business enabling environment, the institutions serving SME's do not meet this challenge.
The Government is currently re-examining its role in SME development and its core activities.
Rationalization of agencies which interface with SME's is currently under way, as part of a broader
effort to evaluate autonomous public institutions. A multi-disciplinary Task Force has been recently
set up and is scheduled to submit to the Government a full report by September 30, 2003 outlining the
findings and making recommendations for improving Government strategy towards these institutions
and the areas they target. Government will take steps to build technical capacity in those selected
Government ministries and agencies which interact most intensively with private firms. This will be
done in a manner to address two key objectives: (a) enhancing the capabilities of private and public
institutions to deliver business support services; and (b) support Government agencies in their efforts
to provide business facilitation and promotion services, including improving their capability to
identify and ease bureaucratic rigidities.
C. Tax reform
In 2001, the Council of Ministers approved the legislative framework for introducing a value-added
tax (VAT) and the liberalization of the external tariff regime. Tax reform has two complementary
objectives related to fiscal equilibrium and the improvement of the business environment. The tax
reform strategy consists of three categories of measures: (a) the introduction of a VAT; (b) reform of
external tariffs; and (c) reform of the income tax structure. Government will focus its efforts on
ensuring that the VAT and new customs tariff structure are fully implemented by June 2003.
Government recognizes that the large number of customs and tax exemptions undermine its objectives
of fiscal policy and could provide more resources for its anti-poverty programs. In this spirit, the
Government recently took important steps to rationalize private sector taxation.
We first tackled "indirect" taxation. The Lei de Tributaqdo das Despesas, passed in June 2002,
significantly simplifies international indirect taxation. There are now only seven (7) rates of customs
duties (from 0% to 50%). All other taxes formerly due on imports, such as the 8% "emolumentos
gerais " (EGA), were suppressed. As a result, capital goods and raw materials now carry total customs
duties of either 0% or 5%, down from a level of about 20%, a clear sign of encouragement to the
productive sectors. This was the first step. By end 2007, Government intends to reduce spreads and
rates further, in line with international best practices. This will be done, however, prudently in order
not to jeopardize the sustainability of public finance.
The same law addresses domestic indirect taxation, with the introduction of a single-rate VAT of
15%, and the corresponding suppression of the Imposto sobre o Consumo (consumer tax).
Subsequently Government sought to improve "direct" taxation. Key measures included: (i) the
reduction in the 2003 budget/appropriate law of the Imposto Unico sobre o Rendimento (
IUR-corporate tax) at 30% of net profits, down from a rate of 35%; (ii) the increase of the tax credit
pursuant to the taxation of dividends paid out to corporate shareholders of 40%, up from a rate of
20%. This contributes to bridging the gap between the taxation of dividends to corporate bodies (now
effectively at 21%) and dividends paid to individuals (still at 15%); and (iii) the suppression of all
"estampilhas fiscais" (fiscal stamps). The reforms should have a positive effect on the supply
- 88 -



response of the business community.
Although these measures have had a positive impact, the Government recognizes the need for further
tax reform, along the following lines: (i) a further reduction of the [UR down to a level of 25% and the
suppression of the stamps in the collection of the Imposto de Selo of 0.7% on sales; (ii) the
simplification of the overly complex fiscal incentive mechanisms. This simplification will be
implemented by streamlining the existing incentive schemes, respectively pertaining to industry,
fisheries, exporters, external investors and tourism. In particular, the Export Processing Zone (EPZ)
instrument will be subject to a specific study.
Additional tax reform initiatives currently in the pipeline include a review of taxes on dividends in
order to eliminate the current unfair double taxation of dividends, which penalizes investors as well as
companies. Taxation of independent workers (traders, consultants, etc) will also be reviewed, specific
goals being more equitable fiscal treatment of these workers as well as alleviation of their tax burden.
D. Financial sector development
Despite the major improvements introduced in the financial system in the past few years, financial
intermediation is still challenged by the absence of a sufficient supply of long-term funds to meet the
growing demand.
In that context, studies about how to access international capital markets, as well as proposals for the
creation of new financial instruments (e.g. leasing, venture capital), and the establishment of
sustainable long-term financial resources are key for the future of the country's financial sector.
Efforts have been made to improve regulations governing financial institutions, and the BCV has
strengthened its supervisory function. These efforts will continue. The BCV is implementing a
number of projects to strengthen its operational and oversight responsibilities. It will continue to
strengthen banking supervision through the training of staff in cooperation with partners in other
countries, increasing the number of on-site examinations, modernizing the off-site reporting system
and strengthening supervision of its offshore financial institutions.
In its efforts to continue improving the credit culture, the central bank, with support from commercial
banks, will implement a real time credit risk system. With this system, commercial banks anticipate a
reduction in non-performing loans (NPL) portfolio from 9% to 7% in the next few years.
In late 2002 the National Assembly approved a new anti-money laundering law. Appropriate
regulation, which accompanies the legislation will be prepared and information and training will be
provided to Government, as well as commercial banks and private sector.
With respect to insurance, Government recognizes that life insurance can be a source of long-term
resources, which is vital for the development of investment opportunities. In this context regulations
will be updatedimproved and supervisory capacity will be strengthened. In addition, in an effort to
further diversify the financial sector, other alternative non-bank financial instruments, such as leasing
will be reviewed and the legislation updated accordingly.
In its continued efforts to deepen the financial system, the Government will support SISP's initiative,
currently in the works with VISA INTERNATIONAL, to extend the electronic VISA services (one
can currently obtain cash using a VISA card by going to the commercial banks), which will be
tremendous boost for tourism as well as business opportunities.
-89 -



Pensions represent an important element of the social safety net as well as an important potential
source for longer-term resources that could fuel investments. The Government is concerned about the
sustainability and fiscal effect of the present system and the impact of pension liabilities on the budget
and will tackle the following issues facing the pension system in Cape Verde:
(a) Civil service pension liabilities. The target benefit is high both by international standards and
relative to the private sector system (run by INPS), and has resulted in a large and increasing burden
on the budget. The Government will gradually phase in parametric reforms, and changes to eligibility
requirements and target benefits.
(b) Government arrears to the INPS. Until recently the Government owed over 2 billion escudos
(approximately US$ 20 million) to INPS including interest and penalties, resulting from (i) early
retirement programs used during the privatization process to shed excess labor; (ii) contributions for
approximately 1,000 employees at institutes and decentralized public services not paid to the INPS;
and (iii) civil servants who move to the private sector, without the correspondent compensation from
the Government to 1NPS. The arrears problem has been resolved using Treasury securities but further
efforts need to be made to avoid recurrence of the problem. The Government will take the necessary
steps in this regard, including, namely, appropriate budget allocations to ensure timely payment of
these contributions.
(c) INPS investment polica and partial funding. While INPS continues to run surpluses in its pension
scheme, previous governments have effectively forced the MPS to purchase government bonds in
order to finance central budget deficits. As a result, the INPS portfolio is heavily weighted towards
non-tradeable government bonds. This has a direct effect on the long-term finances of the scheme
since it reduces risk-adjusted returns relative to a diversified portfolio.
The Government will take progressive steps to manage this problem through a combination of
macro-economic stability measures and capital market development initiatives, therefore reducing the
Government financing needs on one hand, while on the other hand promoting suitable alternatives for
application of surpluses.
Further, the Government will promote the development of an investment policy for INPS which
reflects relevant best practices, such as portfolio diversification.
(d) Governance. The use of pension reserves as way to finance deficits is one example of the conflict
of interest that governments face when they run public pension funds. In order to avoid conflict of
interest problems in Cape Verde, reforms to the current governance structure will be considered and a
number of measures designed to remove political discretion implemented.
(e) Financial deterioration in other programs administered by the INPS. In addition to pensions, the
INPS administers programs for sickness and maternity, family allowances and other benefits.
Currently, the INPS faces financial problems related to a rapid increase in health related spending,
especially pharmaceuticals where fraud is known to be a serious problem. This indirectly affects
pension system finances because pension reserves may be used to cover health system deficits in the
future. Also, given that pensioners are major consumers of health services, as their number grows
dramatically in the coming years, so too will health expenditures.
The Government recognizes the importance of strengthening the pension system and will implement a
series of reforms designed to improve financial equilibrium and institute fundamental changes to
- 90 -



governance and management aimed at establishing a sustainable pension system. The Government's
first step towards a sustainable pension system includes a parametric reform of the current system,
designed to raise the retirement age, standardize the eligibility requirements and increase collection
efficiency.
The Government wants to undertake a comprehensive reform process and a framework law was
passed in January 2001, which establishes the broad parameters of the pension system. This law takes
in account the need for a safety net for the elderly poor as the first tier of the system, a mandatory,
contribution based scheme as the second, and a third tier comprising voluntary, private pension
provision. The two formal pension schemes operating in Cape Verde form the second tier at present.
They have the same public policy objective, namely to ensure that income is available during old age
and prevent a sharp decline in living standards over the life cycle.
The merger of the two schemes is being considered to ensure efficiency and equity, including
economies of scale in administration, labor mobility and equity. Despite more generous pensions in
their present scheme, civil servants appear to favor such a change because of the health and other
benefits that would come through the INPS. Particular care will be exercised to avoid transfer of
liability without due compensation.
Overall, the initiatives envisaged by the Government with regards to financial sector development
involve its deepening, aiming at the goals of facilitating credit access to small companies as well as to
increase the availability of long term capital.
With this in mind, the Government will help mobilize resources to broaden SDEs resource base, as
well as create and/or improve the conditions for establishment and operation of specialized financial
institutions, such as mutual funds, and leasing, and factoring institutions.
E. External investment and export promotion
Cape Verde offers various investment opportunities in sectors like tourism, light manufacturing and
services. Therefore one of the priorities of the Government will be to promote the country's image
abroad as well as to encourage a stronger internationalization of Cape Verde's economy.
Specific Government initiatives in this area will include a marketing and communication program to
disseminate information on Cape Verde as an investmnent location, export base and tourism
destination, and a program to attract increased levels of foreign direct investments, not least in
export-oriented industries and in the tourism sector.
These substantial priorities will be supported by an institutional development program for PROMEX,
the country's tourism, external investment and exports promotion agency, through which the agency
will update staff skills and internal processes and systems. Specifically, the Government will focus on
(i) the development of a strategically focused investment promotion strategy, including the
development of 4 master plans; (ii) an institutional capacity/skills building for PROMEX staff; (iii)
the preparation of up-to-date marketing materials, including revamping the PROMEX website; (iv)
introduction and upgrading of necessary systems and processes (investor tracking system, Intranet);
and (v) upgrading institutional capacity.
As a result of interventions in this area it is expected that within two years the amount of total foreign
direct investment in the country will increase by US$100 million with total 2,000 jobs created and
within four years a total US$225 million with 5,000 jobs will be created.
- 91 -



Policy management
In the context of a broader agenda for economic management, implementation of the above mentioned
policies will be monitored by the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Regional Development. The
Ministry will coordinate with the various line Ministries, public agencies and private sector entities
involved in its execution, thus ensuring the integration of efforts of the various stakeholders.
Further, to ensure stakeholder ownership of the various interventions, Steering Committees will be set
up as needed to oversee further definition, implementation and monitoring of the various initiatives.
One of the main operational instruments to be used in achieving the objectives envisaged with these
policies is the Growth and Competitiveness Project, a US$ 13.5 million project financed mainly by
the International Development Association (IDA).
The overall Project objective is to broaden the base of private participation in Cape Verde's economic
growth and enhance private sector competitiveness, as well as further develop its financial sector in
support of private sector development. This would be achieved through a series of actions supported
by the project, notably (a) financial sector reform, including pension reform; (b) investment climate
reform and improved supply chains, and (c) private sector and institutional capacity building. A
fourth component is to support post privatization and divestiture efforts that may not be completed
under the ongoing Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project, prior to its closing in
December 2003.
Further, various other projects included in the Public Investment Program will be contributing to the
achievement of these objectives in the coming four years. As said before, real sector growth will be
the thrust of economic policy in the coming years in Cape Verde.
- 92 -












Vello Grondo  25'                                    2-                                         23'
Ri6eiro do Cruz0      Jonelo
)SANTO ANTAO
t        ~~~~oy'b rd P6rto Novo
-17-                 Torrofozl de r-1
0OMonte Trrgo/
MindefoOi
Sao Pedro0.,  irol Q,ANTA LUZIA                                                                     Pedro de Lune
SAO VICENTE                                                                                 P.,,,, rn      t           I
SAL
BRANCO   ~Ps rn~N~bi
V SAO NICOLAU
CAPE VERDE
oTh   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                    Vuskxd           Gt
NATIONAL CAPIL
___-INTERNATICNAL BOUNDARIES                              A   T L A    N  T I C                BOA VISTA
-16'                                                                                                                             0        6
I0 10     20r :D  4rl0 MOtElS                                                                                        Vf h111o16
0 C E A N
OCEAN
Ihue bouxdries, coao., dier..mnoion. ard .ry ohrrlrmlo
sJown on this mop &o not rwp4/ on tie port f Me WOr Bok Group
any judgment on tbe legal ston ony trdory, or any endormOnent
or acceptae of e  daries.
SPANIlSH ,               N 
SAHARA  ._J         '
CAPE VERDE      MAURITANIA                                                     TarrflAl
CAPE VERDE  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                   rito Antonto
ik..                 ~~~~~~~     ~~MALICle
*\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~SANTIAGO                     ~  A\- hI da Mo  M OIMAIO
ENEGL'                                                                           lIet do
THE GAMBIA                                                              Ribeiro do Borc  M,guel tuiro do Horto
;r ) _> v~~~ BURKINA                                           Santa C lro1Vl 
GUINtEABIS&Ab-UINEA    FASO                                                   0nO                 Maoo
GUINEA -  GUINEA >r  FASO-*  '           Fojozmnho               Porto Rinca      Jo Teves
>  S*ERRA"vD  IVOIRE j  z   5 I -15  SECOS So Moe       NPr                  Senhoro de tuz                       15-
>        ~~SiERA  NE- '~COTE   a:  j                          C,orvo            Porto G.
c  ~ ~  ~   ~   ,-~c IORE/~So~FOGO 
c  ATLANTIC                                        NipAS  o1                                                                                a;tm Cv :ger  ~roeen--~RI
OCEAN                         G            urno             Coa FigueirR
C_l aoc  BRAVA        Alcatraz     24'                                        23'                   <



