                                               Documento f
                                             The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                              ReportNo: 38814- CV




                                           PROJECTPAPER

                                                   ONA

                        PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGCREDIT

                              INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR2MILLION
                                  (US$3 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

                                                FORTHE

                         GROWTH AND COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT

                                               June 7,2007




Financeand PrivateSector Department
CountryDepartmentAFCFl
Afkica Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance o f their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective May 22,2007)
               Current Unit = Cape Verde Escudos (Esc)
                         US$ 1= Esc 82.018


                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1-December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


A A C   Agencia deAviaqio Civil (Civil Aviation Agency)
ANAC    Agencia Nacional de Communicaqoes(National Agency for
         Communications)
AP      Administrlio Pziblico (Public Administration)
ARE     Agencia de RegulaqioEcondmica (Agency for Economic Regulation)
ARFA    Agkncia de Regulaqio e Supewislio de Produtos Farmaceuticos e
        Alimentares (Food and Pharmaceuticals Regulatory Agency)
A T M    Automated Teller Machine
B C V   Banco de Cabo Verde(Cape Verde Central Bank)
BOT      Build,Operate and Transfer
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
C I      Cabo VerdeInvestimentos (Cape Verde InvestmentAgency)
D C A    Development Credit Agreement
ENAPOR  Empresa Nacional de Administraqio de Portos (Port Management
         Company)
FAIMO   Frentes da Alta Intensidada da Mi0 de Obra (labor intensivework
         program)
FIAS     ForeignInvestment Advisory Services
FMR      FinancialMonitoring Report
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GTRBAI   Grupo de Trabalhopara a Reduqao das Barreiras Administrativas ao
        Investimento (Working Group for the Reduction in Administrative
         Ba mers)
G&CP     Growth and Competitiveness Project
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
INCV    Imprensa Nacional do Cabo Verde(National PrintingOffice)
IDA      InternationalDevelopment Association
INPS    Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social (National Social Security
         Institution)




                                 2

                                                                        FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

            ISDS             Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet
            KPI              KeyPerformance Indicator
            MCC              MillenniumChallenge Corporation
            MDG              MillenniumDevelopment Goal
            MFPA             MinistryofFinanceandPublic Administration
            MGF              Matching Grant Facility
            MoJ              MinistryofJustice
            MSRA             Multi-Sector Regulatory Agency
            NOSi             Nucleo Operacional Para a Sociedade de Inforrnaqa"o (Government
                             Department responsible for informationtechnology)
            NPL              Non-performing Loans
            PAD              Project Appraisal Document
            PAGE             Plano deAc~a"o  para a Governap?oElectrdnica (E-Governance
                             Action Plan)
            PCU              Project CoordinationUnit
            PDO              Project Development Objective
            POS              Point of Sale Machine
            PRCBP            Privatization andRegulatory Capacity BuildingProject
            PRSP             Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
            PSI              Program Support to Institutions
            SME              Small and Medium-Size Enterprise
            SOE              Statement o f Expense
            TACV             TransportesAe'reos de Cab0 Verde(National airline)
            VAT              Value-added Tax
            WTO              World Trade Organization




                                      Vice President:     Obiageli K.Ezekwesili
                                    Country Director:     Madani M.Tall
                               Acting Sector Manager:     Dileep Wagle
                                   Task Team Leader:      Sherri Archondo




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                              REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

               GROWTH AND COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
                                ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                Page

A.  INTRODUCTION......................................................................................................... 6

B.  BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING................6
C.  PROPOSEDCHANGES...............................................................................................                9

D.  CONSISTENCYWITHTHE CAS.............................................................................                          10

E.  APPRAISAL OF ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES.........................................................                                  11

F.  EXPECTEDOUTCOMES..........................................................................................                   11

G.  BENEFITSAND RISKS.............................................................................................                12

H.  TERMS AND CONDITIONS FORADDITIONAL FINANCING...........................                                                       13

TECHNICAL ANNEX............................................................................................................ 14

ANNEX I: TIMETABLE OFKEYPROCESSINGEVENTSAND STAFFINVOLVED..18
ANNEX 11: DETAILED REVIEW OF ORIGINAL PROJECTPERFORMANCE..............19

ANNEX 111: THE MATCHINGGRANT FACILITYSUCCESS STORIES........................                                                     26

ANNEX IV: DETAILED PROJECTCOSTS........................................................................                          28

ANNEX V: MONITORINGINDICATORS..........................................................................                          29

IBRDMAP33383 ................................................................................................................... 33




                                                     4


                            REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

                   GROWTH AND COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
                             ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                         PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET


Date: June 7,2007                                    Team Leader: Sherri Archondo
Country: Republic o f CapeVerde                      Acting Sector Manager: Dileep Wagle
Project Name: Growth and CompetitivenessProject      Director: Madani M.Tall
Project ID: P103329                                  Environmental Category: C
Borrower: Government of Cape Verde




Current Closing Date: February28,2008




beenrevised.


[ 3 Loan    [XI Credit [ ]Grant [ ]Guarantee         [ 3 Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 3.00
Proposedterms: Standard Credit terms o f IDA, with ,amaturity of40 years includinga grace
period o ften years                                                                         -
                                                                          P
                                  FinancingPlan(US$m)
                       Source                           1  Local      Foreign   I   Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT/BENEFICIARIES                               0.79II                   0.79



Borrower: Government ofCapeVerde
ResponsibleAgency: Ministryofthe Economy, Growth andCompetitiveness
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
Contact Person : Mr.Rui Santos, Project Coordinator

-
Tel: (238) 2614 748
Email: Coordeiiudor@zIc'P.gov.CI'
                                                                              P




                                          5


A.     INTRODUCTION

 1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide
Additional Financing in an amount o f SDR 2 million (US$3 million equivalent) to the
Republic o f Cape Verde for the Growth and Competitiveness Project (G&CP, Cr. 3755-
CV). The proposed Additional Financing would help finance the costs associated with:
(i) consultant services to prepare the privatization o f Transportes Ae`reos de Cabo Verde
(TACV, the national airline) and Empresa Nacional de Administrapi`o de Portos
(ENAPOR, the port management company); (ii)        consultant services to establish a Data
Center for the E-Government initiative (Casu do CidadGo, Citizen's House); (iii)     scaling-
up o f the Matching Grant Facility (MGF) which provides direct support to the national
private sector, particularly small and medium-size enterprises (SMEs); (iv) financing the
program to digitalize the Official Gazette database; and (v) financing the partial liabilities
incurred by Government to the Instituto Nacional de Previdencia Social (INPS, the
National Social Security Institute).

2.      N o changes are beingproposed to the project development objective (PDO) or to
its general design underlyingobjectives or implementation modalities.       The Additional
Financing will support priority activities that have advanced beyond what was initially
envisioned and are pivotal to the Government's economic reform agenda. Support for the
additional and scaled-up activities will enhance the project's impact and development
effectiveness.

3.      The proposed Credit will be executed as a Specific Investment Loan. Although
there were initiallyno co-financing arrangements, the Millennium Challenge Corporation
(MCC) approved, on July 4, 2005, a grant program totaling US$llO million equivalent
for infrastructure development o f the port and road sectors, technical assistance to
support Cape Verde's growth and competitiveness agenda and rural development
activities. The M C C program complements and works closely with the current project.

B.    BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING

4.      Original Credit. The original Development Credit Agreement (DCA) in the
amount o f SDR 8.5 million (US$11.5 million equivalent) was presented to the World
Bank Board o f Directors on May 13, 2003, and became effective on October 31, 2003.
The closing date is February 28, 2008. As o f May 22, 2007, 73 percent o f the original
Credit hadbeen disbursed.

5.      Original Project Objective. The original PDO as stated in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) and in the original D C A is to broaden the base o f private participation
inCape Verde's economic growth and enhance private sector competitiveness, as well as
further develop its financial sector. The project consists o f two main components: (a)
Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial Sector, and (b) Enhancing
Private Sector Competitiveness. The intermediate outcomes (on the level o f these
components) will be achieved through a series o f actions (or sub-components) supported


                                             6

by the project, notably: (a) financial sector reform, including pension reform; (b)
investment climate reform, including, but not limitedto: (i) reform; (ii)
                                                              tax             alleviation o f
administrative barriers; (iii) improved supply chains; and (iv) legal reform; (c) post-
privatization and divestiture reforms; and (d) private sector and institutional capacity
building.

6.      Project Performance. The project has a well-balanced approach to improving
private sector development, the engine o f growth, through the actions noted inparagraph
four. Project implementation was upgraded to "highly satisfactory" and meeting the
PDO is also considered "highly satisfactory". These ratings arejustified by the fact that
Government and Project beneficiaries have already exceeded certain project completion
expectations and are extrapolating from project-generated reforms to proceed to the next
stage o f a growth agenda. In addition, project management has substantially improved
with the development o f an excel-based system which integrates project activities with
project procurement processes and financial management.          This managerial process
provides a more structured relationship with beneficiaries and enables a more meaningful
dialogue to improve project implementation.

7.      Project Achievements. There have been several notable achievements resulting
from the project which are described in detail in Annex 11. The first i s a substantial
deepeningo f the financial sector, creating increased access to financial services through
new financial instruments. For example: (i)Automatic Teller Machines (ATM) and
Point o f Sale (POS) Machines are available on all o f the islands, which include debit and
credit card transactions; (ii)E-banking and payment transfers have evolved; (iii)        the
public and private social security schemes have merged, enabling greater efficiencies in
social security in the future and encouraging an increase in the availability o f long-term
resources needed for investment; and (iv) accountability inthe social pension system has
improvedwith the introduction o f identification cards.

8.       Other important achievements stems from the Government's actions to reduce
administrative barriers, to improve the business environment and reduce opportunities for
fraud and corruption. In addition, the E-Government initiative is an ambitious effort to
improve the Government systems using Information and Communications Technology
(ICT). This initiative strives to change the public service mentality to better serve the
private citizen and improve Cape Verde's business climate.         The initiative has been
adapted to the needs o f the private sector and civil society and the results are already
visible to the average citizen. Some examples include: (a) reduction intime to complete
notary transactions; (b) reduction in time to register and license businesses; (c) greater
transparency intax collection; and (d) improved fiscal management.      The fruits o f these
efforts are already being seen inthe recent growth o ftourism andreal estate development
with morethan US$SOO million investment already underway on the island o f SAL.

9.      The MGF (see Annex I11for details) has helpedmore than 100 local businesses to
improve their productivity and efficiency, enabling them to become more competitive.
The MGF was also instrumental in providing support to private businesses during the
introduction o f the value-added tax (VAT), which necessitated the upgrading o f financial
management systems.


                                             7

 10.    During the past decade, the Government has undertaken an ambitious
privatization program. Although it has performed unevenly, there have been many
success stories because the private sector stood ready to fill the vacuum created by the
privatization. As a result, some sectors experienced increased efficiencies which resulted
in lower costs to the public (the bus company and the telecommunication company are
just two examples).

 11.    Strategic Direction. Two high level Steering Committees, which will remain in
place for the duration o f the project, provide the strategic direction for project activities
and reforms. The first Steering Committee i s chaired jointly by the Minister o f Finance
and Public Administration and the             Minister o f the Economy Growth and
Competitiveness. It i s comprised o f high-level government officials and private sector
representatives. In addition to overall strategic direction and ministerial coordination, it
provides oversight o f the project by monitoring project implementation on a quarterly
basis, including work programs and budgets. The second Steering Committee is co-
chaired by the Minister o f Finance and Public Administration and the Minister o f Labor
and is comprised o f various ministries and representatives o f the private sector. It is
responsible for the strategic direction o f pension reform, including the recent merger o f
the two pension schemes (Administraqao Publico and INPS). For the past two years, the
Committee has also been supported by an internationally recruited pension specialist,
who provides on and off-site support, including technical advice and training.

 12.    Compliance withjduciary, procurement and environmental safeguards has been
satisfactory. The original project has an environmental category o f "C" and the proposed
new activities will not change this. An updated Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS)
was disclosed at the World Bank's InfoShop inMarch2007. All audits have been carried
out in a timely manner and are unqualified. A procurement assessment made during the
May 2007 supervision mission determined that project beneficiaries follow World Bank
Guidelines. The Government is fully committed to the project and has complied with all
covenants specified inthe DCA. The PCU has established an acceptable accounting and
reporting system for the project that it will also apply to the Additional Financing.

13.     Rationale for the Additional Financing. Cape Verde is a good performer and
Government has a proven track record o f taking difficult decisions to successfully
implement its economic reform program. The Additional Financing, which is in
compliance with OP/BP 13.20, will support the government's efforts to advance its
reforms, which started under the original project. The project's activities which have
contributed to the initial achievements and outcomes have been pivotal in improving
Cape Verde's competitiveness and ease o f doing business, as well as improving
transparency in the judicial system. These programs have been applauded and Cape
Verde's experience is being shared indeveloping countries world-wide. It is anticipated
that their impact will result in an increase in the country's ranking in the annual "Doing
Business" report. The highly satisfactory performance o f the project was instrumental in
Cape Verde's efforts to secure M C C funding for the development o f port and road
infrastructure, as well as for a growth and competitiveness component.




                                              8

14.     Given the current rate o f implementation, there will be insufficient funds to finish
and/or scale up well-deserved activities. Almost 73 percent o f the funds have already
been disbursed. IDA has successfully supported the Government's previous efforts in
these areas covered by the project through policy dialogue and various technical
assistanceprojects. IDA'Ssupport through the Additional Financing will further help the
Government to implement key policies and carry out capacity building activities, which
are essential to the country's macroeconomic stability and sustainable development.

C.    PROPOSED CHANGES

15.     The proposed Additional Financing as described in paragraph 16 supports the
original PDO and will finance the activities in three areas. These include: (a) ongoing
activities that lack sufficient funds to complete; (b) scaling up three activities which have
had a positive impact on the economy and should continue or advance to the next stage o f
implementation; and (c) payment o f liabilities incurred by Government during a
transition period for civil servants transferred to the private pension scheme from the
Government's pension scheme. The payment o f these liabilities had been agreed between
INPS and Government during the initial project appraisal and included in the original
PAD, butwas inadvertently dropped from the DCA.

16.     In detail, the following activities will be carried out through the Additional
Financing Credit:

(a) Ongoing activities that lack sufficient funds to complete:

    Completion o f ongoing consultant services to prepare TACV and ENAPOR for
    privatization. Only residual activities had been foreseen in the initial project design.
    As this activity had not begun under the previous project as anticipated the current
    project i s not sufficient to fully finance the requisite contracts.

(b) Scaling up three activities which have had a positive impact on the economy and
should continue or advance to the next stage o f implementation:

    (i)Implementationofrequisiteconsultant services andpurchase ofequipmentto
    establish a Data Center that will house the information technology systems for the E-
    Government initiative. This activity supports Government's ongoing efforts to
    improve the investment climate by alleviating administrative barriers thereby
    reducing the time and cost o f starting a business.

    (ii)Participation o f an increased number o f enterprises in the MGF, enabling them to
    purchase technical assistance and training services on a cost-sharing basis. The MGF
    has demonstrated a positive effect on national private sector enterprises, particularly
    the SMEs,bothinterms o fincreased productivity andrevenues.

    (iii)Extension o f the program to digitalize legislation published in the Official
    Gazette prior to August 2006. The digitalization o f legislationpublishedafter August
    2006 was completedunder the initial project. The Additional Financing thus supports
    Government's ongoing efforts to improve transparency and good governance, in


                                                 9

    particular by improving the legal environment for business through the dissemination
    o f legal information. It will give users access to all legislation published and to
    selective searches for a particular piece o f legislation, or legislation regarding a
    particular subject.

(c) Payment o f liabilities incurred by Government during a transition period for civil
servants transferred to the private pension scheme from the Government's pension
scheme

17.      The above activities will be implemented usingthe same institutional framework
and the same procurement and disbursement arrangements as the original project.
Activities financed under the Additional Financing are expected to be completed by June
30, 2009. Therefore the Closing Date o f the Additional Financing has been extended to
December 31,2009 and an amendmentto the D C A o f the Original Credit will be made to
enable both credits to close on the same date. The financing plan for the Additional
Financing i s presented inthe Table below and also inAnnex IV. The total cost, based on
actualized unit costs, i s estimated at US$3.79 million, o f which IDA financing o f US$3.0
million i s proposed. The beneficiaries' contribution is estimated at US$790,000 million,
representing about 21 percent o f the total project costs.       Retroactive financing for
activities under the MGF up to an aggregate amount o f SDR 200 000 equivalent may be
made for payments in respect o f Eligible Expenditures made June 1, 2007. This will
enable the Government to start the implementation o f this component without any delays.




                            Activity                   IDA      Beneficiaries Total
     II b.                                                    1              I
                                                      I       I              I
       a. Consultant Services (TACV and ENAPOR)       I 0.40         0         0.40   I
            Studies and Equipment to support the        0.50        0.03       .53
        creation o f a Data Center
        c. Marching grant to beneficiaries              0.50        0.50       1.oo
        d. Matching grant for institutional support to  0.20        0.20       0.40
        Chambers of Commerce
        e. Digitalizing Official Gazette                0.50        0.02       .52
        f.INPSdebtrepayment                             0.50         0         0.50
        g. Operating costs                              0.40        0.04       0.44
     I Total costs                                    I 3.00 I      0.79     I 3.79   I



D. CONSISTENCY WITH THE CAS

18.      The current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) covers the four-year period from
FY05 to FY08. It sets out planned lendingand non-lending activities o f the World Bank
Group in support o f Cape Verde's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). Their
intended results are in line with the country's Millennium Development Goals (MDG).



                                              10

The proposed Additional Financing will help implement: (a) the first pillar o f the CAS,
i.e. ensuring macroeconomic stability and sound public finance and budget systems by
supporting the development o f an appropriate investment climate through simplified
Government procedures; and (b) the second pillar, i.e. supporting private-sector-led
growth through an enhanced investment climate and increased competitiveness through
public-private partnerships ininfrastructureby seeking to: (i)   broaden the base o f private
participation in Cape Verde's economic             growth;   (ii)enhance private sector
competitiveness; (iii)  hrther develop the financial sector; and (iv) strengthen the legal
system.    As requested by Government, a new CAS covering FY08-11 i s under
preparation and would further re-orient IDA support towards the shared growth agenda.
The Additional Financingi s also inline with the thrust o fthe proposed new CAS.

E.      APPRAISAL OFADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES

19.     Although additional activities have been included, the project remains as
originally designed and appraised. These activities, all o f which began under the original
project, had been discussed in detail during the mid-term review in May 2006 and the
supervision mission in November 2006, and they are reflected in the respective aide
mkmoires. The economic, financial, technical, institutional, fiduciary, environmental and
social aspects o f the activities to be undertaken with the Additional Financing remain the
same as inthe original project.

F.      EXPECTED OUTCOMES

20.     The proposed activities as described in paragraph 16 above will strengthen and
enhance the impact o f the original development objectives.          The indicators to be
monitored will cover the following (included inAnnex 11):

    (9   the Investment Memorandum for the privatization o f TACV and ENAPOR
         have been advertised internationally and an offer has beenlaunched;

    (ii)theinvestmentclimatehasimproved(measuredbyareductioninthecostof
         starting a business, and by a percentage o f income per capita and the time
         (numbero fdays) to start abusiness (which hasbeen) reducedby at least 10
         percent);

    (iii)thosecompaniesbenefitingfromtheMGFhaveexperiencedanincreaseof5
         percent intheir efficiency as definedbythe ratio o f operating costs over revenue
         generated;

    (iii)alllegislationpublishedbytheOfficialGazettepriortoAugust31,2006, has
         beenmade publicly available online; and

    (W   a reduction inGovernment liabilities byUS$500,000.




                                              11

G.      BENEFITSAND RISKS

21.     Benefits.  In December 2004, a United Nations General Assembly resolution
announced that Cape Verde would graduate to middle income status in January 2008.
With its graduation to a middleincome country, Cape Verde's development aidparadigm
i s assumed to head in new directions.       Consequently, Cape Verde faces structural
challenges that imply a redefinition o f its growth model. The Additional Financing will
support Cape Verde's efforts to improve its external competitiveness and to ensure self-
sustained growth by building its capacity to compete in a highly competitive global
economy. This self-sustained growth should result in a reduction o f unemployment,
poverty and dependence on external aid and remittances.            The Government will
undertake its growth strategy by: (a) promoting a favorable climate for the development
o f the private sector (national and foreign); (b) strengthening its technical capacities
through specialized training; and (c) developing infrastructure, such as power plants,
(including renewable energy), ports, airports, roads, desalination plants, water
distribution and sanitation, fish processing facilities and cooling systems for fish
conservation, gas, fuel andjet fuel storage facilities.

22.     Notwithstanding some delays in the current program, Cape Verde i s a good
performer and has made substantial strides in its economic reform program. IDA has an
opportunity to support a program which has been successful and merits continuation.
These efforts will assist Government to ensure that the reforms are built upon a solid
foundation and will be sustainable. The Additional Financing will aim to address the
development     o f public-private partnerships and thus improve            Cape Verde's
competitiveness in the infrastructure sector. It should be noted that port reform is linked
with MCC financing for port infrastructure. Although Government and civil society are
already seeing results from the E-Government initiative, most benefits are yet to be
harnessed, as different units in the public sector are learning to exploit the information
generated by the new systems and redefine the way they do business. The next step is to
establish the Data Center, which will be the "heart" o f the program. Continued fundingto
the private sector through the MGF will permit additional national entrepreneurs to gain
further efficiencies and productivity to be able to compete in international markets.
Technical assistance to the Ministry o fJustice (MoJ) and the Official Gazette to digitalize
legal information will support Government's continued efforts to improve transparency
and good governance.       Greater availability o f information will make a significant
contribution towards easing the way business i s conducted, particularly in speeding up
the business creationtimeframe, andmost importantly, inbringingpertinent legislationto
all citizens in an expeditious and efficient manner.       Finally, pensions represent an
important element o f the social safety net put in place by the Government. They also
represent an important source for long-term resources for investment financing. Support
to Government in its effort to create a sustainable pension scheme would encourage
voluntary private funds to play a role in the overall system. Financial assistance to
reduce the Government's liabilities during this period will help sustain INPS' financial
position, while incurring additional costs associated with enhancing the required
information infrastructure.




                                             12

23.     Risks. The level o f risk associated with the Additional Financing is relatively
low.    The Government has already demonstrated its commitment to make difficult
decisions to ensure a sustainable pension scheme. Likewise, concrete steps have been
taken to modernize Government through the E-Government initiative and substantially
improve its governance structure. The Chambers o f Commerce have demonstrated their
commitment to bringinghigh-level services to its members, including executing the MGF
ina transparent and equitable manner; they have also been instrumentalinworking with
the commercial banks to create linkages between access to finance and support by the
matching grant.     A proposed partnership for creating a supplier credit database is
underway, including development o fthe legal framework.

24.     There is a moderate risk that Government will slow down the pace o f
infrastructure reforms. Nevertheless, main divestiture actions related to the liquidation o f
EMPA (public trading enterprise - import/export), ARCA Verde (shippingcompany) and
TRANSCOR (municipal transport enterprise) have been completed. Government
recognizes, however, that private sector involvement i s seen as key to relieving an over-
extended Government that would increasingly play the role o f regulator and facilitator,
and tackle remaining sector issues. There i s a new transport development strategy, which
is part o f the growth agenda (making the ports a regional hub), and the Government has
taken major steps towards preparing the two remaining large public institutions (TACV
and ENAPOR) for privatization. Government is working with IDA and MCC in this
area. The international consultants (one team for TACV and another for ENAPOR) have
already beguntheir work and have agreed with Government on an action plan, which i s
already being implemented. A monitoring and evaluation system, including a task force,
is inplace that would ensure that delays inreforms are identified and addressedpromptly.

H.      TERMS AND CONDITIONS FORADDITIONAL FINANCING

25.     The Additional Financing o f US$3 million equivalent will beprovided as an IDA
Credit on the same terms and conditions as the original credit. The Additional Financing
will become effective when the original Project Implementation Manual has been
amended inform and substance satisfactory to the Association.




                                            13

                                         CAPEVERDE
                    GROWTH AND COMPETITIVENESSPROJECT
                                 ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                       .......................

                                   TECHNICAL ANNEX


1.      Detaileddescriptionofthe AdditionalFinancing

Consultant Services for the Privatization of TACV and ENAPOR (IDA,
US$400,000).      This activity will support outstanding privatization and regulatory
capacity building efforts that began under the Privatization and Regulation Capacity
BuildingProject (PRCBP) andcontinued under the G&CP. The initialbudgeto fUS$1.3
million was based on the assumption that the G&CP would only finance residual work.
There had been significant delays in this program, however, and many o f these activities
did not begin under PRCBP as envisioned. These activities are now on track. The
consultants have been recruited and are already implementing the action plan. However,
the initial budget envisioned in the G&CP is not adequate to meet the projected costs o f
the two contracts which began under the original project.

ConsultantServices to Establishthe DataCenter for E-GovernmentInitiative(IDA,
US$500,000). The framework o f E-Government in Cape Verde i s based on the strategy
and plans laid out by the Global Strategy for Public Administration and State Institutions
Electronic Capacity Buildingand the E-Governance Action Plan. Based on this strategy,
a Data Center will house the equipment systems, databases and applications that will
govern and manage this E-Government initiative, including the transactions between the
public institutions and the citizens.

The Data Center will be located in an unused public administration building, which will
undergo architectural and construction modifications to adequately house the systems and
services. The Data Center project is estimated at over US$2,000,000, and the first phase
will be funded with the Additional Financing. The Credit will finance the design o f an
encompassing project that looks at all the aspects o f establishing such center including an
architectural assessment o f the buildingas well as specifications o f all requirements for
the acquisition and installationo fa "safe room".

Scaling-up of the MGF (US$500,000) and Support to the Chambers of Commerce
(IDA, US$200,000). Given its success (see Annex 111), the Additional Financing would
provide additional funds to support the national private sector through a 50:50 matching-
grant to purchase consultant services or find training and workshops. The approach and
procedures to access the MGF will remain the same as those provided inthe operational
manual that hadbeen agreed with IDA.

The two Chambers o f Commerce who represent the private sector, administer the MGF.
Inlieuofa fixed administration fee, theywould also benefit from the credit to strengthen
their capacity to deliver services to their members. The project would finance, as needed:



                                               14

(a) specialized technical assistance; (b) equipment; (c) training for the Chambers and
their members; and (iv) dissemination o f business related-information that would: (i)
widen the dialogue on business environment reforms; (ii) to raise awareness among
                                                             help
the business community as well as policynakers; and (iii)      educate and build consensus
among the concerned actors.

Support for Digitalization of the Official Gazette (IDA, US$500,000). It is essential
that business laws be more thoroughly disseminated among Cape Verde's legal
profession and the business community more generally. Inthis respect, the MoJ had, for
some years, ensured public access to its online database o f all Cape Verde's laws and
regulations, but access has beenrestricted solely to the MoJ following the intervention of
Nzicleo Operacional Para a Sociedade de Informa@io (NOSi, Government Department
responsible for information technology) some 18 months ago. There has beenvery good
collaboration between NOSi, the MoJ and the Official Gazette regarding the
establishment o f a national legal information website which would be managed by a
private sector concessionaire.

Imprensa Nacional do Cabo Verde (INCV, National Printing Office) i s charged, by law,
with the exclusive responsibility to print and distribute the Official Gazette, which is the
Government's official medium for publishingthe Republic o f Cape Verde's normative
acts. As part o f the E-Government initiative, INCV has begun, on an experimental basis,
the digitalization process o f its Official Gazette paperback collection and publishingit on
the Internet. At the same time, it has been publishingthe new issues, from August 2006
on, directly on the Internet. The project i s estimated to cost around US$500,000. This
effort dovetails with the overall E-Government effort, in particular with the Casu do
Cidadio. Once the system i s operational it will be possible, for example, to publish the
statutes o f newly created enterprises, as required by law, directly to Internet.       The
database o f all legislation published through the Official Gazette is searchable, thus
making it possible for users to have rapid access to all legislation published about a
specific issue, or a particular piece o f legislation.    The implication o f this will be
important. It will make a significant contribution towards easing the way business i s
conducted, particularly in speeding up the business creation timeframe, and, most
importantly, inbringingpertinent legislation to all citizens inan expeditious and efficient
manner.

Payment of Partial Liabilities of INPS (IDA, US$500,000). Duringproject preparation
(in 2003), INPS claimed that Government owed it 2.6 billion escudos (approximately
US$26 million) including interest and penalties. There were three sources o f arrears.
First, when early retirement was used to shed excess labor during the privatization, the
Government agreed to transfer funds to cover the incremental liability o f the INPS.
Second, contributions for approximately 1,000 employees at institutes and decentralized
entities have not been made to the INPS. The situation was made worse by the fact that
the Government apparently deducted the eight percent contribution from the employee
before making the budget transfer to these entities. Thus, the net wage o f the employee
was reduced without any payment being made to the INPS account. Thirdly, for civil
servants who move to the private sector from the Government pension system, the law
states that they will be credited with the same number o f years in the INPS as they would


                                              15

have had in their previous scheme, and that the Government should make a transfer to
cover this liability. The Government has since made substantial progress in pension
reform and the payment o f these remaining liabilities will help INPS offset some o f the
additional costs during the merger o f civil servants into the private pension systemwhich
i s ongoing. There remains a shortfall, which had been initially expected to be filled by
theproject, buthadbeenmistakenly dropped from the DCA.

Policies have already been put in place to assure regular payments to INPS. With the
integration o f civil servants into INPS, the Government designated that the fund budgeted
for social contributions will go solely to INPS.          This measure, which had been
implementedinAugust 2006, has beenefficient inensuring regular monthly payments o f
the social contributions.

Operating Costs (IDA, US$400,000). The project will continue to be implemented by
the current PCU and overseen by a Steering Committee.              Operating costs for the
additional period will be funded with the Additional Financing.

2.      ImplementationArrangements

Implementation arrangements will remain the same as for the original project. The
project will, in substance, be implementedby the beneficiaries. The PCUwill coordinate
and monitor implementation of the Additional Financing. The PCU will report to a
Steering Committee, comprised o f high-level public and private sector professionals.
The PCUwill oversee the financial management, procurement, reporting, monitoring and
evaluation, audit, public information and related functions, as well as manage several
cross-cutting sector issues such as pensions.

Project implementation period. The closing date o f the original credit i s February 28,
2008. However, an extension o f the credit closing date to December 31,2009 would be
justified to allow sufficient time to implement additional activities. The D C A for the
original credit will be amended to reflect the new closing date in line with the additional
financing.

Capacity of the Borrower to execute the project.            The Borrower has performed
satisfactorily under the original project.      In fact, many of the end-of-project key
performance indicators have already been met and in some cases have been exceeded.
This Additional Financingwill enable the Borrower to take the reforms to the next level,
which is important in the scope o f national priority actions.               No additional
implementation capacity beyondwhat i s already inplace i s required.

Procurement and Disbursement. Procurement procedures will follow the new Bank
guidelines. The procurement section o f the original D C A will be amended to reflect the
prior review thresholds as agreed during the previous procurement review and
subsequently requested by Government.          The PCU has prepared a comprehensive
procurement plan, which covers the additional activities. According to this plan, all
activities should be completed before project closing on December 31, 2009.            The




                                              16

disbursementarrangements under the Additional Financingwill remainthe same as those
underthe original credit.

3.      Accounting,financialreportingandauditingarrangements.

The following objectives o f the project's financial management system remain the same
for the Additional Financing. These objectives are to: (i)ensure that funds are used only
for their intended purposes in an efficient and economical way while implementing
agreed activities; (ii) the preparation o f financial reports that show costs budgeted
                      enable
and incurred for the current period and the total budget and cost o f the project to date;
(iii) thePCUtomonitorefficiently theimplementationoftheproject; and(iv)
     enable
safeguard the project's assets and resources.

Giventhat the project's accounting and reporting system to date, including arrangements
for audits, has been satisfactory overall, there is no proposal to make changes in the
implementation arrangements for the Additional Financing. An action plan was agreed
during the supervision mission o f November 2006 to further strengthen financial
management. It was agreed that the financial management staff and the computerized
financial management system in place should continue to be used to support
implementation of the additional activities. Particular attention will be paid to regular
financial reporting, such as Financial Monitoring Reports (FMR). Special Account,
Statement o f Expenses (SOEs) and annual accounts o f the PCU will continue to be
subject to annual audits by private independent auditors. In addition, the new Anti-
Corruption Guidelines will apply to the Additional Financing.

4. Environmentaland social aspects

The proposed activities do not trigger any new safeguard policies or raise the
environmental category o f the project. During appraisal, it was confirmed that activities
proposed under the Additional Financing are the same as were proposed in the original
project (Category C). However, an updated Institutional Safeguards Data Sheet was
disclosed at the World Bank InfoShop inMarch2007.




                                             17

                                        CAPEVERDE
                    GROWTHAND COMPETITIVENESSPROJECT
                               ADDITIONAL FINANCING


       ANNEX I: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSINGEVENTS AND STAFF
                                       INVOLVED


I Negotiations                                     May21,2007


II Date
   Board Presentation                              July 3,2007                     I
       of PlannedEffectiveness                     August 13,2007
   Credit Closing                              IIIIDecember 31,2009



   WorldBank staffwho worked on the project included:

             Name                                       Title                  Unit
   Sherri Archondo            Sr. Operations Officer (Task Team Leader)      AFTFS

  Lorenzo Bertolini           Regional Program Leader (Dakar)                P P W
I Monserrat Pallares-Miralles Social Protection Specialist
                             I                                             I HDNSP   I
  EricHaythorne               Lead Counsel                                   LEGPS
  PierrePozzo di Borgo        Sr. Transport Specialist                       AFTTR
  Aida der Hovanessian        Country Manager, IFC (Dakar)                   cAFw3
  Wilfred Bernard Drum        LeadPrivate Sector Specialist (peer reviewer) AFTPS
  Bourama Diaite              Sr. ProcurementSpecialist                      AFTPC

I Luz
  Osval Romao                 Financial Management Specialist                AFTFM
      Meza-Bartrina          ISr. Counsel                                  I LEGAF I
  Suzanne Morris              Sr. Finance Officer                           LOAG2
  Sidonie Jocktane            ProgramAssistant                              AFTPS




                                              18

ANNEX 11: DETAILEDREVIEW OFORIGINAL PROJECTPERFORMANCE


A comprehensive review was made o f the status o f the project implementation
inDecember 2006. The results arethe following:

 1.     Financial sector reform        has achieved substantial success. The
objective o f these reforms i s to strengthen Cape Verde's financial sector by: (i)
improving the quality o f the loan portfolios o f its commercial banks; (ii)
increasing the availability of foreign exchange in the country as a result o f a
global payment system (Automated Teller Machines <ATM>, Point o f Sale
Machines < P O D debt transactions and electronic credit card transactions; and
(iii)strengthening the insurance sector to be able to provide long-term resources.
Through the combined efforts o f the Government, Banco de Cabo Verde (BCV,
the Central Bank o f Cape Verde), the commercial banks and the Chambers o f
Commerce, substantial strengthening o f the financial system has occurred,
available financial products have expanded and the financial market has
significantly deepened.

2.      Many of the end-project KPIs have already been surpassed. The first
financial sector KPI was that "commercial banks see a reduction in non-
performing loans (NPL) to 8 percent o f their total portfolio by the mid-term
review and 7 percent by end-project".       As a result o f improved supervision
efforts by the BCV including at least one on-site visit, accelerated collection
efforts and increased write-offs o f bad loans by commercial banks, the credit
portfolio o f commercial banks has steadily improved. NPL dropped to 7.23
percent in 2004 and to 6.31 percent in 2005, surpassing the end-of-Project
performance target o f 7 percent. In addition, all banks are in compliance with
prudentialnorms.

3.      The second KPIi s that "it was anticipated that by mid-termreview six o f
Cape Verde's nine populated islands would be linked with credit card and
generate at least 950 transactions totaling US$8 million equivalent".       As o f
December 2006, all o f the islands have access to credit cards through the ATM
or POS and more than 66,670 transactions have taken place totaling some
US$10 million equivalent.        During the latter half o f 2006, some 3,900
transactions totaling Euros 0.463 million (approximately US$0.587 million
equivalent) have occurred, on average, each month. Government expanded the
program to take a more strategic view of the sector which includes strengthening
the payment system, developing a credit risk system and re-launching the stock
marketwhich had not been part of the World Bank-financed Project. Electronic
banking is also becoming quite successfbl, as demonstrated by the measurable
increase in the volume of transactions through ATM and POS and has changed


                                             19

the manner in which enterprises and private individuals operate within the
financia1systern.

4.      I n the area of pension reform, the WI i s "to establish a sustainable
pension system by: (i)  gradually unifying the two existing systems; (ii) clearly
defining criteria of benefits for the labor-intensive work program; and (iii)
implementing a series o f changes to the structure o f the INPS. Important social
security reforms have been implemented during the last three years and have
already reached end-project KPIs. Pensionreform i s well underway and, by end-
project, measures will be adopted to ensure the pension system i s likely to be
sustainable. The integration o f the TNPS and AdministrGo Publico (AP,Public
Administration) programs effectively started inAugust 2006. To date more than
11,000 workers have beentransferred and/or integrated into INPS.

5.      Criteria o f benefits for the labor-intensive work program have been
clearly defined. Changes in parameters have been made to the structure o f the
INPS. Some o f these reforms are aimed at combating extreme poverty and
vulnerability o f older people, as i s the case o f the non-contributory pension
scheme. Other reforms not only seek to guarantee the future sustainability o f the
contributory pension scheme and the efficiency o f its management, but also
intendto create options to make complementarysavings for retirement.

6.      The improvement o f the INPS information system i s one o f the
important targets o f the pension reform program. This system was assessed in
2004 and is currently beingupgraded with the support o f an international expert.
To date, the system has seen the following improvements: (i)  the INPS national
intranet connection was reestablished; (ii)   the databases located in different
islands (Santiago, S. Vicente and Sal) were connected to the network; (iii) new
servers were installed and system software (Windows NT) was updated; (iv)
database servers were installed; (v) an Intranet was established; (vi) all
workstations were reconfigured; (vii) data backup systems were improved; (viii)
technical specification o f all hardware to be acquired were set; and (ix) a
proposal to increase bandwidthwas made to allow the databasesto be merged.

7.      The Government's public sector reform program for reduction of
administrative barriers and improvement of public administration used FIAS
(Foreign Investment Advisory Services) recommendations (study completed in
early 2003) as a baseline took the program to the next level. The performance
indicator is that "an action plan including measures for reducing administrative
barriers will be adopted". Not only was an action plan adopted, but a large
number o f measures with respect to customs, taxes and the way Government
does business have been implemented or are on the verge o f being launched. In
February 2005 the "Grupo de Trabalho para a Reduqao das Barreiras
Administrativas ao Investimento (GTRBAI, the Working Group for the
Reduction o f Administrative Barriers o f Investment) was created. This group i s
led by the Prime Minister and includes representatives from all o f the line
ministries, BCV, Cabo Verde Investimentos (CI, Cape Verde Investment


                                            20

Agency), ENAPOR, the Chambers o f Commerce and the PCU. Government
converged a number o f red-tape reduction and public administration reforms
into a comprehensive E-Government reform package.               Cape Verde's E-
Government program will revolutionize the way Government and Cape Verde's
private sector interact.

8.      The nucleus o f the public administration reform program revolves
around the Casa do Cidad6o (Citizen's House) spearheaded by the Nticleo
Operacional Para a Sociedade de Informaq6o (NOSi, the Government
Department     responsible    for  information technology)       and the Public
Administration Reforms General Directorate. Government i s using ICT and its
impact for creating an information society to promote sustainable development
for Cape Verde. The program i s trying to change the civil service administration
from a "control" function to a "facilitation" function, making it more efficient
and effective, more transparent, more participatory and less onerous.         This
system will: (i)help promote good governance, by improving the flow o f
resources and reporting, thus minimizing possibilities for rent seeking; (ii)
promote entrepreneurial capacity, competitiveness and growth by increasing the
competitiveness o f the economy through ICTs and stimulating electronic
commerce; and (iii)    bring Government closer to the population. One o f the
major expected outcomes i s that the number o f days to start a business and get a
license will be substantially reduced.

9.      Working in parallel with the E-Government initiative, the Government
has implemented substantial tax and custom reforms to improve services and
ensure timely delivery o f goods.         In 2004, Cape Verde concluded the
implementation o fthe largest fiscal reform inits history. InJanuary o fthat year,
both the Value Added Tax (VAT) and the Special Consumption Items Tax were
introduced. The latter applies to items considered to be luxuries or which cause
harmhl effects to health or to the environment. The International Monetary
Fund's (IMF) Fiscal Affairs Department carried out an initial "Study on the
Economic Impact o f the Fiscal Incentives".        This led to a compilation o f
legislation relating to the incentive structure. Work i s now underway to prepare
a new legislation for a "single incentives law". This i s also an IMF condition for
the Program Support to Institutions and should be enacted by mid-2007.
Simultaneously, import fees and taxes were significantly modified and lowered.

10.    At the same time, customs taxes were streamlined with the elimination o f
various import taxes and fees. The new taxes led to an increase o f the fiscal
base, while securing consistent revenue flows. Following upon these reforms, a
new Customs Code has been submitted to Government for approval and
publication. This will provide progressive liberalization o f import rules and
procedures in compliance with the World Trade Organization (WTO) rules.
Introduction o f customs software in February 2003 has enabled Customs to
process cargo faster. While the recent Investment Climate Survey completed in
June 2006 indicated that eight days, on average, are needed to get goods through
customs, customs has recently upgraded its technology and introduced new


                                              21

procedures to reduce delivery times o f cargo. Some improvements include, but
are not limitedto, additional offices being opened on the various islands so that
the client does not have to travel to Mindelo or Praia, and the introduction of
container seals which means that merchandise in domestic transit no longer
require customs' agents to physically accompany the containers to their final
destination.

11.     Regulations and procedures for the labor code have been adopted, and a
draft arbitration legislation as an alternative means for commercial disputes has
been completed. The new Labor Code was validated by the High Social Council
(Conselho de ConcertaGtio Social), made up o f Line Ministers, Workers Unions
and Business Representatives, in their December 2005 meeting. The new
arbitration law and its accompanying regulations have been approved and
workshops carried out to discuss the organizational structures, rules and
procedures. Nineteen arbitrator trainers have been trained.       The arbitration
centers will be physically located at the two Chambers o f Commerce; this space
has already beenallocated andequipmenti s beingpurchased.

12.     The post-privatization and regulatory reform has been much slower
than anticipated but is advancing.        Cape Verde has greatly benefited from
economic liberalization and divestitures undertaken during the past decade. The
main theme i s that while Government has adopted a broad policy framework,
implementation incertain areas, especially when institutional buildingis needed,
has been slower than expected, for example in the area o f economic regulation.
Recognizing this, the Government has given it special attention since late 2003,
and positive results are now being achieved. IDA'S assistance will further
contribute through its analytical work, notably the infrastructure and investment
climate studies, as well as through this investment operation.

13.     Some o f the privatization and regulatory activities did not begin under
PRCBP as envisioned. However, the reforms which are being funded are back
on track and the program i s attaining results.     A privatization impact study
indicates that,    since December 2005,         gross revenues resulting from
privatizations have amounted to ECV 254.110 million (approximately US$3
million). Net revenues are inthe order o f ECV 183.293 (approximately US$2.16
million), considering administrative costs, taxes paid on the sale o f assets in the
United States, and some compensation paid to ex-workers as a result o f court
settlements.

14.     The KPIs are that: (a) a new telecom regulatory framework has been
adopted; (b) at least one value added service has been developed; and (c) a draft
strategy for private participation in infrastructure in relation to airport
management, had been prepared.         These indicators have been attained.       A
transport sector policy and strategy document was adopted in April 2005 which
includes clear sector development goals.        A new sector law for electronic
communication was adopted in November 2005. The Government has taken
steps to liberalize the telecom sector and a second mobile license was awarded


                                              22

 in2005', as were two cable TV licenses. With respect to the airport, the airport
 i s under private sector management.

 15.      While progress on the privatization of TACV and ENAPOR has been
 slower than expected, the Government remains committed to BOT (build,
 operate and transfer) privatization. Financed by the project, the Government has
 recruited an international management team to prepare TACV for privatization.
 The team has already started the streamlining process, including retrenchment o f
 staff working at the national airlines. With respect to the privatization o f
 ENAPOR, the Government is working with the IDA and the MCC to complete
the process as quickly as feasible, as MCC's financing o f Port0 do Praia i s
 contingent upon the privatization o fENAPOR.

 16.      Efforts are ongoing to develop effective regulatory rules and institutions
inkey sectors of Cape Verde's economy such as telecommunications, transport,
water and electricity. However, progress on this front has been uneven, with
 some important activities remaining behind schedule, but others advancing well.
For example, the Agencia de Aviap7o Civil (AAC, Civil Aviation Agency),
 formally established in March 2005, has moved forward with the adoption o f
regulatory instruments (e.g., with regard to air safety). A A C i s also actively
engaged in negotiating bilateral agreements (e.g., with Ireland, and the UK) to
firther support the development o fthe sector.

 17.      The newly established economic regulatory agency (ARE) i s now
technically capable o f reviewing and adopting regulatory methodologies and
making decisions; it i s now receiving regular contributions from the sector
operators to support its operating costs. During 2005 and 2006, ARE took steps
aimed at building a better understanding o f regulation by the public, as well as
ensuring coordination with other sector institutions and operators.

 18.      However, considerable regulatory challenges remain to be met, for
example regarding the regulation o f the electricity and water utility (this task is
being led by ARE), the liberalization o f the telecom sector (regulations in
support o f the telecom liberalization policy are being developed by the Agencia
Nacional        de    Communicacoes          (ANAC,        the    National     Agency      for
Communications), and the institutional start-up o f the regulatory agency for the
oversight o f the food and pharmaceuticals sector ( M A ) .

19.       Government's judicial reform is also well advanced. The MoJ has
recently completed a painstakingly detailed definition o f a project for the
modernization and automation o f all o f Cape Verde's commercial, property and
civil registries, as well as all notarial finctions, including such essential related
issues as document management, security, archiving, human resources and

'Award    of the second telecom license was overturned by the Supreme Court of Cape Verde because it
      violated Government's agreement with CV-Telecom. Steps are being taken to renegotiate the
      contract.



                                                    23

quality control. Government recognizes the importance that business laws be
thoroughly disseminated among Cape Verde's legal profession and the business
community. Inthis respect, the MoJ had, for some years, ensured public access
to its online database o f all o f Cape Verde laws and regulations, but access has
been restricted solely to the MoJ following the intervention o f NOSi some 18
months ago. There has been very good collaboration between NOSi, the MoJ
and the Official Gazette regarding the establishment o f a national legal
informationwebsite to be managed by a private sector concessionaire.

20.     The Imprensa Nacional do Cabo Verde (INCV, the National Printing
Office o f Cape Verde) i s charged, by law, with the exclusive responsibility to
print and distribute the Official Gazette, which is the Government's official
mediumto publishthe Republic of Cape Verde's normative acts. As part o fthe
E-Government initiative, INCV has begun, on an experimental basis, to
digitalize the Official Gazette paperback collection and i s publishing it on the
Internet. New issues (from August 2006) are now publisheddirectly on the Web
(www.incv. gov.cv). This effort dovetails with the overall E-Government effort.
Once the system i s established and operational, it will be possible to publish, as
required by law, directly to the Internet, the statutes o f enterprises created inone
day through the Casu do Cidadgo. The database o f all legislation published
through the Official Gazette i s searchable, thus making it possible for users to
have rapid access to all legislation published about a specific issue, or about a
particular piece o f legislation. This will make a significant contribution towards
easing the way business i s conducted, particularly in speeding up the business
creation timefi-ame, and most importantly, inbringingpertinent legislation to all
citizens inan expeditious and efficient manner.

21.     Support to the private sector, which includes a matching grant facility
(MGF), is part o f a broader program ofpro-private sector reforms. The program
supports private sector capacity building, on a 50-50 basis, and has been well
utilized. This component, which is hlly disbursed (US$950,000), has helped
more than 100 Cape Verde enterprises improve their competitiveness by
providing access to supporting services external to the firm and addressing the
constraints in staff training. An impact study indicated that the program was
successful and subsequent visits by World Bank staff, as part o f routine
supervision missions to MGFrecipients, confirmed the program's achievements.
Several enterprises (and Associations) have experienced the impact o f the efforts
(taxi drivers getting English classes; tourist guides being trained for the first
time; institutional capacity strengthening inone company led to a US$40 million
investment).    The results indicated that the funds are being managed in a
transparent manner. The MGFhas played an important role increatingjobs and
has made an immediate economic impact on some o f the enterprises. In most
cases, the MGF provided support to help the company "maintain its
competitiveness" and not necessarily increase its rate o f return or employee
count (although in some instances this did happen).           There have also been
subsequent secondary benefits to this program, namely a memorandum of
understanding signed between the commercial banks and the Chambers o f


                                             24

Commerce to create a supplier credit database and an agreement for better terms
for those enterprises that used the MGF to strengthen institutional capacity.
Annex I11provides some o f the success stories o f the MGF.




                                          25

                                  CAPE VERDE
            GROWTHAND COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
                        ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                .......................

ANNEX 111: THE MATCHINGGRANT FACILITY SUCCESS STONES

 During 2004, when Government was first implementing the VAT, a
 substantial number o f enterprises used the MGF to develop accounting
 systems capable o fproviding reliable financial information.

 G&B Communications, a radio broadcasting network, had been losing market
 share, largely because other radios entering the system were backed by
 communities, religious groups, etc., and were self-funding. They bought some
 new technology andusedthe MGF funds to train staff; they have subsequently
 regained their leadingposition inthe market.

 A printingcompany bought a printerwith its own resources and usedthe MGF
 to train staff on the new equipment. This equipment enabled the company to
 improve its work quality. As a result, the company increased the number o f its
 stafftrained on the equipment.

 A company that sold steel rods usedthe MGF to finance a feasibilityhiability
 study. Based on the study, the company expanded from a "trading company"
 to a "service company" and opened a body shop that also paints cars. Given
 the success o f the new initiative, the company increased its staff to 22
 employees (up from 14), and has tripled its income.

 A photoshop that was a net purchaser of services for its pictures (developing,
 printing, etc.) used its own resources to purchase some printing equipment
 from Japan and the MGF to recruit a specialist from the Japanese Company to
 train its staff. As a result, it is now a net seller o f services.

 Following the removal o f the European Union embargo, Frescocamar, a fish
 processing company, began to prepare itself for a projected increase in
 demand for its product. The MGF funds were used to train staff, particularly
 in safety measures.      Previously Frescomar was operating at 33 percent
 capacity and now operates at almost 65 percent - due to the improvement in
 the market as well as increased staffproductivity.

 The Taxi Association brought together taxi drivers on several islands andused
 the MGF to develop an English program for the drivers. This has helped them
 to better communicate with tourists and businessmen, Cape Verde's image as
 a tourist andbusiness destination.

 Flor de Lakakan, a landscapingcompany, was just breaking even when it used
 the MGF to help finance a marketing program that resulted in a three-fold



                                                  26

increase in sales. The company hired two additional staff and, for the first
time inits five year history, made aprofit andwas able to paybonuses to staff.




                                       27

                                          CAPE VERDE
                       GROWTH AND COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
                                   ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                          .......................

                           ANNEX IV: DETAILED PROJECT COSTS

 Component                             IDA      Beneficiaries/Government/
                                      (US$)         (other development
                                                          partners)
                                                             (US$)
 1. Consultant services for         400,000                                400,000
 TACV/port divestitureprocess
 (consultant services already on-
 going under original project)

 2. EstablishE-Government(Data      500,000                 30,000         530,000
 Center to store computer systems)

 3. Matching Grant Facility for                                            1,000,000
 beneficiaries

 4. Support to the Chambers of
 Commerce
  a. Equipment                      100,000                 100,000        200,000
  b. Training                        50,000                 50,000          100,000
  c. Technical Assistance (for       50,000                 50,000          100,000
 consultantsand non-consultant
 services)

                                              I
 5. Support to Digitalize Official  500,000   I             20,000         520.000
 Gazette
 6. DebtRepaymentto IN'PS                                       0          500,000
                                    5009000   I
 7. OperatingCosts                  400.000 I               40.000         440,000
 TOTAL                              3,000,000 I            790,000         3,790,000

                                               Cost by
I                                       DisbursementCategorv
                  Category                        Amount              Percentage

                                       CAPE VERDE
                 GROWTH AND COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
                             ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                                     .......................

                       ANNEX V: MONITORING INDICATORS

PDO: participation inCape Verde's economic growth and enhanceprivate sector
competitiveness and further develop its financial sector

                                  Baseline                   February2007               June 2009
                                 April 2003
Outcome/Impact
Indicators
1. ENAPOR and TACV                                        Management contracts    Investment a
are ready for                                             are inplace             Memoranda have been
privatization                                                                     launched
2. E-Government            Notary services are            *Time to start a        The Casa do Cidadgo
initiative has resulted in cumbersome and take a          business: 52 days;      has consolidated
an improvement in          long time. Registering         *Time to get a license  operations and
doing business inCape      businesses sometimes            141days                Time to start a business
Verde, particularly a      takes 75 days.                                         has beenreduced to 3
reduction o f time to                                                             days;
register and license                                                              Time to get a license has
                                                                                  beenreduced to 5 days

3. MGFshows                MGF is adhoc, no               A measurement system    Approximately 50
economic benefits.         measurement o f                inplaceand              additional enterprises
                           benefits.                      entrepreneurs have      have received support
                                                          improved efficiency     and efficiency ratio has
                                                          ratios (operating       increasedby at least 5
                                                          costshevenues); and     percent
                                                          increase inproduction.
4. All laws are available  No laws were available         New laws that were     All laws (those
on-line.                   on the Internet.               published after August  published prior to and
                                                          2006 are available on   after August 2006), are
                                                          the Internet.           available on the Internet.
5. The merger o f the      Two separate social            Merger o f the schemes  Systems and procedures
two social security        insurance schemes              has begunto take place  are inplace to ensure
systems remains on         (INPS and AP)                                          smooth transition for
track and liabilities are                                                         future entrants.
fundedby Government.




*Note: figures are takenfrom "DoingBusiness, 2007"




                                                       29

PDOOutcomes                                     OutcomeIndicators
1.O Increaseprivate sector participationinCape   1.1New foreign direct investment has
Verde's economic growth                          increased as a result o f investment promotion
                                                 efforts by US$lOO million

                                                 2.1 Investment climate improves from 125th
cv
2.0 Increasedprivate sector competitiveness in
                                                 position, asjudged by C V Ranking inDoing
                                                 Business on Ease o f Doing Business

                                                 2.2 As a result o fthe MGF, domestic
                                                 entrepreneurs have increased efficiency and
                                                 productivity by 5 percent (defined by


3.0 Strengthening o f financial sector (access   3.1     Availability of electronic financial
and efficiency)                                  services has expandedto all islands;

                                                 3.2 All banks incompliance o fprudential
                                                 norms and NPL decreases from 9 percent to 7
                                                 percent; and

                                                 3.3 Measures have been adopted to ensure
                                                 INPS can finance its obligations.


IntermediateOutcomes by Component               Results Indicators
Component 1:FinancialSector Reforms

    Strengthened the regulatoiy capacity of the     Proportion o f commercial complying fully
    Central Bank                                    with BCVprudentialguidelines

    Increased eficiency in theprovision of          Number o f Islands with hlly functional
   financial services                               electronic banlung services

    Increased sustainability of National            Proportion o fpension obligations met by
    Pension system                                  INPS

Component2: PrivateSector
Competitiveness

        Improvedefficiency in administrative         Cost/time/number o f processes required in
        processes inbusiness registration            business registration decreases

        Modernized legal andjudicial systems         Number o f legislations available
                                                     electronically

        Increasedefficiency o f firms benefiting     Percentage reduction inthe ratio o f
        from MGF                                     operating costs over revenue generated
                                                  30

          Indicator                   Baseline,Actual & Target                              Data
                                                                                            Acquisition
                                                                                            (semi-
                                                                                             annual)
                              Baseline      Actual            Target           Revised
                                 Sept       March           February          June 2009
                                 2003         2007             2008
Component I. Financial
Sector Reform
Quality o f commercial bank   N P L > 10 NPL=6.25 Yo     NPL<7%                              BCV
loan portfolio has improved   %
Proportiono f commercial      50%        75%             100%                                BCV
complying fully with B C V
prudential guidelines

Availability o f electronic   2 islands  9 islands       9 islands                           SISP
financial services has
expanded to all islands;
Foreign Exchange increases    0          67,000          950 transactions                    B C V
due to Global payment                    transactions    US$8 million
system (VISA)                            US$10 million
Government liabilities to     Have not   Have not paid   Have no paid       Paid             INPS
INPS are reducedby            paid                                          US$SOO,OOO
$500,000
System inplace to ensure      No system  No system       System i s inplace                  INPS
timely payments for civil                                and money is
servants who move to the                                 being transferred
private sector                                           as civil servants
                                                         are moved
Component2. Private
Sector Competitiveness

Number o f legislations       0          All legislation All legislation    All Cape Verde   MoJ
published by the Official                publishedafter  publishedafter     legislation
Gazette available                        August 2006     August 2006        (includes before
electronically has increased                                                August 2006)

Efficiency o f administrative 52 days    7 days          7 days                              Chambers o f
processes inbusiness                                                                         Commerce
registration has improved                                                   48 hours*
With supportto Data
Centerproposed in
additiona1jinancing




                                                       31

                                                            -
Foreigninvestment incountry has increase      0      >US$400
as a result of promotionaleffortsby CI               million  million
                                                                          I
Remainingsix public sector enterprises will   0      3        4          1 6          PIUiMinistq
be privatized(TACV, ENAPOR,                                                           of Transport
EMPROFAC, ARCA VERDE, CABNAVE,
INTERBASE)                                                  ==-
Additiona1financing wouldfinance
consultant services to brinp T A W and
                           -
ENAPOR topoint of sale
As a result of the scaling up, MGF will be   I0      I03                              Chambers of
accessed by at least 150beneficiaries (an                     disbursed)              Commerce

                                                     5 %      10%                     Chambers of
efficiency (revenue/operatingcosts) of        losses                       entrants   Commerce
beneficiaries ofthe MGF will increase by 5%                                will have




                                                     32


IBRDMAP33383




    33


                                                                  25W                                                         24W                                                   23W

                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                   RIBEIRA                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                  GRANDE                                                                                                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                               Ribeira Grande                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                  Vila das Pombas                                                                                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                     Ribeira da Cruz                     PAL

                                                Lajes                 Santo Anto
              17N           PORTO         (1803 m)           Porto Novo                                                                                                                                                                              17N
                             NOVO
                                                            Mindelo       SO VINCENTE
                                                                                                           W I N D W A R D
                                                                             Calhau
                                                      So Pedro       Madeiral
                                             So Vicente                              Santa Luzia                                                                                                  Sal
                                                                                                                                                                                   Espargos

                                                                                                                  SO NICOLAU
                                                                          Ilhu Branco                                                                                              SAL
                                                                                  Ilhu Raso       Riberia Brava                                                                                 Santa Maria
                                                                                                    Tarrafal       Preguica                      I S L A N D S
                                                                                                                 So Nicolau




                                                                                                       AT L A N T I C              O C E A N                                          Sal-Rei

                                                                                                                                                                              BOA VISTA                          Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                Povoco Velha
                                                                                                                                                                                Povoco
              16N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16N




                        CAPE
                       VERDE




                                                                                                                                              DS

                  CAPE VERDE                                                               LEEWARD                          ISLANSo               Tiago
                                                                                                                             TARRAFAL
                                                                                                                                                        SANTA                      Maio
                                                                                                                                      Tarrafal          CRUZ                       MAIO
                                                                                                                             SANTA
                                                                                                                                                       Santa Cruz
                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                             CATARINA                              Vila do Maio
                                                                                                                                     Santa Catarina
                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                               Mosteiros
                                                                                    Ilhus Do                  Igreja MOSTEIROS                        So Domingo
                                                                                                                                                       So
                     RIVERS                                                           Rombo                                                                                                                                                           15N
                                                                                                    Mt. Fogo
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                              SO
                     MAIN ROADS                                                                    (2,829 m)                                                                                        0      10      20      30 Kilometers
                                                                           Brava        Furna                                                               PRAIA DOMINGOS                                                                                 IBRD
                                                                                              So                                      PRAIA
                     COUNTY (CONCELHO) BOUNDARIES                        BRAVA               Filipe                 SO FILIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0            10          20             30 Miles           33383
        2004         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                         Fogo
                                                                  25W                                                         24W                                                   23W

