Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3755 CV 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Growth and Competitiveness Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 3, 2003 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3755 CV 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a Letter of Sector Development 
Policy from the Borrower, dated April 4, 2003, describing a program designed to improve 
its private sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of such program;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meaning: 
 
(a) 
“Beneficiary” means an SME (as hereinafter defined), which has met the 
eligibility criteria specified in Section III (2) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the 
Project Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) and, as a result, has been 
extended, or is to be extended, a Matching Grant (as hereinafter defined) for the carrying 
out of activities under Part B.4 of the Project; and “Beneficiaries” means each such 
Beneficiary collectively; 
 
(b) “BCV” 
means 
Banco de Cabo Verde, 
the Borrower’s central bank 
established by the Borrower’s Decree-Law No. 42/93 dated July15, 1993; 
Page  4
-
2
-
(c) 
“Cape Verde Escudo” means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(d) 
“Chambers of Commerce” means the chamber of commerce of 
Sotavento and the chamber of commerce of Barlavento, both established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower; 
 
(e) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing 
January 1 and ending December 31 in the same year;
 
(g) 
“Initial Deposit” means the amount to be deposited in the Project 
Account pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement;  
(h) 
“Matching Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made through 
the Chambers of Commerce out of the proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary, for the 
purpose of financing activities under Part B.4 of the Project, as described in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement and in more details in the Project Implementation Manual;  
(i) 
“Matching Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the 
Chambers of Commerce and a Beneficiary setting forth the terms and conditions under 
which a Matching Grant shall be made available to the Beneficiary for the purpose of 
financing activities under Part B.4 of the Project; 
(j) 
“MFPRD” means the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of finance, planning 
and regional development; 
(k) 
“MOU” means the Memorandum of Understanding in terms and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, to be executed between the Borrower and the 
Chambers of Commerce jointly, and outlining the policies, procedures and guidelines to 
be followed in the implementation of the Matching Grants; 
(l) “PROMEX” 
means 
Centro de Promoção Turística do Investimento e das 
Exportações
,
the Borrower’s center for the promotion of tourism investments and 
exports, established and operating pursuant to Decree 69/90, dated August 27, 1990; 
(m) 
“Project Account” means the account to be opened pursuant to 
Section 3.03 of this Agreement; 
(n) 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual referred 
to in Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(o) 
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the unit referred to in 
Section II (2) of  Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(p) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on January 15, 2003 and on behalf of the Borrower on January 
27, 2003; 
(q) 
“Project Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in 
Section II (1) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(r) 
 “SME” means a small- or medium-sized enterprise established and 
operating under the laws of the Borrower; and 
(s) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,500,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for:  
(a) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made under a Matching Grant in respect of 
the reasonable costs of services to be financed under Part B.4 of the Project, and in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in BCV on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2013 and ending April 15, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
Page  7
-
5
-
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through the MFPRD with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, business, financial, environmental and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods, and consult
ants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall for the purposes of the Project: 
 
(a)  
open and maintain, until the completion of the Project, an account in Cape 
Verde Escudos in the BCV (the Project Account), on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association; 
 
(b) 
promptly thereafter deposit into the Project Account an initial amount in 
Cape Verde Escudos equivalent to $30,000 (the Initial Deposit); 
 
(c) 
thereafter, at quarterly intervals, deposit into the Project Account the 
amounts required to finance the Borrower’s contribution for expenditures under the Project 
for the ensuing quarterly period, as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association; and 
 
(d) 
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to 
paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to finance expenditures under the Project 
which are not otherwise financed or to be financed by the Credit. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan to ensure the future achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year:  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and  
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
Page  10
-
8
-
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02.  
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is  specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section  
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(b) 
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit paid into the 
Project Account; 
 
(c) 
the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting 
system for the Project in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;  
 
(d) 
the Borrower has appointed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
 
(e) 
the MOU between the Borrower and the Chambers of Commerce has 
been executed in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety days (90) after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance, Planning and 
 
Regional Development
 
C.P. 30 
 
Praia, 
 
Cabo Verde 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
COORDENACAO 
 
608 MCECV 
 
(238) 61 38 97 
 
Cape Verde 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
 
By 
    
/s/ José Brito 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By                                                        /s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
77,000 
90% 
 
(2) 
Goods,  
1,153,000 
100% of foreign  
 
including vehicles 
 
expenditures and 
 
vehicles and 90% of 
local expenditures 
 
(3)   Consultants’ services, 
    
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
 
(a) under Part B.3 (a)  
  740,000 
audits and 90% of 
 
 
of the Project 
 
local expenditures 
 
 
(b)  under Parts A, B.1, B.2,  
3,740,000 
 
 
B.3 (b) and (c), and C 
 
 
 
(4)   Training and Workshops 
975,000 
100% 
 
(5) 
Matching Grants 
590,000 
50% of  
 
under Part B.4 of
 
eligible expenditures
 
the Project 
 
(6)    Operating costs 
480,000 
90% 
 
(7)    Refunding of Project 
445,000 
Amount due pursuant  
 
Preparation Advance   
 
Section 2.02 (c) 
 
of
this Agreement 
(8) Unallocated 
300,000 
 
________
TOTAL 8,500,000 
 
======== 
   
 
Page  15
-
13
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for works, goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenditures incurred 
on account of office supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and 
insurance costs, bank charges on the Special Account, rental expenses, office 
maintenance costs, utilities, travel cost for Project staff and salaries of support contractual 
staff for the Project, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s civil service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (i) expenditures under Category 3 (a) unless the PROMEX Board of 
Directors has been established and is operational in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association; (ii) Matching Grants under Category (5) unless a list of Matching Grant 
Agreements approved in accordance with Section III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement has 
been submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; 
and (iii) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods and works under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) consultant services under contracts costing less 
than: (a) $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; and (b) $50,000 equivalent each 
for individual consultants; and (iii) Matching Grants, training, workshops and operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to broaden the base of 
private sector participation in economic growth, strengthen its financial sector, and 
enhance the competitiveness of its private sector. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Modernizing, Strengthening and Restructuring the Financial Sector
1. 
Financial Sector Development
Support to BCV for the development of the Borrower’s financial sector through: 
(i) strengthening the technical and material capacity of the BCV to regulate and supervise 
the banking and insurance sectors, improving credit information systems, strengthening 
the national payment system, and establishing deterrents to financial fraud and money 
laundering; and (ii) carrying out a study analyzing the current situation of the financial 
sector, identifying market development potential, and recommending policy and 
regulatory measures to strengthen, modernize and restructure the financial sector, all 
through the provision of technical advisory services, acquisition of equipment and 
training. 
 
2. Pension 
Reform
Support to the Borrower for the implementation of pension sector reforms aimed 
at establishing a sustainable pension system through: (i) carrying out independent audits 
and actuarial review of the present pension system; (ii) carrying out an information 
system needs assessment; and (iii) producing a new investment policy, an assessment of 
valuation rules and of reporting and disclosure standards, a civil service integration cost 
analysis, a study of the development of contractual savings and of regulatory and 
supervision issues, an analysis of the social assistance scheme, and a coverage strategy; 
all through the provision of technical advisory services, training, carrying out of 
workshops, and acquisition of equipment.  
 
Page  17
-
15
-
Part B
:
Enhancing Private Sector Competitiveness
1. 
Investment Climate Reform
(a) Taxation 
Reform 
 
Support to MFPRD for: (i) streamlining the Borrower’s taxation and investment 
promotion regulatory framework; (ii) assessing the short-to-long-term fiscal revenue 
impact of the proposed reform measures; and (iii) disseminating information on the new 
taxation and investment rules. 
 
(b) 
Alleviation of Administrative Barriers to Investment 
 
Support to the Borrower for formulating and periodically updating an action plan 
to alleviate administrative barriers to investment and improve the interface between the 
public and private sector.  
 
(c) 
Development of Efficient Supply Chains 
 
Support to the Borrower for producing an analysis, and carrying out specific 
activities identified in said analysis, for the development of efficient supply chains for the 
trade and transport, fishing and tourism sectors.  
 
(d) 
Improvement of the Legal Environment for Business 
 
Support to the Borrower for: (i) updating, modernizing and interconnecting the 
commercial, real property and civil registries; (ii) streamlining the judicial enforcement 
provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure; (iii) supporting the ratification of the 1958 
New York Convention on the Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, preparing an 
Arbitration Law and supporting the creation of two arbitration centers; (iv) carrying out a 
preliminary study for the creation of a land cadastre; (v) supporting the preparation of all 
legal and technical steps for the Borrower’s accession to the World Trade Organization; 
(vi) establishing a legal and institutional framework for the protection of intellectual 
property rights; (vii) disseminating business laws among the legal profession and the 
business community, and establishing a national legal information web-site; and  
(viii) preparing a new Code of Labor Procedure;  
 
All of the above Part B.1 activities to be supported through the provision for 
technical advisory services, training, workshops and acquisition of equipment.  
 
2. 
Post Privatization and Divestiture
Support to the Borrower for: (i) setting up an operational multi-sector regulatory 
agency; (ii) completing the privatization of the Borrower’s ports and preparing a study of 
the scope of private participation in airports; (iii) completing the telecommunications 
Page  18
-
16
-
sector reform through further liberalization of the sector in line with World Trade 
Organization’s commitments, revised pricing policies, and development of value-added 
services; and (iv) preparing a study for improving the functioning of inter-island and 
urban transport systems, all through the provision of technical advisory services, training 
and workshops. 
 
3. 
Institutional Capacity Building
(a) 
Support to PROMEX for enhancing its capacity to deliver business 
facilitation and promotion services through developing an investment promotion strategy, 
preparing marketing materials and web-site information, and developing outreach 
activities in priority sectors;  
 
(b) 
Support to MFPRD for developing strategies, programs and services of 
public institutions interfacing with the private sector aimed at facilitating such interface; 
and  
(c) 
Support to the MFPRD to strengthen financial management for 
autonomous public institutions, public enterprises and private companies with public 
participation.  
 
All of the above Part B.3 activities to be supported through the provision of 
technical advisory services, equipment, training and workshops. 
 
4. 
Private Sector Capacity Building
Support to the Borrower’s two Chambers of Commerce for providing Matching 
Grants to Beneficiaries for the following types of activities: (i) provision of expert 
consultancies to Beneficiaries by suppliers of all types of business services; and  
(ii) development and delivery of training courses for Beneficiaries by qualified trainers 
and training institutions. 
 
Part C
:
Support for Project Implementation
Provision of technical and financial support to the PCU for the administration, 
procurement, financial management and monitoring of the Project in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2007. 
Page  19
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic 
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent for goods and $300,000 
equivalent for works, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  20
-
18
-
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies 
Goods, including vehicles and computers, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services 
Office of the United Nations (IAPSO), up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,500,000 equivalent, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-
sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  21
-
19
-
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services of standard nature estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of consultants’ qualifications in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  22
-
20
-
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
5. Matching 
Grants
Services required under Matching Grants may be procured in accordance with 
commercial practices acceptable to the Association and defined in more details in the 
Project Implementation Manual. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 6 months 
during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall 
have been approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
Page  23
-
21
-
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of: (i) consulting firms 
estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent but less than $100,000 equivalent; and 
(ii) individual consultants estimated to cost more than $30,000 equivalent but less than 
$50,000 equivalent, the terms of reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  24
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
 
Section I
.
Implementation Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall: (i) prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, the said 
manual being subject from time to time to modification by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Association; (ii) carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM; and 
(iii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate or waive any 
provision of the PIM which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially and 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project or the achievement of the objectives 
thereof. 
 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provision of paragraph 1 of this Section, the PIM 
shall include: (a) a Project implementation schedule; (b) a Project monitoring and 
evaluation plan; (c) a Project procurement and financial management manual; and  
(d) such other administrative, financial, technical and organizational arrangements as 
shall be required for the Project. 
 
Section II
.
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
Project Steering Committee 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain at all times during 
the implementation of the Project, a Project Steering Committee, in form and with 
membership, functions, staffing and resources satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Paragraph 1 (a) of this Section, 
the Project Steering Committee shall be chaired jointly by representatives from the 
Borrower’s Ministries in charge of finance and economy, and be composed of members 
duly representing the Borrower’s other ministries and agencies participating in the 
Project, as well as the private sector and the civil society, as may be agreed from time to 
time with the Association. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provision of Paragraph 1(a) of this Section, 
the PSC shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
:
(i) carrying out of annual reviews of 
proposals, work plans and budgets prepared by the PCU and ensuring their consistency 
with the Program; (ii) reviewing the progress made towards achieving the Project’s 
objectives; (iii) facilitating the coordination of Project activities among the entities 
represented in the Project Steering Committee; and (iv) making recommendations for 
removal of any barriers to the achievement of the Project’s objectives; and (v) providing 
comments on reports and reviews prepared by the PCU for the benefit of the Association. 
Page  25
-
23
-
2. 
Project Coordination Unit 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall establish within MFPRD, and thereafter maintain at 
all times during the implementation of the Project, a Project Coordination Unit, with staff 
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association and personnel in 
adequate numbers, all of whom shall be appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provision of Paragraph 1 (a) of this Section, 
the PCU shall be responsible for the overall implementation, procurement, financial 
management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provision of Paragraph 1 (a) of this Section, 
the PCU shall consist of the following key staff with terms of reference, qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association, and appointed in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement: (i) a Project Coordinator; (ii) a 
procurement specialist; (iii) a financial management and accounting specialist; (iv) a 
program officer; (v) an administrative assistant; and (vi) technical specialists agreed to 
with the Association. 
 
Section III
.
Matching Grants
1. General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall appraise, or cause to be appraised, approve, or cause to be approved, and 
monitor, or cause to be monitored the activities under Part B.4 of the Project, and 
administer the Matching Grants in accordance with the provisions and procedures set 
forth in this Section III and in more detail in the PIM.   
 
2. 
Eligibility Criteria, Terms and Conditions
(a)  
Eligibility Criteria for Extending Matching Grants 
 
No Matching Grant activity shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Grant unless the Borrower has determined, or caused to be determined, on the basis of 
an appraisal conducted in accordance with this Section and the guidelines set forth in the 
PIM, that the Matching Grant activity satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and 
in more detail in the PIM, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following:  
 
(i) 
the Matching Grant activity shall be initiated by a registered 
enterprise or a not-for-profit association which shall have been 
legally established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, 
and which shall not be a public institution, a public enterprise, or 
Page  26
-
24
-
an enterprise in which the Borrower or a public entity holds 
equity greater than 25%;
 
(ii) 
the Matching Grant activity shall qualify either as consultant 
services or training under Part B.4 of the Project; 
 
(iii) 
a Beneficiary shall not be eligible for subsequent Matching 
Grants unless it has completed the previous Matching Grant 
activity in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Association; and 
 
(iv) 
unless the Association may otherwise agree, the cumulative 
financing per Beneficiary for the duration of the Project shall not 
exceed an aggregate amount of $10,000.  
 
(b) 
Terms and Conditions of Matching Grants:
 
(i) 
Matching Grant activities shall be carried out pursuant to a 
Matching Grant Agreement, to be concluded between the 
respective Chamber of Commerce and the Beneficiary, under 
terms and conditions described in more detail in the PIM and 
satisfactory to the Association, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the 
following: 
 
(A) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to contribute in cash for
 
at 
least 50% of the proposed Matching Grant costs;  
 
(B) 
the Beneficiary’s obligation to carry out the Matching 
Grant activities with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound technical, business, financial, 
managerial and administrative practices; and maintain 
adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the resources and expenditures used 
in carrying out the Matching Grant activities; 
 
(C) 
the requirement that the consultants’ services to be 
financed from the proceeds of the Matching Grant shall 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and in accordance with 
the provisions of the PIM, and shall be used exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Matching Grant activities;  
 
(D) 
the right of the respective Chamber of Commerce to: 
inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association and the 
Borrower, if the Association or the Borrower shall so 
Page  27
-
25
-
request, the activities financed by the Matching Grants;  
obtain all information as the Chamber of Commerce, the 
Association or the Borrower shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, operation and financial 
conditions of the Matching Grant activities; and suspend 
or terminate the right of any Beneficiary to use the 
proceeds of the Matching Grant upon failure by the 
Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under the 
Matching Grant Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
The Borrower shall cause the Chambers of Commerce to exercise their  
rights under the Matching Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect 
their interests and the interests of the Association and the Borrower and 
accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, the Chambers of Commerce shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Matching Grant Agreements or any provision 
thereof.
 
Section IV
.
Monitoring and Reporting Arrangements
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof. 
 
2. 
Progress Reports and Reviews  
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, semi-annually beginning on or about the date 
six (6) months after the Effective Date, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to Paragraph 1 of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall review with the Association the reports referred to in 
Paragraph 2 (a) of this Section, on or about the date one month after the submission of 
said reports, or such later date as the Association shall request, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said reports 
and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  28
-
26
-
3. Mid-Term 
Review 
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, on or about 
the date thirty (30) months after the Effective Date, a comprehensive mid-term review 
aimed at: (i) documenting progress toward Project objectives; (ii) identifying and 
resolving obstacles to Project implementation; and (iii) adjusting, in agreement with the 
Association, targets and corresponding programs to reflect progress achieved in the 
implementation of the Project as of the date of the review;  
 
(b) 
the Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review referred 
to in Paragraph 3 (a) of this Section, furnish to the Association a mid-term report, in such 
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress 
achieved in Project implementation; and 
 
(c) 
Promptly after completing the mid-term review, the Borrower shall take 
all measures required to fulfill the recommendations arising out of said review, with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account 
the Association’s comments thereon. 
 
Page  29
-
27
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
Page  30
-
28
-
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
Page  31
-
29
-
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  32
-
30
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
By mid term review, the following results will be achieved: 
 
(i) 
The amount of total foreign direct investment has increased by US$100 
million since Project effectiveness with 2,000 jobs created; 
 
(ii) 
the commercial banks see a reduction in non-performing loans to 8 
percent of their total loan portfolio; 
 
(iii) 
through the implementation of an electronic VISA system, 600 
transactions totaling US$5 million in foreign exchange annually have taken place since 
effectiveness;  
 
(iv) 
an action plan including measures for reducing administrative barriers 
has been adopted;  
 
(v) 
regulations and procedures for the labor code have been adopted, and a 
draft arbitration legislation as an alternative means for commercial disputes has been 
completed;  
 
(vi) 
as a result of the Matching Grant facility, on average, the entrepreneurs 
have: (a) an improvement in the efficiency ratios, which will be measured by the 
percentage of operating costs over revenue (sales) of at least 5 percent; and (b) an 
increase in production and/or services of at least 5 percent; 
 
(vii) 
with respect to the post privatization and divestiture, it is expected that: 
(a) a new telecom regulatory framework has been adopted; (b) at least one value added 
service has been developed; and (c) a draft strategy for private participation for 
infrastructure in relation to airport management has been prepared; 
 
(viii) 
at least one report on the status of governmental participation in private 
enterprises has been produced by the Borrower’s Ministry in charge of finance; 
 
(ix) 
a system for the dissemination of legal information has been established 
(either through web-site or another means); and  
 
(x) 
Cape Verde has completed a legislative action plan for accession to the 
World Trade Organization. 
 
Page  33
-
31
-
By end-project, the following results will be achieved: 
 
(i)  
The amount of total foreign direct investment has increased by US$225 
million since Project effectiveness with 5,000 jobs created.   
 
(ii) 
measures have been adopted to ensure the pension system’s 
sustainability, namely:  (a) a strategy is in place to gradually unify the two existing 
schemes; (b) criteria of benefits for the labor intensive work programs (
Frentes da Alta 
Intensidade da Mão de Obra 
-
FAIMO) have been clearly defined; (c) parametric 
changes have been made to the structure of the national institute of social security 
(
Instituto Nacional da Previdência Social
 -
INPS);  
 
(iii) 
through the implementation of an electronic VISA system, 950 
transactions totaling US$8 million have taken place since Project effectiveness; 
 
(iv)  
tax reform brings a reduction of the corporate tax rate to 25%; 
 
(v) 
tariffs are consistent with international best-practice and regional 
UEMOA norms; 
 
(vi) 
the notaries on all islands are electronically inter-connected and the time 
needed to register a business has been reduced from 3 weeks to 72 hours when the 
request file is complete; 
 
(vii) 
as a result of the Matching Grant facility, on average, the entrepreneurs 
have: (a) an improvement in the efficiency ratios, which will be measured by the 
percentage of operating costs over revenue (sales) of at least 10 percent; and (b) an 
increase in production and/or services of at least 10 percent; 
 
(viii) 
at least three (3) value added services in the communication sector have 
been developed; 
 
(ix) t
he
research and studies department at the Borrower’s Ministry in charge 
of finance is established and operational;  
 
(x) 
at least two recommended activities from the action plan for reducing 
administrative barriers to investment have been fully implemented; and 
 
(xi) 
the commercial banks see a reduction in non-performing loan to 7 
percent of their total loan portfolio.
 
