Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CR IS-15L22
Repon No P-3856Z&
REPORT AiID RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDEINT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 7.1 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 2, 1984
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may net otberwise be disclosed without World Bank aotion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              ZK 1.60
ZK I              US$0.63
(The Zambian Kwacha is officially valued in terms of a basket of
currencies, for which the US dollar is the intervention currency. Since
July 1983, the Government has followed a flexible exchange rate policy,
making periodic adjustments in the official value of the Kwacha. The rates
expressed above are as of August 1984.)
WEIGETS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)               2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)             0.624 miles
1 sq kilometer (km2)  -      0.386 sq miles
I kilogram (kg)              2.2046
1 metric ton (ton)           1,000 kg = 2,204.6 pounds
1 liter               =      1.057 US quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC            Agricultural Finance Company
CFC            Cattle Finance Company
DBZ            Development Bank of Zambia
DOF           Department of Fisheries
FAO      =     Food and Agricultural Organization
GRZ            Government of the Republic of Zambia
MAWD           Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
MOF      =     Ministry of Finance
NAMB     =     National Agricultural Marketing Board
SIDA     =     Swedish International Development Agency
INDP     =     Third National Development Plan
ZADB     =     Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
ZESCO    =     Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
ZimCO    =     Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
GRZ Fiscal Year    January I-December 31
ZADB Fiscal Year    January I-December 31



FOR OFFICUIL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Zambia.
Beneficiary:       Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) and Nkwazi
Manufacturing Company.
Amount:            SDR 7.1 million (US$7.1 million equivalent).
Term>-:            Standard.
Use of Credit:    (i) US$2.8 million to ZADB for sub-loans (for fish
production, collection and marketing) as equity capital.
Sub-loans would have maturities of up to five years, with
interest not lower than the maximum rate allowed on
agricultural credit (currently 15 percent per annum),
plus two percent comnitment fee and two percent loan
processing fees;
(ii) US$0.3 million to ZADB (for technical assistance) as
a grant;
(iii) US$1.0 million to be purchased with local currency
by Nkwazi Manufacturing Company to finance imports of raw
materials and machinery spares for fishing net
manufacture;
(iv) US$2.6 million to be retained by Government for
technical assistance and training (US$1.2 million), and
facilties (US$1.0 million) for the Department of
Fisheries, and (b) project coordination, monitoring and
evaluation (US$0.4 million); and
(v) US$0.4 million to cover physical and price
contingencies.
Project
Description:       The project would support the Government's strategy for
agricultural development by increasing fish supplies; and
strengthening two key institutions in the sector.
Specifically, it would provide: credit to artisanal and
commercial fishermen for fish production; credit for fish
marketing facilities; foreign exchange assistance for the
manufacture of fishing nets; and technical assistance.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance or
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Project           The implementation of the project would increase fish
Description:      production by about 10 percent and raise incomes of about
(continued)       3,500 fishing families from an average of K 1,400 to
about K 2,800 per family. Technical assistance would
strengthen ZADB and the Department of Fisberies (DOF).
Major project risks are: that ZADB may not develop as
planned due to under-capitalization; and that DOF way not
be allocated adequate operating funds. To minimize these
risks, Government would be required to complete its
contributions to ZADB's capital within four years
(1984-87); and make adequate budgetary allocations for
DOF's operations.



- iii -
Estimated Cost
Local    Foreign    Total
---USS Million        -
Credit services                                1.14      2.72       3.86
Net Manufacturing Facilities                   0.11      0.90       1.01
Management of Fish Resources                   0.60       2.23      2.83
Coordination, Manitoring and Evaluaton         0.05      0.14       0.49
Total Baseline Cost                         1.90      6.29       8.Iq
Physical Contingencies                         0.05      0.07       0.12
price Contingencies                            0.73       1.60      2.33
Total                                        2.68      7.96      10.64
(Of which taxes and duties)                   (1.10)               (1.10)
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
--.USS  million 
IDA                                             -        7.1        7.1
Government                                     1.5       0.9        2.4
Sub-Borrowers' Contribution                    1.1        -         1.1
2.6       8.0       10.6
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit:
IDA FY                  85    86    87    88    89    90
ZUSS Million
Annual                 0.4   n.8   2.3   2.2   1.0   0.4
Cwmulative             0.6   1.2   3.5   5.7   6.7   7.1
Rate of Return:                   26 percent.
Staff Appraisal Report:           Report No. 5012-ZA of October 31, 1984
Map:                              No. IERD 18135



INTERNAIIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION "
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO TIfE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*         1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zambia for SDR 7.1 million (US$7.1
million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance a Fisheries
Development Project. US$2.8 million of the credit for sub-loans for fish
production, collection and marketing would be passed to Zambia Agricultural
Development Bank (ZADB) as equity capital; and USSO.3 million would be
given as a grant to finance :echnical apsistance services. Sub-loans would
have maturities of up to five years, with interest of not lower than the
maximum rate allowed on agricultural credit (currently 15 percent per
annum) plus a commitment fee of two percent and a loan processing fee of
two percent. A US$1.0 million foreign exchange facility would be provided
to Nkwazi Manufacturing Company, tbrough the Banir of Zambia, against
payment of local currency equivalent, to finance imported raw materials and
machinery spares for fishing net manufacture. The balance of the credit
would finance technical assistance for project implementation, moaitoring
and evaluation and strengthening the Department of Fisheries.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 5000-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 24, 1984. This part is
based on that report's findings. Co-.mtry data sheets are attached as Annex
I.
3.       Zambia's economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity. Imports and exports range between 40 and 45 percent
of GDP. Government expenditures amount to about 40 percent of GDP, and the
Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturing
enterprises. Copper mining provides over 90 pe_cent of foreign exchange
earnings and 15 percent of gross value added. Much economic activity is
dependent on expatriate technical, managerial, and administrative skills.
Current Economic Situation
4.       Zambia continues to experience an economic and financial crisis
initiated by a sharp decline in copper prices in 1975. Zambia's terms of
trade bave deteriorated steadily since then, and by 1982, were 60 percent
below the average for the early 1970s. In 1982, copper prices reached
their lowest level in real terms in the post-World War II era; they
recovered somewhat in 1983 and early 1984, but have fallen sharply in
recent months and are now below the depressed levels of 1982. Real GDP has
been in a general downward trend since 1975, declining on an average by
about one percent per year. lWith population growing by 3.3 percent per



-2-
annum, real GDP per capita is 25 percent lower than in 19474. GNP per
capita was estimated at US$640 in 1982, using the World Bank Atlas
methodology, but is now much lower as a result of major devaluations of the
Kwacha in 1983 and 1984.
5.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits climbing to an average of 19 percent of
GDP in 1980-82. The deficit was reduced sharply to 9 percent of GDP in
1983, however, and is expected to be in this range for 1984. Nevertheless,
the volume of imports has declined steadily and is now 75-80 percent below
its level in 1974. This has resulted in an economy-wide problem of severe
underutilization of capacity and, especially in the mining sector, a large
backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation requirements which has
contributed directly to a declining trend in copper production and
exports. The large current account deficits led to heavy external
borrowing, accumulation of arrears on import payments, and a draw-down of
international reserves. At the end of 1983, Zambia's total external
liabilities stood at almost US$4.5 billion, including drawings from the IMF
and about US$500 million in overdue commercial payments. By comparison,
merchandise exports amounted to somewhat over US$1 billion.
6.        The decline in copper prices also severely affected Zambia's
fiscal and monetary positions. In the past, mineral taxes provided a large
share of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976.
Deficit financing absorbed a large share of net domestic credit and
contributed to a sharp rise in consumer prices, averaging 20 percent per
annum during 1976-78 and 12 percent per annum in 1979-82. Price increases
have accelerated in 1983 and 1984 to about 20-25 percent per annum,
reflecting the decontrol of prices in December 1982 and the devaluations of
the Kwacha during the past two years.
7.        There is no doubt that external factors have been an important
cause of Zambia's present economic difficulties. Apart from low copper
prices, otber factors over which the Government bas little or no control
include transport difficulties in neighboring countries on which Zambia is
dependent for the movement of foreign trade, severe droughts,which for
three consecutive years have necessitated substantial food imports, and,
last but not least, the fact that copper mining in Zambia is past its peak,
and that for technical reasons, such as sinking deeper shafts and tapping
less rich ore bodies, higher costs have to be incurred to maintain past
levels of production.
8.        Nevertheless, inappropriate policies and shortcomings in economic
management have exacerbated the economic difficulties. The main
deficiencies in economic policies were that: (i) pricing and subsidy
policies favored the urban consumer at the expense of the agricultural
producer, depressing the latter's income and incentive to produce for the
market; also, controlled industrial prices led to low profitability in the
manufacturing sector and a decrease in resources available for
reinvestment; (ii) tax incentives and low interest rates led to a pattern
of capital intensive investment; (iii) exchange rate and tariff policies
have encouraged the use of artificially cheap imported raw materials and
other inputs and discouraged the use of local materials. As a result, a
highly capital and import-intensive productive structure was created that



-3-
proved to be very vulnerable to prolonged declines in the availability of
foreign exchange. Also, little progress was made in developing the use of
local resources and diversifying production and exports.
Strategy for Economic Restructuring
9.        Economically exploitable ore reserves are only sufficient to
maintain present levels of copper production for another 15 years or so,
after which production can be expected to decline sharply, In the long
run, therefore, the copper industry cannot be counted on to provide the
domestic and external resources required for development. In the absence
of policies and programs to develop new sources of income, employment and
foreign exchange, Zambia may expect a drastic fall in living standards and
social well-being by the turn of the century. However, Zambia bas the
potential to develop alternative sources of income, employment, and
exports. The greatest potential is in agriculture, where there are
opportunities for import substitution (cotton, oilseeds, livestock, grains,
sugar, forestry products, and fish) and for exports (beef, cotton, coffee,
tobacco, groundnuts, and sugar). Once a good start is made with
agricultural development, possibilities will be created for agro-based
industries.
10.       For any long-term growth strategy to succeed, however, it is of
the utmost importance that financial balance in the economy be restored
first. As the main provider of foreign exchange, the copper industry bas a
major role to play. However, it is essential that previous levels of
efficiency are restored to make the industry profitable again and
competitive in world markets. Without a rehabilitated copper industry, the
Government's diversification effort would fail for lack of financial
resources.  For this reason, the Bank recently approved an Export
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project which aims to increase the
efficiency of the mining industry and make it competitive again by
international standards. This project was also accompanied by appropriate
macro-economic and sector policy changes aimed at restructuring and
diversifying the rest of the economy in order to create the conditions for
developing new sources of income, exports and employment.
11.       The Government, with Bank assistance, has developed a package of
policies and measures to bring about better ecorsomic management and a
policy environment conducive to healthy economic growth and
diversification. The Government's economic restructuring policies may be
summari;ed as follows:
-  Providing a system of incentives to producers and exporters of
agricultural and industrial products in which prices are
responsive to market forces;
- Allowing greater competition in the procurement and selling of
food crops. The National Agricultural Marketing Board
(NAMBOARD), the Government's agricultural marketing agency,
will move towards the role of buyer and seller of last resort,
using a system of floor and ceiling prices for agricultural
produce and inputs, respectively;



-4-
Improving planning and budgetary procedures to shift resources
to productive investment.
- Using wages and interest rate policies to reverse
past trends of increasing consumption and declining
investment;
- Improving the management of foreign debt;
- Strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO), which is the
holding company of most state-controlled enterprises;
- Restructuring the energy sector to bring about lesser
dependence on imported oil; and
- Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an active
exchange rate policy.
12.       In recent months, the Government has made cammendable progress in
translacing the above policies into tangible action. It has introduced
institutional reforms to improve economic management and has introduced a
number of changes in economic policies which constitute the beginning of an
integrated program of short-term financial stabilization and longer-term
growth and diversification. It is a program in which actions developed in
cooperation with the IMF and the Bank complement and reinforce one another.
13.       A program to restore financial stability was set in motion in
1983. A one-year stand-by arrangement was agreed with the IMF, and a debt
rescheduling agreement was reached with the members of the Paris Club. As
part of the IMF program, the Kwacha was devalued by 20 percent in January
1983, and, in July 1983, the value of the Kwacha was linked to a variable
basket of currencies. Since then, the Government has adjusted the exchange
rate in a gradual manner such that it is now more than 50 percent lower
than at the end of 1982. Because the Government has been successful in
holding wage increases to considerably less than rises in the cost of
living, it has maintained the benefits of devaluation in real terms, which
has improved the competitiveness of exports. Further measures taken under
the IMF program included increases in interest rates and tough budgetary
measures (including substantial reductions in subsidies and a cap on new
government employment) aimed at reducing the Government's domestic
borrowing. The program succeeded in reducing the current account deficit
to less than 10 percent of GDP and domestic bank borrowing by the
Government to less than 2 percent of GDP. A follow-up standby arrangement
was agreed with the IMF in July 1984 and is currently being implemented,
although with increasing difficulty due to recent declines in the copper
price (para. 4). Maturities due to Paris Club msmbers in 1984 have been
rescheduled as part of the current IMF program.
14.       In terms of improving conditions for longer-term growth, the most
significant of the above financial measures was no doubt the exchange rate
adjustments. Other recent measures with significant long-term impact are
real increases in producer prices for agricultural crops, freer marketing
arrangements for the livestock sector and complete decontrol of most



5-
industrial prices. Over the last three years, producer prices for most
agricultural crops have been increased considerably in real terms. This
has already led to a significant increase in the area under cultivation.
If it had not been for the severe droughts in the region in the last two
years, this would have led to,substantial increases in production.
In a further attempt to allow market forces to play a more important role
in the economy, the Government abolished, in December 1982, the control of
all industrial prices (except for three essential commodities: wheat
flour, maize flour and candles). Since then, prices for a wide range of
commodities have increased, thereby helping to restrain domestic demand,
while increasing the profitability of firms.
15.       As part of its economic recovery plans, the Government presented
a three-year expenditure program to the Consultative Group for Zambia in
May 1984. The Consultative Group strongly endorsed the Government's new
policy initiatives, as well as its expenditure program which emphasizes
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure, increased capacity utilization
and selected investments to diversify the economy, especially in
agriculture. As a result, the Group indicated that its members are
prepared to increase their assistance to Zambia. In addition, various
members indicated that in view of Zambia's serious financial position, they
are converting their assistance programs to a grant basis and are prepared
to make assistance available in the form of quickly disbursing loans and
grants.
16.       The Government and the Bank continue to cooperate in the further
development of policies and measures that would lead to diversification of
production and exports. In the foreseeable future, this may lead to sector
lending for industry and agriculture by which the Government and the Bank
are expected to agree on further actions of economic reform, covering such
subjects as tariff policies, export incentives, investment criteria,
criteria for setting agricultural producer prices, agricultural research
and extension services, and improvements in the management of public
enterprises.
Creditworthiness
17.       Over the past two years the Government has taken important
measures towards financial stabilization and implementing a program of
economic restructuring. More needs to be done, but there are encouraging
signs that the Government is willing and capable to take further
appropriate action. There is, however, reason for considerable concern
about Zambia's capacity to service new loans on conventional terms. At
-today's copper prices, scheduled service on existing external debt will
remain at about 40 percent of export earnings for the next three years. In
addition, considerable payments are due to the IMF, and it would be
desireable to reduce Zambia's pipeline of commercial payment arrears and
short-term borrowings. Even with an expected increase in the price of
copper, Zambia will continue to experience grave difficulties in meeting
its debt-service obligations. The medium-term liquidity problems can only
be overcome if the Government for a number of years continues its financial
stabilization policies in cooperation with the IMF, continues to seek
relief through further debt rescheduling, and, in addition, obtains a
significant increase in the proportion of non-project lending available



-6-
from external sources. In the meantime, the Government should avoid as
much as possible borrowing on commercial terms. For some time to come,
additional borrowing should carry sufficiently long grace periods and
maturities.
18.       In the longer term, the restoration of Zambia's creditworthiness
depends on the vigor with which the Government continues to pursue its
economic restructuring policies. The Government has made a promising start
and is fully committed to take the necessary further steps towards economic
reform. In these circumstances, we consider the country creditworthy for
limited amounts of non-concessionary borrowing. Assuming successful
economic policies, careful financial management and an improving world
economy, Zambia's debt service ratio could decline to about 20 percent in
ten to twelve years.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
19.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 28 loans and 11 credits to
Zambia, totalling about U$730 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were -made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance
shared power facilities on the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and five
credits have financed energy, transportation, communications and rural
water supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped
expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training,
and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation. In agriculture and forestry, six loans and
four credits have been for-industrial forest plantations, livestock,
commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee production and
smallholder dairy development. Agricultural projects in the Eastern and
Southern Provinces are assisting smallholder farmers. Other loans have
assisted Zambia's urban development program, copper mining and, through the
Development of Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and
industrial sectors. A technical assistance credit is helping the
Government improve its planning and project preparation.
20.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$67 million in nine projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments were
in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, and one each in
the Deyelopment Bank of Zambia, cobalt production, textiles and copper
production. The latest IFC investment was approved by the Executive
Directors on Hay 31, 1983. This investment (US$18.7 million equivalent, of
which US$7.5 million is for IFC's own account) is helping to finance an
expansion and rehabilitation of the Inter-Continental Hotel in Lusaka and
rehabilitation of the Musi-o-Tunya Hotel in Livingstone.
21.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significantly in recent years, and serious delays have been
experienced in the execution of a number of these projects. There are
several reasons for this, the main one being the lack of budgetary
resources with which to finance local counterpart expenditures and to
prefinance local expenditures which are subsequently to be reimbursed by



-7-
the Bank loan. Most seriously affected have been the Bank's agricultural
projects for which funds, although budgeted, have not been released to the
executing agencies for several months. Other reasons for the lagging
implementation of projects are ineffective project management and
inadequate inter-agency coordination. The Bank-assisted agricultural
projects, which require careful management and effective coordination due
to their complex design, have suffered from these problems, as has the
Third Highway Project.
22.       The deterioration of project implementation has, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four years of the period FY77-81, the
disbursement rate on loans and credits to Zambia averaged slightly over 25
percent per annum, higher than the Bankwide average of 21.2 percent, or the
21.5 percent average for the Eastern Africa Region, and well above the 22.2
percent for Tanzania, 23.4 percent for-Senegal and 20.2 percent for
Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent,
compared with 20.7 percent Bankwide, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 23.6
percent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for
Bolivia. The rate has risen since FY81, reaching 20.1 percent in FY83,
which was slightly below the average for the Eastern Africa Region (20.7
percent) and for the Bank overall (20.8 percent). To alleviate tha
problem, provision is being made for technical assistance in projects to
strengthen implementing agencies and increased use of the Resident Mission
in monitoring project execution. Revolving funds are being established
under new and ongoing projects which should ease the Government's financial
burden and accelerate disbursements. The Bank or IDA makes advance
deposits into these funds to eliminate the need for prefinancing by the
Government of local expenditures financed by the Bank/IDA. In addition,
estimates of counterpart funds required and when the funds should be made
available are being prepared by Bank/IDA staff well in advance of their
need to allow implementing agencies as much lead time as possible to plan
for these expenditures. As of December 1983, IBRD loans disbursed and
outstanding were about 12 percent of Zambia's total medium and long-term
debt disbursed and outstanding.
23.       The Bank Group expects to continue supporting government programs
to reduce dependence on copper, reduce the energy import bill, narrow the
urban-rural income gap and improve managerial and technical skills.
Anticipated lending reflects the Government's emphasis on directly
productive sectors, particularly agriculture-related activities. Continued
assistance to education, transportation and industry is also contemplated.
PART III - THE FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR
General Background
24.       Fish Resources.   Zambia has substantial fish resources, mainly
in Lakes Tanganyika, Mweru Wa-Ntipa, MKeru Luapula, Bangweulu, Kariba and
in the Kafue River and its Flood Plains, Lukanga Swamps and upper Zambezi
River. Fish production in these areas averaged 53,000 tons during
1975-81. While the maximum sustainable yield from these areas has yet to
be determined accurately, studies carried out to date indicate that the
safe production limit is about 75,000 tons per annum. The fish resources



- 8 -
consist mainly of -Kapenta- (a sardine-like fish found in"Lakes Tanganyika
and KaribO) and several varieties of table fish. Nearly all fisb-producing
areas are at considerable distance from the main markets of Lusaka and the
Copperbelt. With few exceptions, access to fishing villages and camps is
difficult. The proposed project aims to develop areas with potential to
increase production that are relatively more accessiole, i.e., Lakes
Tanganyika, Nweru Wa-Ntipa. Mweru Luapula and Kariba.
25.       The Fishing Industry.  Fishing in Zambia is carried out by two
distinct groups: industrial/commercial operators and traditional
(artisanal) fishermen. In recent years, over 90 percent of fish production
has come from about 21,000 artisanal fishermen and the remainder from about
50 industrial or semi-industrial producers. The traditional fishermen
generally cperate at night, using dug-out canoes and some wooden boats and
glass reinforced plastic (GRP) boats of which a small number are
motorized. Most of these fishermen operate only close to the shore and as
a result substantial parts of most fishing areas are underexploiced.
26.       Fish Marketing and Consumption. Although fresh fish is generally
preferred to dried fish, only a small quantity of marketed fish is consumed
fresh because of lack of adequate facilities to preserve and transport
fresh fish from remote producing regions to major consumption areas. As a
result, cured fish (sun/smoke-dried) accounts for about 65 percent of
total consumption. The fish trade is largely in the hands of private
traders. Generally, marketing chains are short, there being at most a-
wholesaler and a retailer between producer and consumlr. At Mweru Va-Ntipa
and Mweru Luapula, which are the principal sources of fresh fish supplies
to the Ccpperbelt, collection and marketing facilities are severely
lacking. These deficiencies result in consiaerable uncertainty in fish
marketing and lead to substantial product losses.
27.       Fish is an important source of animal protein for the majority of
the low income population in Zambia which has a per capita consumption of
about 10 kg of fresh f'sh equivalent, down from a peak of 17 kg reported by
FAO in 1971/72. The decline is due to reduced fish imports because of a
shortage of foreign exchange resources and stagnation in domestic
production due to past unremunerative prices imposed by the Government on
domestic production until early 1983 when price controls were removed.
Thus, there is great potential for increasing consumption, particularly of
fresh fish. Based on population growth, demand for fish in 1990 is
projected to be about 74,000 per annum, or a 40 percent increase on the
current consumption level. About two-thirds of the increase, mostly of
fresh fish, would be generated in the urban areas.
Fisheries Services
28.       The Department of Fisheries.  Governmen; policy and services in
the fisheries sub-sector are the responsibility of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Development (HAWD) through the Department of
Fisheries (DOF). DOF is divided into four divisions; research which
assesses fish stock through monitoring of the catch in five lakes; fish
culture, conducted on a pilot scale, with the assistance of FAO using 15
demonstration farms, to encourage local residents to undertake similar
activities on a comercial basts; extension and develop ent, which



- 9 -
encourages increased production through promotion of more efficient gear
and fishing methods, using fishery scouts for grass-root contacts with the
fishermen; and fisheries training centers, established in five key fishing
areas where short-term courses are conducted for a limited number of
fishermen and fish scouts. As a service to fishermen, DOF operates several
small workshops to repair and service engines and boats.
29.       In recent years, most of DOF's activities have been curtailed
because of lack of operating funds. Government budget allocations for the
past several years have been inadequate for the department to perform its
functions satisfactorily. Field staff are unable to travel to fishing
centers, even when vehicles are available, due to lack of fuel; equipment
has remained idle due to a shortage of spare parts; and training programs
bave been curtailed/cancelled for lack of operating funds. Therefore, an
effective development of the sub-sector requires a stiiulatiom of :)OF's
activities through adequate funding.
30.       Fisheries Development Authority.  For sometime the Government bas
been considering establishing a parastatal - the Fisheries Development
Authority - to replace the Department of Fisheries. IDA does not consider
the establishment of a parastatal necessary. The Government has agreed to
consult IDA before establishing any new institution in the sub-sector and
allowing such institution to engage in commercial fishing activities (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.05).
31.       Boat Building. Wooden boats are built by local carpenters.
Generally, boats are of local design, but most carpenters bave the
capability of building from sophisticated drawings provided to them. GRP
boats are constructed in two boatyards which have a combined capacity of
about 500 units per annum. In recent years, due to the lack of foreign
exchange for imported raw materials, the boatyards have operated below
capacity. The majority of hulls produced by the boatyards are of the
banana boat- series. Because GRP boats are lighter than wooden boats,
they can be propelled by a smeller engine at substantial fuel savings.
Thus, GRP boats, despite higher capital costs, are cheaper to operate than
wooden boats. However, this advantage is largely negated by lack of
maintenance facilities. In addition to wooden and GRP boats, pontoon rigs,
used on Lake Kariba, are also manufactured locally.
32.       Outboard Engines.  Most Zambian powered fishinz boats use
imported outboard engines of between 3 and 25 HP. The average life of an
engine in Zambia is about 4 years, but can be increased substantially if
proper -are and maintenance is provided. In recent years, foreign exchange
constraints have resulted in a shortage of some types of engines and spare
parts.
33.       Fishing Nets. There is only one enterprise in Zambia -  Nkwazi
Manufacturing Company - which manufactures fishing nets and has
traditionally met the total requirements of artisanal fishermen. However,
recently, it has operated below capacity due to lack of foreign exchange to
import raw materials and essential machinery spares. The company is a
well-managed subsidiary of a foreign company with participation by local
shareholders.



- 10 -
34.       Agricultural Credit.  Institutional credit to the agricultural
sector is provided largely 'by six commercial banks and several parastatal
organizations. The latter include the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC).
the Cattle Finance Company (CFC), the Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ), and
the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB). Cooperatives also provide
credit, largely as on-lenders of AFC funds. Credit unions have been formed
in some areas, but as yet are not a major source of financing. Activities                --
of the major institutional lenders are closely linked with the input supply
and marketing functions of the National Agriculture Marketing Board (NAMB)
and provincial cooperative unions. 
The Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
35.       The Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) was established
by an act of Parliament in 1979 to become the principal agricultural
lending institution in the country and eventually to replace AFC (currently
the main source of credit to crop farmers, especially smallholders) and
CFC. AFC is being phased out for several reasons, including: (a) over 90
percent of its operations are financially unviable and it is heavily
subsidized by Government; and {b) it has no legal authority to raise funds
and thus, is totally dependent on government funding and/or guarantees.
CFC's absorption into ZADB is intended to avoid duplication of credit
services and also broaden the base for credit for livestock development.
To ensure an orderly phase-out of AFC and CFC, the Government has requested
IDA to finance consultants' services to draw up a program of action. IDA
has agreed to finance the consultants' services under the Bank-assisted
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2001-ZA) and the
study has sLarted. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
results of the study would be submitted to IDA by May 31, 1985 for review
and commpnts (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.03). ZADB,
which became operational in late 1983, is receiving technical assistance
and some operating funds under the Eastern Province Agricultural
Development Project and the Southern Province Agricultural Development
Project (Cr. 1193-ZA). Support for ZADB is also envisaged under other Bank
Group lending for agriculture currently under consideration.
36.       Capitalization.  ZADB has an authorized sbare capital of K 75
million, of which 51 percent is to be subscribed by the Government and the
balance by international and local financial institutions. The Government
has not yet completed its share subscription primarily because of budgetary
constraints. As a result, in 1983, ZADB had to raise bridging finance of
X 10 million - guaranteed by Government - in order to become
operational.  The Government has paid in K 4 million in 1984, and plans to
complete its subscription by December 31, 1987 (subscribing K 16 million in
1985, K 10 million in 1986 and K 6.7 million in 1987) by which time ZADB's
capital is expected to be fully subscribed. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.02).Many financial institutions in Zambia are interested in investing in
ZADB's shares and bonds which would partly offset short-term shortfalls in
Government financing.
37.       Staffing.  ZADB does not yet have a full staff complement, but is
making good progress in recruiting new staff and does not anticipate much
difficulty in recruiting suitably qualified personnel to meet its staffing
needs, except at higher management levels. Three internationally-recruited



- 11 -
staff have been appointed under the Eastern Province Agricultural
Development Project (para. 39) to head ZADB's operations, finance and
planning, and training departments. These specialists will be supplemented
by an internationally-recruited fisheries credit specialist under the
proposed project (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02).
38.       Operating and Financial Position.  ZADB plans to increase its
lending from about US$0.8 million at the beginning of 1984 to about US$54
million by the end of 1987. The planned lending program assumes that ZADB
will expand its operations at a cautious pace and will not be under any
pressure to replace AFC and CFC prematurely.  In the ent that the
consultants recommend a faster phase-out of AFC and CFC (para. 39), these
projections would be revised after taking into consideration resources
available to ZADB.
39.       ZADB is empowered to raise funds from any appropriate source to
finance its operations. Therefore, it is not expected to depend on
government subventions (except for equity capital). Safeguards would be
provided under the project to ensure that ZADB develops into a viable
financial institution. To achieve this, ZADB plans to maintain a low
debt/equity ratio until its operations expand sufficiently to justify
larger amounts of loan capital. Accordingly, its financial projections
indicate that, by the end of 1987, capital and reserves would provide about
77 percent of its financial resources, or a debt/equity ratio of less than
1:3 which ZADB would be required to umintain until its share capital is
fully subscribed (draft Project Agreement, Section 4.03). Assurances were
also obtained that ZADB's lending rates would not be lower than the maximum
rate allowed on agricultural lending in Zambia (draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.10(a)).
Bank Strategy in Agriculture
40.       The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first operation in
fisheries in Zambia and the tenth in agriculture and forestry. The Bank's
agricultural strategy in aims at of facilitating key policy and
institutional reforms to create an environment conducive to investment and
growth. The Bank has been working with the Government to formulate
strategies and programs for economic diversification (reduced reliance on
copper mining) and improved agricultural growth in the country. The Bank's
lending strategy emphasizes investment in agricultural services (research
and extension), agricultural credit and agro-based industrial development
to increase production and productivity in the sector. In addition to the
proposed project, the Bank has identified a number of priority investments
to help achieve the above objections. These include an Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project, a Research and Extension Project, a second Coffee
Development Project, and an Agricultural Credit Project. The proposed
project, therefore, would complement ongoing and planned activities in crop
agriculture.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The proposed project was identified In 1979 by an FAO/CP mission
and appraised in April/May 1983. Post-appraisal of ZADB was carried out in
January/February 1984. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., from
August 9 to August 10, 1984. The Zambian delegation was led by
Mr. Mukutu, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Development. The long time lapse since project appraisal resulted from the
need to resolve critical sectoral and project institutional issues before
Board presentation. Annex III provides supplementary project data.
Project Objectives
42.       The main objectives of the proposed project are:  (i) to increase
fish supplies in support of the overall strategy of improving agricultural
growth and nutrition levels; and (ii) to strengtben two key institutions
(ZADB and DOF). The project would support the Government's efforts to
increase fish production and productivity through assistance to private
fishermen to upgrade their fishing operations and private entrepreneurs to
establish marketing facilities. This effort is expected to result in
increased fish supplies and improved incomes and living standards of
artisanal fishermen. Project support to ZADB during its development is
crucial to ensure that it develops into a well-mnaged and financially
sound agricultural lending institution. Assistance to DOF would improve
its capability to assess the country's fish resources on which future
management and investment strategy can be based.
Project Description
43.       Specifically, the project would, over five years, provide:
i)    credit for boats, engines, nets, and
collection and marketing facilities;
(ii)    foreign exchange for raw materials and machinery and
spares for fishing net manufacture;
(iii)   technical assistance for institutional development
building and forproject coordination, monitoring and
evaluation;
Detailed Features
44.       Credit to Artisanal Fishermen.  Credit in kind, for up to 4
years, would be provided for plank/GRP boats, engines and nets to
creditworthy fishermen operating in Lakes Tanganyika, Hweru Wa-Ntipa and
Mveru Luapula.Credit for nets would be repaid in one year from the proceeds
of fish sales which borrowers would be required to deposit in savings
accounts in commercial bank branches in areas where ZADB does not yet have
its own branches.   Fishermen would contribute 20 percent of the required
investment for boats and engines. It is considered that credit recipients



- 13 -
would afford this level of contribution since only creditworthy fishermen,
with good past performance and potential to increase production, would
obtain credit under the project.
45.       Credit to Commercial Fishermen.  Credit for up to 5 years would
be provided to fishermen on Lake Kariba to purchase transport boats to
enable them to use their fishing craft exclusively for fishing. Credit for
transport boats would be available to fishermen who have a minimum of three
fishing rigs in operation.  Borrowers would be required to contribute 20
percent of the value of investment.
General Line of Credit
46.       The amount of funds for specific fish production facilities
provided under the project (paras. 44 and 45) is modest. Credit to
fishermen for production purposes is intended to be a pilot scheme based on
conservative assumptions on available fish resources and ZADB's ability to
manage effectively the credit program. If, however, the stock assessment
studies provided under the project indicate a more promising resource
position, and ZADB proves to be a capable credit institution, additional
funds (US$0.25 million) are provided under the project to supplement the
funds allocated for production activities. The use of these funds would be
subject to prior agreement with IDA. Should these funds be not required
for additional credit for fish production, consideration would be given to
using the provision to increase the assistance to the fishing net
manufacturing company (para. 49).
47.       Credit for Collection and Marketing Facilities.  Loans for a
period of 5 years would be given to individuals and/or private sector
companies to establish integrated fish collection and marketing facilities
at Lakes Mweru Wa-Ntipa and Mweru Luapula and an ice plant at Kafue. The
items to be financed would include monitorized boats, freezing units, cold
starage, ice plants, refrigerated transport equipment, generators and civil
works. Loans would cover 80 percent of the cost of these items and the
balance would be provided by the borrowers.
48.       Technical Assistance to ZADB.  To assist ZADB during its
development phase and to ensure adequate management of fisheries loans,
the project would finance 36 staff-months of an internationally-recruited
fisheries credit specialist.  The appointment of the specialist, with
qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA, would be a condition of credit effectiveness (draft teveiopment Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01(b)).
49.       Foreign Exchange Assistance for Raw Materials and Spares.
Foreign exchange assistance, totalling about US$1.0 million would be
provided to the fishing net manufacturing company - Nkwazi Manufacturing
Company - through the Bank of Zambia against payments in local currency.
The funds would cover 20 percent of the company's foreign exchange
requirements for imported materials and spares over a five-year period.
The balance of the foreign exchange requirements would be obtained through
normal government channels.



- 14 -
50.       Facilities for DOF.  To improve DOF's capacity to manage the
country's fish resources effectively, funds would be provided to
rehabilitate and upgrade some of the existing water transport equipment and
workshops, and to purchase new water and land transport, research and
communicatior.s equipment, and a generator. To ensure continued use of the
rehabilitated and new facilities, essential spares and some operating
expenditures would be financed. To ensure adequate funding of DOF,s
activities, the Government each year would prepare for IDA's review and
comments the department's work program and budget for the following year
and make budgetary allocation for carrying out the program (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06).
51.       Technical Assistance and Training for DOF. Assistance would be
provided to DOF in assessing the country"s fish resources, introducing
improved fishing methods, research and extension and staff training. Funds
would be provided to finance internationally-recruited staff to positions
of stock assessment officer and limnologist (36 staff-months each), master
fisherman (24 staff-months) and short-term consultants (12 staff-months),
with qualifications and experience, and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03). In
addition, funds would be provided under the project to finance training
fellowships for senior and middle-level staff and artisanal fishermen.
Project Costs and Financing
52.       Total project costs, including contingencies, based on mid-1984
prices, are estimated at USS10.6 million (including taxes and duties of
USS1.1 million), of which USS8.0 million in foreign exchange. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been included on selected items considered
to present some risk of quantitative underestimation. Price contingencies
allow for 20 percent in 1984, 12 percent in 1985 and 10 percent thereafter
on local costs; and 3.5 percent in 1984, 8 percent in 1985, 9 percent in
1986-88 and 7.5 percent thereafter of foreign exchange costs. The IDA
credit of USS7.1 million would finance 90 percent of the foreign exchange
costs and 75 percent of total project costs, excluding taxes and duties.
The Government's contribution (USS2.4 million equivalent) and
sub-borrowers' contribution (USS1.1 million equivalent) would cover the
remaining costs. The Government would ensure timely allocation of foreign
exchange for raw material and machinery spares for net manufacturing and
outboard engines. Project costs are summarized in the Credit and Project
Summary.
53.       Of the credit proceeds, USS2.8 million equivalent, for fish
production and marketing facilities, would be passed tc: ZADB as equity
capital and USS0.3 million as a grant to finance technical assistance. The
execution of a financing agreement between Government and ZADB would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreeoent,
Section 6.01(a)). In order to provide a continuing source of credit for
fish production and marketing, ZADB would establish and operate a revolving
fund into which credit repayments would be paid. USS1.0 million of the
credit would be made available to the fishing net manufacturing firm,
through the Bank of Zambia, to finance part of its foreign exchange
requirements for raw materials and machinery spare parts imports (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(e)). The foreign exchange would



- 15 -
be provided against payments of equivalent amounts in local currency. Of
the balance of the credit, US$2.6 million would be retained by Government
to finance technical assistance and training (US$1.2 million) and
facilities (US1.0 million) for the Department of Fisheries, and project
coordination, monitoring and evaluation (US$0.4 million) by the Project
Coordination Unit. US$ 0.4 million of the credit would cover physical and
price contingencies.
Project Implementation
54.       The Project Coordination Unit (PCU,#, to be established in the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development, would have overall
responsibility for project implementation (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.02). Funds would be provided under the project to
finance 36 staff-months of an internationally-recruited project coordinator
whose appointment would be a condition of credit effectiveness (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). The credit component would
be implemented by ZADB (paras. 48-51). DOF would procure and utilize the
facilities and technical assistance provided to improve its management of
fish resources.
Interest Rates
55.       ZADB would charge its borrowers the maximum rate of interest
allowed on agricultural lending, currently 15 percent per annum, plus a two
percent commitment fee and two percent loan processing fee. This compares
with the current inflation rate of 20 percent per annum. However, as the
domestic inflation rate is projected to be 2 percent in 1985 and 10
percent thereafter, ZADB's interest rates are expected to be positive in
real terms during most of the project period. ZADB would review its
lending rates annually in consultation with IDA and adjust them, as
necessary, to ensure its profitability (draft Project Agreement, Section
2.12).
Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation would be
carried out by PCU with the assistance of ZADB and DOF. Short-term
consultants would be engaged to assist PCU in this task.
Procurement
57.       The relatively small, varied and individual orders for boats,
engines and nets (totalling about US$1.4 million) would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding (ICB). Individual borrowers would place
orders for these items with local suppliers through ZADB. Contracts for
civil works (totalling about US$0.7 million) would be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding (LCB). Plant, machinery and equipment for
collection/marketing centers, vehicles, and raw materials and machinery
spares for net manufacturing would be bulked as far as practicable and
orders of US$50,000 and above would be procured through ICB and domestic
manufacturers would be granted a mFrgin of 15 percent, or the applicable
rate of duty, whichever is less. Contracts of less than US$50,000 would be
awarded on the basis of LCB, except that those below $20,000 may be
procured through local shopping after obtaining at least three quotations.
Procurement arrangements are summarized below.



- 16 -
Project Element                         Procurement Method
ICB      LCB    Other        Cost
Civil works                                    0.7                 0.7
(0.4)              (0.4)
Plant, machinery and
equipment for
collection/marketing                2.5                          2.5
(1.5)                        (1.5)
Boats, engines and nets                                 1.4        1.4
(0.7)      (0.7)
Vehicles                              0.2                          0.2
(0.2)                        (0.2)
Raw materials and spares
for net manufacturing               1.2                          1.2
(1.0)                        (1.0)
Facilities for DOF                                      2.0        2.0
(1.1)      (1.1)
Technical assistance
and training                                          2.6        2.6
(2.2)      (2.2)
3.9      0.7     6.0        10.6
(2.7)    (0.4)   (4.0)       (7.1)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.



- 17 -
Disbursements
58.       Credit disbursements would be on the following basis:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local
expenditures for equipment for DOF;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for Imported raw materials and machinery spares
for net manufacturing;
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for consultants" services for DOF and for
project coordination, monitoring and evaluation;
(d) 100 percent of foreiga expenditures for consultants'
services for ZADB;
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local
expenditures for training;
(f) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local
expenditures under sub-loans for fish production and
marketing facilities.
Disbursements for contracts of less than US$10,000 equivalent and for local
expenditures under (b), (d), (e) and (f) would be on the basis of
statements of expenditure certified by the Managing Director of ZADB,
Director of Fisheries and the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Development, as the case may be. All other
disbursements would be fully documented. The five and one half-year
disbursement schedule for the proposed credit is shorter than the nine-year
regional profile for fisheries and forestry projects. The proposed
schedule is considered appropriate because a substantial portioa of the
credit would be used to finance a few loans and technical assistance, both
with short disbursement periods.
59.       Special Accounts.  In order to ensure that credit funds for the
project would be available when required, two Special Accounts in Kwacha
would be established in the Bank of Zambia financed with advances from the
credit proceeds (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 2.02 and
Schedule 4). One account, with an initial deposit of US$200,000
equivalent, to finance consultants' services and fish production and
marketing credits, would be operated by ZADB. The other account, also with
an initial deposit of US$200,000 equivalent, to finance facilities and
consultants' services for strengthening DOF's operations, would be operated
by DOF. The accounts would be replenished on the basis of documentary
evidence, to be provided to IDA by ZADB and DOF, of payments made from the
accounts for eligible expenditures. The opening of the accounts would be a
condition of credit effectiveness (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 6.01(c)).



- 18 -
Audit and Accounts
60.       ZADB's accounts are at present audited by the Lusaka Office of
Peat, Marwick Mitchell and Co., who are satisfactory to IDA and those of
the Ministry of Agriculture (including DOF) are audited by the
Auditor-General. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ZADB would
continue to appoint independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that the
audited accounts and auditors' reports would be submitted to the
Association within six months of the end of ZADB's and DOF's fiscal years.
The auditors of ZADB, DOF and PCU would be required to make specific
reference in their reports to the reviews of documents supporting the
statements of expenditure and certify that the documents are in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the credit.
Environmental Impact
61.       The only potentially adverse environmental effect of the project
is the possibility of over-fishing and depletion of fish stocks, and also
the risk of deforestation through excessive tree felling for fish smoking.
The former risk is very low since the incremental fish quantities are
modest and within estimates of safe sustainable yields. The latter risk is
also low since the increase in sun and/or smoked dried fish would be only
about 15 percent.
Benefits and Risks
62.       The project is part of the Government's strategy of diversifying
the economy. It would increase domestic fish supplies, reduce imports and
increase personal incomes and employment in rural areas. Fish supplies
would increase by about 7,000 tons (10 percent) over the present level
to maintain consumption at about 10 kg which would fall to about 9 kg per
capita without the project. The project would directly benefit about 1,200
artisanal owner-fishermen and -bout 2,300 'helpers' whose average family
incomes would increase from E   t K 1,400 to K 2,800 over the project
period.  By focussing its supp  t on the private sector, the project would
limit inefficient, uncompetitive and financially unviable investments in
commercial ventures by public sector enterprises. Financial and technical
assistance to ZADB during its early development phase would strengthen it
and promote its development into a viable credit institution. Support for
DOF is expected to result in improved fish stock management and provide a
basis for future deveiopment and investment decisions.  The project's
economic rate of return is estimated at 26 percent.
63.       Major project risks relate to the probability that ZADB may not
develop into a viable credit institution if the Government fails to
capitalize it adequately and that DOF may not be provided with adequate
funding for its operations.  To minimize these risks, Government has
undertaken to complete its subscription to ZADB's equity capital by the
end of 1987 (para. 36). In addition, technical assistance is provided
under other Bank Group-assisted projects (para. 35), in addition to that
proposed under this project, to strengthen ZADB's institutional
capability. Regarding funding for DOF's operations, Government has agreed
to ensure adequate budgetary allocations to DOF for its operating expenses.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zambia and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Zambia Agricultural Development Bank and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately.
65.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness would be: (a) the
appointment of a fisheries credit specialist (para. 48) and a project
coordinator (para. 54); (b) execution of a financing agreement between the
Government and ZADB (para. 53); and (c) the establishment of special
accounts (para. 59).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by
E. Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 2, 1984



- 20 -                                                 AINEX I
TA5LE i                                           Page 1 of 5
ZAMBIA                 - SCIAL ItDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAMISA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGlD AVERAGES) Ia
HOST                (WRST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
rteitk    j9CtYT                     MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE ITCOW
tmLb 197^  ESTIKATEI_   AFEICA S. OF SAHRA      . FRICA 4 MID EAST
etA  (TBSAw SQ. W)
roat.                               75S.6        752.6      752.b
ACEt;jLTERAL                        397.4        399.5      401.b
OP M  CAPITA (0f3)                     230.0        380.0  b40.0                  1112.9                 1149.b
Eahst wusapnau "a CaPI
(ILoCRA'Sb tjF oIL Eq.ICALLbT)        ..        301.0      443.0              529.0                   b22.1
POPIATION -m VITAL STATISS
POPULATION.XID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    3207.0       4159.0    6045.0
LRBA% POPL'ATIOM (:E O TOTAL)        23.1         30-0       44.B               29.7                    48.2
POPLLATION PROJECTIONS
POPLLATIO  IS TEAR 2000 (MILL)                            11.4
STATIOSARY POPULATION (KILL)                               37.0
POPULATION 4&aIENr'.                                        2.0
PuPULAT ION DENSI
PER S.Q. Ct.                        4.3          5.5        7.8                55.3                   36.1
PER MQ. OM. AI. LAND                8.1         10.4       14.5               111.5                  461.7
POPULATION AGE STRVCTLIE (E)
0-;; YIRS                         45.0        46.1        57.4                55.4                   43.6
L5-54 YRS                          52.5         51.4       50.0               51.7                    53-1
aS AND AOE                          2.5          2.5        Z.6                 2.9                    3_1
POPULATIOTN GROWM itATE (I)
'OTAL                               2.4          2.6        3.1                2.8                     2.8
CRUBA                               5.3          5.2        6.5                 5.2                    4.5
CRt'DE BIRTH RATE (PER THOS)         50.h 19.6               49.5                47.0                   40.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER IHoDS)         24.4         20.1       15.5                15.2                   11.5
-;ROSS REPRODUCTIOS RATE              3.4          3.4        3.4                 3.2                    Z.8
FAMIILY PLASSISC
ACcEPIoNS. 4UAL (TNOLS)              ..           ..         -
LSERS (Z OF MARRIED "IEN)            ..           ..        --                                         22.
INDEX OF .11D PROD. PER CAPITA
( 1969-71-100)                       79.0         96.0       67.0               91.b                    97.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (t OF REQUIREMEST')       87.0         87.0       93.0               98.2                   110.8
PROTEISS (GRAMS PER DAY)           58.0         58.0       56.0               56.7                    70.1
OF WICH AOIMAL AND PLLSE         14.0         16.0       14.0 IC            17.0                    17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          38.0         29.0       20.0                18.7                   14.0
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)        39.7         44.6       50.9                51.7                   57.5
INFANT MORT. RArE (PER TrOUS)       1b4.0        137.0      105.0              102.7                   101.5
ACCESS re SaFE W'ATER (-PuP)
TOTAL                                ..         37.0       42.0 /d             35.6                   59.7
R                          - A       ..        70.0       86.0 71'            54.1                   84.5
RURAL                                --         22.0       6b.0 7;1            Z7.3                   36.4
ACcEsS TO EACRFTA DISPOSaL
(: OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         16.0       42.0 Id
URBAN                                ..         12.0       67.o 7d.
RUaL.                                ..         18.0       16.o 7..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           9540.0       6140.0    7670.0 /a           11948.3                 4145.1
POP. PER IRSIYG PERSON.           9920.0 If   2430.0    1730.0 7.            2258.9                  1831.1
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             360.0        300.0      210.0 /a            986.9                  632.9
LRBAN                             180.0 f         *.      350.0 7             38.7                   545.5
RCRAL                             470.0 o1        ..      240.0             4012.1                  2513.5
ADKISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..       31.0                  .                    26.2
0005in
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..4.4
LmRU                                 ..           ......
RURAL
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOR
rTOAL                                ..          2.6
LRBAt                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..         ..                  ..                   46.2
WAY"                               27.5           ..         ..                  ..                   77.7
RURAL                                .            . ' '      ' '                                      16.1



- 21 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E 3A
zUA8tA                S- SOCIA. INDtCATORS DArA SHEEr
ZAMBLA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (VEIGHTED AVEBAZS) ia
HOST                (HOST RECENT ESTtMATE) lb
RECENT       NICO'E INCOME           MIIDDLE INCOME
196iea    I97Q/!    ESTIKTEA.b   AFRICA S. or SAHARA   s. AFRICA & MID EAST
CDUCATIO-
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRL'AZT:  TOTAL                   4Z.0        89.0       96.0                9l.0                   88.3
KALE                    51.0         99.0      102.0               90.5                   102-5
FtALE                  34.0         79.0       50.0               73.6                    73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                    Z.0        13.0       16.0                17.4                   43.0
SALE                     3.0         17.0       21.0               23.7                    52.3
FEMALE                   1.0         8.0        11.0               14.8                    33.0
VOCATIONAL t: OF SECONDARY)          27.8         3.2        2.3                 5.3                   10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                            50.0        47.0       64_0 /a             38.6                    30.3
SECONDARY                          14.0        22.0       22.0 7              24.3                   23.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE Ct)              28.5 If     47.3       44.0                35.6                   43.5
coIwUIPTlI
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP          10.2        14.5       18.7 lb             20.7                   17.8
RAD1O RECEIVERS/THDUSAND POP          4.7        18.0       23.9               100.8                  138.8
TV MECEIVEAS/THOLSAND POP                         4.1       10.6                18.5                   46.1
XEUSPAPER CDAILY GENERAL
ISTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             5.0         13.7      19.9 /a             17.Z                   31.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA       ..           ..        0.3 7i;             0.3                    1.7
Am FOOM
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THW10S)         132Z.0       1621.0    2157.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   33.3        32.6       32.3                33.8                    10.8
ACRICULTLRE (PERCENT)              79.0        73.0       67.0                57.1                   42 .S
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  7.0         9-0       11.0                17-4                   27_9
PARTrCIFATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              4l.2         39.0      35.7                36.3                   26.2
MALE                               55.3         52.9      49_3                47.6                   46_1
FEMALE                             27.3        25.2       22.6                25.1                    5.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.2         1.2        1.4                 1.4                    1.8
zmnu DITsIBUTIOU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HlGHEST 5: OF HOUSEHOLDS           33.7        23.0 /1
HlGHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS          58.2        630 7    56; /h 
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSENOLDS            5.4         3.8 /i    3.6 /b.
.SEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.0        10.1 71    11.1 7;*
PyED  TARGE GrS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PEP CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      247.0               525.3                   274.8
RUiRAL                               ''          ''      168.0               249.0                   177.Z
ESTLIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .           .      126.0               471.4                  402.6
RULL                                 * *          '.      85.0               186.0                  284.9
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY ISC0E LEV-EL (t)
LRK"N                                ..          ..       25.0
RURAL                                ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each Indlcator are populatlon-weighted Arithmetic means. Coverage of countries aeons the
indicators depends on avaIlabilLty of data and is not unIform.
/b   Unless other-Ise noted. Daca for 1960- refer ro any year between 1959 and 1901; -Data for 1970c between 19b9 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent EstIate- between 1980 and 1982.
tc  1977; /d 1975; /e 1979; /f 1963; fj 1978; lh 1976; /I 1973.
JUIE. 198S



q ! 1s f l 1, X 111afil'i ''  1" ' :'Fl S 'l 's;g ,fi l
3 l ,-l i ll   S lf  g f ll,  l l f! ll,,f  lli        ifl
d4



AR 
,m:u
Ga w    Ordqp:        (a60M
Af               Sh e cb  Ma                        MM
"1M lB S         Cbro mot P                    euh C*
19         1970  Lq7]95  SWE1 19M    97-5 19758  159OD
GkmDamtic        P      3,83D        ID0  IOD  0.0 lODO.OIO0   3.0    -49         L3
AodcoInm           ~5m          107  138   14.2  13.6   2.7         0.5    -2.2
4~~~~~~~A                    36.  136  16.1 13.3   0.0          -M   6.3
r  1 1           92           1B5~m  I&    ZLI  23.7  24.3   8.3    -02   1.2
SECVICM  ~1,966                  3fu5  853   46.0  MX8   3.2         0.4     0.3
cmwmouat   \        3=Q            46  79.   81.4  948   3.4          0       37
:bo                          648 S    2L4  40.5  Z3.   16.9   4.1    -16.9   -224
aE;       Aof  & Ws     ICD5.  t.    22  27.4   05                      --3.      0.4
Tpeof Mob    s         1,9           37.1  %      470  39.1  -L         -9.    -18.
Gcm Dam        1mW            99    6     5.4  21.0 18.    5.2  -9.9  QO           -5?J
r n i _1 MMFO                 m "G=n2                  Gm 'Cg= t(Lq)
,KPn)         ti ofc         xmn)          Z S   G
Ck-eit  ea,dp                                             SM87          24.7
_wm  ExmLt0 I .                                                      37.1
tavm  5uph                                               -63           -124
cWa   Tmta                                                320.2     8     .9
_lEwm Fnmtg                                               L92.9          5.4
mm,         and PRIM                   L      IO75   SW1  M9K    L9iN   191833
LMmq and S>wd Ymney                    356    493    907    979   L3W9   139
d'k Cet   to G_emmn                   -166    318   1355   1495   1983   2116
lMkCEldit tD l?dvte Setr              137    393    5D5    765    905    985
(pmmawo im    Me)
Mgyand Qls  oy as Z  aE GP2M1 31.3   30.1   2&4   36.7    n.
WhIeae  lciceTdea (1966-IOD)5    1      16.4 188.6  424.2  47.5.9  542-8  663.0
1naiprmq   cwe in:
Whlsle PRimmex                         2.5   16.6   11.1   12.2   14. 1   22.1
1mo Cxdi to Dmn t                    -08   406.9   20.8   10.3   37-7    6.7
Bec Cn#lt to E!Immse SWor4            25.0   17.0    4.6   51.4   18.       as
1              cwg, uc  m  elcrct,.  Ws and waer.
2 Fixs do nxot  dfe *[[f  -lcay fras -Cetm  Gmm='
3             1_ s  983.
5 AU d*etclysd god.                                                             Sept. 1984



-24-                                       WI
B 5 of 5
7MBIA
(EgLAMEOF PAMMENrS                                     NMOMIE&E E  EL      1982
198D   1981   1982    1983
i~  ig;si   i)N  
MM= MiS)y (Fat.                                M$ mhz.  z
Fzxtc of Gmods,NES            1,611  1,126  1,M5   1,065    opper                       843     90
imports of Goods, NES         1,795   1,W8   1,499   1,130    Colt                      3D       3
1leszrrc G(p (defLct   -)83   -48              -449    -65    led and Zinc              30       3
AU otber c     ites      41       4
Vamm Seres (QaIt)              -D      -270   -238   -2D1        l .3    10M
Net Trasfexs2                  -144   -101    -29    -40
Balc an  m t    mt                9       -6    06
E,O lEMT, Dec. 31, 1983
(Ffial   s                       30      26      3D     26
DEz5 Fcm tiP Tnestzt             ...    ..    ..       ..                                    MS Mhz
et P   Uordng           p       437    210    238    111  PIlic Dabt, In. guaat 2e 635.3
nhrc~Itl                   624    40    334    15           3 3 1           Pn Dk           ..
I      I ratlai               187     190     96      47    Toea 09=mxdng & Dst-id              .3e
Net L-4 F                     8     367    -49      64
E.-a  PaWmt kI                  136      53    186      14
n.i   t    (nUe.i.)              39    159    396       66      BT SIM RAD FM 19833
am in     erws                   -1      38    -88      25                                    Z
PabU    ebt, im. gmn d11.6
M3talitstmding & Isbzred  11.6
Groes Intl. leserm               89      5,    140    115
(wede  of  rq-orts, f.o.b.)    (4.2)  (2)  (7.4)  (5.3)
bxinent A/C 2bl. as Z CDP     -17.0  -21.6  -18.7   -8.9    ISMD/II  IENDIN, September 30, 1984
oflhlicn TES)
R,lS (F EMO                                                                             IM 
uss
chstanding & Dtsbursed 336.66  38.35
1980     K b acs 1.00   1.2682                                 hdisbursed              117J00   92.10
1981                         1.1466                                    notandlng incl.
1982                         1.0748                              4hdisbirsed           453.66 130.45
1983                         0.8083
1T hchu ng  ontract salary and gR  tes tmsfexs.
2 FSrttHng ofIcial agrnts and cmtact salary and gmtuitLes tzunsfers
3 Ratio of debt service psid on pibic and pubUicanrV1ly cctmed debt, ecluding arrears and DEF
zesnyuaits. to esports of goods and
nfactor servcs.
.*  avalable                                                                            EktSA
Sept. 1984



-27-5--                            AMW   I
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANM GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZANDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30. 1984)
Amount In 1S$ Million
(Less CImcellatiAtls)
Toan   Credit                                                                    Uhdisburned
No.   No.       Year   Borrower           Brse                    B        IDA   Loan Credit
19 TAans fully
disbursed                                400.22
1131             1975   Posts & Tele.    Telecommunications       32.00            0.19
1424            1977   Zambia             Industrial Forestry    16.80             0.08
1566    798     1978   Zambia             Third Highway           11.25   11.25  11.25   9.24
863     1979   Zambia            Coffee Production                 6.00           0.75
873     1979   Zambia            Technical Assistance              5.00           2.56
1790    973     1980   Zambia             Third Railway           25.00   15.00  11.26   2.62
1923             1981   Development       Second Development
Bank of Zarbia   Finance Company          15.00            1.43
2001             1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Development      11.00            9.08
1193     1982   Zambia            Southern Province
Agric. Development              18.00          14.89
1196     1982   Zambia            Smallbolder Dairy Dev.            7.50           6.10
1251     1982   Zambia            Fifth Education                  25.00          19.98
2151             1982   Zambia Indus-
trial & Mining
Company          Oil Refinery Mod. Eng.  5.10             4.63
2152             1982   Zambia            Pet. Exploration Prom.  6.60             4.27
1333     1983   Zambia            Maamba Coal Eng.                  4.30           3.23
1362     1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply               10.00           8.54
SF2      1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply                6.00           4.67
1437     1984   Zambia            Ind. Forestry-PhaselII           22.40          21.48
2391             1984   Zambia            Export Rehab. & Diver. 75.00            74.81
Total                                           597.97  130.45 117.00  92.10
of which has been repaid                       14.31      -
Total nov outstanding                           453.66  130.45
Amounts sold                       28.58
of which has been repaid          28.58           -        -
Total now held by Bank/IDA                      453.66  130.45
of which is undisbursed                        117.49   92.10
m -
NOTES: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 26 -                              A1N1EX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEHENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1984)
Investment                                                      US$ Million Equivalent
No.      Year                       Iype of Business        Loan Equity   Total
216-ZA     1972   Zambia Bata Shoe
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing      0.85   0.23    1.08
250-ZA     1973   Zambia Bata Shoe   Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery              1.20    -      1.20
307-ZA     1975   Century Packages
Limited            Packaging Materials    0.78   0.21    0.99
324-ZA     1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia          Company                  -      0.54    0.54
394-ZA     1978   Century Packages
Limited            Packaging Materials    0.10    -        0.10
483-ZA     1979   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production             28.00    - -  28.00
527-ZA     1980   Kafue Textiles of
721-ZA     1985   Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers      10.85    -      10.85
600-ZA     1981   Zambia Consoli-    Copper Production
dated Copper Mines                        25.14    -      25.14
632-ZA     1982   Ethanol Company of Chemicals and
Zambia Limited     Petrochemicals           3.68   0.60    4.28
709-ZA     1984   Zambia Hotel
Properties Ltd.  Tourism                  15.88    -      15.88
Total gross commitments                   86.48   1.58   88.06
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                   32.10   0.81   32.91
Total now held by IFC                     54.38   0.77   55.15
Total undisbursed                          17.92    -     17.92
-_   -



ANNEX III
Page I of 1
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBILA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATASHEET
1. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 12 months
(b) Project prepared by: Government, assisted by consultants and
FAO/CP
(c) Appraisal: April/May 1983
Cd) Post-appraisal: January/February 1984
Ce) Negotiations: August 1984
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: March 1983
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) Government to consult with IDA on proposals to establish any new
institution in the fisheries sub-sector and ensure that such an
institution would not engage in commercial activities (para. 30).
Cb) Study of phasing out of AFC and CFC and formulation of action
program (para. 35).
(c) Government to complete its subscription to ZADB's equity capital
Dy tecemoer 31, 1987 (para. 36).
(d) Until its share capital is fully subscribed, ZADB to maintain a
debt/equity ratio of 1:3 (para. 39).
(e) ZADB to review its lending rates annually in consultation with
IDA (para. 55).



ZA M B I A
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT
4. Artisonol fisheries    -   Roads
0  Commercioal fisheries   -   Railways
0  Morketing facilities     Airfields
Rivers
Swamps
Provmnciol bourdaries
a                                               |                                          --  Internationol boundaries
I                                     Z    ~~~~~~~A
A N GO L A
~~~ N~~ 
j                 '-           ~~~~~~~~~W  E S T    N  RD
Kowbo'- ,
Ir 
'~.o~bo
W     E            R   N                  aoo
It
N A AA I B I
t ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~               Sincb,A,*
v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, I                                                        9. <,     --



I B R D 18135
3_-                   MARCH 19U4
K   /         ~~~NsumgO4 O    .
J                  N          JM 6                 T A N Z A N I A
/+, M - eso                        ) s&o                    /w*
/                    1    0    R   T3f    NM)OW
(           0Moo                                 ho|
* I R          E                                                                                         5 </   
5~~1\_Lbu        K(uL%  A P' u  L A  3                                  
N.                                  _  -y                                  I,~~~~~~0    -\.
ioo L-,                  I/ >V                                  
O'..'ga'a~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~CKokj
c ,_,       s                  k  n  {    W           l         g               z            *    t      D-el ge 
7 2                     (vSooon.             !             ,3>g/ 
--1        COPPERBELt\ I                               u      *   i>)
(               M<oso.                                                                       I            - B           e g>J(oc4
\_ r / t +~~~~~MbeqeO
__                 C E.NITR A l .-
I-                          Kob_e                   /'       g
;Ch.naKbo                     =
a               uul"                                            M O Z A M BI Q U E
( Mona                     iN -\    -                       ___             r        
2 Ftwbckwbo S- * lt wt~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZIa-                                 t    *|kE TANZ-ANI
- HERNMRO.~  _'zIM B ABW Ei,
D EI                                                                                   -
-                                           ~~~X50     '         ITo  MILES     ANGOLA_
S.nosagw  j                         5        0 12D00zlhlT     [                    ~ *rC *-'-i- 
_~ - _.    h sL_. I- -w na#fMI}wt.'ZIMBABWE *
/I  ~  Of ~  M'W~  Ie-D W o'  e t  flOIA    IN IEII  1    A-WC   ;F'
o      r_d_kr_ ___o__ o                                                                      D rICz
___-         2t                             '                             |   I        1"o~~~~~"N  Wu<&V



