Document Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 12563
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1529-0-ZA)
NOVEMBER 30. 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12563
Type: PCR
Agriculture and Environment Division
South Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
Tbis document has a restiicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in toe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Ban;k authorization.



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr 1529-0-ZA)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1984 (Aug.)         US$ 1.0          ZK 0.63
1985                US$ 1.0           ZK 0.1754
1986                US$ 1.0           ZK 0.0787
1987                US$ 1.0          ZK 0.1250
1988                US$ 1.0           ZK O.1000
1989                US$ 1.0          ZK 0.0462
1990                US$ 1.0          ZK 0.0234
1991                US$ 1.0          ZK0.0112
1992                US$ 1.0           ZK 0.0042
1993 (Feb.)         US$ 1.0           ZK 0.0028
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC                 Agricultural Finance Company
BOZ                 Bank of Zambia
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
DOF                 Department of Fisheries
FAO/CP              FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
FRR                 Financial Rate of Return
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
GRZ                 Government of the Republic of Zambia
LB                  Lima Bank
MAFF                Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PrA                 Preferential Trade Area
ZADB                Zambia Agricultural Development Bank



FOR OFFCICUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Oflbs of DOiretar4mror
opw_Ua EvwuaUu
November 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE 2EXCUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:    Project Completion Report on Zambia
FLsheries Development Project (Credit 1529-ZA)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zambia - Fisheries Development
Project (Credit 1529-ZA) prepared by the FAO/CP for the Africa Regional Office, with Part II
contnrbuted by the Borrower.
The report highlights numerous implementation difficulties. Implementation was hampered
by two periods when disbursement to the Borrower was suspended on country grounds, for a total
of over four yeas The Bank closed the project after a one-year extension and canceled 75 percent
of project fiuns The credit component for arianal fishermen reached about 24 percent of target
population, but the bacldog in delivery on approved loans and a repayment rate below 50 percent put
its sustainability in doubt The rehabilitation of the Department of Fisheries programs was partially
achieved. Achievement of other components (fish collection and marketing, import of raw material
and spare parts for manufacturing fishing nets, monitoring and evaluation) was nil or minimia
Accordingly, the project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory, sustainability as unlikely and institutional
development as partiaL.
The project objectives were in line with country and Bank priorities However, project
design misjudged the institutional and managerial capabilities of the implementing agencies, and
underestimated the financial problems of the credit institution. The marketing component focussed
on large-scale operators, who did not apply, ignoring a strong demand by smaller entrepreneurs The
report describes some improvement in fishing techniques, but data on production and income changes
are not available.
The PCR is satisfactory and no audit is planned at this time.
Attachment
This documnt has a restricted dstribution and may be used by rcipients only in the perfoama  of
tir offleli duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witout World BSank authorzation.



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBUA
ISHERS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ............................................                                             i
EVALUAION SUMMARY ..............................................
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   .                          .1.......... 
1. Project Identity ............................................. 1
2. Background  ..................................................1
Introduction ............................................                                1
3. Projec Objectives and Description ......................................  2
ProjectObjectives ..........                                                             2
Project Description ..........  2
ProjectCostandF nFncing  ........................................    3
4. Projea Design and Oranaon  .......................................  3
5. Projecta                ............................................   3
Credit Effecdveness and Project Start-Up  ..........        .....................  3
Fisheries CreditLima Bank . .......................................  4
Improved Management of Fish Resources ............            ...................  5
Foreign Excange Assistance to Net Manfacurer (Nlkwazi) ......            .............  6
Project Coordit    ...........................................   6
Project Costs and Disburse t .       ....................................  6
6. Project Results and Inpact ...........................................  7
Genea   ...................................   7
Financla and Economic Returns ........................                                   8
7. Sustaimbility ................... 8
8. BankPerftmance ..................... 9
9. Borrower's Perfrmace  .......  ...................................   10
10. Project Retonship ...................  11
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
or thdir offcial dutbs. Its contents may nnt nthnwwb.e be ,fuicleso withrnit Wott4d Rank anhudion,ai



11. Co    nsultancySServices .....ei.....                   ..................             11
12. Proea Dom       tond Dat. . .. . ..a                                 . .       .       11
PART 11: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECETVE.  12
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                  .                        18
TABLES
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits                                                 . 18
2. Proottble.tT.ble.  19
3. CreditDisbursement .20
4.    Project.plementat.on                                                                 21
5.    Project Cost and Financing ...............  I ........................ 23
6. Project Results .25
7. StatusofCovenants .26
8.    Use of Bank Resources  ...........................                                   29
ANNEX  ..                                                                                  30
1.  Lima Ban Limited (Tables 1 to 3) .30
PROJECT DATASHEET                                       ..33



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
FIShERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr 1529-0-ZA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Zambia Fisheries Development Project,
for which Credit 15294-CZA in the amount of SDR 7.1 million (US$ 7.1 million) was approved by IDA
on 27 October 1984. The credit became effective on 16 August 1985. Originally expected to be
implemented over a five-year period, the credit was actually closed, after a one year delay, on 31
December 1991. However, because of suspension of withdrawal rights for reasons which cannot be
attributed to the project, actual project implementation lasted only 2 years. Actual disbursement totalled
SDR 1.5 million (US$ 1.8 million), or approximately 21% of the originally approved credit amount. The
last disbursement was made on 13 March 1991.
Parts I and m of the PCR were prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
(FAO/CP) for the Southern Africa Department (AF6AF) of the World Bank. Part II has been prepared
by the Borrower.
Preparation of the PCR was started during a visit to Zambia by a team from FAO/CP in
January 1993, and is based, inter alia, on information gathered in Zambia, discussions with project staff
and officials of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF), the Ministry of Finance (MOF),
the Department of Fisheries (DOF) and the Lima Bank (LB). The report also takes into account
information and data gathered from the Staff Appraisal Report, the Development Credit Agreement,
Project Agreement, Supervision Reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower and internal IDA
memoranda.
i



ZAMBIA
FSHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr 1529-0-ZA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
The project was the Bank Group's first lending operation associated with the Zambian
fisheries sector. The project, approved in October 1984, was to support the Gove:nment's efforts in
expanding fish production, marketing ari distribution systems through extension of credit to private fish
producers and marketing entities. Further support to these objectives was to be secured through the
provision of foreign exchange for importing raw materials and machinery spares required to manture
fishing nets; technical assistance to the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) and to the
Department of Fisheries (DOF), and monitoring and evaluation.
Inplementation Experience
The project was originadly scheduled to be completed by 31 December 1989 after an
implementation period of five years. However, due to some initial delays and to the suspension of
withdrawal rights for a cumulative period of about 4.5 years (para 5.10), actual project implementation
lastd for only 2 years.
The credit component of the project was originaly designed to be implemented by ZADB.
However, based on the recommendaions of a study carried out by the Government, ZADB was merged
with the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC) to form LB in 1986. Overall, the progress on the credit
component was less than satisfactory. Only arfisanal fishermen have been able to utilize credit facilities
under the project. About the equivalent of US$ 0.6 million, or 60% of the SAR lending target, has been
achieved. Of the total amount allocated for importation of raw material and spare parts for machinery,
only a minimum amount has been utilized because of a misunderstanding between MAF? and the Nlcwazi
Net Manuf r  Company on the methodology related to acquiring the necessary foreign exchge. Ihe
funds provided for establishing fish processing and marketing facilities around Lakes Mweru Luapula and
Mweru Wantipa, and for transport boats on Lake Kariba, were never utilized.
DOF's rehabilitation programme has been ca!ried out satisfactorily and included the
rehabilitation of boats, engines, vehices, workshops, training centers and procurement of new boats,
engines, vehicles, generators and radio communication equipment. In almost all cases SAR targets have
been achieved or exceeded, resulting in increased mobility of DOF staff and better conta  between DOF
field staff, fishermen communities and the LB.
Of the 11.5 person-years of foreign training provided under the project, 8.3 man-years have
been used. All trainees have returned to the country and have taken over various responsibilities within
iii



DOF. The balance of 3.2 man-years could not be utilized due to the suspension of IDA disbursement. 'Te
project had financed 58 group training courses and workshops involving around 1,200 fishermen and fish
scouts. A number of fishermen on Lake Tanganyika, as well as DOF extension staff, have been trained
in lift net fishing, a technique successfully introduced to this lake by the master fisherman recruited under
the project. Results of this training have been very positive, and a number of fishermen have switched
from beach seining to lift net fishing. This initiative has a sustaLiable impact on the subsector.
Hiring of consultants to carry out the fish stock assessment programme did not take place
as contracts could not be negotiated and concluded before 1 May 1987, the day the withdrawal rights were
suspended.
The present structure of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) is as agreed at appraisal.
However, some of the organizational weaknesses that are apparent at present arise from the fact that the
PCU works directly under DOF, which is one of the beneficiaries, and not direcdy under MAFF as
designed at appraisal and considered as a covenant within the Development Credit Agreement.
Project Results and Impact
It is difficult to evaluate the real impact made by the project on fish production and
fishermen's incomes due to absence of any records. According to Government statistics, the fish
production in Lake Tanganyika, which received the most number of boats, engines and nets under the
project, increased from around 12,900 tons in 1986 to 15,400 tons in 1990. This increase can be said to
be partly due to the project. An important achievement of the project was the successful introduction of
lift net fishing to Lake Tanganyika. Results of this TA have been encouraging since a umuber of
fishermen have upgraded their operations by venturing into off-shore lift net fishing and achieving higher
productivity, and many more can be expected to gradually adopt that technology. The mission was not
able to carry out the ex-post economic re-evaluation of the project because of lack of data. The
establishment of a monitoring system, responsible to evaluate the impact of the project on fish production
and on fishermen's income, never materialized.
Sustainability
There is no uniform answer to the question of project sustainability. The lift net fishing
technology , which was introduced under the project is clearly sustainable. However, some of the project
activities were not completed (credit) and some others never materialized (fish stock assessment
programme and assistance to Nkwazi Net Manufacturing Company). With regard to credit, LB's financial
r bsources remain inadequate to service the considerable mber of fisheries loan applications received so
far but not yet approved. The Iadequacy of LB financial resources is further aggravated by the low loan
recovery rate which, in the case of fisheries loans, has not yet exceeded 50%, a recovery rMe which
cannot support a suswinable credit operation. However, the new government plans to refonn the financial
sector institutions, including the LB, and this will Improve sustainability of credit operations. As far as
DOF is concerned, its rehabilitation programme was carried out satisfictorily and this permitted increased
mobility of DOF staff during the project life. However, it is doubtful whether the rehabilitated facilities
will be put to optimum use in the future because Government budget allocation is still insufficient to cover
the operating expenses of DOF's regular activities. Some of its work programmes have been curtailed or
cancelled for want of operaing finds.
iv



Lessons Learned
The main lessons to be derived from the implementation of the project are the following:
(i) Appraisal should have taken into consideration the institutional weakness of aU the participating
agencies. LB, which was organizationally weak and called upon to play a new role, was without any
institutional support, other than provision for a credit specialist, who proved to be very unsatisfactory;
(ii) Lack of understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the participating agencies, which led to
delays in project implementation, in procurement, and rational use of external finance. A workshop, widt
the participation of agencies and Bank staff, soon after the project became effective, would undoubtedly
have provided an adequate solution; (iii) The Bank should have been more forcefil in convincing the
Government to locate the PCU (as foreseen in the DCA) in MAFF and not in DOF, which was a
beneficiary under the project; (iv) More flexibility should have been allowed in the proiect design to
enable LB to lend also to small-scale enterprises or individuals willing to invest in various marketing
activities instead of considering only large-scale operations, as envisaged at appraisal; and (v) The need
to have a strong central project coordinating unit with clearly stated responsibilities and authority,
particularly when several ministries and agencies are involved in project implementation.
v



PROJECT COMPLEIMON REPORT
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr 1529-0-ZA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name           Fisheries Development Project
Credit No.            Cr 1529-0-ZA
RVP Unit              AF6AG
Country               Republic of Zambia
Sector                Fisheries
2. Background
Introduction
2.1        Zambia has substantial fish resources in its lakes, swamps, rivers and flood plains scattered
throughout the country. Major fishing areas include Lakes Tanganyika, Mweru Luapula, Mweru Wantipa,
Bangwoulu and Kariba. Fish production averaged 53,000 tons p.a. during 1975/81. Nearly all fish
producing areas are at a considerable distance from the main markets of Lusaka and the Copperbelt. Fish
represents an important source of protein for a large segment of Zambia's population and is consumed
mostly in dried form. National consumption peaked at about 73,000 tons in 1971, of which 21,000 tons
were imported. The development of fishing in Zambia was severely constrained by factors which included
insufficient financial resources, uneconomic Government-controlled prices, ineffective marketing
arrangements, deficient transport and inadequate storage facilities.
2.2        Zambia's economy has been traditionally dependent on the mining industr3 which in the
1980s accounted for about 30% of GDP and over 90% of the country's foreign exchange earnings. With
the drastic fall in export earnings as a result of declining world copper prices and decreased production,
the Government consequently adopted a policy of diversifying the economic base, with increased emphasis
on agriculture and agro-based industrial development. It is against this background that IDA responded
1



to a request from the Government of Zambia for assistance in financing a project to improve the fisheries
sub-sector productivity.
2.3        The project originated from Bank reconnaissance survey of Zambia's agro-industries in June
1978. Project identification and preparation were carried out by FAO/CP in 1979 and in 1983
respectively. Most of the initial preparatory work, including site investigations, detailed plans, Including
Xn  engineering designs and fish marketing study, was carried out by consultants financed from a
technical assistance credit to the Government. Project appraisal was carried out by the World Bank in
January/February 1984. The IDA credit was successfully negotiated and the Credit Agreement signed on
9 January 1985, becoming effectivL on 16 August 1985 (Para. S. 1 and Part III, Table 2).
3. Project Objectives and Description
Project Objectives
3.1        Goverment interest in a fisheries development programme was a reflection of the new
concern fbr smallholder production as a means to achieve self-sufficiency. The objectives of the project
were to support the Government's efforts in better managing the fish resources and in expanding fish
production, marketing and distribution systems through extension of credit to private fish producers and
marketing entities and through technology transfer. Further support to these objectives was to be secured
through the provision of foreign exchange for importing raw materials and machinery spares required to
manufacture fishing nets and technical assistance to ZADB and to DOF.
Project Description
3.2        Specifically, the project was to provide for:
(a)    a progmme  of short and medium-term credit for the procurement and
distribution of boats, engines and nets, and the setting up or improvement of
collection and marketing facilities, to be administered by ZADB, which was to
receive management and technical assistance;
(I))    foreign exchange assistance to the net manufacturing company to procure raw
materials for nets and essential spare parts for machinery;
(c)    fadlities and technical assistance to DOF to strengthen its role in providing
training and extension services to artisanal fishermen and in carrying out research
and studies to determine fish biomass and maximum sustainable yields of fishing
areas covered by the project; and
(d)    coordination, monitoring and evaluation of the project.
2



Project Cost and Financing
3.3        The project was scheduled to extend over a period of five years, starting from 1984185.
Project cost was estimated at US$ 10.6 million and financing included an IDA credit of SDR 7.1 million
((JS$ 7.1 million) and a Government and sub-borrower contribution of SDR 3.5 million
(US$ 3.5 million).
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        The project was conceived as the first stage of a long-term programme to develop the
fisFeries sub-sector in Zambia, and was designed to introduce some innovative features to support
Government efforts to improve the exploitation of existing fisheries resources within the limits of
maximum sustainable yield and promote the development of inland fisheries. On the evidence that very
minuscule amounts of institutional credit were made available in the past to the fisheries sub-sector, the
program, including short aad medium-term credit, was particularly designed to support the fishermen and
private companies involved in fish production and marketing activities.
4.2        Overall responsibility for management and implementation of the project was given to
MAFF. Responsibility for implementing the credit programme was envisaged to rest with ZADB, under
the supervision of MAFF. To assist ZADB's management for successful implementation of the credit
component, the project provided for an internationally-recruited fisheries credit specialist. The Bank of
Zambia (BOZ) was entitled to administer the foreign exchange financing of materials and machinery
spares required for the net manufacturing company. DOF was to procure and utilize the facilities and
technical assistance to improve its role in the management of fish resources. Finally, a PCU, headed by
a project coordinator, was to be established in MAPF, directly reporting to the Permanent Secretary of
MAPF, to coordinate all project activities and carry out monitoring and evaluation of the project.
S. Project Implementation
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-Up
5.1        The credit was signed in January 1985, but only became effective in August 1985. The gap
of eight months was due to delays by Government in appointing the Project Coordinator and the Credit
Specialist, which were conditions for credit effectiveness, and to the late execution of a financing
arrangement between the Govermnent and ZADB to provide sufficient equity capital to make ZADB
operational. The Government eventually provided an amount considerablyless than ZADB's capital
requirements. The country's overall budgetary squeeze, caused by falling revenues and rising debt
repayments, was given as the reason for the delay, as well as for the short-fall in the agreed equity
contribution. The initial delays in the start up of project implementation were also due to
misunderstandings between the institutions and agencies involved in project implementation as to their
respective roles and responsibilities. The ielationship between DOF and ZADB was not in the best
interests of the project, and the Government decision to locate the PCU in the DOF and not in MAFF as
agreed at appraisal and loan negotiations (para 5.9) did not prove to be the best arrangement for project
implementation. A Government decision to merge ZADB with AFC to form the new LB generated
institutional and organizational issues, which caused uncertainties among ZADB staff directly involved
in the project thus bringing the activities virtually to a halt. Other factors that contributed to delays were
3



the lack of land and water transport to enable LB loan officers to visit fish landing sites, and the
difficulties encountered in establishing the sub-zonal offices in the project area, due to lack of
accommodaion, transport facilities and operating funds. The project was originally scheduled to be
completed by 31 December 1989 after an implementation period of five years. However, due to the
above-mentioned initial delays and to the suspension of withdrawal rights (para 5.10), actual project
implementation lasted ordy 2 years, indicating an overall project implementation rate well below SAR
estimates. There were, as a consequence, a number of variations between planned and actual
implementation, the most important of which are reviewed in this section. These changes are schematically
presented in Part M1, Table 4, where a comparison with SAR targets Is made. However, for the purpose
of this PCR, project implementation by component is described below.
Fisheries Credit/Lima Bank
5.2        During project preparation in 1983 it was proposed that AFC be the lending institution under
the project. This recommendation was mainly influenced by the fact that AFC had a branch network to
handle credit in remote fishing areas and that other commercial banks were unwilling to expand lending
to artisanal fisherme... On the other hand, the appraisal mission's evaluation of AFC in 1983 confirmed
that this institution was beyond redemption and could not be entrusted to administer the credit under the
project. Instead, it proposed the newly established ZADB. At the same time, the Government had
confirmed that ZADB was intended to gra&kally replace AFC and would eventually be the primary
institution for lending to the agricultural sector. The Bank, after seeking furher clarification from the
Government on the funding of ZADB to make it fully operational, decided that the credit under the project
would be channelled through ZADB. Accordingly, ZADB became a party to the Development Credit
Agreement. At the same time, Government undertook a study, through consultants, for the phasing out
of AFC. Based on the recommendations of this study, ZADB was merged with AFC to form LB in
September 1986. LB started operations in June 1987.
5.3        Credit was made available to artisanal fishermen for the purchase of nets, boats and engines,
to commercial fishermen for the purchase of transport boats, and to individuals or companies to set up
integrated fish processing and distribution facilities. Overall, the progress on the credit component was
less than satisfactory. Only artisanal fishermen have been able to utilize credit facilities under the project.
About the equivalent of US$ 0.6 million, or 60% of the SAR lending target, has been achieved (Annex 1,
Table 1). In spite of the fact that IDA disbursement totalled only about US$ 0.2 million becaure of the
Bank suspension of disbursement to Zambia in 1987, LB continued to provide credit financing to artisanal
fisheries using its own resources, to the equivalent of US$ 0.4 million. During the period 1986/87-
1991/92 LB disbursed a total of 764 loans, of which 492 were short-term, for the purchase of nets, and
272 medium-term for boats and engines (Annex 1, Table 2). The response for credit from the artisanal
fishing community has been very encouraging. By mid-1991, another 477 loan applications had been
approved bjt LB, but were not disbursed because of liquidity problems. A large number of loan
applications, from the project area totalling some ZK 290 million (m 1991 terms), were pending awaiting
processing (Annex 1, Table 3). About 300 of these applications were received by LB for lift net fishing,
a technique successfully introduced through technical assistance provided under the project.
5.4        The funds provided for establishing fish processing and marketing facilities around Lakes
Mweru Luapula and Mweru Wantipa, and for transport boats on Lake Kariba, were never utilized. The
proposed processing facilities were originally designed to handle a quarter of the fish landed at the two
lakes in the North. The funds provided for these facilities were never utilized, however, because the
project design was for large and integrated facilities, whereas the demand was for small to medium-size
4



facilities at landing sites and at the points of sale. In spite of repeated publicity given to this scheme, there
has been only one proposal, which, on further evaluation, was found to be unviable because of very high
investment required (imported equipment and machinery), high interest rates and short repayment period.
At an early stage in project implementation, a decision should have been taken to keep this component
flexible to finance the real needs of the marketing system. Specific demand appeared to be separate for
small ice plants, chill stores, insulated and refrigerated trucks and cold cabinets, etc. Funds for fish
transport vessels for Lake Kariba commercial flshermen were also unutilized. At appraisal the demand
was seen as only for 5 transport boats for those commercial fishermen or companies operating a number
of fishing rigs from the distant islands in the lake. By the time the project became operational, the rig
owners who needed the boats had purchased these through other sources of funding.
Improved Management of Fish Resources
5.5        This component was designed to strengthen DOF by the provision of facilities, operating
funds, management and technical assistance, to better assess and manage the country's fish resources.
With the exception of the fish stock assessment program, good progress has been made in the
implementation of this component. DOF's rehabilitation program has been carried out satisfactorily and
included the rehabilitation of boats, engines, vehicles, workshops, training centers and procurement of
new boats, engines, vehicles, generators and radio communication equipment. In almost all cases SAR
targets have been achieved or exceeded ('able 4), resulting in increased mobility of DOF staff and better
contact between DOF field staff, fishermen communities and the LB. Work of the field staff can now be
closely monitored from the headquarters because of improved communication. Because the project
provided operating funds, the budgetary constraints which had been a major deterrent for DOF's planned
activities, as reflected in the credit agreement, were to some extent lessened.
5.6        Of the 11.5 years of foreign training provided under the project, 8.3 man-years have been
used so far as against 6.5 man-years at the time of suspension. Two candidates have completed a fisheries
management course leading to a first degree, while one received training in fish stock assessment, leading
to a post-graduate degree. Twelve senior and middle-level managers have undertaken short-term courses
in fishing technology and ia management. All trainees have returned to the country and have taken over
various responsibilities within DOF. The balance of 3.2 man-years could not be utilized due to the
suspension of IDA disbursement. On group training of flshermen, up to the end of 1989 the project had
financed 58 training courses and workshops involving around 1,200 fishermen and fish scouts. Some
3,600 man-weeks still remain unutilized due to lack of funds. A number of fishermen on Lake
Tanganyika, as well as DOF extension staff, have been trained in lift net fishing, a technique successfully
introduced to this lake by the master fisherman recruited under the project. Results of this training have
been very positive, and a number of fishermen have switched from beach seining to lift net fishing. Lift
net fishing in Lake Tanganyika has been demonstrated to be a viable fishing activity and also poses less
risk to the environment than beach seining (para 6.2).
5.7        The project was to finance a fish stock assessment specialist and a limnologist each for 36
months to assist the DOF in assessing fish biomass and establishing safe yields for selected lakes in the
country. It was envisaged that these specialists would also set up a mechanism for a continuous fish stock
assessment program for better management of the fish resources in the country's lakes. The PCU received
over 100 applications from individuals and firms for these two positions, but certain deficiencies observed
in the evaluation of these applications led IDA to request the Government for a re-evaluation and to select
a firm rather than separate individuals so as to avoid problems of coordination and management. Hiring
of the selected firm, however, did not take place as contracts could not be negotiated and concluded
5



before 1 May 1987, the day the withdrawal rights were suspended. Perhaps an experienced firm could
have been selected in the first round if DOF had been provided with adequate guidance in the evaluations
and a contract signed before withdrawal rights were suspended, in which case this assessment work could
have been completed. While assistance for stock assessment in some of the lakes has now been provided
by other donors, it is difficult to say whether the objectives and results envisaged under the project will
be achieved under these ongoing donor-funded activities.
Foreign Exchange Assistance to Net Manufacturer (Nkwazi)
5.8        To safeguard against the fishing industry finding itself with a grossly inadequate supply of
fishing gear, provision was made under the project to provide the local manafacturer of nets with foreign
exchange to meet some of its raw material and spare part needs. Of the US$ 1 million allocated for
importation of raw material and spare parts for machinery, only US$ 60,000 have been utilized because
of a misunderstanding between MAFF and the Nkwazi Net Manufacturing Company on the methodology
related to acquiring the necessary foreign exchange. However, even if adequate raw material had been
made available, the company would still have been faced with serious difficulties in coping with the
planned production targets because of its old and outdated machinery. In fact, the rehabilitation program
of the company, to be financed out of its own funds, and aiming at replacing the existing obsolete
machinery, was never implemented because of lack of foreign exchange. As a result, frequent breakdowns
of the machinery have been experienced during the past few years. It was for this reason that the WB-
FAO/CP review mission in 1991 (para. 5.10) strongly recommended supporting the new rehabilitation
program of the company, since a major breakdowns in the factory would have adversely affected the
entire fishing industry in Zambia.
Project Coordination
5.9        The present structure of the project coordination unit is as agreed at appraisal. Some of the
organizational weaknesses that are apparent at present arise from the fact that the PCU works directly
under DOF, which is one of the beneficiaries, and not directly under MAFF as designed at appraisal and
considered as a covenant within the Development Credit Agreement. The expatriate project coordinator's
contract ended in mid-1988 as extension of his contract was not possible because of the suspension of IDA
disbursements. The limited activities carried out since then were under the supervision of the co-project
coordinator and senior accountant. From January 1991 the senior accountant assumed full responsibility
for project coordination and accounting as the co-project coordinator left to join the Preferential Trade
Area (PTA). The project also provided for 9 man-months of consultancy services for setting up and
implementing a project monitoring and evaluation system. These consultancy services were never utilized,
for reasons given in para 5.7.
Project Costs and Disbursement
5.10       The final cost of the project is estimated at US$ 3.4 million, or 32.3% of SAR estimates
(Part m, Table 5). Credit disbursement lagged considerably behind SAR estimates, averaging throughout
the project life about 15% of the amount expected to be disbursed. The last disbursement was made in
March 1991, when the total amount had reached only US$ 1.8 million (SDR 1.5 million), representing
25.5% (if expressed in US$) or 20.6% (if expressed in SDR) of SAR's esfimates (Part m, Table 3). In
May 1987, the project faced a finding constraint because of the suspension of withdrawal rights under
6



all IDA Credits, for reasons external to the project. This suspension was lifted in March 1991, and re-
imposed in September 1991, lasting until January 1992 for a period of about 4.5 years.
Project Completion
5.11       After the lifting of disbursement suspension, a review of the project was canried out in
October 1991 jointly by a World Bank and FAOICP mission. As a result, the review mission
recommended a 2-year extension of the project on a year by year basis. However, that recommendation
was further reviewed by the World Bank following the elections and the change in government.
Consultation with the Bank Office in Lusaka and the Govermnent made it apparent that the overall
performance of LB, the key implementing agency, had deteriorated and that the agency's unsustainably
low loan recoveries and its non-compliance with audit covenants made it impossible to continue using it
as a viable implementing agency. It was therefore decided not to extend the closing date of the project
beyond 31 December 1991 and to cancel the remaining undisbursed balance of SDR 5.6 million.
6. Project Results and Impact
General
6.1       It is difficult to evaluate the real impact made by the project on fish production and
fishermen's incomes due to absence of appropriate records. The project was to set up a monitoring and
evaluation unit, assisted by an expatriate specialist, primarily to assess the impact of the project on fish
production, fishermen's income and on the national institutions. As mentioned in para 5.9, the consultancy
services to set up the monitoring system were not used and no further work was done by the PCU after
suspension of IDA disbursements. According to Government statistics, the fish production in Lake
Tanganyika, which received the most number of boats, engines and nets under the project, increased from
around 12,900 tons in 1986 to 15,400 tons in 1990. This increase can be said to be partly due to the
project, which supplied a large number of nets to this fishery during the period. The production in this
lake dropped to around 14,200 tons in 1991, which could possibly be due to the inability of LB to provide
for the replacements of old nets, because of liquidity constraints.
6.2        An important achievement of the project was the successful introduction of lift net fishing
to Lake Tanganyika. Results of this TA have been encouraging and a number of fishermen have upgraded
their operations by venturing into off-shore lift net fishing and achieving higher productivity. This
technique is gradually replacing beach seine fishing, a method which causes damage to nursery grounds
and juvenile stocks (para 5.6).
6.3        A number of DOF staff received training abroad on management and fish stock assessment.
They have returned to the country and assumed responsible positions in the department. Up to 1989, the
project also trained around 1,200 fishermen and extension staff. Ovorall, the institutional strengthening
component has provided DOF with better equipment, and has brought about improved communication
between headquarters and district offices and mobility of field staff.
7



E1luandal and Economic Returns
6.4        The financial analysis carried out at appraisal included the Financial Rates of Return (PRR)
for various activity models, including plank and GRP boats, engines, gill nets, as well as for a typical
center to engage in collection and marketing operations. Relative FRR's were estimated to range from
40% (collection and marketing facilities) to over 100% (gill nets). As described in para 5.3, and according
to data provided by LB on short and medium-term loan disbursement, funds provided under the project
were only used to procure 48 plank boats, 224 outboard engines and some 13,400 units of gill nets
(Annex 1, Table 2). However, it was not possible to carry out, ex-post, the financial analysis for these
activities because of lack of data. The establishment of a monitoring system, which as envisaged under
the project would have also included the colleion of data on fish production and operating costs, was
never implemented (para 6.1). It can only be reported that both DOF and PCU have verbally emphasized
that the introduction of boats for off-shore lift net operations in Lake Tanganyika has been very
satisfactory.
6.5        The SAR estimated the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the project as a whole at 26%.
As repeatedly mentioned in this PCR, project implementation has been negatively affected by the
suspension of withdrawal rights for reasons which cannot be attributed to the project. Under these
circumstances, an ex-post economic analysis with the objective of re-evaluating the ERR of the project
would have produced a misleading judgement on overall project performance. However, the mission was
not in a position to make any attempt to work out an economic re-evaluation of the project because of lack
of data (para 6.4).
7. Sustainability
7.1        As indicated, some of the project activities were not completed (credit) and some others
never materialized (fish stock assessment program and assistance to Nkwazi Net Manufacturing
Company). The lift net fishing technology, which was introduced under the project (para. 5.6) is clearly
sustainable. With regard to credit, LB's financial resources remain inadequate to service the considerable
number of fisheries loan applications received so far but not yet approved (Annex 1, Table 3). The
credibility of LB in the eyes of the rural fishing community has therefore somewhat damaged. The
inadequacy of LB financial resources is further aggravated by the low loan recovery rate which, in the
case of fisheries loans, has not yet exceeded 50% (the data does not permit separation between short- and
medium-term loan recoveries). These are indications that LB's credit operations are unsustainable.
However, improving the delivery of credit was not a project objective. The investments financed were
profitable and resulted in sustainable increase in production.
7.2        As far as DOF is concerned, its rehabilitation program was carried out satisfactorily and this
permitted increased mobility of DOF staff and improve coordination of DOF activities during the project
life. However, it is doubtful whether the rehabilitated facilities will be put to optimum use in the future
because Government budget allocation is still insufficient to cover the operating expenses of DOF's
regular activities. Some of its work programs have been curtailed or cancelled for want of operating
funds.
8



8. Bank Performance
8.1        This was the first World Bank-supported project in the fisheries sector in the country. The
project was prepared by consultants and by FAO/CP under a WB technical assistance credit to GRZ.
Adequate resources were provided by the Bank during the various stages of project preparation, and Banks
performance during project appraisal and post appraisal was generally satisfactory. However, it had some
shortcomings, mainly related to institutional arrangements during project implementation, and the
inflexibility in the proposed credit financing. On the institutional aspects, appraisal did not take into
consideration adequate support to ZADB for the new role it was called upon to play. It was over-
optimistic to expect that ZADB, which later merged with AFC to form LB (para 5.2) already with severe
organizational and financial weakness at the time of appraisal, would increase its level of activities without
additional staff training, land and water transport, accommodation and initial operating expenses for the
new sub-zonal offices to be established to service the fishermen. Appraisal expectations that credit could
be disbursed to the private sector to set up a large fish marketing complex never came to fruition as the
actual demand was for small facilities. The project design in this respect was not flexible enough to make
the changes during the early stages of implementation. Changes proposed later could not be implemented
because of IDA suspension of disbursement.
8.2        The project was supervised on 9 occasions during the period February 1985 to July 1992.
Of this, 4 supervisions were carried out prior to suspension of withdrawal rights imposed on all IDA
credits in May 1987. In the interval between the suspension from May 1987 to July 1992 there were 5
supervision missions, the last two being mainly to review the status of the project in the context of the
financing impasse created by the continued suspension by World Bank of the disbursement, and on
formulation of an accelerated implementation program following anticipated lifting of the suspension of
disbursements. During the initial stages the Bank supervisions were regular, the first two devoted mostly
to follow-up on outstanding issues raised during negotiations and on conditions for project effectiveness.
Bank performance in the early stages of the project was very satisfactory. In fact, it helped the various
inplementing agencies to resolve their misunderstandings on project coordination, financing, etc.,
provided guidelines and advice on the roles and responsibilities of each agency, and on procurement, and
assisted in initiating start-up of project implementation. However, during the period of suspension, the
missions had little or no impact because the Government was unable to implement any recommendations
without IDA and Government funds.
8.3        Concerted efforts were made by the missions to expedite both the overseas training aspects
and local training, which had positive results on DOF's regutar activities, resource management and on
the introduction of viable fishing methods (para 5.6). There were, however, some deficiencies. Given the
wealness of DOF and the PCU, the Bank should have provided some assistance in the evaluations for the
TA positions for stock assessment and monitoring and evaluation. The first evaluation done by DOF/PCU
had some shortcomings (para 5.7). This delayed the recruitment process and contracts could not be
concluded in time to be eligible for financing prior to suspension of disbursements in May 1987. Efforts
made by the Bank to have the PCU located in MAFF and under the responsibility of the Permanent
Secretary, as provided in the DCA, never materialized: instead it was, defacto, placed under DOF. ITis
covenant continued to be in default and project coordination was to some extent influenced by DOF.
8.4        From the Bank's point of view the lessons which can be learned include the following:
(1)    Appraisal should have taken into consideration the institutional weakness of all the
participating agencies. While appraisal provided for the strengthening of DOF, the
Lima Bank, which was organizationally weak and called upon to play a new role,
9



was without any institutional support, other than provision for a credit specialist,
who proved to be very unsatisfactory (para 8.1).
(ii)    Lack of understanding of the roles and responsibilities of the participating agencies,
which led to delays in project implementation, in procurement, and rational use of
external finance. A workshop, with the participation of agencies and Bank staff,
soon after the project became effective, would undoubtedly have provided an
adequate solution.
(iii)   The Bank should have been more forceful in convincing the Government to locate
the PCU (as foreseen in the DCA) in MAFF and not in DOF, which was a
beneficiary under the project (para 5.9). This would have made project
coordination stronger and more effective.
(iv)    More flexibility should have been allowed in the project design to enable LB to
lend also to small-scale enterprises or individuals willing to invest in various
marketing activities instead of considering only large-scale operations, as envisaged
at appraisal. This is evidenced by the fact that only one loan application was
received by LB to finance such a large-scale marketing operation (para 5.4).
9. Borrower's Performance
9.1        It is very difficult to make a sound judgement of the borrower's performance because the
project was, in effect, implemented over a period of less than two years. The Government had a strong
commitment to the project, as evidenced by the fac that in spite of severe budgetary constraints, some
Government fimds were provided for limited activities in order to keep the project alive during the period
of suspension. Being the first World Bank-funded operation executed by DOF and LB, the staff were
initially unfamiliar with Bank procedures related to recruitment of consudants, contract negotiations and
procurement. There were also delays in the procurement of equipment and engines because of time-
consuming bureaucratic procedures for approval of contracts. Further delays were experienced in the
staffing of the PCU, the LB fisheries credit unit, and the sub-zonal offices, which led to poor record-
keeping and accounting, and delayed auditing. Apart from the audit covenant, no other covenants were
in default. The closing date of the project was not extended because the performance of the LB, one of
the key implementing agencies, had begun to deteriorate and it continued to be in non-compliance with
the audit covenant. Progress reporting was regular, also during the period of suspension, and the borrower
established a project coordinating committee which regularly met and monitored project progress. Ihe
main lessons of experience other than those outlined under Bank performance are:
(i)    The need to have a strong central project coordinating unit with clearly stated
responsibilities and authority, particularly when several ministries and agencies are
Involved in project implementation.
(ii)    As technical assistance to LB was crucial to initiate and operate the fisheries credit
scheme, special care should have been taken in hiring an expert with appropriate
qualifications and experience.
(iii)   The GRZ should have reacted more promptly to the WB request for timely
submission of audit reports, which was one of the main reasons for the unexpected
10



decision not to extend the closing date of the credit beyond 31 December 1991.
Once again this was a reflection of the weakness of LB's implementation capacity.
10. Project Relationship
10.1      In spite of the problems faced by the project and notwithstanding the exchange of several
notes concerning the recruitment of technical assistance staff, the working relationship between the
Borrower and the Bank was generally good. However, the LB and DOF feel that there was insufficient
communication between the governmental agencies after the Association had communicated its decision
not to extend the project beyond the closing date as suggested by the supervision/review mission in 1991.
Therefore, to some agencies the project closing came as a surprise in early December 1992.
11. Consultancy Services
11.1      Implementation of the project was to be assisted by employment of consultants for project
coordination, monitoring and evaluation, credit administration, fish stock assessment, technique
development and for short-term consultancies for technical support to DOF. The 72 man-months of
technical assistance for stock assessment and the 9 man-months of consultancy services for setting up and
implementing a project monitoring and evaluation system were never utilized. General satisfaction over
the performance of the project coordinator was expressed by MAFF and other agencies. However, the
credit specialist recruited under the project to assist LB in credit administration proved to be very
unsatisfactory. Apart from the fact that he could not express himself or communicate well with others due
to his limited knowledge of English, his knowledge of credit administration was reported to be poor. In
spite of this, he maintained his post for three years. The performance of the consultant fisherman engaged
to develop and introduce a more viable fishing technique into Lake Tanganyika was found to be very
satisfactory (para 5.6). Two other short-term consultancies, one for setting up the accounting and
information systems for the project, and the other to assist DOF in preparing a detailed report for its
rehabilitation program, proved to be very useful.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1       The main documents guiding the project implementation were the SAR and the Development
Credit Agreement. They were both adequate and provided a useful framework for the staff involved.
Supervision reports were the most valuable source of information for the PCR, and particularly usefiul was
the supervision/review mission's report, where a good deal of information on project physical
implementation was given. However, the absence of a proper Monitoring and Evaluation System (para
6.1) resulted in a lack of some of the data necessary to carry out the financial and economic re-evaluation
of the project. In the early years, there was a deficiency in accounting procedures, inaccuracies in
withdrawal applications and delays in reporting of the project progress. Auditing of accounts was
consistently delayed. The latter was one of the reasons for not extending the project beyond its expected
closing date, as suggested by the supervision/review mission in 1991.
11



PART I: PROJECr REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERPEC TIVE
1.           Project Name              Fisheries Development Project
Credit NO.                     Cr. 1529-0-ZA
Location and address      P.O. BOX 350100,Chilanga
Tel NO.         278728
FAX NO.         278418
Geographical Coverage     Lakes Tanganyika, Kariba, Mweru Luapula, Mweru-
Wantipa, Cafe River system; and Flood plains.
Starting Date             16th August, 1985
Original duration         5 years
Termination date          June 30, 1990 or such later date as the World Bank shall
establish.
2.           Background
lINTROlQIN
2.1          In October 1979, a project identification report was prepared by FAOICP Investment
Centre and with GRZ'S agreement a project preparation contract was executed in April
1, 1981 between GRZ and Italian Consultants. Ihe Interim Preparation report was
submitted by the Consultants in January, 1982.
2.2          The Project Preparation Report was prepared by FAO/CP Investment Centre in April,
1983, and the final Staff Appraisal report (No. 5012-ZA) was prepared by the World
Bank dated October 31, 1984.
2.3          The Development Credit Agreement between GRZ and IDA was signed on January 9,
1985.
3.           Project Objectives and Description
3.1          The main objective was to support GRZS  strategy for agricultural development by
increasing fish supplies. The project would have over a five year period, supported
GRZ'S efforts in the expansion of fish production, marketing and distribution systems.
3.2          It was expected that implementation of the project should increase fish production by
about 10% and raise incomes of about 3500 artisanal fishermen families from an average
of about US$ 875 to US$ 1750 (or to double the income) per fsmily per year.
Main Project Components
12



3.3         *(a)      Institutionalized credit services, to.be implemented by ZADB (now Lima
Bank). Tbis was to provide credit to artisanal fishermen families for the
purchase of boats, outboard engines and nets and credit to individuals and
commercial enterprises for the purchase of fish collection boats, freezing and
ice plants, cold stores and fish marketing facilities;
(b)     Fisheries institutional strengthening and improved management of fisheries
resources, to be implement by the Department of Fisheries (DOE)
The activities were to cover fisheries research, extension and training and
specifically to rehabilitate boats, vehicles, researck and training facilities,
improve workshops,transport and communication facilities, and provide
technical assistance and fellowships for fish stock assessment limnology and
improved fishing gear technology for artisanal fishermen.
(c)     Foreign exchange assistance to Nkwazi Manufacturing Company Limited for
the assured supply of fishing nets to fishermen.
(d)     Project Coordination, monitoring and evaluation.
Project Cost and Financing
3.4          The total project cost and its financing arrangement were as follows:
()      Credit Services                            US$ 3,860,000
(1i)    Fisheries Institutional
strengthening and improved                     2,830,000
management of fish resources
.iii)    Foreign exchange assistance                    1,010,000
for net manufacturing
(iv)    Project Coordination, monitoring                 419.00
and evaluation
Baseline cost                                  8,190,000
Physical contingencies                           120,000
price contingencies                            2.230.000
Total                                         10,640,000
IDA/World Bankl Ooan)                                   7,100,000
Government (GRZ)                                        2,400,000
Sub-borrowers contribution                              1.100.00
Total                                         10,600,000
13



4.           Project Design and Organization
4.1          The project was the first stage of a long-term program to develop the fisheries sub-sector
In the country and was designed to introduce modern inland fishing features to support
Government's plan to improve the exploitation of existing fisheries resources within the
limit of maximum sustainable yield and promote the development of fisheries in the
country. On the realization that very litfle was done by the Government in the past to
assist the fishing community to enable them to increase their catches and thereby increase
their annual income, the project was designed to include short and medium term credits
to support the fishermen and private individuals and companies involved in fish
production and marketing activities.
4.2          Overall responsibility for management and implementation of the project was given to the
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF). Responsibility for implementing
the credit program was designed to rest with ZADB under the supervision of MAFF. To
assist ZADB management for successful implementation of the credit component, the
Project provided for an internationally recruited flsheries credit specialist. The Bank of
Zambia was given the responsibility to administer the foreign exchange financing of
materials and machinery spares required for the net manufacturing company. DOF was
to procure and utilize the facilities and technical assistance to improve its role in the
management of fish resources. Finally, a PCU, headed by a project coordinator was to
be established in MAFF, directly reporting to the Permanent Secretary to coordinate all
project activities and carry out monitoring and evaluation of the Project. The Project
provided for an internationally recruited project coordinator to head the PCU and an
internationally recruited monitoring and evaluation specialist consultant to assist the
project coordinator, the DOF economist and the ZADB fisheries credit specialist for the
necessary questionnaires, survey design and analysis format, and monitoring and
evaluation system.
5.           Project Implementation
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up
5.1          The credit was signed in January 1985, but become effective only in August 1985 due to
delays in appointing the Project Coordinator and the credit specialist which were
conditions for credit effectiveness and other problems which were not sorted out before
starting the implementation of the Project. The project was scheduled to be completed
by 30 June, 1990 after an implementation period of five years. However, due to the
above-mentioned initial delays and to the suspension of withdrawal rights, actual project
implementation lasted only two years and therefore could not achieve the SAR targets.
Fisheries Credit/Lima Bank
5.2          Under the credit component only artisanal fishermen have been able to utilize credit
facilities under the Project, that too a very small number. The suspension of withdrawal
rights by the Bank adversely affected the operations of the Lima Bank very much as the
fimding to the Bank from GRZ could not bridge the gap created by the suspension of
withdrawal rights by the World Bank due to the country's overal budgetary squeeze
caused by falling revenued from copper export and rising debt repayments. In spite of
14



all the finanial constraints experienced by lima Bank all these years, the Bank was very
much committed to the Project and managed to provide credit funancing to artisanal
fishermen under the project to the tune of 20.55 million kwacha as at 31st December,
1992 using its own resources.
5.3          In the early stages of the project Lima Bank made some earnest efforts to identify some
prospective clients such as commercW fishermen for purchase of transport boats and
individuals and companies to set up integrated fish processing and distribution facilities,
but could not go fiurher due to the suspension of disbursement by the World Bank in May
1987.
5.4          The credit specialist recruited under the project to assist Lima Bank in credit
administration proved to be a total failure. Apart from the fact that he could not express
himself or communicate well in English with others due to his limited knowledge of the
language,his knowledge of credit administration proved to be very poor which ultimately
resulted in poor record keeping, accounting,delayed auditing and subsequent operational
problems at Lima Bank,wben the credit specialist left the Bank at the end of his contract.
Improved Management of Fish Resources
5.5          Ihis component was designed under the project to strengthen the infrastructure of the
Department of Fisheries by the provision of facilities, operating funds, management and
technical assistance to enable the DOF to manage and make use of the fish resources of
the country to the fullest extent possible Except in the field of fish stock assessment
program DOE made good progress in the implementation of this component.
Rehabilitation programs of DOE have been carried out prudently and to the satisfaction
of the supervision mission of the Bank. In almost all areas SAR targets have been
achieved except in the case of foreign fellow ships to DOE staff. Of the 11.5 years of
foreign training provided under the Project,8.3 man years have been utilized and the
trainees have taken over various responsibilities within the DOE. The balance of 3.2 man
years could not be utilized by DOF due to the suspension of IDA disbursements. In spite
of IDA suspension of disbursement of funds all the achievements were made possible due
to GRZ's commitment and continued fimding to the project in spite of its financial
constraints even after suspension of disbursement by the World Bank.
5.6          The project was to finance a fish stock asessment specialist and a limnologist each for
3 years to assist the DOP in assessing flsh biomass and establishing maximum sustainable
yields of fishing areas covered by the Project. It was also envisaged that these specialists
would also set up a mechanism for a continuous fish stock assessment program for better
management of fish resources in the country's lakes. Unfortunately this did not take
place, though candidates for the posts were short listed and selections were made,
contracts could not be negotiated and concluded before 1st May 1987, the day withdrawal
rights were suspended
Foreign Exchange Assistance to Net Manufacturing Company (Nkwazi).
5.7          There was a provisions of US$ 1 million under the project to provide the local
manufacturing company of nets in the country (Nkwazi) to meet some of its raw material
and spare parts needs. Of the 1 million US$ Dollar allocated for importation of raw
15



material and spare parts for machinery the company could utilize ondy US$50,000 before
the date of suspension of disbursement as the company was not able to raise sufficient
kwacha cover to buy the forex from the Bank of Zambia as per the arrangements made
in this regard.
Project Coordination
5.8          The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) as per the project documents was strctured as
agreed at appraisal. The only deviation was that the PCU was housed within the
Department of Fisheries at Chilanga instead of at MAFF as designed at appraisal. This
was due to the acute shortage of accommodation at MAFF to house PCU. In spite of this
arrangement PCU has along been working directly under MAFF as designed at appraisal.
Project Cost and Distribution
5.9          The final cost of the project as at 31st December 1992 works out at US$ 3.4 million (this
does not include the amount of US$ 140,000 due to the Senior Accountant of the Project
for the services be rendered to the to the Project since November 1987, but which could
not be paid to him due to the continued supervision of disbursement 16 and the sudden
decision of the bank not to extend the closing date of this credit beyond 31st December,
1991 and cancel the remaining undisbursed balance of SDR 5.6 million) The breakdown
of the total Project cost is as indicated below:
IDA Contribution                 US$ 1.81 million
Lima Bank Contribution           US$ 0.50 million
GRZ Contribution                US$ 1.12 million
TOTAL                            LSS!!43IW2L
6.           Project Results and Impact
General
6.1         Implementation of the Project was behind schedule from the early stage due to problems
with procurement and staffing. The World Bank suspension of disbursement in May
1987, has particularly affected forex expenditures eg in the procurement of equipment and
TA staff recruitment and has made it impossible for Lima Bank to implement this project
to the extent envisaged in the Project document. Bureaucratic procedures both within
GRZ and the World Bank have also to a great degree affected expeditious
implementation.
6.2          Due to the non completion of the project as a result of the decision of the Bank not to
extend theproject beyond 31st December 1991, it will be unjudicious to assess the impact
of the Project especially on the target group - artisanal fishermen. However the Project
is considered to have been well conceived and viable is terms of its costs and institutional,
social and economic consideration. It is considered that a lot has been achieved from
16



the point of view of the DOF and that DOF activities are now being carried out more
effectively than before. The main lessons of experience learned from this project are
(i)     The appraisal of the project should have been done in close contact and
consultation with the implementing agencies of the project, here in this case the
DOF and the Lima Bank who will be able to throw more light and valuable
information regarding operational and logistical problems that might be
encountered during the execution of the project and the steps those are to be
considered and provided in the appraisal to overcome those problems.
(ii)    With the existing Bureaucratic procedures, both within GRZ and the World
Bank it will be difficult to Implement the projects expeditiously.
(iii)    More flexibility should have been allowed In the project design to suit the local
condition and changing circumstances.
(iv)    Procurement procedure should have been simplified. The Bank should have
even considered the possibility of eliminating the roll of the Tender Board
Authority and vesting this authority with the Permanent Secretary of the
implementing Ministry or the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance
to avoid delay.
17



PART m: SrATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Thib  was the fist Bank financed project in the fisheries sub-sect in Zambia.
18



Table 2. Project Timetable
Activity                Date Planned        Revised Date       Actual Date
- Identification"         June 1979                             June 1979
- Preparation (Phase i)2'  Mid-1981                             Mid-1981
- Preparation (Final)"    February 1983                         February 1983
- Appraisal               April 1984                            April/May 1983
- Post-AppraisalP        Jan./Feb. 1984                         Jan./Feb. 1984
- Board Approval                                                27 October 1984
- Credit Signature        October 1984                          9 January 1985
- Credit Effectiveness    8 April 1985       30 June 1985       16 August 1985
- Credit Closing          30 June 1990       30 June 1990       31 December 1991
- Credit Completion       31 December 1989                      31 December 1989
U By FAO/CP.
By Con8utant
" SAR issue on 31 October 1984.
19



Table 3. Credit Disbursement
Disbursement In US$'000   ..
Buank Fcal Yen       SAR Esdimates               AcualU            Actual as %
and Quarter                                                       of SAR
Quarterly T Cumulative   Quarterly   Cumulatve   Estimates
1984-85 December     100          100         -            -
March         100          200         -            -
June          200          400
1985-86 September    200         600          -- 
December      200          800        83.9         83.9         10
March         200        1,000        48.0         131.9        13
June          200        1,200        33.0         164.9        14
1986-87 September    300        1,500        33.0         197.9        13
December      600        2,100        32.8        230.7         11
March         700        2,800        93.0         323.7        12
June          700        3,500        117.0        440.7        13
1987-88 September    600        4,100        198.3       639.0         16
December      600        4,700        70.6         709.6        15
March         500        5,200         17.9       727.5         14
June          500        5,700        229.6        957.1        17
1988-89 September    300        6,000        84.9       1,042.0        17
December      300        6,300          -        1,042.0        16
March         200        6,500        43.1       1,085.1        17
June          200        6,700          -        1,085.1        16
1989-90 September    200        6,900         1.9       1,087.0        16
December      100        7,000         -         1,087.0        16
March         100        7,100         -         1,087.0        16
June           -         7,100          -        1,087.0        16
1990-91 September     -         7,100        135.1      1,222.1        17
December       -         7,100         3.4       1,225.5        17
March          -         7,100       585.8        1,811.3"     25.5
Source: WB Monthly Disbursemets (August 1991).
Dte of firt dib nt 24 Sctcw 198I.
Dat of final d_:bursnat 13 March 1991.
v Equivala to SDR 1,459,200.
20



Table 4. Project Implementadon
(Page 1)
Component                          Unit      SAR Estimate    Actual        Actual as %
I  I             I                ~~~~~~~of SAR
Estimate
A. Credit
(a) Artisanal Fishermnxe
- Plank Boats                      No.              160           48            30
-GRP Boats                         No.               70           -             -
- Outboard Engines                 No.              350          224            64
- GMl Nets                        Pieces          9,400        13,421          143
(b Commercial|
-Collection & Mark Facilities"     Unit               2
- Ice Plants (Kafue)               No.                2
- General Line of Credit           USS           250,000          -             -
- Transport Boats                  No.                5           -             -
(c) Net Manufacturin
- For. Exch. for Race Material     US$         1,000,000       50,000           -
B. DOF Istit. Strengthening
- Plank Boats                      No.                6            4            67
- GRP Boats                        No.               12            12          100
- Outboard Engines                 No.               20           22           110
- Lift Net Boats                   No.                2            2           100
- Boat Renovation                  No.                4           -
- 4WD Vehicles                     No.               12            12          100
- Workshop Rehabilitation          No.                6            5            83
-Inboard Engines                   No..               2            5           250
- Research Equipment               Set                9                         -
-Generator                         No.                1           -
-Radio                              Set              21           23           110
-Spare Parts                        Set               6            6           100
-Tranin   Centre Rehabilitation    No.                4         2 +  'l         75
u Each unit (on in Lake Mwwu Wantips and ow in Lale Lapu) indude: old toawge, bla frer, We plait, coUaion
boaft, eldeity and wat supy, handing equipt, .c.
Tw To compkled (i Mpung ad in Kasak), e third Ci Nchen  is 60% compkt.
21



Table 4. Project Inplementation
(tage 2)
Component                    Unit       SAR Estimate      Actual    Actual as % of
SAR Estimate
C. Training
- Local (for existing staff)  Trainees Weeks  6,000       1,200           20
- Fellowships:
.6 months                   m/y             2.5            1.3           52
.I year                     m/y             3.0            1.0           33
.2-3 years                  m/y             6.0            6.0          100
D. Technical Assistance
- Stock Assessment           mlm              36            -
- Limologyst                 m/m              36            -
- Expeaienced Fisherman     mrm               24             6            25
- Fisheries Credit Specialist  m/m            36            36            100
- Other Consultants          m/m              12             3            25
E. Project Coordination
Unit
- Project Coordination       m/m              36            36            100
- M & E Consultant           m/m               9            -
- Senior Accountant          m/y             -              4.9
22



Table 5. Project Cost and Financing
(Page 1)
A. Project Cost
Components                        SAR Estimates |   Actual"    | Actual as % of
SAR Estimates
(US$00)
A. Instutional Credit Services
- Artisanal Fishermen               1,034.6         620.9          60.0
- Commercial Fishermen                91.3            -
- Collection/Marketing Facilities    3,207.4
- General Line of Credit              250.0          -
- Management & Tech. Assist.          401.7          99.6          24.8
Sub-total                          4,985.0         720.5          14.5
B. Management of Fish Resources
- Facilities                        2,152.7        1,830.4         85.0
- Management & Tech. Assist.        1,160.3         396.7          34.2
- Training                            456.8         186.0          40.7
Sub-total                          3,769.8       2,413.1          64.0
C. Net Manufacturing Facilities       1,287.4          50.0          3.9
D. Coordiaon, Monitoring &              605.S         250.4          41.4
Evaluation
Total Project Cost                 10,647.7        3,434.0         323
Sourc. PCU-FD LuakL
2I



Table 5. Project Cost and Financing
(Page 2)
B. Project Financing
Credit Agreement" |    Actual    | Actual as % of
I Planed
.... (US$      . .. ... . 
A. IMA (By Category)
1. Equipment and Material (Part A)       890.0             811.1            91.1
2. Material and Spare Parts (Part C)     990.0              50.0             5.1
3. Consultant's Services (Parts A &     1,190.0            349.7            29.4
B)
. Consultant's Services (Part D)        300.0             250.4            83.5
5. Training (Part A)                     300.0             132.7            44.2
6. Provision of Credit (Part D.2)       2,570.0            217.4             8.5
. Special Account A                      200.0               .. v           n.a.
8. Special Account B                     200.0               ...            n.a.
9. Unallocated                           460.0
Sub-total                            7,100.0            1,811.            25.S
B. Government                           1,347.?           1,219.2           90.5
C. Borrower's Contribution              1,100.05'           103.r            9.4
D. Taxes and Duties                     1,100.05'            -
E. LDA BANK (Provision of                                  300.0'..
Credit)_______________ ___
TOTAL                              10,647.7           3,434.0           32.3
Ei v rate tdang at the ti  o    negotiation of the acd  I SDR = I USS.
v'  USS 214,900 to fSnanc t  under agoies 1, 3 and S.
"   USS 214.900 to fina  kams wdx catqpoies 4 ad 6.
4'  Eqyvat to SDR 1,459,200.
"   SAR estate.
zIm BiaP's own finds
24



Table 6. Proj4ct Resulbs
A. Direct Benefits
SAR Eshae          Actal
Prodoed  ..                                          ........ ... (tow.s) 
Incrantal producdon (Year 6)                              7,000            n.a
Inrcmental production (long-tenn)                         6,000             n.e
flenefldauiesr
Owner filhermen                                            1,150          272"
Helpers                                                   2,300            550
No. of families                                            3,540            n
D. hIanial Deiel
Jinanclad Rates of Return:
Plank boats                                               > S0%             n.a
ORP                                                       > 50%
Engins plus nes                                          > 100%            n.a
Gil aets                                                 > 100%            n.a
Collection and makeg facilities                           > 40%
Average income incfamily                                 ZK 1,400           n.
|Come.LI  A total of 48 plank boats and 224 outboard engines wer procured end ditbuted under th project. However, data to
carry out ex-post the financial analysis including FRR's for these activities were not available.
C. Econmi Impact
Economic Rate of Return                                    26%            nOa
Comet:  Projec implementation has been negatively affct  by the auspension of withdrwal rgh  in May19S7 till Marcb
1991. Suspension was imposed again in September 1991 till January IM. Under these circumsanCes, an ex-post
economic analysis with the objective to re-evahlate the ERR of the project would have produced a mideading
judgement on project petformance. However, data were not even available to quantify the limited benefis which have
dedved from the project.
" Mission's estimates based on the number of medium4erm loans disbursed by Lime Bank, eg. 48 loans for boats and 224 loans
for outboard engines.
25



Table?. SatIr fCovaat
~ao)
Cred -itSctIa 
2.02 Qb)                           Opening and maintaining two speial accousm ict the                                Coslie With.
Beak or Zambia.
3.02 (a)                            Esdibb PCU winM AWD.                                                             Compled ihY
3.02 (b)                            Appoin    t of poject codintr.                                                   Compied wth.
3.03                                EmVploymen of a act asesmen  specialist, _inotogit and monitoing and             Not conipid whb.
evaluaion specilist.
3.03 (a)                            Funish IDA elevt  pleas, eports, conUct documents, etc. as requeted.             Complied wilh.
3.  (b)                             Maintunig reorb  to monitor prges and subit 6 mont  pogess reports.              Complied with.
o'      3.06 (a)                            Furnih to DA for view each year. WoMd prgramm and opetg bud   of                  Work pgrmm  Nd budget usay prpared. Not sbmod
DOF.                                                                             to IDA duiing hae yeavt.
3.06 (u)                            Govaenmt to provide mara! budgeta  aocatio to DOF to canry out ts work           Complied Wh.
pmrogrmm.
3.07                                Borow  submit a plan for l;W itA development of DOf.                             Complied wit.
vLoed in Dqpatmet of fobeties and r  MAWD as in ag=ana.



r~~~~~~
12~.1
X t:: Q X~
ii    I~~~2



Table 7. Status of Covenants
(Pagp 3)
Projiet Agrnnt Secion                                        D j Conet  _Statu'
2.02                             Appointment of a qualified and experienced fiseries credit       Complied with.
2.04 (a)                         ZADB to =ue imported goods to be financed under the project.     Complied with.
2.05 (a)                         Fumnish IDA with plans, eports, procurment and contract          Not complied aftr Lima Bank was created.
document. and other relevant information.
2.08 (a)                         Submit antually to IDA for review a lending progmme for loaws    Not complied after lima Bank was
to urtsanal fishermen.                                           established.
2.08 (c)                         Open sub-zona offices whee s orowers ame located.                Initially conmlied with. The latter discounted
by Limna Dank because of finacia problems.
2.10 (a)                         Care sub-borrewes, interest raws, commitment and processing      Comptied with.
foes as agreed.
2.10 (b)                         Sub-borows  to contribute not less than 20% of goods to be       Complied with.
financed.
3.02                             ZADR to keep positions of directors, admin. and personnel, fwne  Complied with.
and planing and operations filled with qualified persons until
completion of the project.
4.01                             ZADB to maintain   _      t and accounting records to fully       Pastly complied with.
reRect the project activities.
4.02                             Accounts to be audited and submitted to IDA each year.           Accounts audited and subzmitted muh later
.han the agreed time period.
Octwee IDA and ZADB.



Table 8. Use of flank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks) v
Stage of Project Cycle                                   Planned           Revised             Actual
Through appraisal                                          n.a
Appraisal .through Board approval      ,                   n.a
Board approval through effective supervision               n.a
B. Missions
Slate of l'roject Cyclc      Month/Year        No. of   Days lI       Specializatiou4     1'erfornaice  Tlype of lProblemns
I Persons    Field   .                              alig
Identification               June 1979           3         20             FS, IF, E              -              -
Preparation Phase I           Mid-1981             contracted to consulting company
Final Preparation             reb. 1983          6         21      EN, rs, E, CS, NA, FS
Appraisal                 April-May 1983)        6         n.a     FA, E, FS. FS, F S. EN
Jan-Feb. 1984 )
r..'   Supervision I              February 1985         1         8                FA                   I        Financial, delay credit effectiveness.
Supervision 2              September 1985        1         n.0               rA                   I        Merger of AFC and ZADB, staffing of PCU.
Supervision 3              November 1985         2         14              PA, FS                2         PCO, recruitment of TA. merge of AFC and
ZADD.
Supervision 4              June-July 1986        2          15             FA, BS                1-2       Project coordination and monitoring.
Supervision S                 May 1987           2         10              FA, FS                2         Financial, suspension of disbursement.
Supervision 6               January 1988         2          10             FA, rS                3         Project coordination, poor loan recovcry by LO.
procurement, TA.
Supervision 7               August 1990          1         n.a            ,*FA                   3         Financial, procurement, TA, training,
availability of funds.
Supervision 8 (Review)     Sept-Oct. 1991        2         IS             FA, FS                 n.a       Suspernsion of disbursement, overdue audited
statements.
Supervision 9              July-Aug. 1992        I          9                FS               i  3         LB performance on credit recovery, extension of
closing date.
PCR Mission                 January 1993         2         12              E, BS
To bc Ftd by Wodtd Banc
2  fS. fSishetiesSpcScialst; F* IlandFVslic,iesSpcalisl: E  Econonisl:EN * Enoinccr; CS . Credil Speclalsi: NA -Naval ArChitect.



ZAMBIA F,dies Devedapt Pto
(Cr 1S29.ZA) - Pr*t Comedm Rqepo
PART m: Ann  1: Uma  ank Umlted
istered Cmmewcial lak)
Table 1. Zambia World Bank Fisheries Devlopmnent Project - Summary Report as at 31 Decber 1992
Short-term      Medium-tem       Exchange                             Interest     Total Loan Recoveris
Year/Season   Loans Disbursed  LoAns Disbursed      Rate       Ttl Loans Disbursed      Rate              (ZK)
(Value ZK)       (Value ZK)     (ZK to US$)      (ZK)    |                        Intere        Vpalue
|   !                        .                    l              _         ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Value  Value
1986187           609,596          528,195         8.0:1        1,137,791     142        20        187.970       751,880
1987/88           348,218          319,292         8.5:1         667,510       79        20        163,523       654,094
1988189          1,101,577          66,434         14.0:1       1,168,011      83        22        344,058     1,219,842
1989190            55,830           76,400         25.0:1        132,230        S        39         53,519       83,710
1990191         2,725,842         9,446,519        50.0:1      12,182,361     243        43       4,153,843    5,506,257
1991/92           194,177         5,073,000        95.0:1      5,267,177       55        46       1,717,5S7    2,016,263
Total:         5,035,240       15,509,840                    20,545,080     607                 6,620,470    10,313,034
Notms: C1)      Total funds utilized: US$ 607,000; ZK 20,545,080.
00i)    Total funds from IDA: US$ 217,400.
(iii)    Tota funds from Linma Bank own funds: US$ 389.6 (reimburseable).
(iv)    Average rate of loan recovery: 50%.
(v)     Outstanding amount (principal): ZK 10,313,034.
(vi)    Short-term loans: for fishing gear only - repaid in 12-18 months.
(vii)    Medium-term loans: for boats and engines - repaid in 24-48 months.
(viii)   Principal repaid: ZK 10,313,034.
Source: Lima Bank.



- l
XI 
ejg i       1;                       ;      
X                                     *-                        X
- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
I~~~
31



AA3L'   "Ms D.wdopmst pni
(Cc 15294Z0-  - Pmj.tp Como Rs9t
PARW  1m1: Anex 1: Limn Bank Lmited
_gitfted Conand   an
Tabe 3. Zmbia Wotld Bak ihris DeVepuet Po,jedt - Loa APPlcation Pending Due to Lack of FUnds as at 31 Dwmber L992
LAe Tangayik fhjd Area    Lake Mwer-Lnapua P.jet                  Other Fihy Areas
l(ama)                          Area                     (Non Prect Are)
(--.--'-  j  (Valu E ZK        (No.)       (Value            (No.)    I' (VauZK)
Fish Nets                             500          115,000,000       2,000         5,000,000       5,000         12,500,000
Boat                                   20           4,800,000          50         12,000,000          50         12,000,000
a"         Engines                                120         54,000,000          110        49,000,000          80         36,000,000
Tmnsport Marketing and Distribuion   1 (1991)      20,000,000        1 (1991)     30,000,000       2(1991)       80,000,000
Fumeeg Faciliies
Totd:                                            193,M,O00                       WH,I00M                      60 ,0
Notes:  (a)    Gtand ota value of pending lan applications in the whole country: ZK 350,300,000",
(subject to changes in prices of items due to inflatn).
(b)    GOud value of pendn loan applications in te project areas: ZK 289,800,000.
(c)    NB:    Out of the ttal value of peding loan applications of ZK 289,800,000 in the
projet area, appicatis valued at ZK 59,000,000 were approved and awaitiog
disbur_ment as at 31 October 1991.
v Based on 1991 tems.



PROJECT DATA SHEET
Inoue
* Date:
- Name:
Repot No:                 Count,yIFAO Code:          Financing lnstltutlons:    Cost  US$ 10.6 mion
l                 ~~~~~~FE:   US$ 8.0miMon1
40193 CP-ZAM 34 PCR             ZAM1455!                  IDA
TITLE: ZAMBIA' FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Date: 19 February 1993    Sub-Sector   Fisherles                          | Type: PCR
SystCode:                                                                   Lanusage: Engish
MISSION MEMBERS: R. SUPPA, H. GUNAWARDENA
Dae of Fled Visit   JanuarylFebnaay 1993
Objectves:          Expanding fIh production. marketing and distrbuton system.
Reduce the gap between supply and demand of fsh, and thereby lessen the countys
dependence on Input.
Components:
- Instltudonabed Credit Servie
- Not Manufactuuing FacIsc
- Management of Fish Reoumes
- Coordintion, Monio&ng and Evluation
BAR      Actual
* Duration:                                            6          6
- Cost: (tota million                                 10.6       3.4
-No. Beneficbarles:   Fishermen                       1,.10     272
Helpe                             2,300      550
- Project Area:    Lakes Tanganylka, Mweru, Karb
- Main beneft:            inrenwn. Fish Production (tons) 6,000    2.000 (estimated)
- Ec. Rats of Return:                                  26       n.
Lessons Leamed:                                                             ad        Pace No
1.    At appraisa more emphais soul had been given to the institutinal weakness of
aii the particpati  agenes.
2.    Lack of underabndin between partiipating agencies.
3.    WS to be more foroeful In convbcin GRZ to lao  PCU as Indicated at appraisal
4.    GRZ should have reacWd more promptl to the WS rquest for timely submlsson
of audi repot.                                                       _
KEYWORDS:          pendkV
FISHERIES
33



