Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5012-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 31, 1984
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1        =      ZK 1.60
ZK 1        =     US$0.63
(The Zambian Kwacha is officially valued in terms of a basket of
currencies, for which the US dollar is the intervention currency. Since
July 1983, the Government has followed a flexible exchange rate policy,
making periodic adjustments in the official value of the Kwacha. The rates
expressed above are as of August 1984.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)         =     2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      =      0.624 miles
1 sq kilometer (km2)  =      0.386 sq miles
1 kilogram (kg)       =      2.2046
1 metric ton (ton)    =      1,000 kg = 2,204.6 pounds
1 liter               =      1.057 US quarts
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC      =     Agricultural Finance Company
CFC      =     Cattle Finance Company
DBZ      =     Development Bank of Zambia
DOF      =     Department of Fisheries
FAO      =     Food and Agricultural Organization
FDA      =     Fisheries Development Authority
GRZ      =     Government of the Republic of Zambia
MAWD     =     Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
MOF      =     Ministry of Finance
NAMB     =     National AGricultural Marketing Board
SIDA     =     Swedish International Development Agency
TNDP     =     Third National Development Plan
UNIP     =     United National Independence Party
ZADB     =     Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
ZESCO    =     Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
ZIMCO    =     Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
GRZ Fiscal Year -  January 1-December 31
ZADB Fiscal Year -- January 1-December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary                                              i
I.    SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ... ............................          1
II.   THE AGRO-FISHERIES SECTOR
A. General ...................................00.             3
B.  The Agricultural Sector .......................           4
C.  The Fisheries Sub-Sector   .....................          5
Fish Resources and Production ..............          5
The Fishing Industry .... .. ... .......... ....-..   7
Fish Collection, Marketing and Consumption .          8
D.  Fisheries Services ...........  .................         9
The Department of Fisheries        ................   9
Fisheries Development Authority .     ...........    10
Boat Building                  000000-0..........................  11
Outboard Engines .                                   12
Fishing Nets .....** **..     ...................    12
E.  Agricultural Credit .....o.......o.......                12
F.  Government Development Plans    ..................       14
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives and Main Features          ...                15
Bo Detailed Features ................. ...........           16
Institutionalised Credit Services      ..........    16
Foreign Exchange Assistance for Net
Manufacturing ..........   ............            19
Improved Management of Fish Resources ......         20
Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation .         21
C.  Project Costs ........ ...... ... .... ....... ...       21
D.  Financing ..... ....... ...... . ...  ............      22
E.  Procurement ... ......... .. ....................       24
F.  Disbursements ...... ............ . ..............       25
G.  Accounts and Audit .........................o...        27
H.  Environmental Impact ..........................          27
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Institutionalised Credit Services ............ ;    27
Organisation and Management ............. ...        28
Credit Policies and Procedures ...... o.......       29
Financial Structure of ZADB ................         32
B.  Assistance to Nkwazi Manufacturing Company ....          34
C.  Improved Management of Fish Resources ...o......        34
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation .............*......           35
This document hu a resticted distrnbution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcia duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World DBank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
As Production  ***************************,****.**         36
B. Marketing .............                                 37
Co Prices ..........................                       37
VI.  BENEFITS, BENEFICIARIES AND JUSTIFICATION
A. General                                .........        38
B.  Economic Rate of Return ........................       39
C.  Sensitivity and Risk Analysis .................        39
D.  Beneficiaries .................................        41
E.  Justification ************* ** ***************.**      42
VII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMNENDATIONS ..oo ......................     43
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Mr. Asaf Malik, Mr. Ridley Nelson, Mr. Fujio Kada, Mr. Eduardo Loayza
(IDA), Mr. Henry Gunawardena (FAO-CP), and Mr. A. Flanagan (consultant).
The mission visited Zambia in April/May 1983 and January/February, 1984.



- iii -
ANNEXES, TABLES, CHARTS, MAPS
Annex 1 Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to Phase Out AFC & CFC
Annex 2 Selected List of Materials & Working Papers Available-Project File
Financial Tables:
Table Al Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
A2 ZADB Summarized Projected Balance Sheets
A3 ZADB Summarized Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts
A4 ZADB Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
A5 ZADB Projected Portfolio Income Analysis
A6 ZADB Projected Fisheries Portfolio Income Analysis
A7 Nkvazi Manufacturing Company Limited - Profit & Loss Account
A8  Nkvazi Manufacturing Company Limited - Balance Sheet
MODELS:
Table Bl  Model 1 - Plank Boat, Engine, Nets
B2        2 - GRP Boat, Engine, Nets
B3        3 - Engine plus Nets
B4        4 - Gill Nets
B5        5 - Transport Boat for Pontoon Rigs
B6        6 - Collection and Marketing Facilities
B7        7 - Economic Analysis
B8        8 - Annual Production and Disposal Pattern Before and After
Project
Cost Tables:
Table Cl Credit Artisanal Fishermen
C2 Credit Commercial Fishermen
C3 Collection and Marketing Facilities
C4 General Line of Credit
C5 Institutional Credit Services - Management and Technical
Assistance
C6 Net Manufacture Facilities
C7 Facilities
C8 Fisheries Institutional Development - Management and Technical
Assistance
C9 Fisheries Institutional Development - Training
CIO Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Cli Summary Account by Year - Base Costs
C12 Summary Account by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
C13 Summary Account by Project Component
C14 Project Component by Year - Base Costs
C15 Project Component by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
C16 Project Cost Summary
C17 Summary Accounts Cost Summary



- iv -
Table DI Funds Allocated for Fisheries Loans
D2  Annual Fish Yields
D3  Projected Demand Based on Population and Per Caput Consumption
Increase
D4  Fish Production by Major Species
D5  Fishing Boats Operating in Zambia
Table El  ZADB Planned Establishment of Field Offices
E2  ZADB Staffing Plan
Chart  1 Project Organisation Chart
2 ZADB Organisation Chart
3 Department of Fisheries Chart
4 Implementation Schedule
Hap    1 Map of Zambia



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Zambia.
Beneficiary:      Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) and Nkwazi
Manufacturing Company.
Amount:           SDR 7.1 million (US$7.1 million equivalent).
Terms:            Standard.
Use of Credit:    (i) US$2.8 million to ZADB for sub loans (for fish
production, collection and marketing) as equity capital.
Sub-loans would have maturities of up to five years, with
interest not lower than the maximum rate allowed on
agricultural credit (currently 15 percent per annum),
plus two percent commitment fee and two percent loan
processing fees;
(ii) US$0.3 million to ZADB (for technical assistance) as
a grant;
(iii) US$1.0 million to be purchased with local currency
by Nkwazi Manufacturing Company to finance imports of raw
materials and machinery spares for fishing net
manufacture;
(iv) US$2.6 million to be retained by Government for
technical assistance and training-(US$1.2 million), and
facilities (US$1.0 million) for the Department of
Fisheries, and (b) project coordination, monitoring and
evaluation (US$0.4 million); and
(v) US$0.4 million to cover physical and price
contingencies.
Project
Description:      The project would support the Government's strategy for
agricultural development by increasing fish supplies; and
strengthening two key institutions in the sector.
Specifically, it would provide: credit to artisanal and
commercial fishermen for fish production; credit for fish
marketing facilities; foreign exchange assistance for the
manufacture of fishing nets; and technical assistance.



- li -
Project           The implementation of the project would Increase fish
Desription:       production by about 10 percent and raise incomes of about
(continued)       3,500 fishing families from an average of K1,400 to about
K2,800 per family. Technical assistance would strengthen
ZADB and the Department of Fisheries (DOF).
Major projpct risks are: that ZADB may not develop as
planned due to under-capitalization; and that DOF may not
be allocated adequate operating funds. To minimize these
risks, Government would be required to make specific
contributions to ZADB's capital over a four-year period
(1984-87) and adequate budgetary allocations for DOF's
operations.



- lli -
Estimated Cost
Local    Foreixn    Total
~-   -US$Milllon-  --
Credit services                                 1.14      2.72       3.86
Net Manufacturing Facilities                    0.11      0.90       1.01
Management of Fish Resources                    0.60      2.23       2.83
Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluaton          0.05      0.44       0.49
Total Baseline Cost                          1.90      6.29       8.19
Physical Contingencies                          0.05      0.07       0.12
price Contingencies                             0.73      1.60       2.33
Total                                         2.68      7.96      10.64
(Of which taxes and duties)                   (1.10)                (1.10)
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign    Total
--US$ Million
IDA                                              -        7.1        7.1
Government                                      1.5       0.9        2.4
Sub-Borrowers' Contribution                     1.1        -         1.1
2.6       8.0       10.6
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit:
IDA FY                  85    86    87    88    89    90
--            -US$ Million
Annual                 0.4   0.8   2.3   2.2   1.0   0.4
Cumulative             0.4   1.2   3.5   5.7   6.7   7.1
Rate of Return:                    26 percent.
!Lev                               No. IBRD 18135



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.01      Zambia's recent development strategy has given a high priority to
agriculture and rural development, in the wake of declining copper
production, increased costs and softening of international copper prices.
Within this context greater attention is being paid to self-sufficiency in
major foodstuffs and some non-food commodities, and to diversification to
widen the export base of the economy, currently still dominated by copper.
The Government has also emphasized the achievement of more equitable
distribution of income and employment. Attention is now being given to
increasing support for the fisheries subsector as a means of supplying
badly needed protein in the diets of both the rural and urban population.
In addition to raising nutritional levels, the expansion of fish supplies
also has significant economic, social and employment benefits. The
proposed Project would support this strategy by expanding the capacity of
the artisanal and commercial sectors and helping to improve the marketing
system in support of the production activities. The Project, in addition
to increasing the present fish supplies and consumption levels, would
provide the basis for the future expansion of the fisheries sub-sector.
The Project would also provide support to Zambia Agricultural Development
Bank (ZADB) during its establishment phase to eventually become the
principal lending institution to the agricultural sector.
1.02      The Project would represent the first stage of a long term
program of development of the fisheries sub-sector. It would, over a five
year period, support the establishment and development of artisanal and
small-scale commercial fisheries at selected lakes and assist in the
improvement of the marketing system. The Project is designed to strengthen
the Department of Fisheries (DOF) through the provision of facilities and
technical assistance to improve its capability to better manage the
country's fish resources. The Project would specifically provide for the
extension of credit to artisanal fishermen and small-scale commercial
entities to purchase wooden plankboats, glass reinforced plastic (GRP)
boats, transport boats, engines and nets to carry out fishing activities in
Lakes Tanganyika, Mweru Wa-Ntipa, Mweru Luapula and Kariba. Credit would
also be provided to individuals or private sector companies to establish
integrated fish collection, marketing and distribution systems on Lakes
Mweru Wa-Ntipa and Mweru Luapula, and an ice plant in Kafue. The centres
would be designed to regulate the supply of fresh/frozen fish to the
Copperbelt through the facilities propcsed to be financed under the Project
and private truckers and thereby reduce the substantial losses, which at
present result from lack of adequate marketing infrastructure, and improve
the quality of fish being supplied. Likewise, the proposed ice plant in
Kafue would enable the traders to better preserve fish supplies to the
Lusaka market. Under the project, technical assistance would be provided
to ZADB to administer the credit effectively. The Project would also
provide foreign exchange assistance to Nkwazi Manufacturing Company, the
only fishing net manufacturing company in the country, to meet about 20Z of
its requ'rements of raw materials and machinery spares for maintaining the



supply of flshing nets required for stRll fishermen during the Project
period. The Project would provide for upgrading of DOF's existing
transport, research and training facllities gnd some operating funds.  It
would also provide technical assistance to DOF in the form of
internationally recruited staff to assiet In research, extension and
training. Finally, funds would be provided for the recruitment of
international staff for project coordination and monitoring and evaluation.
1.03      The Ministry of Agriculture and lister Development (MAWD) would
have overall responsibility for all Ptoject activities. To assist the
Ministry in this task, a Project coordinator would be appointed through
international recruitment. The ZADB would be responsible for the credit
component. The Bank of Zambia Would adoinnster the foreign exchange
assistance to the net manufacturing company. The DOF would have the
responsibility for implementing the component designed to provide
facilities and technical assistance to improve assessment and management of
fish resources.
1.04      An IDA credit of Us$7-1 million is proposed which would cover
90 of the foreign exchange comPonent. This would represent about 75Z of
project costs excluding taxes and duties and about 672 of total Project
costs of K17.0 a (US$10.6 m).  The Covernment's contribution would be K2.1
m (US$1.3 m) or about 14% of project costs eccluding taxes. Taxes and
duties would total abodt K1.7 s (US$1.i v) or about 11Z of net project
costs. The borrowers under the credit compovent and net manufacturing
company would provide K1.8 E ZUS$1l l ) equal to 11% of net project costs.
The funds for the credit compovent wo°ld be channelled by Government to
ZADB as equity capital. Loans from ZADB to borrowers for nets would
represent 1OOZ of the cost and for all other items, 80% of the capital cost
of the investments. Burrowers would Pay interest equal to interest chbrged
by commercial banks on agricultural loans (currently 152), a 2Z commitment
fee and a 2Z processing fee with a aumism of X1000.  The Foreign Exchange
assistance to Nkwazi Manufacturing Company would be channelled through the
Bank of Zambia. Funds for technical assistance to ZADS, for facilities and
technical assistance to DO? and for project coordination and monitoring and
evaluation would be channelled by Government to ZADB, DOF and MAWD as
grants. Machinery, equipment and vehicles (including spares) for marketing
facilities at lakes Mweru Wa-NtLpa and Loapula and at Kafue, raw materials
and machinery spares for net matufacturing company and Project vehicles
(US$3.9 m) would be procured under international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines With 15% preference for local
manufacturers. Civil works contracts (US$0.7 a) would be tendered locally
and government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory, would
apply. Orders for boats, engines and netS (US$1.4 a) would be placed
individually by borrowers with local suppliers. For all purchases other
than the above, Government procurement procedures would apply. Draft
tender documents for contracts exceeding US$50,000 would be submitted for
IDA approval. Appointment of consultants would be according to Bank
guidelines.
1.05      At full development (Year 6) the Project would result in about
7000 tons of incremental marketed production of fish; this would include
about 6000 tons of fish catch and 1000 tons of fish which is currently
spoiled due to inadequate marketing facilities (in later years production



- 3-
is expected to slip back somewhat from the peak year). The total annual
value of incremental fish supplies by year 6 is estimated at K5.8 m
(US$3.6 n). The expanded fish supplies would halt the present decline in
per capita fish consumption at about 10 kg p.a.; this is important as fish
represents the lowest cost per unit animal protein of all food consumed in
Zambia. It is expected that the Project would help to substantially raise
the incomes of fishermen to be financed under the credit component.
1.06      The economic rate of return for the Project is estimated at 26%
over twenty years. Individual financial rates of return were calculated
for specific operations proposed to be financed under the Project; these
are estimated at 5OX for artisanal fishermen borrowing for plankboats,
engines anu 20 nets; over 50% for fishing activities using GAP boats,
engines and nets; over 50% for transport boats at Lake Kariba; 40% for the
two marketing organizations; and at least 30% for the ice plant in Kafue.
1.07      Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 28 loans and 11 credits to
Zambia, totalling about US$730 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance
shared powered facilities on the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and five
credits have financed energy, transportation, communication and rural water
supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped
expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training,
and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation. In agr,culture and forestry, six loans and
three credits have been agreed for industrial forest plantations and wood
processing, livestock, commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee
production and smallholder dairy development. Agricultural projects in the
Eastern and Southern Provinces are assisting Zambia Agricultural
Development Bank. Other loans have assisted Zambia's urban development
program, copper mining and, through the Development Bank of Zambia, its
manufacturing, agricultural and industrial sectors. A technlcal assistance
credit is helping the Government in its planning and project preparation.
1.08      The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$67 million in nine projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments were
in shoe manufacturing, two in packaging materials plant, and one each in
the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production, textiles and copper
production. The latest IFC investment is for expansion and rehabilitation
of two hotels.
1.09      Subject to the assurances and conditions, the proposed Project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$7.1 million to the Government of Zambia.
II. The AGRO-FISHERIES SECTOR
A. General
2.01      Zambia is a landlocked country with a surface area of about
753,000 km2 and a population of about 5.8 million which is growing at the
rate of over 3% per annum. Copper mining has made Zambia one of the most
urbanized countries in Africa, with over 40% of its population living in



- 4 -
cities and towns, mainly along the line-of-rail which stretches from the
Copperbelt in the north to Livingston in the south. The bulk of economic
activity is also concentrated along this narrow strip.
2.02      Zambia's GNP in 1982 (at current prices) is estimated at K3,315
million (US$3,563 million at 1982 exchange rate), or K548 (US$589) in per
capita terms.1/ In recent years, because of the decline in copper prices
and production, the real GNP (which increased at an annual average rate of
about 3.1% between 1965 and 1976) has declined by 9% between 1976 and 1981,
with the result that in 1982 real GNP per capita was less than that at
independence (1964).
2.03      The structure of the economy has changed, with declines in the
mining sector's share being offset by the increased share of services.
Government consumption has increased in relative terms, and Government
savings have become negative. National savings and real investment have
fallen during the late seventies while the average incremental capital
output ratio has increased significantly.
2.04      While improved relations with its southern neighbor, notw
Zimbabwe, have already helped to mitigate Zambia's physical access
problems, the decline in the copper industry appears to be long-term. For
the foreseeable future, investments in mining are not likely to result in
an appreciable improvement in the existing levels of output, employment and
foreign exchange earnings. There are, however, reasonable prospects of the
previously relatively neglected agricultural sector taking up the slack to
produce sustained economic growth.
B. The Agricutural Sector
2.05      The agricultural sector in Zambia is markedly dualistic, a
situation inherited at independence. One part comprises a relatively small
modern subsector consisting of about 600 heav'Lly-capitalised farmers
(mainly of European origin), all of whom occupy state land on a leasehold
basis. The other part comprises about 600,000 families living on land held
under traditional tenure, most of whom cultivate less than 2 ha either by
hand or using ox-cultivation. In recent years, an intermediate category
has been encouraged comprising about 5,000 medium scale farmers wi-h -
mechanised farms geared to the commercial market. Within the tradicional
small farm sub-sector there are an increasing number, currently about
70,000, of so-called "emergent farmers" who have begun to produce
marketable surpluses. In addition, there are a small number of state farms
and ranches.
2.06      In 1982, agriculture accounted for only 14% of GDP.  Between 1970
and 1982 agricultural output grew at less than 2%, substantially less than
the 3.1% population growth rate. Most of the growth in production came
from the commercial farm sector. Since agricultural output grew at a
slower rate than the population growth rate, nutritional standards have
deteriorated. Increased fish supplies, with which this project is
concerned, therefore, have a high priority in terms of nutritional impact.
1/ Based on recent Government Statistics (CSO Monthly Digest of
Statistics).



-5-
2.07      Agriculture provides a livelihood for over 50% of Zambia's
population. The smallholder sector now accounts for about 60% of official
maize sales, 85% of sunflower and nearly all sales of rice, cotton and
groundnuts.
2.08      The development budget allocated to agriculture after declining
from 20% of the national development budget in 1970 to 11% in 1974-76, rose
to 27% in 1979 and 30% in 1981-82. The resources have been largely
invested in parastatal production and marketing enterprises, which have
proved to be highly inefficient, and also in a number of heavily subsidised
smallholder development schemes. Budget allocations and Government support
has tended to encourage large commercial farmers and agricultural
parastatals resulting in a continued inability to mobilise the huge
agricultural smallholder resource in the country from which a relatively
small percentage increase in production would, at low foreign exchange
cost, produce substantial volumes of marketable foodstuffs. The Government
of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) now gives greater importance to improving
the efficiency and output of the small farmer including the small artisanal
fisherman. Until recently the agricultural sector has not, however, been
allocated recurrent resources commensurate with this stated priority.
Partly as a result of the World Bank's recent study of the agricultural
sector's recurrent budgetary requirements GRZ has agreed to review the
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development's (MAWD) current programs and
to strengthen their capacity for planning and policy analysis. Recently
several steps have been taken by the Governmnent in support of the sector.
These include: enhanced budget allocation; removal of price control on
most agricultural products including fish; provision of fiscal incentives
to farmers and a program for marketing institutional reforms.
C. The Fisheries Sub-Sector
Fish Resources and Production
2.09      Zambia has substantial fish resources in its lakes, swamps,
rivers and flood plains scattered throughout the country. The country's
main fish resources are, however, concentrated in eight areas: Lake
Tanganyika, Lake iMweru Wa-Nripa, Lake Mweru Luapula, Lake Kariba, Kafue
River and Flood Plains, Lake Bengweulu, Lukanga Swamps and Upper Zambezi
River. Fish production in these areas averaged 53,000 tons p.a. during
1975-81 (Table D2). Based on the studies carried out to date, it has been
possible to determine the safe production limits in these waters at about
75,000 tons p.a. These resources consist mainly of Kapenta (a sardine-like
fish found in Lakes Tangayika and Kariba), Nile Perch, Bukabuka and Bream.
It is evident that these resources are capable of greater exploitation than
is presently undertaken. Nearly all fish producing areas are considerable
distances from the main markets of Lusaka and the Copperbelt. With few
exceptions, access to fishing villages and camps is mostly difficult and in
some cases virtually impossible. For this reason, and because this would
be the first attempt to provide institutional credit on a relatively
meaningful scale for development of fisheries sub-sector, the Project would
aim at providing assistance to fishermen in those areas which both have
strong potential to increase production and/or are relatively more
accessible: Lakes Tanganyika, Mweru Wa-Ntipa, Mweru Luapula and Kariba.



- 6 -
2.10      Lake Tanganyika.  About 2,000 km2 are within the territory of
Zambia. Fishing activities are carried out all along the Zambian coastline
of the lake, but are mainly concentrated in Mpulungu in the east and Nsumbu
to the west. The most valuable species of fish caught are Kapenta
and their predators, Nile Perch and Bukabuka. Since 1966, yearly fish
production from this lake has fluctuated considerably but has averaged
about 6,800 tons. In 1981, out of total catch of about 8,000 tons, about
65% was Kapenta. Because of lack of engines, most artisanal fishermen tend
to stay close to the shore. As a result, an estimated 60% of the Zambian
waters of Lake Tanganyika are underexploited or not fished at all. Subject
to further study, it is estimated that the maximum sustainable yield (MSY)
from the Zambian part of the lake could be as high as 19,000 tons per annum
while the safe production limit would be about 15,000 tons.
2.11      Mreru Wa-Ntipa.  This lake at present covers an area of about
1,600 km2. In recent years, the lake has been the most productive in the
country.  The fish catch, since 1966 has been on the increase due to
increase in the water level. Yearly production averaged about 6,900 tons
per year in 1966-81. Most recently production is reported to have declined
(5,700 tons in 1981) due to a lack of fishing gear 2/. About 95% of the
fish caught is bream. The MSY and safe production limit are estimated to
be around 11,000 tons. Most of the potential expansion is likely to occur
in the western and central parts of the lake which at present are
underexploited because of lack of power and adequate roads. Full
development year catch may come close to the MSY, but given the projection
that project increments are likely to fall back somewhat after the project
period there is not considered to be a significant risk of
over-exploitation.
2.12      Lake Mweru Luapula and River.  About 2,500 km2 or 44% of the Lake
Luapula and River are in Zambia and the rest in Zaire. O)ver 100,000 people
living around the lake depend largely on fishing. Average annual
production over the period 1966-81 was some 7,900. The primary species
caught are bream and nine varieties of catfish. On the Zambian side, most
of the fishing activity takes place along the coast and around two islands
which, although in Zambia, are very close to the Zaire mainland.
Confinement of fishing activity near the shore is mostly due to lack of
engines which prevents most fishermen from venturing into the central part
of the lake. Because of the relatively large unexploited/underexploited
area it is estimated that potential MSY could be as hi-" as 17,000 tons
while the safe fishing limit would be about 12,000 tons. It is expected
that fishermen under the project with larger boats and motors would venture
further to more productive fishing grounds, however, financial return from
20 nets would still be substantial from in-shore fishing. The Department
of Fisheries would carry out test fishing on more distant water to evaluate
the benefits of longer travel distances.
2.13      Kariba.  Fishing activity in this man made lake 3/ started in
mid-1960's. Production from the Zambian part averaged about 1,900 tons per
annum through 1966-1974. Fish caught include Kapenta and Tilapia. Because
2/ TLis figure is tentative.
3/ With an area of about 5,300 km2, 45% of which is in Zambia.



- 7 -
of the prevailing political activity fishing effort on the Zambian side of
the lake was halted in 1975 and did not resume until 1980. Present
production is about 4000 tons. The MSY for this lake is uncertain, the
project would therefore provide only transport boats to improve the
efficiency of existing fishing rig operations.
2.14      Kafue.  The fishery of Kafue is one of the most important in the
country as it is conveniently located with good access to the urban market
of Lusaka. The fishery depends on the flooding of the plains by the Kafue
river with water area ranging between 4,500 km2 and 14,000 km2 depending on
the volume of rains. Production during 1966-81 period averaged about 7,700
tons. The MSY for Kafue is estimated to be 17,000 tons while the safe
production limit would be about 10,500 tons. The flood plains fishery is
mainly for bream. All of the future increase in production would be from
the relatively inaccessible and presently under-exploited western part of
the flood plains; the eastern part, because of its proximity to Lusaka and
better access roads is reported to be already overfished, as a consequence
some fishermen use illegal fishing practice 4/ to maximize fish catch.
2.15      Other Fish Resources.  Other significant fisheries include the
Bengweulu system of lakes and swamps, the Lukanga swamps and Upper Zambezi
river above the Victoria Falls. The average annual production for these
waters during 1966-81 was 15,500 tons. Based on available research data
the anticipated MSY from these sources is estimated at 42,000 tons while
safe production limit is calculated at around 18,500 tons.
The Fishing Industry
2.16      Fishing in Zambia is carried out by two distinct groups:
industrial operators and traditional fishermen. Total fish production
during 1975-81 has ranged between 47,000 tons and 58,000 tons per annum;
over 90% of which is produced by approximately 21,000 artisanal fishermen,
and the remainder by about 50 industrial or semi-industrial producers. Two
of the industrial producers carry out purse seine operations on Lake
Tanganyika, while the remainder operate pontoon rigs on Lake Kariba (at
present about 100 of these rigs are reported to be under operation with
between I and 4 rigs per operation). The two existing companies on Lake
Tanganyika, Sopelac (a parastatal organization) and privately owned SAMAKI,
are operating 2 purse seine units each.5/ Sopelac has three additional
purse units under construction. Two more privately owned companies are in
the process of establishing similar operations on Lake Tanganyika; one in
Mpulungu would operate three purse seine units and the other plans to
operate one unit from Nsumbu.
2.17      Compared with the industrial sector the small-scale traditional
fisheries is by far the most important means of fisheries exploitation.
4/ The practice of "Kutumpula" which is an illegal method of fishing in
Zambia as it destroys juvenile stock. Under this method the fish re
driven into a stationery net by beating the water with a wooden
plunger, the walking beaters" damage breeding areas.
5/ One more unit belonging to Sopelac and two units owned by another
parastatal (Lake Fisheries, a Zimco subsidiary) are laid up for major
repairs.



- 8 -
This sector characterized by traditional fishing technology and marketing
system has received very little development assistance. These fishermen,
who operate from more than 2,100 fishing settlements, generally operate at
night using dug-out canoes and some wooden plank boats and GRP boats of
which a small number are motorized. Day beach seining, set nets and line
fishing are also commonly found. Most of these fishermen paddle boats out
a short distance from shore to catch fish attracted by lamps or fish by
other methods. Although fishing throughout the country continues all year,
the catch varies seasonally.
Fish Collection, Marketing and Consumption
2.18      Because major consumption areas are located in central Zambia and
far from most producing regions, and because there is a general lack of
storage and transport facilities to handle fresh fish, only a small
quantity of marketed fish is sold fresh. Although fresh fish is generally
preferred, dried fish, particularly Kapenta, is consumed widely in most
parts of Zambia and is in some places a basic staple of the diet. A better
distribution and marketing network exists for cured fish than fresh fish.
It is estimated that about 32,000 tons or 65Z of the country's fish
production are consumed as sun-dried or smoked-dried products. Because
cured (dried) fish can be preserved for several months it is generally
available in the markets throughout the year.  Supply of fresh and frozen
fish, on the other hand, is limited and is sold soon after the arrival of
trucks in Lusaka and the Copperbelt. Because of its proximity to Kafue,
fresh fish is transported to Lusaka on a daily basis, while to the
Copperbelt the supply of fresh fish is irregular and its availability is
limited to only a few days a month.
2.19      The fish trade is largely in the hands of the private sector,
only very small quantities are marketed by two parastatal organizations
(Sopelac and Lake Fisheries), mostly in frozen form. Marketing chains are
short, there being at most a wholesaler and a retailer between producer and
consumer. At Mweru Wa-Ntipa and Mweru Luapula which are the principal
sources of fresh fish supplies to the Copperbelt, necessary collection,
marketing and transport facilities are severely lacking. Collection and
transportation of fish is mostly in the hands of individual truck owners
who bring ice from the Copperbelt and collect fish from various landing
points. This exercise is haphazard and fishermen are uncertain whether
they will be able to sell their catch before it deteriorates. As a result,
the fishermen skip fishing on many days. Lack of suitable marketing
facilities also results in considerable product losses and deterioration in
quality both at the landing points and during transportation. Spoilage of
fresh fish from these lakes is estimated to be at least 1,300 tons
annually. Ice making facilities at Kafue are also limited. There is one
ice plant of 6 ton/day capacity which is the only source of ice for
fishermen, traders and local consumers. As a result quite often the
suppliers of fresh fish to the Lusaka market have either to bring the ice
from Lusaka (if available) or transport the fish without the ice required
to keep it fresh. This inevitably results in deterioration in quality of
fish and also some loss of product. Lack of adequate marketing facilities
to properly handle a part of the fish production from Lakes Mweru Wa-Ntipa
and Mweru Luapula and ice-making facilities at Kafue would be addressed
under the Project (paras 3.09 and 3.10).



-9 -
2.20      In Zambia per capita fish consumption is about 10 kg fresh fish
equivalent, more than most other countries in the region, but has been on
the decline due to reduction in imports necessitated by foreign exchange
constraints. Restrictions on imports and until recently a lack of price
incentive (price control was lifted in early 1983) to upgrade fisheries has
brought the quantity of available fish down from the 17 kg/capita/year
reported by FAO in 1971-72. The current consumption is about 15 kg/year in
the urban areas and 7 kg/year in the rural areas. In the urban areas less
than 20% or about 2.5 kg/capita is consumed fresh. There is great
potential for increasing consumption of fish, particularly of fresh fish
which is depressed by limited supplies. Solely based on population
increase, demand for fish in 1990 is projected to be about 74,000 tons per
annum or about 40% increase in the current consumption level. It is
expected that about two-thirds of the increased demand, mostly for fresh
fish, would be generated in the urban areas.
D. Fisheries Services
The Department of Fisheries
2.21      Government services to the fisheries sub-sector are the
responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
(MAWD). The Ministry exercises its jurisdiction over the fishing Industry
through the Department of Fisheries. The Department is headed by a
Director and organizationally divided into four operating divisions;
Rescarch, Fish Culture, Fisheries Extension and Development, and Training.
The Director is assisted by a Deputy Director with special responsibility
for the administrative aspects, including budgetary control and supervision
of national development plan implementation. The Department has a staff of
about 390, including those in the provincial and district offices. While
the Department's activities on paper seem to cover most of the essential
aspects of organization and management of the fishing industry in practice
it falls far short of requirements. The staff do not in general have
sufficient practical experience to be fully effective and the budget
provisions are not sufficient to permit them to carry out their duties.
The DOF's organization and functions are detailed in Chart 3.
2.22      The Research Division manages a program of stock assessment,
through monitoring of the catch in Lakes Tanganyika and Mweru Luapula, with
the assistance of two expatriate biologists. Similar programs are being
carried out in Lakes Wa-Ntipa, Kariba and Bengweulu by locally recruited
research officers.
2.23      A program of Fish Culture is being conducted on a pilot scale.
Three demonstration fish farms have been established at Chilanga, Mwekera
and Chipata with the assistance of FAO. Twelve additional farms have been
set up by the DOF to demonstrate and encourage local residents to undertake
similar activities on a commercial basis.
2.24      The Extension and Development Division is responsible for the
preparation of extension and development programs at national and
provincial levels. These programs emphasize increased production through
better and more efficient boats and gear. Within this division are the
fishing craft section and the statistical unit. Day to day contact with



- 10 -
fishermen is maintained through a large number of fishery scouts who are
allocated a wide variety of duties and who live in fishing villages and
camps. The scouts are at present prevented from performing their duties
due mostly to lack of funds and transport facilities.
2.25      Fisheries Training Centres have been established in five areas:
Sinazongwe (Lake Kariba), Kasaka (Kafue River), Mwekera (Copperbelt),
Nchelenge (Lake Luapula) and Mpulungu (Lake Tanganyika). Short term
courses are conducted at these centres for a limited number of selected
fishermen and fish scouts. Apart from two centres (Kasaka and Mwekera),
very little training activity is going on at present mainly due to lack of
funds. The facilities are in some cases, not adequate for conducting
training courses for a large number of fishermen which the DOF considers
necessary for efficient operation of the fishing industry. The Natural
Resources Development College, which in the past conducted diploma courses
in fisheries technology, has suspended the fisheries training program
because nearly all the approved positions suitable for diploma holders are
currently filled.
2.26      As a service to fishermen, the DOF operates on a commercial basis
several small workshops to repair and service engines and boats for which
the customers pay a usage charge, but these workshops are ill equipped due
to budgetary and foreign exchange constraints. The Department also
maintains several fish receiving sheds, where fish are graded and weighed
prior to sale.
2.27      The most important activities of the DOF, namely uDnitoring fish
catch, research, regulatory and extension services to fishermen have been
curtailed in the past due to lack of operating funds. Government budget
allocations for the past several years have been barely sufficient to cover
the staff salaries. Field staff is often unable to travel to fishing
centres due to lack of fuel or sometimes the means of transportation.
Vessels and equipment lie idle due to shortage of spare parts and training
programs have been curtailed/cancelled for want of operating funds. Any
development or expansion of the sector would require a stimulation of the
Department's activittes. These constraints would be addressed under the
project and funds would be provided to improve the existing facilities,
engage internationally recruited staff to supervise research and training
and meet necessary operating expenditures. The need for technical
assistance has been agreed with DOF. Both the Government and DOF
appreciate the underlying reasons for and are committed to derive maximum
benefit from the proposed technical assistance. Detailed TOR's of
internationally recruited technical assistance personnel and counterpart
arrangements would be agreed at negotiations.
Fisheries Development Authority.
2.28      In the Third National Development Plan (TNDP) for 1979-83, it was
proposed to establish a Fisheries Development Authority (FDA) with the
overall objectives to increase production of fish and incomes of fishermen
through efficient marketing, credit and extension work. In the TNDP it was
also envisaged that after its formation FDA would absorb the Department of
Fisheries and assume the responsibilities of and functions performed by the
Department. Subsequently, by a Presidential circular dated June 11, 1981



- 11 -
it was decided to establish FDA as an independent organization responsible
to the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development. To work out details
of the structure and functions of the FDA a coordinator was also
appointed. The proposed functions of FDA are contained in the draft of the
Fisheries Act, 1983.
2.29      It was expected that the draft act would be presented to the
Parliament by mid 1984. Enactment of FDA, however, has been delayed
because the Government is re-evaluating the proposed functions and indeed
whether FDA should be established at all. Given the historically poor
performance of parastatals in fisheries sub-sector generally and in East
Africa, including Zambia, particularly, and given the Government's major
resource constraints it is unlikely that FDA would be able to have viable
commercial operations. Also during the Project period maximum efforts
would be required to upgrade the management of country's fish resources,
and any attempt by FDA, if it is created, to spread its resources too
thinly would undermine this important task. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that IDA would be consulted on any proposal to establish FDA
or any other institution in the fisheries sub-sector sufficiently in
advance of its establishment to take account of IDA's comments and ensure
that FDA or any such institution would not engage in any commercial
activities, except, after consultation with IDA, for the operation of
facilities in remote areas where all efforts to encourage private
investments have failed.
Boat Building
2.30      Wooden plank boats are built by local carpenters, either in their
own villages or the fishermen's villages. Carpenters are located in all of
the fishery areas. These carpenters usually build plank boats of local
designs, but are capable of building boats from drawings provided to them
by the owners or the Department of Fisheries. Depending on individual
arrangements the carpenters may or may not supply the raw materials. The
quality of construction varies depending on the ability of the carpenters.
These carpenters generally do not build boats longer than 9 meters.
2.31      There are two boatyards in Zambia where GRP boats are
constructed; one in Kafue and the other in Kitwe. Together these boatyards
can build about 500 boats every year. However, recently due to shortages
of imported raw material both boatyards have been operating at less than
capacity. The majority of hulls produced by these boatyards are of the
banana boat series and are 7.2 meter long. Because GRP boats are lighter
than plank boats, they can be propelled by a smaller engine than the
comparable wooden plank boat and thus have lower fuel costs. Thus, GRP
boats with engines have lower total and foreign exchange (investments and
operating costs) costs than wooden plank boats. This overall advantage is
counter balanced to a considerable extent by the uncertainties of GRP boat
maintenance. Consequently, the Project would leave the choice of boat type
to the fisherman and his extension and credit advisors, to allow all
factors such as beach conditions, availability of resins and available
expertise to repair the boat to come into play.



- 12 -
Outboard Engines
2.32      Most Zambian powered fishing boats use imported outboard engines,
between 3 and 25 HP. The average life of an engine in Zambia is about 4
years, but its operational life can be increased substantially if proper
care and maintenance is provided. Foreign exchange constraints have
resulted in a shortage of some types of engines and spare parts, even in
repair facilities in major fishing areas.
Fishing Nets
2.33      Nkwazi Manufacturing Company Ltd. located at Kafue is the only
net manufacturing enterprise in Zambia, and is a well managed and
financially sound company,(see financial statements at Tables A7 and A8).
It is a subsidiary of a foreign company with some participation by local
shareholders. Fish nets produced by the company are competitive in quality
and price with comparable products available from external sources. The
price of a gill net charged by the company is about K24. This compares
favourably with some recent quotations for supply of comparable nets. The
lowest quoted price for a similar net was US$21, which is 40% higher than
the locally produced net. The company uses a network of wholesalers and
retailers to market its products as well as selling directly to consumers
from the factory. Until mid 1982 the company had met all the fishing net
requirements of the country. Since then, it has not received sufficient
foreign exchange allocation and as a result it has been using up its raw
materials inventory to meet the demand for nets. While the company has
adequate local currency resources, it is unable to convert these funds into
foreign exchange to fully meet its ongoing needs of materials and spare
parts. The company's estimated requirements of foreign exchange for the
next five years to import raw materials for fishing nets and spare parts
are estimated at about US$5 million. 6/ Provision would be made under the
Project to meet a part of the company's foreign exchange needs during the
next five years.
E. Agricultural Credit
2.34      General.  At present, institutional credit to the agricultural
sector is provided largely by six commercial banks (all of which, except
one, have foreign origins), and several parastatal organizations. The
latter include the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC), the Cattle Finance
Company (CFC), and the Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ). Cooperatives are
also involved In credlt activity, largely as on-lenders of AFC funds or
under the Swedish-assisted Cooperative Credit Scheme (CCS).7J Credit
unions have also been formed in some areas but are not a major source of
financing. In addition, small credit operations have been started under
various special schemes such as Barclays Bank's Lima Loans Scheme8/ and
6/ During the first nine months in 1983 the company had received
US$234,000 foreign exchange allocation.
7/ This scheme was initially set up in 1970 under an FAO/SIDA financed
project to provide credit to smallholders with limited access to AFC or
other sources.
8/ 'Lima' (meaning 'cultivation") was started in 1980 for small and
mediumrsized commercial farmers who crop an area of 10-60 h.a.



- 13 -
several Integrated Rural Development Programs assisted by bilateral
donors. Activities of the major institutional lenders are closely linked
with the input supply and marketing functions of the National Agriculture
Marketing Board (NAMB) and the Provincial Cooperatives Unions. Very little
information is available on the activities of non-institutional lenders in
agriculture. However, friends and relatives are apparently a source of
credit for some purposes. In addition, some equipment dealers provide
credit through hire-purchase agreemer.;s.
2.35      Fisheries Credit.  The installation of a proper credit system for
fisheries has been bedevilled by vacillation as to the channel to be
utilized. First loans to fishermen were disbursed by the Credit
Organization of Zambia, a government agency that was wound up in 1968
because of lack of qualified personnel and poor recovery performance. Six
years later, in 1974, the Zambia Fisheries and Fish Marketing Corporation
was established but did not disburse any credit. In 1975, the Fisheries
Finance Company (FFC) was established but never became operational. In
1977, the functions of FFC were transferred to AFC which was given a loan
of K230,000 by Government to establish a revolving fund for fisheries
credit. For 1977-78 season over 2,000 loan applications (mainly from
artisanal fishermen) amounting to K2.6 million were received against which
AFC approved 184 loans totalling K0.23 million. In subsequent years
K80,000 in 1978/79, K180,000 in 1979/80 and K40,000 in 1980/81 were
allocated for fisheries loans (Table DI). In addition, AFC gave K330,000
out of other funds available to it for commercial fisheries in Lake
Kariba. Besides AFC, commercial banks and Development Bank of Zambia have
extended loans for commercial fishing in Lake Tanganyika and Lake Kariba.
None of these institutions, notwithstanding their liquidity, are
operationally equiped or prepared to extend credit to artisanal fishermen.
2.36      The Zambia Agricultural Development Bank.  In 1979, the Zambia
Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) was established to become the
principal agricultural lending institution in the country, and under the
guidance of the Ministry of Agriculture, ZADB is intended to promote
agricultural and fisheries development and act as a channel for Government
and international financial assistance to agriculture. As stated in the
TNDP, it is intended that ZADB would gradually replace and asaume the
functions of AFC and CFC without taking over any of their obligations. AFC
is being phased out for several reasons: first, over 90Z of AFC's network
of offices have been financially unviable, so that AFC has had to be
heavily subsidized by government through administrative grants; second, AFC
has no legal authority to raise funds and thus is totally dependent on
government funding and/or guarantees to accomodate its borrowers, and
third, AFC has a very poor performance record. Assumption of CFC functions
by ZADB is intended to avoid duplication of credit services and also
broaden the country's livestock credit base. Unfortunately, since its
establishment and despite the appointment of a Managing Director in
February 1982, there has been confusion and indecisior about the timing of
ZADB starting operations, and indeed whether it would be allowed to become
operational at all. Recently the Government has demonstrated its support
to the establishment of ZADB by guaranteeing K10 million bridging finance
provided by two commercial banks so that ZADB could start operations
without further delay. The bridging finance was arranged becasue of the
Government's inability to make timely contribution to ZADB's share



- 14 -
capital. The Government has also proposed that a comprehensive study for
replacement of AFC/CFC by ZADB be carried out to minimize the disruption in
credit availability to farmers, particularly to smallholders. For this
purpose the Government has requested the Bank to finance appropriate
technical assistance under the Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 873-ZA).
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms of reference for
conducting the Study (see Annex 1). The Study has commenced with the help
of consultants financed under the Eastern Province Agricultural Development
Project (Ln. 2001-ZA). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Study would be submitted for IDA's review and comment by May 31, 1985 and
that the agreed recommendations would be implemented.
2.37      The authorized share capical of ZADB is K 75 million (US$ 46.9
million) divided into 75 million class A-ordinary and class B-Preference
shares. It is intended that 51% of share capital would be taken up by the
Government, 19% by institutions in Zambia and the balance 30% would be
subscribed by international institutions e.g. African Development Bank.
ZADB is authorized to raise additional funds by loans, domestic or
international aid given to it directly or through the Government, funds
managed on behalf of third parties, and deposits received from individuals
and other entities.
2.38      To assist the Government in putting ZADB on a sound footing,
funds have been provided under the Bank assisted Eastern Province
Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 2001-ZA) and Southern Province
Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 1193-ZA) for technical assistance to
ZADB and to provide incremental credit.  A team of consultants financed
under the Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project was engaged in
1981 to develop suitable operating and financial policies, procedures,
guidelines and projections. Unfortunately, for various reasons (including
poor performance) the consultants contract had to be terminated before they
could complete any substantive work. Recently, ZADB's staff have produced
necessary documents on credit policy, operating procedures, and a four-year
corporate plan. To assist ZADB in its establishment phase international
recruitment of 3 senior managers/adviser is being financed under the
Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project. These appointments
were made in mid 1984.
2.39      Additional assistance to ZADB under the Project (as described in
Chapter III) is designed to support ZADB by providing funds for short- and
mediur-term credit to improve fish production and marketing facilities.
The Project would also provide technical assistance during the start-up
phase of the new organization. The proposed credit policies, and
organization and management of ZADB are detailed in Chapter IV.
F. Government Development Plans
2.40      Government's stated long-term objectives in agriculture include
the achievement of more equitable distribution of income and employment,
self-sufficiency in major foodstuffs and some non-food commodities, and
diversification to widen the export base of the economy, currently still
dominated by copper. However, Government has been less specific about the
means of achieving these objectives. Nevertheless, with the eroding role
of the copper industry due to weak prices and increasing costs of



- 15 -
production, Government ' views on the agricultural rector have changed
noticeably over the last 2 or 3 years. While in the past agriculture had
been viewed as playing a supplementary role and as being generally a
difficult sector to tackle and develop, now there appears to be widespread
agreement that a major part of the potential for future economic growth
does indeed lie within agriculture. During the past year considerable
progress has been made in developing a strategy for the sector making use
of the Bank sector work 9/ which lays out options and policy packages for
short, medium and long term growth in the sector. The Government has also
agreed in principle to a series of policy reforms connected with the
proposed Zambia Agrlculture Rehabilltation Credit now under preparation.
Programs and projects constituting the elements of the strategy have been
identified and in some cases (like the proposed Research and Extension and
Coffee II projects) are being prepared with Bank assistance. As mentioned
in para 2.36 for example progress in straightening out the institutional
arrangements for administering agricultural credit in the last six months
surpassed all attempts since 1979. The three pronged approach to develop
ZADB, strengthen DOF and provide funding for fisheries development are all
part of governments wider strategy for the sector.
2.41      For the Fisheries Sub-sector itself, there are some overall
objectives which may be taken as guidelines; these were spelled out in the
Third National Development Plan (1979 to 1983):
a. to increase production in order to achieve self-sufficiency;
b. to increase incomes of fishermen through efficient marketing.
credit and extension;
c. to improve the collection and distribution of fish available
in all areas; and
d. to provide long and short-term credit to the industry.
2.42      Government's interest in a fisheries development program is a
reflection of the new concern for smallholder production as a means to
achieve self-sufficiency. The design of the project is a reflection of
realism about the country's resources and the weak previous performance of
parastatal enterprises in production and marketing activities. Improvemeut
in fish supplies would be achieved through largely self-financing
activities by private fishermen and marketing enterprises and there would
be low government input in improving fisheries services. Such a project
would complement the Eastern Province Project (Ln. 2001-ZA), the Southern
Province Project (Cr. 1193-ZA), North Western Province Area Development
Project (IFAD) and others under preparation or implementation with external
donor financing in the Central, Western, and Luapula Provinces.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Main Features
3.01      The Project would represent the first stage of a long-term
program to develop the fisheries sub-sector in Zambia. It would, over a
9/ Zambia Policy Options and Strategies for Agricultural Growth (Green
Cover).



- 16 -
five-year period, support GRZ's efforts in the expansion of fish
production, marketing and distribution systems through extension of credit
to private fish producers and marketing entities by ZADB. Further support
to these objectives would be provided through provision of foreign exchange
for importing raw materials and machinery spares required to manufacture
fishing nets and technical assistance to ZADB and DOF and monitoring and
evaluation.
3.02      Specifically the Project would provide for:
(a) (i) a program of short- and medium-term credit to provide
boats, englnes nets and collection and marketing facilities
to be administered by ZADB, and (ii) management and technical
assistance to ZADB;
(b) foreign exchange assistance to the net manufacturing company
to procure raw materials for net and essential spare parts;
(c) facilities and technical assistance to the Department of
Fisheries to strengthen Its role In providing training and
extension services to artisanal fishermen and in carrying out
research and studies to determine fish stocks and maximum
sustainable yields of fishing areas covered by the project;
and,
Cd) coordination and monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
3.03      The Project area would be Lakes Tanganyika, Mweru Wa-Ntipa, and
Mweru Luapula in the north and Lake Kariba and Kafue river and flats in the
south (see map).
B. Detailed Features
Institutionalized Credit Services
3.04      This component is designed to support the fishermen and private
companies involved in fish production and marketing activities through
Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB) (para 4.02). It would provide
funds for the extension of credit to small and medium-scale commercial
individuals and private entities for purchasing boats, engines and nets,
credit to individuals and/or private companies to establish integrated fish
collection, processing, storage, and distribution facilities. This
component would also provide funds for management and technical assistance
to ZADB.
3.05      Credit to Artisanal Fishermen.  Credit would be given to those
artisanal fishermen who are judged by credit (ZADB) and extension (DOF)
staff to be creditworthy, to have performed well in the past, to have good
potential for increased production, are known to be full time fishermen and
are residing in a place which is easily accessible by road or boat. Credit
would be given in kind to either purchase a complete set of fishing
equipment comprising one wooden plank or GRP boat, one engine and 20 nets
(if a specific fishing operation warrants a higher number of nets per boat
then credit may be allowed for upto 40 nets) or to purchase individual



- 17 -
items. These loans would be available to artisanal fishermen in Mpulungu
and Nsumbu on Lake Tanganyika and Lakes Mweru Wa-Ntipa and Mweru Luapula as
indicated in Table C.1. Loans for lesa than the cost of 10 gill nets would
not be allowed. As it would be the first time that institutional credit on
a meaningful scale would be given to small-scale fishermen in Zambia and
because ZADB, being a new institution, does not have experience in managing
a fisheries credit portfolio, the total amount of credit to be extended
under the project would be kept at a realistic level consistent with ZADB's
ability to effectively manage the proposed amount of loans. Thus, the
relatively modest number of loans and method of credit delivery (paras 4.08
thru 4.10) is related to institutional capacity rather than need or
demand. It is estimated that, over the 5 years, the Project would provide
credit for some 160 wooden plank boats (K186,000 or US$116,000), 70 GRP
boats (K136,000 or US$85,000), 350 outboard engines of 10 HP 10/
(K742,000 or US$464,000), and about 34,500 gill nets, of which the
incremental quantity of about 9,400 (K225,000 or US$141,000) over the
Project period would be financed through credit (the remainder being
provided out of a revolving fund) (para 4.15). It is assumed that some
fishermen who already own boats would want to upgrade their fishing
operations by motorizing existing hulls which would permit them to go
further into the lakes where the fish stocks are presently underexploited.
Provision is therefore made for 120 extra engines of 10 hp. The total cost
(K1.3 million or US$0.81 million) of boats and engines would be financed to
20% by the fishermen themselves with credit in kind for the remaining 80%,
however nets, a seasonal requirement with about a one year life, would be
financed to 100%. Repayment of loans for boats and engines would be over 4
years and for nets over a maximum period of one year; the repayment periods
are in line with the expected useful life of the items being financed.
Loans would be secured through a lien on the boats and/or engines being
financed (the security of boat and/or engine would suffice to cover the
credit for nets also), or a lien on the borrowers' existing boat(s) and/or
engine(s) if credit for financing of only nets is required. In addition to
the 20% contribution to medium term credit items a loan Commitment Fee of
2% of the total loan amount and a Loan Processing Fee of 2% on all loans
would be charged to help cover the administratives costs of the scheme.
The loans would be giv-n et the interest rate charged by commercial banks
(currently 15%) on lenring to the agricultural sector.
3.06      Tne total number of various types of vessels, engines and nets to
be financed under the Project is based on site conditions and estimated
catches within the safe limits of the resources but the overall
consideration is institutional capacity.
3.07      Credit for Commercial Fisheries on Lake Kariba.  Funds would be
provided under the Project to assist fishing ventures to improve their
operations (Table C2). Fishing licences (51 licences have been issued)
normally entitle the holders to operate up to four rigs. Currently, about
100 rigs are reported to be in operation. Most rig owners tend to fish
close to the shore so that the slow moving rigs can offload their catch
10/ For purpose of estimating costs it has becn assumed that for GRP boats
as well as wooden plank boats IOHP engines would be required . In
practice some borrowers may require a small (5.5 HP) engine.



- 18 -
before any spoilage occurs. Funds have been provided under the Project to
extend credit to those fishermen or enterprises currently operating at
least 3 rigs for the purchase of transport boats. This would enable the
borrowers to send their fishing craft to distant fishing areas where the
fish resources are relatively underexploited and also to use the fishing
rigs almost exclusively for fishing while the transport boat would be used
to carry supplies to the fishing craft and the catch back to the shore. It
is estimated that credit to purchase some 5 transport boats (2.5 ton
capacity each) at a total cost of K114,000 (US$71,000) would be made
available during the Project period. Of the total cost of transport boats,
the owners would contribute 20X, with the remainder provided by credit in
kind. As with artisanal fishermen, borrowers in addition to interest equal
to the interest charged by commercial banks (15%) would pay a 2%
committment fee and 2% processing fee not to exceed K1000 on any one loan.
Repayments would be over 5 years. Loans would be secured through a lien on
the unit financed and other existing assets of the borrowers used in
fishing operations.
3.08      General Line of Credit.  Funds for specific production and
marketing activities provided under the Project are of modest size
particularly in respect of the production facilities. It is intended that
the credit to fishermen would be in the nature of a pilot project since
ZADB is a new institution and the overall resource potential is not
certain. It is, however, anticipated that with the technical assistance
provided under the project a better definition of resource potential would
begin to emerge gradually. In the event that the stock assessment studies
indicate a substantially larger resource than the conservative estimates
used for project purposes and ZADB proves to be capable of handling a
larger than anticipated fisheries credit program additional funds (KO.4
million or US$0.25 million) are provided to supplement the resources
allocated for specific production activities. Availability of these funds
would be restricted to the project activities and areas and would be
subject to the same terms and conditions as described in paras 3.05 and
3.07. In the event these funds are not utilized for additional credit to
fishermen, consideration would be given to using these funds to increse the
assistance to the net manufacturing company (para 3.12).
3.09      Credit for Collection and Marketing Facilities.  To improve the
collection, processing, storage and transportation of fresh fish from Lakes
Mweru Wa-Ntipa and Mweru Luapula, (para 2.19) funds are provided under the
Project to extend credit to individual(s)/private sector entity(ies) for
the establishment of facilities at these locations. At each location these
facilities would include: (i) eight motorized collection boats; (ii) three
mobile ice-making units capable of producing 5 tons of ice each per day;
(iii) one mobile blast freezer of 6 ton/day capacity; (iv) three portable
cold stores capable of storing 10 tons of fish each; (v) one generator (170
KVA); (vi) civil works e.g. roofing for cold store/ice plants,
office/store/dormitory block, water supply and drainage; (vii) two
articulated tractors (65 ton gross capacity) and two trailers (20 ton
capacity) to transport refrigerated fish to the Copperbelt; (viii) wooden
pallets for the stores; (ix) chemicals; and (x) spare parts for ice plants,
blast freezers, cold store, generator and truck/trailer units. At Mweru
Wa-Ntipa where ZESCO supplied power is not available an additional
generator would be provided, while at Mweru Luapula where ZESCO supplied



- 19 -
power is available provision is made under the Project to finance the cost
of extending power supply to the marketing complex while the generator
financed under the Project would be used as a standby unit 11|, The
proposed facilities are designed to handle approximately a quarter of the
total fish catch at both lakes. The total estimated cost of these
facilities at Mweru Wa-Ntipa - K1.81 million (US$1.13 million) - and at
Mweru-Luapula - Kl.87 million (US$1.17 million) - would be financed to 20Z
by the borrowers themselves with credit for the remaining 80%. Interest
charges would be the same as in case of loans for production facilities.
Borrowers would also pay a 2Z commitment fee on and a 2% processing fee
with a maximum processing fee of KIO00. Repayments of loans would be over
a 5-year period. Loans would be secured through a lien on the items
financed. Ice making facilities to be financed under the Project would be
adequate to meet the needs of private transporters also so that they would
not need to carry ice on their way to the lakes. In addition to the
borrowing entity's own trucks to be financed under the Project, private
transporters would also be able to off take fish from the stores.
3.10      Ice-Making Plant at Kafue.  The Project would finance credit to a
qualified individual or private sector company for the establishment of two
3 ton/day ice making units at Kafue (para 2.19). The cost of ice plants
(K148,000 or US$92,000) would be financed to 20X by the investor and the
balance 80% with credit. A 2% commitment fee and a 2% processing fee plus
interest as in the case of loans for collection and marketing facilities
would be charged. The loan would be repayable over a five year period.
Security for this loan would be through a lien on the ice plants financed.
3.11      Management and Technical Assistance for ZADB.  To assist ZADB in
its establishment phase, funds (K549,000 or US$343,000) are provided under
the Project for employment of an expatriate Fisheries Credit Specialist for
up to three years to provide management and technical assistance (Table
CS). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the terms of reference,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment for the
person selected for this position would be acceptable to IDA. Filling of
this position would be a condition of effectiveness.
Foreign Exchange Assistance for Net Manufacturing
3.12      To safeguard against the fishing industry finding itself with a
grossly inadequate supply of nets (para 2.33), provision is made under the
Project to provide the Nkwazi Manaufacturing Company with foreign exchange
to meet about 20X of its needs over the five year period (Table C6). The
Government supports this crucial activity and until recently has fully met
the company's foreign exchange requirements. As the company has
accumulated considerable cash it would obtain the foreign exchange against
payments in Kwachas. Funds are provided under the Project for the Bank of
Zambia to allow the company upto K1.6 million (US$1.0 million) in foreign
exchange. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
would meet the remaining foreign exchange requirements of the company.
11/ The equipment lists (Table C3) are indicative. If during
implementation loan applications are received which do not correspond
to the indicative equipment lists these would be considered on their
merits.



- 20 -
Improved Management of Fish Resources
3.13      This component would strengthen the Department of
Fisheries (paras 2.21 through 2.29) by the provision of facilities and
management and technical assistance. This would enable DOF to better
assess and manage the country's fish resources, provide improved extension
service to fishermen, experiment with and advise on new fishing gear and
methods and provide its staff the necessary training to undertake these
activities.
3.14      New and Rehabilitation of Existing Facilities.  To help improve
DOE's capacity to effectively manage fish resources (para 2.27) funds are
provided to rehabilitate some of the existing water transport equipment
owned by DOF in the Project areas. Additional resources are provided to
add land transport, water transport, research and communication equipment,
upgrade some of the workshops owned by the Department, a generator at
Nsumbu and essential spare parts to keep these facilities serviceable. The
total cost of rehabilitating existing and providing new facilities would be
KO.96 million (US$0.6 million). To help ensure continued use of
rehabilitated and new transport facilities, funds (Kl.66 million or US$1.04
million) are provided under the Project to meet during project
implementation the fuel and other operating expenditures of transport
equipment provided under the Project(Table C7). Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government would each year during the Project
period review the operating budget needs of DOF with IDA and ensure that
DOF is adequately funded to carry out its overall work program.
3.15      Management and Technical Assistance for DOF.  At present, most
aspects of fishery management are inadequate and require extensive
assistance at all levels. Some aid is already available or contemplated
from bilateral donors. To assist the DOF's efforts in fish resource
assessment, particularly in the project areas, it is proposed to finance a
Stock Assessment Officer and a Limnologist for which highly qualified and
experienced candidates cannot be found in Zambia. To allow for this, funds
(K1.11 million or US$ 694,000) have been provided for international
recruitment for 36 months for each of these positions (Table C8).
3.16      Experience has showr that lift-net fishing technique for Kapenta
fishing has proved to be quite successful in Burundi in the northern part
of Lake Tanganyika. This fishing method is based on simply lashing
together twin hulled rigs which provides a stable platform for a lift net
and is probably better suited to the weather conditions on Lake
Tanganyika. Practically no work has been done to evaluate the
appropriateness of this fishing technique in Zambia. It is proposed to
provide funds (K49,000 or US$ 30,000) to engage an experienced fisherman
(not necessarily a 'Master' fisherman) from Burundi (for up to two years)
to work at Mpulungu on Lake Tanganyika with the research and extension
staff of DOF to develop, demonstrate and then train local fishermen in this
particular lift-net fishing technique.
3.17      In order to assist the Department of Fisheries in fisheries
research and extension, provision is being made in the Project for
short-term consultancies for technical support. For this purpose, funds
(K204,000 or US$128,000) are provided under the Project to cover 12
person-months of internationally recruited staff.



- 21 -
3.18      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the terms of
reference, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment of the persons selected for the positions of Stock Assessment
Officer, Limnologist, Experienced Fisherman and short-term consultants
would be acceptable to IDA.
3.19      Training.  The objective of the training component would be, (i)
to improve the management capability and technical knowledge of senior
staff, (ii) to improve the capacity of extension staff to give technical
advise to artisanal fishermen, particularly on the use and maintenance of
outboard engines and boats, and (iii) to contribute to the direct training
of artisanal fishermen.
3.20      The Project would support training of senior and middle level
staff through training fellowships, and of junior level staff and fishermen
through the provision of funds for minor rehabilitation of training
institutions, equipment, and operating funds (para 3.14). The fellowships
would range from 6 months to 3 years and would be provided for the more
senior staff to study research and fisheries management at overseas
institutions for a total of about 12 staff years (Table C9). Existing
staff would be used to conduct training, but the Project would provide
subsistence for 1,200 trainee weeks per year and would finance the
maintenance and operating costs of related vehicles and boats.
Coordination and Monitoring and Evaluation of the Project
3.21      Project implementation would be coordinated within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Water Development under the supervision of its Permanent
Secretary. For this purpose it is proposed to finance under the Project
the services of a Project Coordinator for which a suitably qualified
candidate cannot probably be found in Zambia. Some K550,000 (US$344,000)
would be provided for ar. internationally recruited individual with
expertise in all aspects of fishery management for a term of 36 months
(Table C10). Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the terms of
reference, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment for the person selected for this position would be acceptable to
IDA. Filling of this position would be a condition of effectiveness.
3.22      The progress of project implementation and the effects of project
investments would be evaluated on a regular basis by the Project
Coordinator. He would be assisted in the design of both these activities
by an internationally recruited short-term consultant. For this purpose,
funds (K153,000 or US$95,600) are provided under the Project to cover
consultant services (Table C9). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that this consultant would be employed under terms of reference and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA; and that the individual
selected would have qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
C. Project Costs
3.23      Total Project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at
K17.0 million (US$10.6 million) of which K12.7 million (US$8.0 million) or
about 75% represent foreign exchange costs. Details of Project costs as
presented in Tables Cl to C17 are summarized below.



- 22 -
RES  aNNr sutJiC
PROI= CmSU*M^Y
FCII  Z% OF MM
TQAL  C-      IDCE AL ED     FGM     7ML gEMME BaM CTS
(K' OO)             (IE$'000)
A. IN EDaLm) CRIr SER;S
Artial Flsberum                         495     792 1,287   310    495    805    61.5          9.8
Cmmercua 1F1er                           47      67   114    29      42     71    59.2         0.9
Collectioaft4aileting Fac1stRm        1,116   2,712 3,828   697  1,695  2,392    70.9         29.2
Gamld L1ne of Credt                     16D     240   400   100    150    250    60.0          3.1
Mm_ nt and Tehlcal Assistaice             -     549   549     -    343    343   10D.0          4.2
Sib-Total               1,818   4,360 6,178 1,136  2,725  3,861       06        47.2
B. Ngr MANaFACTURI FA:  XIIES              180   1,433 1,613   113    895  1,008    88.8          12.3
C. MANAMM  (P FM~ RESWM
FacltLes                                745   1,843 2,588   466  1,152  1,618    71.2         19.8
M.miment wid Te    Ll Asistane           28   1,392 1,420    17    870    887    98.1         10.8
Train2i                                 180     337   517   113    210    323    65.0          3.9
Sub-Total                 953   3,572 4,525   596  2,232  2,828    78.9         34.5
D. aoXDaTIC, M:     /URM  AND EVAIATE       90      702   792    56    439    495    88.7          6.0
TOOL BASE  6                              3,041  10,067 13,108 1,9D1  6,291  8,192    76.8       10D.0
MiysicalCwntInsncies                     89     104   193    56      65    121    53.7         1.5
Price CoftiaLed                       1,168   2,567 3,735   729  1,605  2,334    68.8         28.5
I    Pro=L   COSTS                        4,298  12,738 17,036 2,686  7,961 10,647    74.8       130.0
Project Costs have been estimated at mid 1984 prices.  Physical
contingencies of 10% have been included on selected items considered to
present some risk of quantititive underestimation, giving an aggregate
physical contingency of about 1% of total Project Costs. Price
contingencies have been included as follows: all local costs 20% in 1984,
12% in 1985 and 10% therafter; all foreign exchange costs 3.5% in 1984
8% in 1985, 9% in 1986-88 and 7.5% in 1989. Price contingencies represent
about 22% of total Project Costs.
D. Financing
3.24       The financing of Project costs, net of direct taxes and duties
would be as follows:



- 23 -
US$ (million)      Percent
IDA                    7.1              75%
Government             1.3              14%
Borrowers
Contributions         1.1              11%
Net Project Costs
(excluding taxes)   9.5              100%
Taxes and Duties       1.1              11%
Total Project Costs  10.6              111%
The proposed IDA credit to Government of US$7.1 m (K11.4 m) would be on
standard terms. The credit would finance about 75% of Net Project costs
(excluding taxes and duties) or 90% of the total foreign exchange costs of
US$8.0 m. The Government would provide US$2.4 m (K3.8 m) including taxes
and duties. The fisherments, marketers' and net manufacturing company's
contributions of US$1.1 m (K1.8 m) are the 20 percent down payments by
borrowers of ZADB and local currency expenditure on raw materials and
spares for net manufacturing.
3.25      Credit funds (K4.5 m or US$2.8 m) and Government contribution
(K1.4 m or US$0.9 m) for the ZADB credit component onlending would be
channelled by GRZ to ZADB as Go-vernment's equity contribution. These funds
would be used by ZADB to establish a revolving fund to finance ZADB lending
for fish production and marketing activities. Conclusion of a financing
agreement satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness. In
respect of technical assistance to ZADB (K0.5 m or US$0.3 m) GRZ will pass
on the IDA funds to ZADB. as a grant.  Credit funds (K1.6 m or US$1.0 m)
for the net manufacturing component would be given by the Bank of Zambia to
Nkwazi Manufacturing Company against the company furnishing equivalent
amount of funds in Kwachas at the prevailing exchange rate. Part of the
remainder of the proceeds of the IDA credit (K4.0 m or US$2.5 m) together
with the Government contribution will be passed on by the Government to
Department of Fisheries and would be used to finance the implementation of
improved management of fish resources component. Finally, part of the IDA
credit (K0.8 m or US$0.5 m) and Government contribution will be passed on
by GRZ to the Ministry of Agriculture to finance the Project coordination
and monitoring and evaluation.



- 24 -
E. Procurement
3.26      Procurement arrangements are summarized in the Table below:
Project element                      Procurement Method            TOTAL
ICB    LCB    Other    N.A.         COST
(US$ million)
Civil Works                            0.7                          0.7
(0.4)                        (0.4)
Plant, machinery and
equipment for
collection/marketing          2.5                                 2.5
(1.5)                               (1.5)
Boats, engines and nets                         1.4                 1.4
(0.7)               (0.7)
Vehicles                        0.2                                 0.2
(0.2)                               (0.2)
Raw Materials and spares        1.2                                 1.2
for net manufacturing        (1.0)                               (1.0)
Facilities for DOF                             2.0                  2.0
(1.1)               (1.1)
Technical assistance
and training                                 2.6                  2.6
(2.2)               (2.2)
3.9    0.7     6.0                 10.6
(2.7)  (0.4)   (4.0)                (7.1)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Two separate contracts of equal amounts will be awarded for civil works.
Plant, machinery and equipment for collection/marketing centres, vehicles
and raw materials and machinery spares for net manufacturing will be
grouped whenever possible into contracts valued at US$50,000 or more and
will be procured through ICB. A margin of preference equal to 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual customs duties and import
taxes, whichever is less, will be allowed for domestic manufacturers.
Contracts for items valued at less than US$50,000 will be purchased through
LCB in which foreign suppliers are e.igible to participate, or for items of
less than US$20,000 by shopping with at least three price quotations.
Existing local procurement procedures are acceptable for the items to be
procured under the Project. The procedures, however, are being revised.
The new regulations implementing the revised laws, which are satisfactory



- 25 -
to IDA, are expected co be in place by the time the credit is effective.
Order for boats, engines and nets to be financed under the credit from ZADB
will be placed individually by borrowers through ZADB with local suppliers
considered by ZADB to have adequate sales and after-sales service. All
bidding packages for works and goods of US$50,000 and above will be subject
to prior IDA review. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
above procurement procedures would be followed.
F. Disbursements
3.27      The IDA credit would be disbursed to cover the following:
(i)  100 percent of foreign expenditures and 60 percent of local
expenditures against ZADB sub-loans for fish production and
marketing facilities. (US$2.8 m), ZADB would manage
individual sub-loans in such a way as to ensure total
disbursements made by IDA for each sub-loan would not exceed
60 percent of total financing;
(ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for management and
technical assistance to ZADB (US$0.3 m);
(iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local
expenditures for the provision of facilities to DOF
(US$1.0 m);
(iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for management and technical assistance to
DOF (US$0.9 m);
(v)  100 percent of foreign expenditure and 60 percent of local
expenditures for training (US$0.3 m);
(vi) 100 percent of foreign expenditure and 90 percent of local
expenditures for imported raw materials and spares for the
net manufacturing company (US$1.0 m);
(vii)  100 percent of foreign expenditur-s and 90 percent of local
expenditures for project coordination and monitoring and
evaluation (US$0.4 m); and
(viii)  an unallocated amount of US$0.4 m representing a portion of
the contingencies on the above categories and transferable
to them as required.
3.28      (A) Disbursements under (i) for contracts valued at less than
$10,000 and local currency expenditures would be made against
statement of expenditure (SOE) certified by the Managing
Director of ZADB.
(B) For recurring local expenditures covering operating and
maintenance costs, and for contracts valued at less than



- 26 -
$10,000 under (iii), (iv) and (v), disbursements would be
made against SOE certified by the Director of Fisheries.
(C) For recurring local expenditures covering operating and
maintenance costs and contracts valued at less than $10,000
under (vii), disbursements would also be made against SOE
certified by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Water Development.
3.29      Accounting procedures within ZADB, MAWD and DOF are adequate to
support SOE applications. Documentation to support the expenditures
financed on the basis of SOE will not be submitted to IDA with the
borrower's withdrawal applications but will be retained by ZADB, DOF and
MAWD and made available for review by IDA representatives in the course of
Project Supervision. In addition, such documentation will be the subject
of annual audit by auditors acceptable to IDA. Disbursements for
expenditures other than those specified in items (A), (B) and (C) would be
fully documented. Funds remaining in the Credit Account at Project
Completion would be cancelled unless otherwise agreed by IDA. A schedule
showing the estimated pattern of disbursements over the Project period is
in Table Al. Since a substantial portion of project funds (about 60%)
would be utilized in financing 3 loans with short disbursement periods and
technical assistance for up to 3 years, the use of regional disbursement
profile (for combined fisheries and forestry projects) in this instance is
considered inappropriate.
Table Al ([(eha millinn)
Tech. Facilities,   M & E and
Asst. Tmhiiing &    Coordina-    Net    Unr
for  & Tech. Asst. tim for    M-nr   alo-
Credit ZAUB    for DCF     Mot    fad=-g cated Total
IMk              4.5  0.5       3.5        0.6        1.6    0.7  11.4
Goverrmer
(inchluing taxes) 1.4    -     2.3       0.1                      3.8 12/
Borrower         1.4    -         -          -        0.4           1.8 12/
Total Project Cost
(including taxes) 7.3  0.5     5.8       0.7         2.0    0.7  17.0
3.30      In order to ensure that funds for the project would be available
when needed two Special Accounts, operated individually by ZADB and MAWD
would be established in the Bank of Zambia with initial deposits of
$200,000 equivalent each, sufficient to cover about three months
expenditures plus twenty percent for each participant. The initial
deposits would be disbursed upon receipt and approval of Procedure III,
Applications for direct payment submitted by each participant. The
Accounts would be replenished on receipt and approval of applications for
reimbursement (Procedure I) covering payments made from the Accounts for
12/ Includes approximately K1.7 million taxes.



- 27 -
eligible goods and services required for the project. The establishment of
the Special Accounts in the Bank of Zambia, into which the initial deposits
would be made, would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.31      ZADB, Bank of Zambia, the Department of Fisheries and PCU (MAWD)
would maintain separate records and accounts adequate to explain all
project related activites. The accounts of ZADB are audited by Peat,
Marwick Mitchell and Co. and the accounts of MAWD and DOF are audited by
the Auditor General who are satisfactory to IDA. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the accounts of ZADB would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and that the audited accounts together with the
auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
the fiscal year. The auditors of ZADB, the Department of Fisheries and PCU
would be requested to submit reports on the reviews of documents supporting
the statements of expenditures under (i), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi)
referred in para 3.27 and certify that these documents are in accordance
with the terms and conditions of the credit.
H. Environmental Impact
3.32      The Project supports ongoing activities by artisanal and
commercial fishermen (fish production and processing) which are not known
to have had any significant air, water or other environmental impact. The
only potential environmental risks are the risks of over-fishing and
destruction of desirable fish species and the risk of reduction of forestry
resources from the smoking of fish. The former risk is very low since the
incremental fish quantities are modest, and are within estimates of safe
sustainable yields. The latter risk is also low since, although fish
production may increase by as much as 35Z in the Project lakes, the
projected increase in fresh fish marketing projected would mean only an 18X
increase in sun and/or smoke dried fish.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development would have
overall responsibility for all project activities. Responsibility for
implementation of the credit program would rest with ZADB, under the
supervision of GRZ's Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development. The
Bank of Zambia would administer the foreign exchange financing of materials
and machinery spares required for manufacturing fishing nets. The
Department of Fisheries would procure and utilize the facilities and
technical assistance to improve its role in the management of fish
resources. A project coodination unit (PCU) headed by a Project
Coordinator would be established in MAWD directly reporting to the
Permanent Secretary of MAWD to coordinate all project activities and carry
out the monitoring and evaluation of the project.
A. Institutionalized Credit Services
4.02      This component will be implemented by the Zambia Agricultural
Development Bank (ZADB), the recent history of which has been described in
Chapter II. This section covers ZADB organization and management and the



- 28 -
policies and procedures which it proposes to follow in implementing the
project component.
Organization and Management
4.03      The Project 's credit component would be implemented by ZADB under
the responsibility of its Board of Directors acting through its Managing
Director, as part of its normal operations. The Board has ten members:
four including the Chairman are appointed by the Minister of Agriculture
and Water Development and the remaining six are appointed by the
shareholders. The Managing Director would be assisted by the Directors of
Administration and Personnel, Finance and Planning and Operations. These
positions have been filled by internationally recruited persons financed
under the Bank-supported Eastern Province Agricultural Development
Project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the above
management positions would be filled throughout the life of the Project
with qualified and experienced staff. Assurances were also obtained that
ZADB would consult with the Association prior to the appointment of any
staff to these positions, on the qualifications and experience of the staff
selected. To assist ZADB's management in the implementation of the credit
component, the Project provides for an internationally recruited Fisheries
Credit Specialist (para 3.11;. ZADB's organization is given in Chart 2.
4.04      All of ZADB's activities would be carried out from its
headquarters in Lusaka and a network of branch and liaison offices
(operational zones) it proposes to establish. These zones are
geographically delineated areas which would not necessarily be same as the
administrative areas (provinces and districts). In case of fisheries
lending, the zones would encompass the entire areas where there are fishing
activities. ZADB proposes to start operations with a limited number of
branch offices so that its operations remain financially viable. ZADB's
present plans call for opening 3 branch offices (at full development
altogether 9 branch offices or one office in each province and in Lusaka
are envisaged) and 21 liaison offices by year end 1987 (Table El). The
opening of branch offices and timing thereof would be strictly on the basis
of the anticipated volume of business and the financial viability of
operations. It is intended that as and when a ZADB zonal office would be
established, AFC and CFC would terminate their operations in that area.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would ensure
that within 3 months of ZADB opening a zonal office AFC and/or CFC
operations in that area would cease.
4.05      For operating purposes each liaison office would normally be
divided into approximately 4 sub-areas which would be supervised by Credit
Supervisors. To administer fisheries loans to artisanal fishermen ZADB
plans to open 4 sub-offices. The offices to service the fishermen
operating on Lakes Mweru Luapula and Mweru Wa-Ntipa would start functioning
in late 1984. The 2 offices to handle credit to fishermen living in
Mpulungu and Nsumbu would start functioning in early 1985. Opening of
properly staffed sub offices would be a condition of disbursement against
loans to artisanal fishermen in these area. To maintain strict control



- 29 -
over the operations and financial results initially a revolving fund would
be established for each liaison office. Subsequent changes in the amount
of the revolving fund would largely depend on the operating performance
including the loan repayment record. The use of revolving funds is
intended to act as a positive factor in maintaining good repayment records
as a significant reduction in the amount of the fund would equally affect
the good clients and delinquents.
4.06      ZADB is still in its formation stage and only a small part of its
ultimate total staff requirements has been appointed. As ZADB's operations
expand suitably qualified candidates may be appointed from amongst the
staff of AFC and CFC, the two institutions ZADB is intended to replace.
ZADB would be under no obligation to automically recruit from these
institutions and would be free to look elsewhere for meeting its staffing
needs. ZADB's staffing plan is at Table E2.
Credit Policies and Procedures
4.07      Credit to artisanal fishermen would be given to individual
fishermen and through groups of fishermen as and when it becomes feasible,
In order to keep costs within reason, given the small size of some
Individual loans (about K240 or US$150). Formation of such groups would be
encouraged actively in collaboration with field staff of DOF and village
chiefs. The most effective means of group lending would be through the
formation of small (primary) cooperatives which would be legal entities.
Formation of such cooperatives would be encouraged through ZADB stressing
its preference for group lending and that loans of small amounts may not be
available on individual basis in all cases. Although development of
fishermen's cooperatives would be actively pursued, their formation in
significant numbers is likely to take some time. Fishermen and fishermen's
cooperatives would be advised of the ZADB activities and its loan
facilities at group meetings organized by field staff of ZADB in
collaboration with the DOF's extension staff and the Ministry of
Cooperatives.
4.08      In considering loan applications ZADB would have to be satisfied
that the applicant:
Ci) has the basic ability and industry to undertake productive
fishing operations, to service any loan made to him;
(ii) is resident in the area where he intends to carry out the
fishing business;
(iii) is or will become a full-time fisherman and his sole or
principal means of living is or will be derived from fishing;
and
(iv) has adequate fishing experience and proven ability in the
type of fishing for which the loan is to be given.
4.09      Loan application forms would be available at ZADB's liaison
offices and/or they would be provided on specified regular intervals by
ZADB credit supervisors. To process loan applications ZADB field staff



- 30 -
would arrange meetings with fishermen and/or cooperatives at which lending
policies and procedures would be explained. Individual fishermen would be
assisted in completing application forms and loan agreements. For this
purpose field staff would visit fishing villages and camps. Completed
application forms would be scrutinized at the local ZADB liaison office
with the assistance of district fisheries officer. In the case of loans to
cooperatives it would be the responsibility of the Managers (which all
cooperatives are required to appoint under the law) to assist their
members in completing loan applications which would be reviewed by their
respective Boards to determine the suitability of applicants for the
amounts of loans applied for. All qualified applications would be bunched
into a single application from the cooperative to ZADB. To ensure that the
loan amount sought by the cooperative only includes sub-loans to its
members who are creditworthy ZADB field staff would review the individual
loan applications with the cooperative's Board and district fisheries
officer prior to the submission to ZADB. The loan by ZADB would be given
to the Cooperative which would be responsible for its repayment.
4.10      Qualified loan applications would be forwarded to the appropriate
branch office of ZADB 13,. The branch manager would be authorised to
approve loans of upto K1000 (US$625). Consideration of applications in
excess of this amount and upto K10,000 would be the responsibility of a
Fisheries Loan Committee comprising the Director of Operations, Fisheries
Credit Specialist, Projects Manager and Credit Manager. Loan proposals in
excess of K10,000 would be considered by ZADB's Management Loan committee
comprising the Managing Director, Director of Operations, Director of
Finance and Planning, Fisheries Credit Specialist, Projects Manager and
Credit Manager. In case of a loan for fishing nets, engine or GRP boat a
purchase order would be issued to the supplier designated by the applicant
to make delivery to the borrower. In case of a loan for wooden plank boat
cash payments on a graduated scale commensurate with the status of boat
construction as certified by the credit supervisor wruld be made to the
carpenter selected by the fishermen. The scale and timing of payments to
the carpenter would be specified in the loan agreement.
4.11      Loans would normally be repaid from the sales proceeds of the
fishermen's catch in accordance with the schedule of repayments as
indicated in the loan agreement. Becruse the fishermen sell their catch to
individual traders on a daily basis the Credit Supervisors would need to
maintain almost daily contact with the borrowers. All borrowers would be
required to open and maintain joint (with ZADB) savings accounts with a
commercial bank designated by ZADB in which, in addition to providing 20%
down-payments, the borrowers would be required to deposit on a fortnightly
or monthly basis, depending on the nature of their fishing operations, a
certain portion of their average sales proceeds which would be sufficient
to discharge their loan obligations 14/. The amounts deposited in the
savings accounts would earn normal interest.  The principal amount of loan
for nets and interest thereon would be repayable within one year, whereas
the loans for medium term loan items would be repayable in half-yearly
13/ Until a branch office is in operation in a particular region, these
applications would be directed to ZADB headquarters.
14/ This procedure is necessary until such time a ZADB branch is
established in the region.



- 31 -
Installments. Repayments of loans granted would be serviced by
periodically transferring the requisite amounts from the savings accounts
of the borrower.
4.12      Credit for Commer,1al Fisheries on Lake Kariba.  Individual
fishermen and private compan-les would be eligible for loans to purchase
transport boats. Loan applications would be submitted directly to ZADB
headquarters in Lusaka where similar procedures for processing applications
would be followed as the procedures in case of loans to artisanal fishermen
in excess of K1,O0O. Ordering and delivery procedures would be the same as
for nets, engine and GRP boat.
4.13      Borrowers would be required to open savings bank accounts with
ZADB,15/ and would be required to deposit into savings accounts their
sales proceeds from fishing operations on which they would be allowed
interest at the prevailing rate. Withdrawals from these ac-ounts would be
permitted once the deposits -xceed 20% of the outstanding loan, provided
that a minimum of 20X oi the outsgai ing loan is retained in these
accounts. Apart from adding some hing to the security of the loans, which
is primarily obtained through liers (para 3.07), this procedure is designed
to encourage the development of a full range of banking services for ZADB.
4.14      Credit for marketing facilities.  Proposals would be invited from
reputable businessmen and private companies to set up int2grated marketing
facilities at Lakes Mweru Wa-Ntipa and Luapula and an ice plant at Kafue.
These proposals would be evaluated within ZADB by the Management Loan
Committee (para 4.10). The committee's analyses and recommendations
together with a project brief in respect of the proposal recommended by the
committee for approval would be submitted to ZADB Board of Directors.
Prior to the apprcval zf the loan a copy of the package submitted to the
Board would be sent to IDA for its review and comments. Procedures for
maintaining savings accounts by the borrowers and balances there': would be
similar to the procedures in case of loans for fishing operations In Lake
Kariba.
4.15      Revolving Account.  Repayments to ZADB of the principal amounts
on the credits made for fish production and marketing facilities  tom the
proceeds of the IDA credit would be kept In a Revolving Account to be
established by ZADB.  Amounts available in the Revolving Account "1uld be
used by ZADB to finance lending to individuals and private sector companies
for establishment/improvement of fish production and marketing facilities.
4.16      interest Rates.  ZADB's relending terms would be consistent with
the Interest rate charged by commercial banks in the country. At present
on fully secured loans in the agricultural sector, the commercial banks'
interest rate is 15X p.a. As ZADB would give loans only with adequate
security, it would not charge less than 15% interest. The Interest rate
would be reviewed annually by the Government and IDA and may be adjusted if
necessary to ensure the efficient operation of ZADB's lending program.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations. Although the
proposed interest rate is in line with the current interest rates in the
15/ It is expected that permission for ZADB to accept deposits would be
given by year end 1984.



- 32 -
country, this is negative in real terms, with inflation running at about
202. The rate of inflation, however, is forecast to fall as follows:
1985-12% and 10Z thereafter. Assuming, these forecasts are accurate there
are reasonable prospects for positive real intereast rates during the
Project period. Paragraphs 4.21 and 4.22 sumri-tze the financial impact of
interest rates on ZADB as an institution.
4.17      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the terms and
conditions of lending, and the policies and procedures to be used, will be
as described above (paras 4.08 through 4.16), and in the relevant
paragraphs of Chapter III (paras 3.05, 3.07, 3.08 and 3.10.).
Financial Structure of ZADB
4.18      At the end of financial year 1983 ZADB had received K2.8 million
(US$1.75 million) from GRZ to finance preliminary expenditures (K1.8
million or US$1.12 million) and GRZ's subscription towards ZADB's share
capital (KI million or US$0.63 million). In addition ZADB had raised two
bridging loans of K5 million (US$3.12 million) each from commercial banks
in the last quarter of 1983. Out of the total resources available, K1.81
(US$1.13 million) had been utilized in meeting preliminary expenditures,
[1.25 million (US$0.78 million) had been given in one block loan and the
balance was represented by fixed assets (K0.52 million or US$0.33 million)
and current assets of K9.22 million (US$5.76 million) including K9.13
million (US$5.71 million) in bank balances.
4.19      ZADB has prepared its financial forecasts for the next four years
(through 1987) as indicated at Tables A2, A3 and A4. During the forecast
period ZADB's loan portfolio (including fisheries loans under the project)
is estimated to increase from K1.25 million (US$0.78 million) at year end
1983 to about K86 million (US$53.7 million) at the end of 1987. This
forecast assumes that ZADB will proceed at an even pace and will not be
under any pressure to expand its activities faster in order to completely
replace AFC/CFC by the end of the planned period. In the event that the
'Study Team' (para 2.36) recommends rapid phasing out of AFC/CFC these
projections would need to be revised to take account of the proposed
phase-out period and a fresh assessment of resources available to ZADB.
4.20      To finance its lending program, pay the bridging loans of K10
million (US$6.2 million) provide for the projected increase in the value of
net assets of K9.7 million (US$6.1 million) and to cover the small amount
of cumulative deficit (K0.15 million or US$0.09 million) ZADB will need
total financial resources of about 1105 million (US$65.6 million) in the
next four years. Of the total amount required approximately K9.1 million
was available to ZADB as unutilized cash balances leaving about K96 million
(US$60 million) to be raised by the end of 1987. ZADB plans to cover these
needs by issuing shares of the value of about K73.5 million (US$45.9
million), K21 million (US$13.1 million) through the issue of interest
bearing bonds and customer deposits and about K1.5 million (US$0.9 million)
which will be available under ongoing IDA financed agricultural development
projects. ZADB's operating plan is based on government's contributions to
its share capital of K4 million in 1984, K16 million in 1985, K10 million
in 1986 and K6.7 million in 1987. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that ZADB's capital requirements and financing arrangements would be



- 33 -
reviewed with IDA annually and that GRZ would ensure that its investment in
ZADB is in accordance with the above schedule.
4.21      ZADB being an independent institution has no recourse to
Government funds (except Government investment as shareholder) to finance
either its lending program or operating expenditures. It is, therefore,
imperative for ZADB to carry out its functions in a responsible manner and
to ensure that it operates on a 'no loss' basis, taking one year with
another. To acbieve this on a longer term basis and to minimize its losses
during the start-up phase when its administrative costs would be
disproportionately high in relation to its expanding loan portfolio, ZADB
plans to maintain a low total debt/equity ratio. According to its
financial projections ZADB's capital and reserves at year end 1987 would
provide about 77% of its total financial resources or a total debt/equity
ratio of less than 1:3. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
until its share capital is fully subscribed ZADB would maintain a total
debt/equity ratio of not more than 1:3. ZADB would also set its interest
rates equal to the maximum interest rate to agricultural sector allowed
(currently 15%). Since the administrative expenses of handling large
number of loans, particularly smallholders and artisanal fishermen
involving small amounts would be relatively high, ZADB in addition to the
interest would charge a 2% commitment fee and a 2% processing fee (with a
maximum of K1000) to offset part of these costs. As ZADB has recently
started operations it has no track record of bad debts. It is estimated
that ZADB's overall administrative costs, including 10% and 5% provision
for losses on seasonal and long-/medium- term loans respectively, would be
46% in 1984, 18% in 1985, 12% in 1986 and about 11% in 1987 of the average
outstanding loans (Table A4) 16/. Until ZADB has gained more experience a
10% loss provision on seasonal loens and 5% loss provision on other loans
(which would be fully secured) is considered judicious.
4.22      Based on the above assumptions (para 4.21) ZADB is not expected
to become profitable until 1986. It is estimated that ZADB would incur
losses of K2.1 million (US$1.3 million) and KO.1 million (US$0.1 million)
during the next two years and would generate profits of K2.0 million
(US$1.3 million) and K3.5 million (US$2.2 million) in 1986 and 1987
respectively (Table A5).
4.23      Separate calculations have been made of the financial impact on
ZADB of administering fisheries loans under the project (Table A6). Loans
to artisanal fishermen are not expected to be profitable throughout the
project period. This is mainly due to the high cost of administering the
loans in scattered and remote areas in relation to the value of loans to be
given. Effective management of these loans would require establishing four
sub-offices in the lake areas covered under the project. As these offices
would virtually have no other business, the relatively small amounts of
loans would not permit full recovery of the establishment costs. As
indicated in Table A6, it is estimated that the net deficit after making a
10% provision on short-term loans and 5% provision on mediumr-term loans
would range from about K35,000 p.a. to R80,000 p.a. On the other hand, the
administrative expenses, including a loss provision of 5% on commercial
16/ The declining cost percentage mostly reflects the faster growth in loan
portfolio in relation to administrative expenses.



- 34 -
fishermen and marketing loans of relatively large amounts, would be low.
As a result these loans are expected to generate sufficient profit (upto
K520,000 p.a.) to provide ZADB with a net profit (after offsetting losses
on loans to artisanal fisherman) of upto K485,000 per annum. In order to
minimize the risk of defaults on small loans, the artisanal fishermen
annual lending program would be reviewed with IDA and, beginning with
second year of project implementation, lending would be based on the
performance of these loans, particularly repayment record(s) of prior
period(s). Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
B. Assistance to Nkwazi Manufacturing Company
4.24      This component will be implemented by the Bank of Zambia.  The
Nkwazi Manufacturing Company would apply to the Bank of Zambia for foreign
exchange of the value of up to US$1.0 m. The Bank of Zambia would
scrutinize the application(s) to establish that the proposed imports would
be utilized exclusively to manufacture fishing nets and
rehabilitate/improve machinery and equipment for producing fishing nets.
The amount of foreign exchange allocation would be against equivalent
amount of Kwacha payment by the company. The Kwacha amounts received from
the company would be passed by the Bank of Zambia to GRZ to be utilized for
financing GRZ's contribution to project costs. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that these terms and conditions would apply.
C. Improved Management of Fish Resources
4.25      This component will be implemented by the Department of
Fisheries, the organization and recent history of which has been described
in Chapter II.
4.26      Stock Assessment and Management.  The highest priority would be
given to fish stock assessment in Lakes Tanganyika, Mweru Wa-Ntipa, Mweru
Luapula, Kariba and Kafue River System. Some information is already being
collected by the DOF as described in Chapter II. The Department's on-going
efforts would be strengthened by an internationally recruited Stock
Assessment Expert (biologist). Initially, he would be required to review
the existing activities and determine the extent of useful data/information
already available. Based on his findings he would formulate a detailed
program of stock assessment studies in the relevant lake areas including
arrangements for the analysis of existing raw data. He would recommend the
methodology to be adopted and also indicate further technical assistance
that would be required to complete these studies. In addition to the Stock
Assessment Expert, funds are provided under the Project for international
recruitment of a Limnologist and short term consultants (paras 3.15 and
3.17). However, final decision on work program and the type and extent of
further technical assistance would be based on the the Stock Assessment
Expert's findings and recommendations developed in consultation and
agreement with the DOF. Based on these recommendations a program for stock
assessment studies to be carried out would be developed and submitted for
IDA's review and comments not later than June 30, 1986. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiation.



- 35 -
4.27      Assessment of fishery resources would basically be done in two
main phases: (i) the initial evaluation of a stock or fishery aimed at
determining its approximate potential magnitude; and (ii) the monitoring of
the resource to gauge the effects of fishing practices and management
measures.
4.28      Other Studies.  The DOF would undertake several studies aimed at
improving the existing fishing methods, and fishing gear. For this purpose
provision is made under the project to engage a master fisherman from
Burundi (para 3.15). He would primarily be responsible for developing
'Burundi type lift net' for demonstration to the artisanal fishermen on
Lake Tanganyika which may lead to the adoption of this non-traditional
fishing method by the artisanal fishermen and thus gradually replace the
present practice of using beach seine nets which are damaging to juvenile
kapenta.  Similar exercises would be undertaken on Lakes Mweru Wa-Ntipa and
Mweru Luapula with improved GRP and wooden plank boats. These boats would
be motorized to demonstrate the benefits of exploiting 'new fishing
grounds' which, because of their distance from the shore, at present are
not exploited or underfished.
4.29      Training.  The training of the DOF staff and artisanal fishermen
would be one of the most important aspects of the technical assistance
under the Project. Altogether about 10 senior and middle level staff of
DOF would be sent abroad to suitable institutions ranging from 6 months to
3 years for training in fisheries management and technology and stock
assessment techniques. These training programs would enable the
beneficiaries to take over the stock assessment function from expatriate
advisors, generally improve the DOF management of fish resources and
strengthen the staff training program which ultimately would benefit the
artisanal fishermen through better extension service. A detailed
integrated and realistic time schedule for institutional development
activities would be prepared by DOF within six months of project
effectiveness. This schedule will highlight training of higher and middle
management employees with details of who would get what training and timing
thereof. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.30      The Project has two management 'centres'.  The credit institution
(ZADB) and the research, extension and training institution (DOF). The
progress of Project implementation would be monitored closely by the PCU in
the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development which would submit
half-yearly reports within three months of the end of each half year about
physical implementation and the use of funds to the Managing Director of
ZADB, Director of Fisheries and the Permanent Secretaries of MAWD, MOF and
IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.31      The day-to-day implementation task of M & E work would be shared
between the Project coordinator, the DOF economist and the ZADB Fisheries
Loan Officer. Monitoring information would be recorded in the first
instance at the field level within DOF and ZADB. This information would be
given to the Project Coordinator, who would use simple tabulations and
performance indicators, and would develop charts to summarise this data in
a graphic and easily updatable form.



- 36 -
4.32      A large part of this data is already collected by the DOF but
updating and rationalization are required. For evaluation, a combination
of modest scale sample survey and more intensive case study would be
adopted since it is not expected that the project would be able to handle a
large load of either data collection or analysis. A single visit survey of
30 artisanal fishermen per lake (visits would be undertaken early in
Project Year 2, as this would be the earliest that survey implementation
could be expected). The survey would be repeated on a similar sized
borrower sample in Year 5, including all borrowers selected and still
actively fishing from the first sample. The survey would also be used to
choose 3 representative case study families receiving credit at each lake
(a total of 9), and these would be subject to more intensive study with
monthly visits by enumerators and at least two visits annually by the
Project Coordinator and DOF Economist together.
4.33      The survey design, the analysis format and the questionnaire
would be developed by a specialist M & E consultant (para 3.21) who would
return to assist the DOF Economist and Project Coordinator with the
analysis. The Project Coordinator would be overall supervisor of the
evaluation surveys but the DOF economist would carry out most of the
day-to-day survey management and analysis. Existing fisheries extension
staff would be used for enumeration.
4.34      It would be the Project Coordinator's task to ensure that
monitoring and evaluation findings would be passed rapidly to the
respective inrstitutional managers, and that simple ad hoc investigations
needed to answer emerging problems would be mounted when necessary. A
guiding principle of the whole M & E component would be to keep it simple
and well within the capacity of the institutions to handle.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production
5.01      Increased production under the Project would come from increased
fish catches and reduced losses. Table B8 gives the present production,
present disposal, production at full development and disposal at full
development for the lakes in question. On the basis of the representative
production models, increased fish catch could potentially reach about 9,600
tons of fresh fish annually. However, three adjustments have to be made to
this figure to obtain the projected longer term incremental production
attributable to the project. First, the normal 20% marketing losses must
be deducted (about half of this is retrieved by the marketing component).
Second, it is assumed that 50% of the model 4 (nets only) borrowers would
fail, for various reasons, to replace their nets and would revert by Year
10, to pre-project production levels. Third, it is assumed that, in the
case of 25% of all borrowers, the credit provided would not produce
benefits that could be attributed to the Project either because, in the
"Without Project" situation, the investment would still have taken place or
because of some form of diversion. With these adjustments the long-term
increased production level attributable to the production component of the
project is estimated at about 4,700 tons although temporarily increments
at the end of the Project period w.ould be about 6,000 tons. In addition,
an incremental quantity of a little over 1,000 tons of fresh fish annually



- 37 -
would result from the marketing component both from reduced losses and
increased production incentives. The projected total project annual
increment by Year 6 is therefore estimated at about 7,000 tons but in the
longer term is assumed to stabilise at around 6,000 tons. The latter
represents an increase over the present 53,000 tonc national catch of about
10%. The attained catch would represent about 80% of the safe fishing
estimate (based on FAG calculations) for the lakes in question.
B. Marketing
5.02      Table B8 gives the production level and disposal pattern at full
development Year 6; these estimates include the incremental portion not
being claimed as an economic benefit to the project and losses that might
occur at any stage during the marketing chain. The incremental project
production would pass through three main channels:
(i) the existing sun/smoke dried marketing channel in which
traders with small trucks or individuals who travel by bus
buy up fish processed by the fishermen. This would
include marketing of the dried kapenta produced by the
commercial pontoon rig operators on Lake Kariba;
(ii) the iced fresh fish marketing channel in which traders
with small trucks buy fresh fish on the beach and carry it
on ice, sometimes with substantial losses, to the urban
markets; and
(iii) the frozen fish marketing channel which is currently small
but which would be expanded with the marketing credit to
be provided under the project and which, in conjunction
with the associated fish collection system, would handle
about 3,500 tons of fish p.a. which represents about 20%
of the average production of the two lakes.
5.03      Over the project period, the national percentages of fresh and
iced fish disposal would be expected to remain approximately constant at
17% and 9%, respectively. Frozen fish would increase from about 5X of the
total to about 15% with dried fish falling from about 70% to 6OZ.
C. Prices
5.04      During 1983 prices were decontrolled and although price control
regulations had been largely ignored at the retail and wholesale level,
there was, because of limited landing sites, poor road access, and the
presence of council fish weighing stations and Government staff, some
adherence to the fixed price at the beach. Some limited price control
influence remains, however, since two fishing companies under Party and
Government control retain prices that are not fully related to supply and
demand influences but whose prices are set partly in the consumers
interest. At this stage, fish prices are highly competitive with those of
other major protein sources, as the table below indicates. Generally, due
to price decontrols, fish prices are now floating upwards and the timing of
the project will allow this price rise to be exploited for increased
production. This price trend should be sustained by the enormous demand
for fish, particularly fresh fish, in Zambia (para 2.20).



- 38 -
ZK per Kilogram
Beach                 Retail
Fish                     Bream    Kapenta    Bream        Kapenta
Lake Tanganyika               1.00      1.00        -
(4.00 dried)
Lake Mweru Luapula            0.60       -          -
Lake Mweru wa-Ntipa           0.50       -          -
(2.60 dried)
Lake Kariba                    -        1.50        -
(6.00 dried)
Kafue                         2.20       -          -
Kitwe Supermarket              -         -         1.96          -
(controlled)
Kitwe Market                   -         -         2.50         8.00
(dried)
Lusaka Fish Shop               -         -      1.60-3.50       2.80
Chilanga & Makera Aqua-        -         -          1.60         -
culture (Government-owned)                   (max. 5 kg/      -
person
----Retail--
Meat                                     Low      Average      High
Quality    Quality    Quality
Beef:  Lusaka Supermarkets (frozen)   4.50         5.60         7.00
Chicken:  Lusaka Supermarkets            -         4.30          -
(frozen)
Kitwe Market                  -          4.00
(fresh)
5.08      Prices used in the models are conservative.  To allow for some
reduction in demand over time as the quantity of fish increases over the
Project period and to allow for a possible continuing fall in national per
capita real incomes, prices in the economic analysis have been reduced by
1% annually over 8 years.
VI. BENEFITS, BENEFICIARIES AND JUSTIFICATION
A. General
6.01      The increased production from the Project would contribute to
improving rural and urban nutrition, reducing food imports and increasing
rural incomes, mainly of the lower to middle income group rather than of
the very poor. Fish supplies would increase by about 7,000 tons, in the
short term stablising at about 6,000 tons in the longer term, approximately
a 10% increase over present levels. Imports of fish have been gradually
red' ed over recent years, so it is difficult to assess a realistic level
of import savings. One argument would be that, with the critical foreign
exchange position, imports would be reduced to zero over the ntxt 5 years
and that the project would therefore not contribute to any foreign exchange
saving. However, given the falling fish consumption and the place of fish
in the diet, it is considered more realistic that Government would feel



- 39 -
compelled to maintain at least a low level of imports in the absence of
production increases from the Project. Imports were of the order of 22,000
tons in 1971 and have fallen steadily since then because of foreign
exchange shortages. They are likely to be of the order of 2,000 tons in
1983. In view of the probable low level of imports fish has been treated
in the analyses as a non-traded good and has been valued at an estimated
average market price of K 0.70 at the beach and K 2.35 wholesale in urban
areas.
B. Economic Rate of Return
6.02      The Project Economic Rate of Return is estimated at 26% (Table
B8). The following assumptions were made:
a.  incremental fish catch for individual fishermen falling by 2%
annually due to some increase in inter-fishermen competition;
b.  price falling by 1% per annum in real terms to allow for a
continued fall in per capita incomes and the Project increase
in supply;
c.  25% of fishermen obtaining credit would have carried out the
associated improvements without the Project, or through
diversion of funds would not achieve the projected benefits;
d.  50Z of short-term borrowers would not maintain their full
development level of production but would revert to
pre-project levels due to lack of net replacement.
6.03      Efficiency prices were used to convert financial to economic
prices. Efficiency factors used are given in Table B8, the labour factor
used was 0.88 compared with a factor of 0.93 for incremental project
production.
C. Sensitivity and Risk Analysis
6.04      Sensitivity analysis was used to test major project variables for
their likely sensitivity to project success. Analysis of the impact of
percentage reductions of key variables on the rate of return and also
crossover values were used. A crossover value indicates the extent to
which the value of a variable can alter before the project "crosses over- a
given opportunity cost and thereby becomes economically unacceptable. An
estimated opportunity cost of capital of 12% was used for the break-even
level of economic acceptability in Zambia.
6.05      The results of the sensitivity analysis indicated the following
alternative scenarios:



- 40 -
ERR
Projected Project Economic Rate of Return          26%
With benefits down by 10%                          15%
With benefits down by 15%                           8%
With benefits down by 20%                           0%
With a 1 year lag in benefits and no change
in cost pattern                                12%
With a 2-year lag in benefits                       6%
With all costs up 10%                              16%
With all costs up 20%                               6%
6.06      The crossover value of total benefits (production and marketing
benefits) is about 12% below the projected level and the crossover value of
fish catch alone, with marketing benefits held constant, is 18% below the
expected level. These figures reveal a considerable level of sensitivity
to changes in the project benefit stream. However the level of sensitivity
in percentage terms has been strongly influenced by the series of very
conservative assumptions made in the basic economic analysis; these
include a quite low incremental catch per net of 25% for more distant
underfished areas, a reduction in the total number of fishing days, an
assumption of 20% losses in the incremental catch during marketing (some of
this loss is reclaimed in the marketing benefits analysis), an assumption
that 25% of the potential benefits cannot be attributed to the project, a
catch rate falling by 2% annually, and conservative base year prices
falling by 1% annually. Catches or prices a further 20% lower than these
projections seem unlikely.
6.07      The crossover value for total costs is 14%, thus the rate of
return would fall below the opportunity cost of capital of 12% should costs
in net present value terms escalate by more than 14%. Again, the
conservative nature of the assumptions should be considered in interpreting
the sensitivity of this figure. The crossover value for Project Costs
(i.e. excluding operating and labour costs of the models and post-project
period Project Costs) is 50%. This is relatively insensitive, a result
that is to be expected for a project that relies substantially on private
contributions for operational expenditure.
6.08      The major risks in the project would be:
a.  that regardless of adequate catches some artisanal fishermen
would default on loan repayments and that the repossesion of
assets financed by ZADB may prove to be difficult and
expensive;
b.  that there may be political obstacles in completely winding
up AFC and that the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank
would not be allowed to fully develop as planned despite the
various assurances to be obtained during negotiations;
c.  that a persistent and serious drought would affect water
levels and thus fish catch over a large part of the project
period;



- 41 -
d. that the Department of Fisheries would not be adequately
funded to undertake the necessary activities to improve its
research, extension, training and coordination role.
6.09      Fisheries Projects are above average risk projects in Africa.
Poor performance of most fisheries projects in other countries, however,
has been related to inefficient parastatals involved in fish production and
marketing and technical complexity of the projects. This project has been
specifically designed to support private fishermen and marketing
companies. None of these activities would be undertaken by public sector
enterprises. The loans to artisanal fishermen would support purchase of
fishing equipment with which better fishermen are already familiar. New
and improved fishing gear and methods would be experimented on by DOF to
prove and demonstrate their effectiveness. Government and project funding
and support to Department of Fisheries and the Zambia Agricultural
Development Bank is designed to exclusively assist individuals and private
companies in their efforts to improve fish supplies.
6.10      Because AFC has been and will continue to be, until it is
completely wound up, an increasingly unbearable drain on Government's
financial resources even to maintain its lending activities at the present
level it is not anticipated that the Government would reverse its resolve
to replace AFC with a financially viable and self sustaining organization.
However, despite recent confirmation of Government's intentions, an
indefinite delay in completely winding-up AFC due to some unforseen
political exigency cannot altogether be ruled out. While such an
eventuality might delay the planned growth of ZADB as primary lending
institution to agricultural sector It would not necessarily prevent it from
achieving financial viability or effectively handling the credit component
of the project provided assurances pertaining to financial and operating
performance criteria are obtained.
D. Beneficiaries
6.11      The Project would increase the incomes of approximately 1,150
artisanal owner-fishermen, raising Incomes after debt repayment from about
K3,000 per annum to between K3,500 per annum and K7,000 per annum.  It
would also increase the employment and/or incomes of "helpers" on artisanal
fishing boats by an average of about K580 for 2,300 "helpers". Aggregating
the impact on owners and helpers gives an average income increase for about
3,500 families of 100%, from about K1,400 to K2,800 over 7 years. As a
result of the Project consumption of fish would be maintained over 7 years
at approximately the present level of about 10 kg per capita, whereas
without the project average consumption would fall to about 9 kg per
capita. Women would not be directly involved in the project fishing
activities since there are few women involved in fishing and their
involvement is not expected to rise in the near future. However, the
project would improve nutrition which would be of some benefit to women.
It would improve fish supplies, particularly to the urban areas and in
doing so would probably reduce the amount of time spent on purchasing fish
for family consumption and may also reduce the cost somewhat.



- 42 -
E. Justification
6.12      The major rationale for the project is that it will lead to
increased fish supplies resulting in lower imports (consistent with
Government's overall objective of import substitution for the economy) and
provide an avenue for increasing personal incomes and employment in rural
areas. By focussing on support to the private sector in the production and
marketing activities the Project provides a firm and durable base for
sustained growth and paves the way for private enterprises to play the
dominant role in commercial activities. The increased private sector
participation would prevent inefficient,uncompetitive and financially
unviable isavestments in commercial ventures by public sector enterprises.
A parallel objective of the Project is that the Government's involvement in
the sector be entirely concentrated in efficient management and regulation
of fish resources in support of the private sector's efforts in optimum
exploitation of these resources.
6.13      The other major rationale for the Project is to upgrade the
institutional framework required to support the future expansion in the
agro-fisheries sector.  One part of the institution building activities
would be directed towards eliminating the existing malaise in provision of
agriculture credit. Currently, the performance of this vital function is
mainly entrusted to AFC which is a politically mDtivated, poorly managed
and financially troubled organization. The Government has fcr sometime
wanted to replace AFC with an operationally robust and financially sound
institution. But despite establishing ZADB over 4 years ago and despite
heavy financial burden of carrying AFC, the Government until recently has
been vacillating on how and when to proceed with the planned replacement
due to a variety of reasons. Recent government actions provide a
breakthrough for ending this hiatus. The Project proposals and
conditionality provide a unique opportunity and timely vehicle to build
upon the recent government initiatives for the future development of credit
institutional support to the agro-fisheries sector. The major threats to
ZADB's healthy growth are: political interference; inadequate funding and
weak capital base; and unrealistic and/or inadequate operating policies and
procedures. The Projcct would support ZADB's efforts to evolve into an
independent and effective institution with sound capital base and loan
portfolio. The intensive follow-up work and close working relations
established during project appraisal would be continued particularly during
the early phase of implementation. For instance during the first year
required assistance would be provided in arranging proper funding,
strengthening and streamlining of management, improvement in operating and
financial policies and procedures and development of appropriate lending
strategies and programs. ZADB's capability to handle the growing business,
particularly lending under the project, would be constantly evaluated and
lending to artisanal fishermen would be directly linked to prior
establishment of and adequately staffed local offices. Wherever loans to
individual fishermen cannot be justified formation of fishermen's groups
would be made a requirement for extending loans under the project.
Periodic review procedures would be adopted to ensure compliance with the
above requirements.



- 43 -
6.14      The other part of institutional development activities under the
project would strengthen and equip the DOF to undertake important tasks
which hitherto have been neglected due to lack of financial and manpower
resources. Technical assistance to DOF would result in a more accurate
assessment of fish resources which would provide the basis for preparing
plans for better management and expansion of these resources. In the
longer term project assistance would enable DOF to operate effectively
without external help.
VII . ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations it was agreed that:
(a) IDA would be consulted on any proposal by the Government to
establish FDA or any other institution in the fisheries
sub-sector sufficiently in advance of its establishment to
take account of IDA's comments and that the Government would
ensure that any such institution would not engage in
commercial activities, except after consultation with IDA,
for the operation of facilities in remote reas where all
efforts to encourage private investments have failed (para
2.29);
(b) not later than May 31, 1985 the Study to phase out AFC and
CFC would be submitted for IDA's review and comment and that
the agreed recommendations would be implemented (para 2.36);
(c) the terms of reference, qualifications, experience nd terms
and conditions of employment of the persons selected for the
positions of Fisheries Credit Specialist, Stock Assessment
Officer, Limnologist, Experienced Fisherman, Project
Coordinator and short-term consultants would be acceptable to
IDA (paras 3.11, 3.18, 3.21, and 3.22);
(d) the Government would each year during the Project period
review the operating budget needs of the Department of
Fisheries with IDA and would ensure that DOF is adequately
funded to carry out its agreed overall work program (para
3.14),
(e) procurement procedures would be followed as outlined (para
3.26)
(f) ZADB would continue to appoint independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and that audited accounts together with the
auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of the fiscal year; that separate accounts
relating to expenditures under the Project would be kept by
ZADB, Bank of Zambia, the Department of Fisheries and PCU and
that the auditors of ZADB, the Department of Fisheries and
MAWD would be requested to submit reports to IDA certifying
that the documents and procedures supporting the statements
of expenditures are in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the credit (para 3.31);



- 44 -
(g) within ZADB the positions of Director of Administration and
Personnel, Director of Finance and Planning, and Director of
Operations would be filled throughout the life of the Project
with qualified and experienced staff and that the ZADB would
consult with IDA, prior to the appointment of any staff to
these positions on the qualifications and experience of staff
selected (para 4.03);
(h) the Government would ensure that within three months of ZADB
opening a zonal office AFC and/or CFC operations in that area
would cease (para 4.04);
(1) the interest rate charged by ZADB would be reviewed annually
by the Government and IDA and may be adjusted if necessary to
ensure the efficient operation of ZADB's lending program
(para 4.16);
(j) terms and conditions of lending and the policies and
procedures to be used by ZADB would be as outlined (para
4.17);
(k) ZADB's capital requirements and financing arrangements would
be reviewed with IDA annually and that the Government would
ensure that its investment in ZADB is as outlined (para
4.20);
(1) until its share capital is fully subscribed ZADB would
maintain a total debt/equity ratio of not more than 1:3 (para
4.21);
(im) prior to implementation ZADB's annual lending program to
artisanal fishermen would be reviewed with IDA and beginning
with second year of project implementation lending would be
based on the performance of the loans (para 4.23);
(n) not later than June 30, 1986 a program of stock assessment
studies to be carried out based on the findings and
recommendations of the Stock Assessment Expert and additional
technical assistance required would be submitted for IDA's
review and comments (para 4.26);
(o) within six months of credit effectiveness DOF would prepare
for IDA's review and comments a detailed integrated time
schedule for institutional development activities including
details of training of higher and middle management employees
(para 4.29);
(p) reporting procedures as outlined would be followed (para
4.30);



- 45 -
7.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be
(a) appointment of a Fisheries Credit Specialist and Project
Coordinator (paras 3.11 and 3.21).
(b) the execution of a financing agreement acceptable to IDA
between Government and ZADB (para 3.25).
(c) the establishment of the Special Accounts in the Bank of
Zambia (para 3.30);
7.03      Opening of sub-offices in project areas would be condltion of
disbursment against loans to artisanal fishermen (para 4.05).
7.04      Subject to these assurances the proposed Project is recommended
for IDA credit of SDR 7.1 million (US$7.1 million).



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
tc Prepare a Study for Phasing Out AFC and CFC
Background
Zambia Agricultural Development Bank has been established and is
now operating. It is planned that it will take over the duties and
functions of the Agricultural Finance Company (AFC), at present the largest
single source of institutional credit to farmers, as well as those of the
Cattle Finance Company (CFC). The terms of enabling legislation regarding
the take over process are general and could therefore be subject to
different interpretations. The takeover must occur without disrupting
credit availability to farmers. With this basic objective in view, the
Government has requested the Bank to consider financing appropriate
technical assistance to undertake a study for replacing AFC and CFC with
ZADB. ZADB has prepared business and operating plans/programs through
1987. These plans are largely based on the financing available to ZADB for
lending purposes and its own assessment of the areas of priority both from
the point of credit needs and financial viability of operations. These
plans do not necessarily reflect a systematic approach to replace AFC
and/or CFC within a given time frame.
General
The proposed study would consist of two phases: (1) to assess the
actual credit situation, credit requirements and constraints on lending in
the Agricultural Sector; and (2) prepare a detailed implementation
scheme/schedule for winding up AFC and CFC and their replacement by ZADB.
It is expected that about 8 staff-months of technical assistance would be
required in the field to gather the relevant data and information and about
4 staff-months for finalizing the report and recormendations.
Work Program
The technical assistance team would focus its attention on
following activities:
(a) review AFC and CFC loan portfolio and prepare three separate
lists for each institution by regions, districts and branch
offices of recoverable loans, doubtful loans and bad loans.
Tnese lists would also indicate security for each loan, value
thereof and probability of enforcing;



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(b) prepare lists for fixed assets by category (buildings,
vehicles, office equipment, etc.) owned by AFC and CFC and
their approximate value and determine what assets would be
taken over by ZADB;
(c) prepare lists of AFC and CFC liabilities indicating maturity
dates and terms and conditions of borrowings;
(d) make an evaluation of AFC and CFC staff and broadly deterwine
how many of the staff would be suitable for employment by
ZADB based on the assessment of ZADB's staffing requirements
and acceptable qualifications;
(e) prepare a detailed scheme for taking over by ZADB of AFC's
and (2C's good loans, doubtful loans for a reasonable value
(say 50%) and arrangements for bad loans (transfer to ZADB at
nominal value, or ZADB would become a collecting agent for an
agreed fee or commission, or AFC and CFC would retain these
loans;
(f) prepare two comprehensive financing plans for transfer of
AFC;s and CFC's assets and liabilities to ZADB as above and
make recommendations on disposal of assets other than to be
taken over by ZADB;
(g) prepare a detailed timetable for a smooth transfer of AFC's
and CFC's agreed assets, liabilities and staff to ZADB (if
feasible, the timing of the transfer should not be delayed
beyond two years from the time of finalization of the study).



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected List of Materials and Working Papers Available -
Project File
A.  Selected Reports Relating to Project               Document No. 104.537
A.1   Identification Report, FAO/CP, October 1979
A.2   Project Preparation Contract between GOZ and Consultants,
April 1981
A.3   Interim Preparation Report Draft, Consultants, December 1981
A.4   Interim Preparation Report, Consultants, January 1982
A.5   Preparation Report, FAO/CP, February 1983
A.6   Project Costs, Consultants, April 1983
A.7   World Bank Aide Menoire, Hay 1983
B. Project Working Papers
B.1   Fish Resources and Production
B.2   The Fishing Industry
B.3   Fish Collection, Processing and Marketing



- 49 -
Table Al
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ooo)
Quarterly            Cumulative
1984/85     December                  100                    100
March                    100                    200
June                     200                    400
1985/86     September                 200                    600
December                 200                    800
March                    200                  1,000
June                     200                  1,200
1986/87     September                 300                  1,500
December                 600                  2,100
M4arch                   700                  2,800
June                     700                  3,500
1987/88     September                600                   4,100
December                 600                  4,700
March                    500                  5,200
June                     500                  5,700
1988/89     September                300                   6,000
December                 300                  6,300
March                    200                  6,500
June                     200                  6,700
1989/90     September                200                   6,900
December                 100                  7,000
March                    100                  7,100



f
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZADB Summarized Projected Balance Sheets-As at 31st December I/
(KOOO)
1983 2/         1984           1985           1986           1987
Amount      X    Amount   X    Amount   %    Amount   2    Amount   2
ASSETS
Loans                                        1250      11    14272   74    36619   85   58618    86   86352    90
Fixed Assets                                  518       5      3458   18      5394   12    7227    10    9079        9
Net Current Assets                           9219      84      1506    8      1187    3    2480       4    1191      1
10987    100    19236  100    43200  100   68325   100   96622   100
LIABILITIES
GRZ Contribution to Preliminary
Expenditures                               1800      16      1800    9      1800   .4   1800       3    IBCO       2
Bonds and Deposits                              -       -      3000   16      4000    9   10000    14   21000    22
Other Loans                                 10000      91      6000   31      1300    3    1300       2    1300      1
Capital and Reserves                         (813)    (7)    8436   44    36100   84   55225    81   72522    75
10987    100    19236  100    43200  100   68325   100   96622   100
1/ All figures In current terms
2/ Actual



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPHENT FROJECT
ZADR Summarized Projected Income and Expenditure Accounts for the year ended 31st December I/
CR000)
1983              1984             1985         1986          1987
Amount         2   Amount       X  Amount      2  Amount   %   Aununt   X
INCOME
Interest and Fees Receivable                 17        33    1535        97   4673      99  7961    9Q  11321    99
Other Income                                34         67       50        3     60       1    70      1     80      I
51       100    1585       100   4733    100  8031   100  11401   100
EXPENDITURE
Interest Payable                           146?/      286      8632/    55    444        9   827    10   1655    15
Bad and Doubtful Debts                       -          -    1100        70   2450      52  3200    40   4000    35
AdminIstration Expenses                    767       1504    2113       133   2089      44  2483    31   3092    27
Depreciation                               111        218      260       16    336       7   396      5    462      4
1024      2008    4336       274   5319    112  6906    86   9209    81
Surplus (Deficit) For the Year            (973)    (1908)  (2751)   (174)  (586)   (12) 1125    14   2192    19
51       100    1585       100   4733    100  8031   100  11401   100
NOTES: 
1. Interest payable as Z of Interest
receivable                                    859                56               10          10             15
2. Interest payable less interest on
bridging loan as 2 of interest
receivable                                    -                  12              10           10            15
3. Interest and fees receivable as%
average outstanding loans                       9                20               17           16            16
4. Intereat payable as 2 average
outstanding loans                              73                12                2            2             2
5. Administration expenses as 2 of
total year end assets                           7                it                5            4             3
6. Bad and doubtful debts as 2 of
average outstanding loans                      -                 15               9             7             6
7. Surplus (deficit) an 2 of average
outstanding loans                            (487)              (37)              (2)           2             3
8. Surplus (deficit) as 2 of Year end
equity and reserves                            -                (19)              (2)           2             3
1/ All figures In current ter-
2/ Actual
3/ Interest on bridging loan R146000 in 1983 and K672000 In 1984



- 52 -
Table A4
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZADB Projected Sources and Uses of Funds
(KOOO)
1983 1/    1984    1985    1986    1987
Sources
Borrowings from Commercial
Banks                        10000 2/      -        -      -        -
Capital Subscription
GRZ                           1000       4000   16000   10000    6605
Local Institutions             -         8000    6250      -        -
International Institutions    -            -      6000    8000    8500
Long Term Loan                   -           -      1300     -        -
Bonds and Deposits               -         3000    1000    6000   11000
Loan Recoveries                  -          1250    7200   18570   23025
Interest and Fees on Loans       -           163    1676    4192    6562
Recovery of Staff Loans of
Advances                       -           85       -      -        -
Other Receipts                    34         50       60      70      80
Total Sources       11034      16548   39486   46832   55772
Uses
Loans                           1250       14000   29000   40000   50000
Repayment of Commercial Bank
Loans                          -         4000    6000      -        -
Increase in Fixed Assets         416       3200    2272    2229    2314
Administrative costs             870       2976    2533    3310    4747
Other                            199        100       -      -        -
Total Uses          2735       24276   39805   45539   57061
Surplus/(Shortfall)             8299      (7728)  ( 319)   1293   (1289)
Cash Available at Beginning
of FY                          835       9134    1406    1087    2380
Cash Available at Close of
FY                            9134        1406    1087    2380    1091
1/ Actual
2/ Bridging Loans



ZAMIA
ZALE PEojected Prtfolio Inz Amlyshu
(M)
9T mmtL                                             IIADlm /I MN LSW6                                               T O T A L
l984            198           1986          1987         194-          1985          1986          1987           1984          1985          1986           1967
tna  Portfolio (Avere)       44(0           lWB)          2575D          32m           3040         1099D         23190         3970D          75D          27030          8940          71700
Interest and Fee
Retvable                    900   (20.2)  3212  (20.0) 4822 (18.7) 605 (18.8)   635 (20.9)  2002 (18.3) 4118  (17.7) 6755  (17.0)  1535  (2D.5) 5214 (19.3)  am40  (183)  12755 (17.8)
Ahdnhtrative E,qin     1/  1411   (31.6)   1443  ( 9.0)  1515  ( 5.9)  15M t 5.0)   92  (31.6)   982  ( 9.0)  1364  ( 5.9)  1968  ( 5.0)  2373  (31.6)  242   ( 9.0)  2879  ( 5.9)   3554  ( 5.0)
NW lbbta 2/                  80   (17.9)  200D  (12.4) 2400  ( 9.3) 3000 ( 9.4)  30D  ( 9.9)  450  ( 4.1)  8M    ( 3.4)  10D  t 2.5)  1100  (14.7)  2450  t 9.1) 32z0  ( 6.5)  40M  ( 5.6)
Interve anLol.                114   (2.6)    264  ('.6)   435  (1.7)   739(2.3)    77  (2.5)  1) (1.6)   392  (1.7)   916  (2.3)   191  (2.5)   444  (1.6)   827  (1.7)   1655  (2.3)
2323  (52.1)   3707  (23.0) 4350  (16.9)  5325 (16.7)  1339  (44.0)  1612 (14.7)  2556  (11.0) 384  ( 9.8)  3664  (48.9)  5319  (19.7) 6906  (14.1)  9239  (12.9)
arplau/(Oficit)             (1425) (31.9)   (495) ( 3.0)  472  ( 1.8)  675 ( 2.1) (704) (23.1)   390    M 36)  1562  ( 6.7) 2871  ( 7.2) (2129) (28.4)  (105) ( 0.4) 2034 ( 4.2)  3546  ( 4.9)  W
1/ Ibtal otd     allocation to sht tamd a   other  1na pro-atd n de tbe dsu f d ttad1W   pcmtfoio.
M    dts  re am ua  to IC (Cd2t tem) aI Y  (law/-il'  term) f aumal *w1ht  &afr  ttm y,.                                                                                                          p
NUh2i Peratam  in pretiu    at of a                tm poxtfolic. 



ZAM FISMRS PRO= Ia0 Dl ANULYSIS
(m3)
ArtkiAlA   FFihri                                                       FLi       a       b Phz*.etIzS T   TA L
1985         1986          1987          1988         1989          1985          1986           1987           1988           1989         1985           1986          1987           1981           1989
ltr  IbrtfoUo (Arneqp)               135          391           598           730          819            60           131          3;79           35F2          2811           195           1692          3627           4312           3613
1*tarmt 4  h livahle                 31  (23.0)   75  (19.2)  107  (27.9)  128  (17.5)  142  (17.3)   13  (21.7)   284  (21.8)   541  (17.9)   543  (15.2)   427  (I.2)   44  (22.6)   359  (21.2)   648  (17.9)   671  (15.6)   569  (25.7)
AInLsttrative tqu                    96  (71.1)  101  (25.8)  III  (286)  133  (1l2)  159  (29.4)    6  (10.0)    10  t 0.8)    22  ( 0.4)    14  ( 0.4)    16  C 0.6)  102  (52.3) 111   ( 6.6)   123  ( 3.4)  I    ( 3.4)   175   ( 4.8)
6d blx                                18  (13.3)   29  f 7.4)   31  ( 5.2)   34  ( 4.7)  37  ( 4.5)    6  (10.0)   111  ( 8.5)   108  C 3.6)           7  ( 0.2)     7  ( 0.2)   24  (12.3)   140  C 8.3)   139  ( 3.8)    41  ( 0.9)    44   ( 1.2)
114  (84.4)  13D  (33.2)  142  (23.8)  167  (22.9)  196  (23.9)   12  (2D.0)   121  ( 9.3)   12D  C 4.0)    21  ( 0.6)    23  t 0.8)  126  (64.6)   251  (14.6)   262  ( 7.2)   I88  ( 4.3)   219   t 6.0)
snrpbo/(Wftcit)                     (83) (61.4)  (55) (14.0)  (35) C 5.9)  (39) ( 5.4)  (54) ( 6.6)    1  (1.7)   163  (12.5)   421  (13.9)   S22  (14.6)   *04  (14.4)  (82) (42.0)   IC o           6.4)   36  (10.7)   483  (11.3)   30   ( 9.7)
I/ SW  &6t aq ema to IlI (utdt trnu) ard K  (Iawl Jiha te) of wha1 lfIgL%  diwzm  th  yr.
!Mt 2erwit          i a In ,utlwJsd are o     ro   tam pwtfoUIo.                                                                                            ;
v



55 -                     Table A7
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NKWAZI Y-ANUFACTURING COMPANY LIMITED
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 1982
NOTE         1982           1981
K              K
Turnover                                   2,791,379      2,502,301
Profit before taxation                       922,352        800,230
Taxation                                     421,086        317,515
501,266        482,715
Proposed Dividend                            173,684        126,316
Profit retained for the year                 327,582        356,399



- 56 -                      Table A8
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NKWAZI MANUFACTURING CCMPANY LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET - MARCH 31, 1982
NOTE           1982                       1981
EMPLOYMENT OF CAPITAL                 K                K          K             K
FIXED ASSETS                                    803,280                   802,702
CURRENT ASSETS
Stocks and Work-
in-Progress                720,876                     615,995
Debtors                      393,160                     213,990
Cash at Bank and
on Hand                    558,009                     293,216
1,672,045                   1,123,201
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Creditors                    294,896                     157,572
Taxation                     420,000                     380,000
Amount due to Group
Companies                   *1,375                      41,125
Directors' Current
Accounts                       390                       3,492
Dividends payable            173,684                     126,316
930,345                     708,505
NET CURRENT ASSETS                               741,700                  414,696
NET ASSETS                                     1,544,980                 1,217,398
CAPITAL EHPLOYED
SHARE CAPITAL                                 1,100,000                   800,000
RESERVES                                        444,980                   417,398
1,544,980                1,217,398



- 11 -
PIIcUin  DlVELOllT PRoJT                               Table Di
Cash Flow Proectiinsa to Cotant Price. (12)
Nbdal I - Plank   *st, Rgim. Hato
lltetl~-sTw  -Y r- - - - ----- -- - - --- ---- -- -
Prole t                 2         *           *               *        7        p
IWLINI
Preduettn I(  trash fleh) 11 S400           1. 400   10.000   17.357  31.941   le U1.2  136270   15.945   151.12
Price Par 4h                    0.1          0.6h      0..b     0.bS     0.U1      0.6O     0.65     0..1      0.hS
Val" of Production             l.S10        *1S10   11.700   11,237   11.012   10a791   10.s7e   10.36    10.157
Residual VaIu. (1ein)           -            -             -             -         -        -        -          4610
OUTFDS
inittit  lavasto w  7/nt
anmin  (10 hp)                  -           2.000      -        -             -        -         -        -
hall (7 a)                      -             970      -        -         -        -        -         _        _
Note (20)                       -             4411     -        -        -         _        _         _        _
Sub-tetmi                       -1,60                  -        -        -         -        -
Inocrestsl Marking Cpitol 3        -21                    -        -        -         -        -125
Oerattin Coats
Labour I/                        597          597    3."9      1.910    1.172    1,634    1.7M       1.712    1.727
Foa  I                          -            -        2. 59    2. a"    2.119    2,119    2. a"    2.119    2.669
011 17                          -            -          A"9      419      419       49       419      419       4S1
rnin  Nitance 7/                -            -            D0      00     *400       400      400      400       40
1111 Isint-anea                  20           20        m        Flo      so        no       60        n0       W
met rApor I20                                  20                          6 66               6        66        61.
Sb-total                         137          637      .U63    1.744    5.70S     1.16     5.632    1.196    1.16I
amplscainnt
MAKI                                     -         -                          2.0DO     -        -
.S.   I                          132          132       440      Z40      440       440      440      440      -
;-^  m       Utf    rlF"eicT
Total                          2.741         (994)   1.177    5.053    4.66    2."4        A.S4    4.326    5.1271
nwrigmtol                       -          (1.731)   2.463    2.112    2.121        (II)   1.763    1 .16     2.,35
ghores's Share J/ 10j 96                                                                       ,       
Procesng 'as ig .1              -6                                                   A1l
-God    t P.F Tr/               -               6                  9        9        61     - 
nOM  Recedid X
Nodiustern 12/               -           2.37G          -            -         1.00                        -
Shert-term 137               -             4_0       440       40      440 4O      0      440      440      -
Umbt Service,
M04Nad terva 14 - Capitol   -             -          594      194      1    94            400      400       n00
- Internet  -            -          253      2U0       120       *0      169       131      10B
behrt-tar  Is/               -            -          661      461      161      U4S       16     s 461       661
MIT S*UWKim  ArTE  rFINACI
Total                          2.741        2.304    4.43      4.19    4*.0o      3.922    1.612    3.730    3. 66
Incre-ntal                      -            (437)   3.696    1.455    1.345    1.101    3,131        gm      1,142
lIESr rEPATIS  CAPACITY
Not  ott tl. Poton Debt
Svicyle                      2.741        2. 30     S.7"    1.475    S.2U    1.061    6.926    6.,50    1.276
Fohly Prior CIl-t_ lb          1.990        1.990    1.990    I.990    1,990    1.t 0       .990    1.9t0    1.990
lSt Avatlable After Wior
Claim                         711          316    3. 60     3.485    3.295    3.011    2.936    27.n0    3.266
Sespy_nnts *O 2 of aet
Available                       0            0        36       37       31        37       17       37        42
Iaternal SAte of Returs - 101.
I/ ltt_ant Project:  6 noe. a 4 kg z 221 dom.
VWth Project:     20 sets a 1 kg a 10 dope folling by 2S am.elly with 642 to tear 1.
2 Kg1 0.61.
71  Horlilg capital 1112 of aonnua  tncr_ ental eerattap coste excludiag lab1  r. Not edite  its ftl Period  tabc
A_ud  usd up an  tad.llsno    a _aItur.
4/ Sabour prid to kind 33 of SU .f cttch It tctr - 0.17).
1/  10 hp a 0.3 3 5 bor. a 130 da0a - 2,700 a RE 1.07 - R2 2.,-9.
I/  St .  fel At i   3.4 -      59.
I/  202 of angi  coat.
I/  132 of st vaue.
I 1 eer lItfe.
202 *t eoadi-te. lans.
22 of tatl le  m           t.
E7/ Ea g     n sod hull aSOO  20  fhabersm's  ers.
I 20 nat. at It 22. I year life.
4 peam at 13-1/22 with balloe  payment ti nodl.
TI9 g nthe at 13-1/25-
For feed. clotbing. shling  t. *   booed on 1961 StO ktdt  Po_rt- dacm  line *1   for other a*ntt ial.
I    Svestont cotm itn ttw Magnin are apail cot ea tite_ -_ dn not tbarof    corr epd entip to the
coat table base  eto which Include Inflatien fran appratise  to  negtitiooo.
-*ry S. 166



- 5s -
Table 52
PSISE= 1E  DEPOWPHENT PROECT
Cash nla Prolactisam In Cosatant Pricee (ER)
modl 2 - CGRP fbt. Esind. Nete
Without ----Y r-
Prjetet         I        2        3                  5        6        7        a
IWLW
Productiona (km fresh flab) '3/,400         5.400   10,000   17,207   16,941   10,602   1b,270   15.95   1S626
Price per k4 Z,                0.e5         0.o5      0.05     0.65     0.65     0.65      0.65     0..5     0.05
Value of ProdQtIon            3.510         3.510   11,700   11.237   11.012   I0.791   10.I576    0.0364   10157
Resideal Value (Engin)         -             -            -         -        -                                6 -  "0
P0u
Initial lnvet_nt 17/
-nin  (5.5 hpV              -            1.700     -
No1.ll (7 a)                -            1.U0      -        -        -        -         -        _        _
-NlIte (20)                 -              4.0     -        -        -        -         _        _        _
Sub-total               -            3.40     -        -        -        -         -        -        -
lncr_ent-l Working Capltal '3/                   190     -        -        -         -        -
Operating Cuata
- Labor '/                   597           597    1.98,    1.910    1,072    1.134    1 791    1.762    1.727
- pu   S                    -            -        "".6     1,589    1.5"9    ""39    1,559 ""    39 ".569
-     6 7                 -                       252      252      252      252       252      252      252
-M17M Cngt ntonnc  '/ m m340                               340      300      340       340      300      340
Noll  2l0tennne             ZO           20       ISO      150      ISO      ISO       150      150      ISO
=Not lawp r                   20            20       06       AG       00       0                  00       0
Sub-total                        637          037    * 36   4*.307    *.2f9   4.231    *,195    4,15        4,120
ReglaOemet -  gie                 -             -        -        -        -        1.700     -        -        -
-  ets "               132           132      440      440      440      0        44        44      -
MET  EW T 3IP0Z FINANJCINC
Total                            2.701        (1.395)  *.074    0.490    6.303    4.020    5,941    5,703    0,713
Iocrusetal                        -           (4.13)   4.133    3.749    3.502    1079    3.200    3,024    3.972
pINAIIC
iehsrun s  hre I/                 -              700     -        -        -          340     -        -        -
Pror aing s;eI                    -               05        9        9        9        0         9        I     -
Iomdt_nt Vw                                       63 *5     9        9        9        30        9        9     -
L     II -etiued:
ModLI,ters 1                   _            2. 00     -        -        -        1.300     -        -        -
short-tar, r17                                440      44       40       40 0          440 °40               -
Debt Servie:t
Reds u-term  14, - Copital     -             -         700      700      700      700       340      340      680
- Interest     -            -         331       236      142       47      161       ItS       92
Short-tern IS                  -             -         405      405      405      405       40       Ads      483
NET EIH2ITS AFT   FINIAICING
Total                            2,741         2,015    5.710    5,493    5.398    5.254    5,377    5,247    5.456
Incrental                         -             (326)   3.039    2,750    2,057    2.515    2,603     2.500    2.715
DEU SEPATE  CAPACIT
Not Snefnts  Usf-re Debt Service 2.741         2.415    7,290    6,912    6.725    4.4"      ,1063    *.187    0.713
*1ly Prior Clot" lb/             1.990        I3,99     1,9O    1,990    1,99       I.99    I39       I39      1, 9O
Net Available After Prior Clait   751            425    5.30S    0*922    4,735    4.*90    4.373    4,197    4.723
Repaysent a    of liNt Avileble   -                        29       29       28        27       23       22       27
tnternal Ret of Return - 50S
f Without Projects  0 nts   * 4 kg * 225 daye.
Witb Project:    20 nets x 5 kg x 30W day  falling by 22 enmelly.
2, im 0.05.
V Workieg Capital 1312 of a_nal Inre_t-l operating costs excludieg labout. not credited In final perlid seine
aeeid ued up an iselllas_sw  upedttur.
1/ Labour peld In kind 332 of SO  of cateb (fector - 0.17),
I   .5 5    a 0.l3 x 5 bormn le de" t- 1.085 x IM 1.07-ItZ 1.59.
1 S  of ful I IM 3.0 - IZ 252.
7  20  of etgine cost.
t  152 of st valu.
I 1 year life.
nI  202 of _dmm-ter- lonI    .
j1         of total lose  mat.
7I  Engitn and bull Lee  20S fisers's share.
1   20 nat at 22 22. 1 year life.
4 yes  at 13-1122 with balloon pay_nt is %oda.
7,9 mw           at 13-1/22.
or food  clothing. schoolina. *tc.. hosed en 1961  10 Studp Pbw.rty datme ls- * 50  for other essential.
7 In te_t ceo  in the Module are appraSal coat estl_ta  a de at thsevfor  coreepre_  sactly to ttw
coot tal  bows cose  sOich Include ietlion fre  appraisal to negotietioe.
Jem_y S. 391



- 39 -
ZMBIA
Tab la 53
FV1U33U  OrWI rANtCiN? P30.33?
Cibh Flow Prole.tSia      to Coatant Price  (Ii)
%odel 3 - angt.. plus Note
Pralact           I
I WLG8
Production 14k  fresh limt) 1/       1.400           S 4W          113000         17 211        18,6431        18502
Price par Us I                        0.65           0.65           0.65            0.°1           0.51 °°°°
Value of Preductio                    1.510          3,1S0         11,700         11.237         11,012         10,791
MOSldU43 Value                        -              -               -              -              _
Initial Inoaoteant 171
- hatan.   o.S. "fT                -             1,7W
- Nato (20)                                        440           -                      -         _
Ieb-tutal                                    2,140           -              -              -               -
ltleinatall Marking CaPital !'        -                I3
operating Coots
- L.ba.r 4/                         597            597           1.391          3.910          1 72           1 114
- P.l 51-                                                        1 _  3         111 9          1,119          1.5 9
-otil'                             -              -               2S2             212            212           2:2
- igia vwn-me  1,                 -              -i.                            34              3so            3
-  Pail Neintananca                  20             20              20             20             20             20
-   t loltr a/                       20             20             54              t4              4 
Iub-t&t-l                       537             37          A,23S          4.*77         4*139           4.3101
Orplareownt - vto t9                     U              tiN           440            440            40            -
nuT UUITs SUepoO  FINANCINc
Total                                 2,735           '14           7.004          5.520          5,433          6.,  e
Incremtal                             -            (2.329)         4.219           1.131          346 t          1.905
Piawtme_a. *   lO_                                     340
Pa.erw'Osm 311                                   340                                          
Cosaimet P, Il-                       -                 31              9                                         -
tae Ilac.asled
4dim-t.rP 32                       -              ,30            -              -               -              -
Naatt-ta 837                       -               4'0             440            440            4.0           -
bt Service:
odiuat.ra 16  - Capital            -                               3340                          350            340
_ Zaterat         _              -               11              I1S            49              23
Shrt-term                          -              - /4s                           451     41    1A              454
r2 StNiPT  Arm f     INAJINCIC
Total                                 2,765          2.534          6.440          4,102          %,"9           1,14
Inc'aomoal                                           (751)         3,511           3.387          3,115          3,017
Dual ml&t.'r CPACIXT
Not beeil to botr. Debt
Vami oco                          2*761          2,524          7.425          7.042           5 ,11sS       5,5
Foully  rl- r Cl,t_99                                3,9            1,I            l,9t1 1.99                    3.90
Nat Coeb Available Ait-ot Al-r
Claim                               791            S3&           535            1.02          4. 54          4,700
Sopapmget - 2 of Mgt
Available                              0             0              la             39             14             1
Internal Note  f butrn - wer 3002.
-   Without Project:  6 _t- * 4 kg   225 d*y.
withb ProjctI  20 _at   5 4 g   1a30 days falling by 22 _atmmaly.
33 g  0.65.
tl   oting Capital 1132 of annual Iscr_mttal   e-Patiog ceat *cludingt labor. oet credited It fttl Pariod BInca
aaeemed suaad up - aeiecllaeeame nmpedilgure.
7  Labour pald In kind 332 of 102 of catcb (lettre  - 0.171.
7,t   .3N pit .0.3  a 5 %r. a  IAO ys   -  I.&        a *33 1.07 -  Z 1.9.
W1  12.o  f,otl  13 3.3-3   S2.
f      o 205 of al    at.
1 152 of not vau.
I year life.
rut 202 of _tdl_untal-r lssue
71  22 of total len m t
nl    _Uo g laaw 20S tlibhr m-e *%ar.
'v' 20 Owte at I  22.  I year lf.
5I  A yeasl at 13-1121
'Ml  9 eath  at 33-1122.
131  Fer feod. elathiag. acFthUeg. etc.. Ibead ao 19;1 1,0 Studt Pavrty datm line - 10  fur  tblr e lel-.
vt  latot aeta t- to t           od al. la r     z apalal eoat eattetem ma  do eat terfat. e_reapad aettl, to the
teat teble ba_  tet. w!  oel lcud  3ftlatlm  rre  apita-sl to  mg tiLt m.
Jam.a 1,95



- 60 -
Table B4
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENI PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections in Constant Prices (KZ)
Model 4 - Gill Nets Model
Without
Project      lot Qtr       2nd Qtr        3rd Qtr       4th Otr        1st Qtr
INFLOW
Production (kg fresh fish) i/        -              -               225            225           225            225
Price per kg                         0.65           0.65           0.65           0.65          0.65           0.65
Value of Production                  -              -               146            146            146           146
OUTFLOW
Initial Investment 7/ - Nets (1)    -                 22           -             -              -
Operatlng Costs:  Labour 2/          _              -                25             25             25            25
Net Repair3/      -              -                 1              1              1             1
NET BENEFrT BEFORE FINANCING
TotaL                                 -              (22)           120            120            120           120
Incremental                                          ( t22)         120            120           120            120
FINANCING
Processing and Colitment Fee 5/    -                   I           -             -              -
Loan Received: Short                 -                22           -              -             -
Debt Service:  Short 4/              -              -                 8              8             8           -
NET BENEFITS AFTER FINANCING
Total                                -                (1)           112            112            112           120
Incremental                          -                (1)           112            112           112            120
Internal Rrte of Return - over 100%.
I/  4 kg per net x 225 days - 4 to put on per quarter basis.
=1 33% of 50% of catch.
Net zepair i52 of net value annually.
~; 9 months e 13-1/2%.
/  22 of total loan amount for processing fee and 2Z of total loan amount for commitment fee.
W1 Investment costs in the Models are appraisal cost estimates and do not therefore correspond exactly to the
cost table base costs which lclude Inflation from appraisal to negotiations.
January 5, 1984



- 61-
ZAMBIA                                  Table B5
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections In Constant Pricem (IC)
Model 5 - Tranaport Boat for Pontoon Rigs
Without          -Year
Project        1        2        3        4        5         6        7        8
INFLOW
Production I/               108,000      108,000  144,000  141,120  138,298  135,532  132,821  130.164  127,561
Incremental Production         -            -      38,160   37,400   36,648   35,915   35,197   34,492   33,802
Price per kg 21                0.75         0.75     0.75      0.75     0.75     0.75     0.75     0.75     0.75
Value of Incr  Production      -            -       28,620   28,050   27,486   26,936   26,398   25,869   25.352
OUTFLOW
Initial Investment IO/
Transport Boat flus Engine
(1.5-ton capacity)       -          21,000     -
Increue'tal Working Capital 3/ -             981     -         -        -        -        -        -         -
Operating Cost.
Labour 4/                   -            -        3,600    3,600    3,600    3,600    3.600    3,600    3.600
Fiu 5/                      -            -       5,460    5,460    5,460    5,460    5,460    5,460    5,460
oil                         -             -         317      317      317      317      317       317      317
Engine Malintenance 6/      _            -        1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200
bat Malintenance 6/t                              1 1,200   1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200  1J200_ 1,200
Sub-total               -            -      11,777   11,777   11,777   11,777   11,;77   11,777   11,777
NET BENEFITS BEFORE FINANCING
Total                          -            -       16,843   16,273   15,709   15,159   14,621   14,092   13.575
Incremental                    -         (21,981)  14,863   12,732   10,341    8,046    5,846    3,959    1,916
FINANCING
Fisheran's Share 7/            -            4,200     -        -        -        -        -        -         -
Processing Fee a8 -                          336     -         -        -        -        -        -        -
Coatent Fee /                  -             336     -         -        -        -        -        -        -
Loans Received:  Medium-term  -           16,800     -         -        -        -        -        -        -
hbt Service:
Medium-term 9/ - Capital    -            -        3,360    3,360    3.360    3,360    3,360     -        -
- Interest  -             -       2,041    1,588    1,134       680      227     -        -
NET BENEFITS AFTER FINANCING
Incremental                    -          (1,653)  11,442   11.325   11.215   11,119   11,034   14,092   13,575
Internal Rate of Return - over 50S
1/ Production with Transport Boat 2 rigs e 400 kg/day (fiehing underfished area.) over 180 fiehing days falling by 22 annually.
production without transport boat 2 rigs 6 300 kg/day (fiShing heavily fished area) over 180 days also falling by 2S annually.
2/  IM 0.75 per kg fresh kapenta.
7/ 1/12 of incremental anual operating coat, not credited In final period since assumed uaed up as miscellaneous expenditure.
Ti  Skipper XE 2,700 per annum, helpers Q XZ 900, includes Provident Fund psyments.
7/ Fuel for 35 BP engine:  0.2 litre/HP/H 6 6 N/trip/day 9 200 trIpe/year x XZ 0.65 per litre.
152 of capital cost.
/ 20Z of Investment cost.
K1 22 of total loan aount.
YJ  5 years e 13-1/2 (individual cash floes would be prepared for each loanee allowing tailoring of faster repaeymnts in man cass);
1o Invest ent costs In the Modele are appraisal coat estimates and do not therefore correspond exactly to the coat table base coats
which include inflation from appralsal to negotiations.
II/ In the economic analyais the benefit stream shown here is assumed to be realised in the form of cost savings rather than increased
fish catch. The reality would probably be a combination of both.
March 14, 1984



- 62 -
Table 36(a)
-Page 1
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMEIIT PROJECT
Cash Flow Prolections in Constant Prices
Model 7 - Collection and Marketing Facilities tOne Centre)
1        2        3        4       5       6         7        8        9       10      11
INFIW
Fish Purchased (tons) 1/    0        0    1,750   1.750    1,750    1,750    1,750    1,750    1,750    1,750    1,750
Value of Fish Purchased 2/_       -       1,207.5  1,190.0  1,172.5  1,172.5  1,155.0  1,137.5  1,137.5  1,137.5  1,137.5
Fash Sold (kg) 3/                 -       1,575   1,575   1,575   1,575   1,575    1,575   1,575    1.575   1,575
Value of Fish Sold 4/    -        -       3,480.7  3,433.5  3,402.0  3,370.5  3,339.0  3,307.5  3,307.5  3,307.5  3,307.5
Ice Sold (tons) 5/    -           -       1.360    1,360    1,360    1,360    1,360    1,360    1,360    1,360    1,360
Gross Returns (50S Year 3/-       -       1,191.0  2,352.3  2,338.3  2,306.8  2,292.8  2,278.8  2,278.8  2,278.8  2,278.8
OUTFLOW
Initial Investment 61 26/ 860.0   860.0  -         -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -
Incr. Working Capital 7/  -        142.6  -        -        -        -        -        -       -        -        -
Operating Costs
Ice Plant: 8/
- Wages               -        -          64.8    64.8    64.8    64.8    64.8    64.8    64.8    64.8    64.8
- Maintenance         -        -           6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0
- Cheaicals           -        -           9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0      9.0     9.0      9.0
Sub-total         -        -          79.8    79.8    79.8    79.8    79.8    79.8    79.8    79.8    79.8
Collection goats:
V gei 9/            -                   43.2    43.2    43:2    43.2    63.2    43.2    43.2    43.2    43.2
-FuVel IV/          -        -         109.8   109.8   109.8   109.8   109.8   109.8   109.8   109.8   109.8
- Oil 117             -        -          16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0    16.0
- Engine & Hull
Maintenance 12/     -        -          29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2
Sub-total         -        -         194.2   194.2   194.2   194.2   194.2   194.2   194.2   194.2   194.2
Blast Freezer:
- Mlintenance 12/     -        -           6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0
Cold Store - Mainte-
nance 12/             -        -          29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2    29.2
Electricity Generator
Fuel 13/              -        -         268.6   268.6   268.6   268.6   268.6   268.6   268.6   268.6   268.6
Maintenance 12/       -        -          31.0    31.0    31.0    31.0    31.0    31.0    31.0    31.0    31.0
Transport Oyerating Costs:
- Wages g/            -        -          31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.2
- Fuel 1'T            -        -          56.1    56.1    56.1    56.1    56.1    56.1    56.1    56.1    56.1
- Oil                 -        -           6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0
- Tyres 16/           -        -          54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0    54.0
- Servicing 17/       _        _          49.5    49.5    49.5    49.5    49.5    49.5    49.5    49.5    49.5
- Vehlcle Insurance   -        -           8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0      8.0     8.0      8.0
- Road Tax            -                    1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Sub-total         -        -         205.8   205.8   205.8   205.8   205.8   205.8   205.8   205.8   205.8
Overheads:
- Other Labour 18    _                   27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0
-Mgat. £ Min19/   -            -          29.0    29.0    29.0    29.0    29.0    29.0    29.0    29.0    29.0
M hgmt. Vehicle 06 M  - M                 10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
- Office Running Costs -       -           5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0
- Insurance           -        -          15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
-Mlscellaneous        -        -          80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0    80.0
Sub-total         -        -         166.0   166.0   166.0   166.0   166.0   166.0   166.0   166.0   166.0
Total Operating Costs    -        -         980.6   980.6   980.6   980.6   98fl.6   980.6   980.6   980.6   980.6



- 63 -
Table Bb(b)
Model 7 - Cont'd.:                                                                                                         Page 2
Replacement
Boats 20,                       _                                                 -         - _              134,4     14.9
Vehici   21/                                                                    203.2                          -       40.6
Generator 72/          -         -           -                                    -                 82.4       -       11.8
NET BENEFITS BEFORE FINANCING
Incremental                (860.0)1.002.6)   210.4  1,371.7  1,357.7  1,326.2  1.109.0  1,298.2  1.215.8  1,163.8  1,230.9
FINANCING
Owners Contribution 23/    172.0    172.0       -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -
Loans Received:
Medium-term              688.0    688.0      -         -        -        -         -        -        -         -        -
Debt Service:
Medlu _ term 24/
- Capital           -          138.0    275.0    275.0    275.0    275.0    138.0        -        -         -        -
- Interest          -           84.0    149.0    111.0      74.0     37.0      q.0       -        _         _        _
NET BENEFITS AFTER FINANCING
Incremental                   0      C79.4)  (213,6)15/985.7  1.008.7  1.014.2    962.0  1,298.2  1,215.8  1.163.8  1,230.9
Internal Rate of Return - 40z.
1/ Average 7 tons fih per day (702 of capacity) for 250 days.
21 At XZ 0.70 per kg falling by 12 per annum to KZ 0.65.
l/ AJsumes 10 lones.
Ar KZ 2.25 per kg in Year I falling by 12 per annum  to YZ 2.10 by Year 8.
J/  3 plante e 300 days. 80Z efficiency 5 tons/day.  Less own requirements of I ton ice per I ton fish.
b/ Detalls in Project Cost Table 3. Investment spread over 2 years.
'J 2/12 of Incremental operating costs, not credited in final period since assumed used up as idecellaneous operating cootc.
B hsed on Annex 3 Table 14 Preparation Report.
9/ 8 boata each with I skipper e EZ 300/month pluc 1 helper EZ 150/month.
Fuel 35 HIP e 0.2 litre per HP per hour x 7 hours per day x 280 days for 8 boats.
KZ 200 per year per boat.
=| 152 of capital value.
'/ 45 litres per hour x 365 days x 24 hour. x KM 0.68 - 268,600.
-4   2 per truck at XZ 6,000 plus 4 helpers e KZ 1.800.
| 0.25 litres/ka x 165,000 km - 41,250 litres/vehicle x 2 vehicle. x 0.68 per litre - KZ 56,100.
7/ Tyres 35,000 km life           4 annually at 10 tyres per vehicle - 40 tyres P CZ 375 x 2 vehicles.
i Maintenance e XZ 0.15 per km.
'° 15 general laborers e IZ 1,800 each per annum.
One manager at XZ 15.000. 2 assistants at IK 7,000
2U 802 of full coat 8-year life.
21) 802 of full cost 5-year life.
27/ 802 of full cost 7-year life.
27/ 202 of total capital requirement.
a Medium-tero loan repaid over 5 years e 13-1/2.
D/ epending on individual analyses at the time of loan processing a grace period may be necessary to cover
this negative flow period.
26/ Investment coats In the Models are appraisal cost estimates and do not therefore correspond exactly to the cost table base coscs
which include inflation from appraisal to negotiations.
January 5, 1984



Z9M
ru,a r)
PMject Cke-       Projeet 4e-        tit  aid          Ibil Qir-
Total       l          T       hrammtal       Incrental         etiI  ants       rating coets       %91Wt              ti    d d                                            T
Inetal          1intal            ProJect          fRoject       Aft  ktojet        After Project     O"a (Ml.            ReplMt            Model              lntA         Irintal
Denf It         Benfit          (ants             Pori1                              PFeriad           IAUW                            labor Onto        la1ur b aw   1       b Xet"        fbt
F inaa 2/  FAmsic              Firlc    /           nllec        FYn.I  3/  l_m_c                    nFlrl  /   Eme                     Fizmia  ii /          me Ie mi1e    llfits
Efficlenc 
If   Icia y
Pactors:.           -                 0.93           -                 0.87 9/        -                   0.68 4/          -                   0.83                              O.68/           -             -
Yew I                 0               0            1,079              939             -                 -                    0                 0                0                0               939          (939)
2            1,512            1,406           2,093            1,818             -                  -                 113                93              393              334             2,Z4           (836)
3            2,697            2,5C8           3,771            3,201             -                 -                  328               262              693             6m9              4,152        (1,644)
4            4,172            3,883           3,105            2,701             -                  -               I,227                982           1,124              989             4,672          (7?)
5            5,626            5,232           I,I8I            1,031             -                 -                1,449              1,159           1,219            1,073             3,263         1,969
6            5,843            5,434                                              407                277             2,142              1,714           1,293             1,135            3,126         2,308
7            5,458            5,076                                              407                277             2,271              1,817           1,251             1,101            3,195         1,881
8            5,034            4,f82                                              407                277             2,Z06              1,765           1,148             1,010            3,052          1,630     °
9            4,621            4,298                                              407                277             2,400              1,920           1,033              939             3,106          1,192
10            4,621           4,29*                                               407               277              2,40D             1,92D            1,033              909             3,106         1,192
1 1- 8        4,621           4,295                                               407               277              2,400             1,983            1,033              909             3,106         1,192
IWternal Rate of Return - 26X
T/ 1k  frm  Feb. 1, 1981  evort "Ushw PrLim  for z2       .
j  Die1 In tie follgddi   U5pmi-
(1) prabcticn pattem of eadc mel wsarw te4 by lendig yer.
(ti) Hadel 4 (net aly andel) im   mc   to      of dthe full dveloqt level by Yir 9 in wo,tn that mt mznbe  foUodng cedit say nt be adntaiald.
(t) the  rate proiclti le.el      totaUilel,
(Iv) the total w    iiek   by 25X to Alm far prictin net attributable to the Prject (e.g. loo  tai for lwveeri thdt wIudi htere bu  ads urjy.
(v) the meiwtir    prdactia1 blef it In tez  of    1 -Ad loom  ver added
(vi) an eve price falling fro  10 0.70 per kg fresh W4ht to KI 0.65 by Yer 8 asards w          appl  (tthe fall to .11w for lncremw ch latSve to             ard aormtanui falling per cqetu i-.
Vane PRoject (at lute inCdIn  sSica  eeti              S.ias
*/  Idnly fuel.
'Y  Ibuivel fIm  mtSo of full    lopelnt oparatiz  ants (cdung l'go) pb  mm ansual replamt cots to full dbvlopmt eproketion by  .x .
aW   ,al wel*td efficlny polc amven  factor of 511 cvital qtdpit factor 0,91 (replacet/mIntenmoe) 50X fdel faetor 0.68 giving weid*ed factor of 0.80.
7/ Qaities by wdal derived via mo    retioe of  aIt cet to prodUon.
/ laor Is estimted to be 752 In uwkdled eategxy at mn eatl ed effddficl           prio  for nwel IAw  of 0.96 aid 232 addUed at 0.67 ad 52 idclled at 0.54 givIng a ighted dtietimy factor of O.K.
' bs an wsightig efflcieSy faecto  to app nte Proejat cot prapUarm     Civil 2x   72 at faetcr of 0,81, fqitpt 4&X at factor af 0.91, *tdclm 262 at faetor of 0.91, Peantt (m&niu fel)
19X at factor of 0.68.
lerd  14, 1S4



ZAN IA
FIshzEtRs  DKVzWPKiNr PtOJECT
Annual Production and Disposal Pattern Defore end After Project
(Toni)
Production/
--- - - -- -Present Production-----                     Present Disposal               Incremnt    --Production at Full Development 6/             Disposal at Full Development (Tear 6)
Kapenta      Dreae     Others      Total      Fresh I/  Ieed      Prosen 2/  Driad       Total       Kapenta      Drea      Others      Toatl      Fresh      Iced     Fretn       OTitd
Hpulungu            5,390           -         50      5,440        545          -    1.305       3,590         831       5,390           -        901       6,291       628          -    1.575 51   4,086
NaumeLa                 --                1,360       1,360        203          -      100       1,053       2,012            -          -      3,372       3,372       337                  3 168 3,   2,867
H. W'ntip&              -       4,563      3,135      8,300        985      1,245        -       6.070 4/   3,320             -      6,390      5,230      11,620      1,320     1,745    1,655       6.900
M. Luapule              -       1,940      4,600      8,740      2,622        874 31    9C       5,154 ~/   3,370             -      53457      6.653      12,110      3,629     1,210    1,979        5,292
Kariah              4,000         600       200       4.800        430          -        -       4,320           0       4. 000        600        200       4           480          -         -      4,320
Total               9,390       9,105     7,145      28,640      4,837     2,119    1,495       20,169       9,553       9,390      12,467    16,356      43,193      6,394      2,955    5,377      21,467
-            -          -           -          _        -          -          -    -                   -           -         a                                  - 
I/  Consumd in fishing vwilages and camps,
T/  Of this, 200 tons ara canned.
/  Transported to copperbelt In fce.
t/ 60t smoked dried, 302 sun dried, 10X sun dried mfter salting.
rrosen through seisting channels.
° Notes This represents the peak level of production uhich to projected to fall somewhat after the Project period due to the failure of some fishermen to mintain project-related Investaents.
2eonomtc oeneftte actualty clatmd for the Project Tepresent only 752 of the total increment at Pull Developmnt to allow for developmnt that have utilissd Project Inputs but that would have
happened without them.
March 14, 1984



ZMIA
FIUERIEI E WOT FJ ECT
Tible 1 CREDIT -1ISLW   FIDlERD
btaill Coet Tale
kws Costs
uwtitv                                                               (KU 'ON)
un_it Ceat
Unit 1984/1M   191      6 I1W997 1 A7/1M  1M/1M   Total              (KID     191/1915 1"M5/11 1WI"7 1917/191B 1916191  Total
- mm    in88 om uuuua uin.muam  a.masm  .*m* am i U                              3         ~1 ni                        n         m .
1. IlHENTT COSTS
A. LW! TIIA IAN  IAUUItI
IE TN CRR KM DAIUS                                   6          6         6         6          6      30      1I150          7          7         7         7          7     35
No TN IR h U1          tei. (tlO H)     No           I          I         5         5         1       0       29120          17        17        17        17         17     35
6ILL NIM  TOTL                           o         640        60        60        640        40   3,200                      -          -         -         -          -      -
II       llEAL GILL NET CBIT rNI        11         60          64        64        64         64  U96            24          15         2         2         2         2      21
Smb-Total LE TM TIFA IULtU                                                                                                      39        25        25        25         25    141
3. LWE TMSIIKA N11
3 TN  RLK MATS                          NO          12         12        12        12         12      60      1,1s0          14        14        14         14        14      9
MEBTN        I Im  EN. (toH)            NO          IS         le        le        to         Is      0       2,120          38        38        38        38         38  11
GILL NETS TOT/L                         No       1,540      1540      1540      1,540      10   7.700                                   -         -         -
INlENIIIILL NET MlT FNl                 110      1,50        154        114       154        154   2,15          24         37          4         4         4          4     12
1tb-totl LWE TM      IKA MMI                                                                                                   n9        56        56        56         56    311
C. LAKE NM   V  #I IPA
1  TN.llM S1 OATS                       No           -         10        10        10         10      40      1.150           -        12        12         12        12     46
EB IN1 CR w    MATS                     No           -          5         S         5          5      20      1944           -         10        10         10        10     39
TN Ot 1UTIM    EN#(10 H)               N             -                  15         15        1S      60      2120            -        32         2        32         32  127
1ETA C  NU         Mt 1(5 .P-10 HP)    NO            -          5         5         5          5      20      2,120           -        It        11         11        11     42
SILL Eli TOTL                           11           -      2.75      2.571     2,575      2,575  10300                      -         -         -         -          -      -
INCMNIA  6IU  VTCKITFNI                 No           -     2,7          218       258       213M34O              24          -         62         6         6         6   10
1mbTtel        amENU   V  IITA                                                                                                   -       125        70         70        70   335
to LW! MMNU IULA
I TN CRl PLASK  ATS                     No                 6              6         6          6      30      1,150           7         7         7         7          7     35
No TN   w0MATS                          No          10         10        10        10         10      50     1I944           It        19        19        19         19     97
TN CR CUa   410HP)                     No          18         le        18        18         le      90      2.120         36         31        31        38         38   191
E  TllN R WlMM  Ono 55  -10HP)   11                 10         10        10        IC         10      50      29120         21         21        21        21         21    10I
SILLEli TOTNM    MAL                             2,150      2,150     2.150     2.150      2,150       0                      -         -         -         -          -      -
IIIEJTM.A ULL NET CIDIT FNI             NO       2,150       215        215       215       215   3.010          24         51          5         5         5          5     72
Sub-Total LAKE 1WEU LINI                                                                                                       I7        91        91         91        91    501
ToUl I ETfISTI   C05TS                                                                                                            265       297       242       242        242  1,27 
Total                                                                                                                              265       297       242       242        242  1W2V7
1otube 5 1964 12:03



ZANSIA
FISlEIES KaW1ENT  0CrT
Table 2. CREIIT-COVICIML FIHEN
Detailed Cast Table
kwe Costs
oBntiti                                                          (KX ,000)
_-            ----                                      .tinit Cost
uniklt  MUM/11 1905/16       J    1971 S19MU1M   Tobl   (Kg)    194/l1m5 lIlI 1916M M7 1M1UM19 1                    99 Totl
it INSTIEIT COStS
A# LNIE KAIDX LON TERO  CRD1T )
TI9T 1BA1S (2,5 1WS)               No           I         1        1         1         1   ,5    221s0           23       23        23       23        23  113
&M-Total LAKE WIND  I LONGS T13 CREDIT)                                                                             23       23        23        23       23  I13
-                                            -_ _ _  _
hTOta 1BEl UITh^zLI    1aI                                                                                          23        23       23        23        23  113 |
TOWI IIIKSTFI1 COSlS                                                                                                   23       23        23        23       21  113 I
Toaul                                                                                                                   23       23        23    ' 23         23  113
>tetur 5 1914  12103



- 68 -
2-La
FI33   KI E      U     EI 1T 
Table 3. CILIECDIU    l WIAFETII FSKLITIB                         Table C3
tliad Cos Table
DMe CMOst
thit Cot
Iidt 19WVI  ISI95U 1934WlW7 17/11110 19nm    TOtl                (A0     1911 911135/1" A 19 9  11987/1  111111939W Totl
__   _ _          .._        _       _ .        _ _      _      _ _   ._ _           _ _ _* _                       _
1. INVE33 cOM
A. L31 MM_ VAl TIPI
W  UECTIUM   WIS (2-1/2 Tn                              -        -         -                   -      U      9,4e           -        -         -        74         -    76
DUME cLEN    A  M       351W)              Ia           -         -        -         I         -      *     122.92          -        -         -       1W          -    103
_LEU                                                              -                10          -    100    -                -        -         -         I         - S
UJ IEK rn P*I  l
1I11   T S TUIT IE K11 -UT'             NO                    -         -         3         -      3    1000M           -        -         -       213         -   313
IU LEK M           FMlOUNT)                110          -        -         -          I        -      1    42.l10           -        -         -        4          -    4
PTAILE CDJIITNEU(11111W                    I            -         -         -        3         -      3    3.011            -        -         -       210         -   210
ET a(  1701VA)                             a            -         -        -         2         -      2    11.1tI          -        -         -       21S         -   213
INII    FM     h /U silCE nPIuI           S.N           -         -        -       33          -   2S          337          -         -        -       112         -    112
WFF                                       W." 3.        -        -         -       13          -    1n         e7           -        -         -       13          -   1X
IER U     T. WAIWE                         ND           -         -        -          I        -      1    33.733           -         -        -        n9         -    32
Dun".S                                     No           -         -         -    9.o0          -9.0              4          -        -         -        24               2
3  P11M (20ZI                              1            -         -        -         I         -      1    11U47            -        -         -       19          -    15
M     ATEII TUCE UIIT
(45-TEISU)                              I            -        -         -         2         -      2      .7m           -         -         -       13          -   In
NWIEIIE-111             t2  T UW)          II                    -         -         2         -      2     52,U            -        -         -       1i          -    1M1
EINK  P I20z2 12-                                                                    I         -      1    54,774           -        -         -        15         -    s
.6b-Tatl UIE  _   1B KM1P                                                                                                     -         -         -    1.312          -  i02
3. L_E N         UIUA
MTW           I 1S * 2 - 1 / 2 TII        M            -         -        S         _         -             9              -        -        7'                   -    7
EMINEULLE TMlu               35tIr         M            -        -         :         -         -      S    12.92           -         -       10          -         -    in2
ALLETS                                    is           -         -       100        -         -    1           U           -        -         *         -         -     U
s MST _ I      MUl IS TIT)             a            -         -        3         -         -      3    106be            -        -       3UM -    3
WKE  MT FA                                IO            -        -          1        -         -   1  42100                 -        -        4a         -         -   a
F.   .aEu 1      am(10-T W)                a            -        -         3         -         -      3    70.02            -        -         o         -         -   n
-IENT  I    170 M)-BINR                    a            -        -         1                          I _   1   13714       -        -       1n                         lot
U   INSUTELATI (MM.. E              0                   -         -         1        -         -      1   l.411             -        -       IV          -         -   17
-W_I FMWCD  IEIWA           IT KM1.                    -         -    2M                                      33           -         -    112            -        - I12
WF1EJ3T/TIhUM U                           U-  -.        -        -                              -    30         7t         -         -       1i          -         -    M
M= fifty a lE                              a            -         -         I        -         -   1  3713                  -        -    M              -         -   M
OIECMS                                     i            -        -    9.40o -                  - 9.0             4          -        -        3          -         -     M
SP UIEM         CO                                      -         -         1        -         -      I   12.042            -        -        27         -         - 
:TRNAD W3!  iT
*65-TIIII                               1            -        -         2         -         -      2       m            -         -       In          -        -    in
W T            UEsI - TID.                 I            -        -         2         -           -    2    52.26            -        -       10          -         -    105
VWP      121                               IID          -        -         1         -         -      1      4.774          -        -        55         -         -    M
*-T l LK  UIIEW                                                                                                               -         -    1              -        -  1
C. REW
ICE 1n    1-imUW  Y)                       10           -        -         2         -         -      2    74.200          -         -       14          -         -    14
i-Toetd  a                                                                                                                    -         -       14          -        -   14
TOtl   L     3  CST                                                                                                              -         -    2.T  1     12           - 3
TOt                                                                                                                                -        -    2U         1.12          -  s2.=
Sta r 5, 1m4  2:04



ZMGIA
FIMENIE5 UEL N  PGCT
lable 1.  I       LIE E    CltDIT
Uild Cost Tabile
gm  Costs                                      Totals IntludInd Cmtimsiu
hmtUuv                                                               (KU *4)                                                  (15  'low)
hikt Cost
Uit  1uIM  131916i 19Wm11  197/11M  191                      Total oa  (UU)  114/115 I5/19 6 196/1"7 I9M7/11 11                 Total 11/WI5 1"5/         1U116/"17 17/11 1 191  TYOtl
1. II  TIW  cais                                                                                                                                                                                                         a
LIME W IT  01                                                                  I    400- _  _   _4   400                                                                        _ -   -          -    250 250 
total INUIT   COTS                                                                                                                                400 400            -         -         -          -       20 2
outal                                                                                                       w         -         -          -           400 §-                   -         -          -       21020
-                       --                        m,                                                         r2 1---
k,tuivr 5,  191 2109



FIEIES VWtOT FlT
Table 7. IN5TITUTIaMLISD alT SEUINES -  r           rff    A  IICDUIW. ASSISTNSE
kt.ilid Cost Table
Due Costs
Omntitv                                                             (K  '00)
- unit cost 
unit      1914/Im  1915/19   1986/1917 117/1911 I9u1/1m   Total   (KM)    1U/MW  1915/1986 191611917 1987/191 19WM     Totl
-~~~~ __   _A-   - -  T-_ ----- a|-_
I. IESTIENT COSTS                                                                                                                                                               0
FISIERIES CRIT SPECIAIST          STAF  YEA          0.l          1         1       0.3         -     3    13,113          137       13        13         46         -   550
Total IU6ESTWl COSTS                                                                                                          13        163       IU         46         -SSO
-       -~~~~ ---   ----    -       --  --   --
Total                                                                                                                         137        183       In         46         -  5S
sut.       5  1914  12206
In



FISOMIES KELiT MECT
tabIa B. NE NIWACTlINS FACILlTIES
Detailed Cost Table
DM  Costs
Outitv                                                              (KV 'HO)
Uilt Cost
wit    W/1M5 1915/1936 19W/9   197/IN S 191W m  Totl    (K)    193Wl     19W16 16/WI"7 197/198 193mum  Total
__         U        - _ minm  a           _       -iS                                S3n         U        i m 38             *2n
1. IISTENT coTI
NE  MVACTURINS FACILITIES          NO           I         1          1         1         1    5    322,522         323       323       323       323       323 1WU13
Totl IMIHTEIT COSTS                                                                                                  323       323       323       323       323  1613
Total                                                                                                                  323       323       323       323       323 1,613
-   -         -         -~~~~~~~- ---   -----
kptaSnr St 1904 12106
I-



A:3   'gI~~L3  ~   32~3~:u~!g   ~.:I                   V    Ti      'T1      Tiaii       *msz '       .iuui
i  'i. . .. I... ... .
s.i   *i* 1v -i   -                                                  !                                        a1                    u !    s!m ! 
--------         ------        ------        ---- - - ----                                       , _        ,"    ,
0 ~~~~~......                 .     .....     .      ...... ...........*-  :"sd-
-         -    -                      -      ---         -           -         -      -         -"       -                       --I
I1 '--- ij-- w--                  - -------- -'--  .''            -                                                          -- -'--^ --



iMmIA
FIPDER  IN KWL     ie m?rc
table 6. FIUMI   IWITViTIML 3CWNW    1dDM    IS rUiCI ASISAM
biallod Cost table
UN Cots
hiW~~~~~~t1tu                                      go~~~~~~K '000)
thu  Cat
thit       l94ls 1 9     1          Y7 IWI/M  1 9m  Total   IKU)               1994/195 1      9S "  19561    117/1M  13IMW   Toal
1I lMS4tTI COSTS
A.  ttC ICI. AISITNU  - FIMOJES
. _.................................... ...
STOCK A5SSNT UVICER                 STA   TUI             -                     R                 -     3    131              -       153       13        13          -   550
LIIMUOMIST                          ST                    -         -         I                         3    13fUis                     -       1-3       in        1I3 I50
KtW   FI3OlE3W                      STAFF                 -         -         I V-                      2    24.03            -         -        24        24         -     49
OM  C81 A1N1CIES                   STASFF    U            -         3         3         3         3    12   1HIM60            -        51        51        51        S1 204
S-total ITNCMI  ASSISMt - FISItEES                                                                                                       234       442       442       234  lI51
total IW4STlMlT COSTS                                                                                                               -       234       442       442       234  IJ5I
11  I"OIT COSTS
_ . _                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
INItI WAIR tl COSTS                     TRIPS               2         S        11        11         2  34          240          0         2         3         3         *      *
NJS WLLAMJ  TA SU T W5COSTS             FIlS                -         2         4         4         I     f1    5,510           -        11        22        22         6     61
Total KItlET COSTS                                                                                                                  0        13        2S        25         6     6,
Total                                                                                                                                0       247      U466       466       240  1420
- -     -     -      -    -     -  -     ----
letogbe  5  1914  12107



ZANDIA
FII8ERIES DEYELPT PRWOECT
Table S. FISIERIES INSTITUT1I0ML DCYELO      - TRAININS
Detailed Cast Table
lane Costs
Ouantitv                                                           IKV 'ODD)
Unit Cost                       ------ --
Unit   184/195 15/1986 1996/1987 1987/198  1988/19M  Total    (KU)    1984/1985 18/1986 19861987 197/198 19W8/1989 Total
:::ut  aauusuuuu mSusamazs Xuuuina  uauauuuuu =28=a  usuma. auaaaaaa  saxaza= 8=2333             :auumum XXX  uuu--uua ua.     _-u_
I. IVESTlENT COSTS
FELLWISNIPS-6 MONTH      YEAR           -         1         1       0.5         -   2.5    31S800            -        32        32        16         -   80
FELLOWiPS-I YEAR          YEAR           -         I         I        I         -      3    289620           -        29        29        29         -  86
FELISlNIPS-3 YEARS        YEAR           -         -        2         2         2      6    28,620           -         -        57        57        57 172
.. ... ... .. ._ . .    .     . .               ..         4  _     
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                                                                                          -        60       118       102        57  337      |
II. RECUMRRT COSTS
TRAINEE SUIBSISTENCE    WEEKS       19200    1,200    19200      19200     1,200  6.0tt         30         36        36        36        36        36   1N0
Total REVURRT CosTs                                                                                            36        36        36        36        36 1t0
Total                                                                                                           36        96       154       138        93  517
*U &B3    - -  - -  -   ----   ----33---    --------3     33 --
September 51 984 12107
In
10



ZAIIDIA
FISHIUiES DK EE NT POJECT
COORDINATION,t INITaINH  AND EVALATIINI
btailed Cost lable
km Costs
o0 titw                                                             (KW '@00)
Unit Cost- ---
Unit       1984/15 19511996 19861907 1997/1900 1918/1999 Total   (KM)    1984/19I5 1995/1986 196/1987 19B7/1M  1981/199 Total
sz_-Zra zsa    wsss anxmrz 2261812    sesumaa  =gxaazxZ=aa  a s "           oairmsoz  XX"sn sss * aata  *=av= wsasaaa=x ::aa--*z=  - J
1. INJESTHD   COSTS
A. TECIICML ASSISTANCE
.........__   ....
PRUOCT COORDIMTOR                      STAFF   AR          o.e          I         1       0.3         -     3    193,1s         137       183       183        46         -   550
Sub-Total TE1HICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                                                      137       193       183        46         -550
to IITOSIS AlN EVM.UATION
! NM  E CONSLTACY                     SWTAFFMM               3          1         1         1         3     9     16.960         51        17        17        17        51  153
Sub-Total IUNITORIIS MID EYMUATION                                                                                                  51        17        17        17        51   153
Total IWIVESIaT COStS                                                                                                                 IS        200       200         3        51 702
3A3R9123  22 33: =  :S:: -z -- z = 3= _33333
Ili REClENT COSTS
N AO E ENUEATIONt ANMYSIS, ETC.             YEAR                1         1         1         1         1    5      18I000         le        18        1S        to        1e   90
Total RECUNT COSTS                                                                                                                     19        lo        18        19e        1     0
Totil                                                                                                                                  206       219       219        at        U9  m7
10'
Siftabr 5  1994  12109



- 76 -
FIlNERES DWEELE1T PDJ¢T                                     Table Cll
9_umarv Acours by YTsr
(Km)
ls Costs                             Fovalin Ebnauw
19841195  1985/19B6 19619S7  1997/19BB  199/1989   Toal          Z     ammt
I. III'ESIII COSTS
A. CIVIL VOW
CIVIL 11S                                        -          -   495,916   309.505          -    014,422  39.6    319B4
Stb-Total CIVIL MMS                                 -         -   495MM1    309,505          -      P4,422  39.6    31MAN
B. ELUIPIENT
6t hATS                                      46,000    96477   145.94      12B9160    RAWO    45.1P33   62.1   2M4C74
PLAN  DATS                                   29911    43716    39,114    399114    39,114    190,970   8.9         17hO68
619161(                                     122,960   326,496   319,572   240,320   156,990  11185,42B  68.9    9164200
NETS                                        103643    719m       16P540    16,540    16,540    225,262  77.9    175,52
EUnIEllT                                     246390   1899120   135000t   32,680   444,640    343,970  60.5    511,360
COLD STOE PUIT Me SFWS                           -          -   965,955   94B739           -  1,9164374  79.4  1,501,405
COEICALS                                          --    3P916               39,168         -     78933   77.9      61.056
Sub-Total EIUJIPNEJT                          326,902   718,009 1.660177  1.494,721   709,014  4898P8,   69.7  33h7,335
C. EIMBUES
wMMES                                            -   1B7580    36,516          -          -    219.096  9B.8    194616
TRO01S IND SPAES                                 -          -   3279570   3279570          -    655,140  81.8    51,1940
Sb-Toa   CLES                                       -   192v5B0   364,096   3279370          -    874.236  98.8    776.556
D. TECUIC.L ASSISTACE
TIEDIIM. ASSISTAMCE                         325632   617,34    824,892   550.140   24.929  2.402iM6  100.0  2b602,9M6
Sub-Total TEDEICAL ASSISTANME                 325.632   617344   824892   550140   294,929  2.602936 100.0  2602936
E. TRAININGF
TRAJNS                                           -    609420   117,660   101,760    57,240    337.0O0 100.0    337,m
SbTotal TRANING                                     -    609420   117,660   101,760    37,240    337.090  100.0    337,060
F. lET IW 1ACTRIG FACILITIES
(T NMWFTIRIN  FACILITIES                    3225M    322.52    322.522   322t322   322.5M   1.612.11  88.8  1.42.431
Sub-Totl NET NIAIFNCURIG FACILTIES            322,522   322.522   322522   322,52    322.522  16129611  9B.8  1,432,431
Total I     lSTNF  COSTS                         975,056 1.900,o74  3,795,254  3095,219 1373s70O4 11.130,107  79.4  1.834.825
II. lEDJMEIT COSTS
A. OIRATING AM rINTEWCE COSTS
VICLE O a 1                                 37,100   111.300   126910    126,140   124,140    326.820  90.0    421.456
BOAT 0 I N                                  15,012    146408   12496   192,496   192m4         BO909U   80.0    646.94
011f   tHO                                 110.9O9    129.990   140,420   140,620   12l193O    6439030  25.5    16,n77o
Sib-Total OPEATING AN MINTEIWICE COSTS       233M092   396.249   45?v256   459,256   440U 66  1,m9,41   62.3  1.2320W9
Totl REC01T COSTS                                233.092   386.248   459,256   459,256   440.566  1M9,419   C.3  1.232,090
Total imELIE COSTS                              1,208914  2,297,122  4r244,510 3P554v475 1,914,270 13,109.525  76.8 10,066,90
Pliudc  Cmntinncies                             19.42    3B.691    61,719    32.999    20.125    192m65  53.9    1039M
.ic Cmntioin.cius                              978937   3f99774 1.146,426 1.367,671   733v179  3,734,996  68.7  2.567,490
Total PROJECT COMTS                             1.325,427 273587 59452,655 4975.034 2.7s573 17,036m277  74.8 12.738.314
--                               =m. -  -w -  m-
Tam                                            135,011   2M.95       37    530.113   254, 3q   1.71B.837   0.0             0
Fouri* Exum                                   1,01.8216 2.092044 4.058,912 3.706.914 1,862.228 12,739,314   0.0            0
Srptui  5. 194 12:09



- 77 -
ZWNIZ
FXUOIES      T       PDECT                                                      Table C12
Sumrv Accounts bu Yber
Totls Incliudiw Cmntimwin                                     Tts al  litodini Ctnti uain
4199fu 1S 9 6,l1f     196n197  1937/236  13l9       Total      M6UM25 M915/UM   MUM/97  197/1s I/11 96    Total
I. INUOESsa  CIs
A. CrVIL VW
CIVIL  s                                        -          -   H93W7   483179            -  1174566            -         -   432,117   3MIN937         -    734
Sib-Total COVIL USE                                -          -    M1M337   483179          -  1174S6             -         -   432117   3MM97            -    734.104
3. ENUIIWI
UP MATS                                     49n738   9104    1341039   175.237    719   53.S7             31.P066    63,62    1 215025   1@9.5    49.I99    36345
PLMt  MfTS                                  35.294    58.037    57.290    625    69.251    232.735    21.99         36.273    35.312    3MN36      43.2&1    176.74
BUllS                                      130.448   30."3      404,651   353.442   229.05   109,497    61533   244,233   253,032   2209O0L   143.9I          43435
IETS                                       112UI       5253    213B4    23.363    25.457    23313    709533    53.263    13.365    14.632    Is5.11    1WP
EIUWT                                       31.33   243.574   13.211    64.379   479.05   1.026.217    19.399   152,234    17.632    52737   299315    641.336
CL sTOW  nT he SWs                               -         -  1.2033305  1@2.1237        -  2491-522           -         -   732.e0    55133           -  1.357.m
a    msw                                         -         -    54.730    59s573         -    114.359          -         -    34233    37.236          -      72,474
S-Totu  EAtWIT                                359.279   879.509 2.113.369 204h7242   36.313  64124213   224.549   549,693 1321.166  1.279526   551.447  3.=.363
C. EICLES
WnIcaB                                           -   212.056    46.221         -          -    251.276         -   132535    26.8            -         -    16.423
TR=S A  SPAM                                     -              411.067   447.m5         -    8511622          -         -   25U9l7   279.722          -    S366o
Sub-TotWl ¶121X0LES                                -   212.05O   457.233   447P555          -  1.116.3            -   132.55   23M    279n722             -    693.062
3. TEOUICMl 4MSITMIE
TEOUI. *565151il:E                         345,463   702.662  121142   742.326   417.S7  3.29.140   215,914   439.164   636214   463.9            260.973  2.03.13
Sib-TOt  TIECAL SSISTNCE                      345.463   7M2.62  1.02.142   742.316   417.237  3.229.140   215.914   439.164   638.214   463.96n 3  2.016.213
E. TR3*N1N1
lINAIII                                          -    683770   145.653   1379307    933,34    435.634          -    4296      9I.033    358.7    52.45B    m.25
SbTotal MINN*116                                   -    686770     f 145.53   237.37    33.3B4    435.P64         -    429        1035    35617    52.426    272.239
F. NET IFACWKIMIN FACILITIES
MET IUUCTFI FACaLTIES                      346.744   374.590   406.236   445.513   484.U7  2359.770   216.7S   234.129   25.148   27344           3.129m  1.W7356
Sub-Totl ET IHAMFACTIII  FACILITIES           346.744   374W 0   408.26   445.513   484687  2PS0.770   21.715   234.119   255.l4g   276s446   30fiM  J2,37
Total IKSIOT  CfSTS                            2.051486  2p237536  4.337.574 4.303.112 1.38.443  14.M3         657179 1.393491  3.3464 2.445  I.1.777  3.1 637
*_ . i                                  sn   _ _  _ _
II. E1124  COSTS
A. EITIsS AM NUTKIW   COMSTS
V     e 0 21 1                             43.215   130.0    1609743    75.209   190.293    7ee.445    27V.060    3135    1009464  l209.5    1133           437M7M
MAT 0 13                                   97,836   174,45    247.216   269.465   M9.663  1.1639    61.148   19,37   154.510   166416   1M14    676.
OnoI 0 I N                                132P,30   172,637   207f123   227.247   21674    9592    039006   1V7P31    1229432   142.030   135,1f0            97495
Sub-lotal PIRATIIn AUU MIIIIE     COSTS      273941    476.1   615.        671.922   69.130  2.733.07      171,213   293.750   334.426   4191M    436.15   1711. 2
Total 511T  OSTS                                 273P941   47.001   615.061   671922       9.130  2.736B7    171.213   293.750   334.426   419n1m   436.156  19711.297
TOtl PUCT cam                                   1.325.427 2,715507 5.452.965  49.15034  2.5677M  17636277    M.3M2 1697242 3407.910 3,209.3963 #607    10.647,673
swIuibv, 5, 1984 12:12



-7-
1131111  KKLW~O  POBIT                                                                           Tab 3  CI3
Swm., IkufjL, ho 9,omt Cinw.st
do1 IUAC1UI4  SIhUIT           Anl
1oS1IVUT3I518 CRmI MVIMS                         IAEKwT w rimiufN        C          F&CILUTIO       CVONLOAHIN
cftLlCTIOi/               KNVADMW                 3100I21? Me                      NET     CfUMIAlIffi                Cmtlt.m'ei.
6012043  COMIIAL  4604134    KNOX LINE AO IUUIC*                         nouRCaI                        *CFKIio  iiluiU m                   . ......
rIwacN Flu(fi   FACRINIIC    V CRDIT   65I5211             FaCILIIIES  A352105U  196IN 30           ACILIVIS     DVM256113      I",1       1   Msint
1. 1941514431 CUTS
A. CIVIL UMS
CIVIL fOll                                                                                                                                                                   10.5      -- --44.422-  6.7  53.154
OhToLal CIVIL wIgt                                    -                 0.,422            -                                      ---                                             4,4422  6.7  953.94
3. 0113
Ur MAIS                                     336.06     113.4K1     352.60            -                     6.113                                                            453.433  0.,         0
PLO. MIS1                                    194,47                       -            -                    6.916                                                            IM90970  0.0         0
1063441                                      742.00          -      20.3     -                            236,540                                                           1.115.4:3  0.9  10.170
pus22.6                                                                   -            --                       -                          -                                 223.22  0.0          0
E944MT                                                              W  uORD    4co.0u0                  429.740                                                             WWI - 05.2    4.6   MM26
Ifi5        PlTMD 1TA94M   M  PKg                                 1  ,914.574                       -           ----                                                        1.914.574  0.D        I
COBICALS                                           -                 7.336--                                    -                                                             70.36  10.0    71134
Sub-T.4a  IUIP4I                              I .23.409    113.400   2,361.530     404.060             -      2.504              -                                        - 4.09.01    1.2  17,263
C. KNI11111
401113-                                                                         -            -            229.06              -        -                                     219,09    0.0        a
?5s me605 SPAM                                                      &.144              -                        -                                                             MIN - 40.4    0.0  0
St&-To4.1 00411.1                                     -          -     1.140              .                   1.46-                       -                                      2.236  0.0         0
3. IEOICiL 61515105M
TEOU1CM. 6ISSTC[-                                            -                                549.504           -     14351.211        -                          702.144  2.602.926  0.0        0
Sub-fotul 11141C14 ASSISTAOCE-                                  -                                509.504                 1.351.211        -                          782.144  2.602.36  0.0         0
E. 136301311
lIAIMIK           -          -            -           -             -          -              - 1~~~~~~        ~        ~      ~      ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~37.4011-  -    337.440   0.0  0
sump-foul 1010#1116                                   -                                                                              37.03                                -      M3704    0.0       0
F. NOl IWOCr313136 44C1L311E
NET flAN0ICII31N6 FICLITICS                                                                                                                      1  ---    - -2.62.62  -   1.62.611  0.0         0
S.0-total WI O1FaTW=III FOCIUIICS                     -                      -           --                                      -                  1.612.62                  1.42.611   0.0        0
law.  IKUTHENT CUllI, l20.-.W                                313.400   3.121,47       400.00        549.504    941.60       1.151.21  317.000          1...2.611       702.144  11.120.10  13.0  111.22
it. 51193(4 COBST
A. 0913116 me3 .2310.05 COST
4024JCLE 0 I ft                                   -                                                       26,120 O                                                           2.2 33,2  .5   1.200
2MIT 01a.                                                   -            -            -                   4.6 I-                                        -             -    4301.54    4.5  36.04
01013 0 II                                        -                      -           -                    04.260        63.77   100.00                            WM0.3     663,023   4.2  27dW
5.0-1.1.  OPM3*126 MMl rA14714a  CUTS                -         -            -           -- 1.629,643                       60,27   200.00                            MM0.3    1,97R.411   4. 1 3PH63
1.4.1 WOOWEl COSTS                                      -          -            -           --  1.429.440                      61.170, 130.43                           "do.04    I.M.4111  1.1  02.643
Total lSEOiEl CUBTS                               3.237.409    123.400   13821.012     400.043       549.504  2.431.200      1.410.01 537,0110          1U,61261        7M,442.141  3.1015U  3.5  292,061
Phor"Cal C..t,namrn                                    -         -       61.701           -                   106.200         6077   20.400                  -             -    192.506   4.0        0
Price Caotiomrnl                                 360.003    32.229    3.24 .910           -        91.254    249.m1         429.5W   111.%R2           447.159        176.561   3.234.436   3.7  43703
Total 9311 COSm                                   2.455.411   '46.29    5,131.760      400.00        642,718   3.444.323     IMAM.  M30M0               2.459.17        f6.in5  17.m3627    1.5  2516.511
Tun.                                             33.1        4.3        60.1              -             -    59,03                                                                         1   ~       .3   n23.1
Fettim Ea.4..a                                   978.91;    33.499    3.534.152    '240.000       62.758  2.317.717       1.49".403 415,614          I.791.49         MAN40   12.7313.21    1.0  129,77
Srwt"wt5. 193' 12:15



- 79 -
ZMIA
FISfRItES 3E9IEIUHET PIOJECT                                    Table C14
ProJect Compnkts bw fear
last Costs                               Total
1984l19   195/1986  191987  19871198  19m 8                          (USO)
A. DNSITUTOXDbLSED CIT SERVICES
ARTISNL FISEII                                       265.173   297,154   241P694   241,694   241,694    1,297409    904631
CUERC1N. FISIEIME                                     22.680    22,680    22,680    22,680    22.600         1130400      70.875
COLLECTION/ NAMETIW FACIUTIES                              -          - 2016.289 1811.7I 3           -   3828072   2,392,545
SEBRE  UIE OF CDIT                                         -          -          -          -    40O,00      400.000    250,000
_IMIENT AND TEOUICAL ASSISTANCE                       137,376    183,168    193,161    457M                  549.504    343P440
Sub-Total INSTITUTIIONLISE  CRDIT SERVICES              425,229   503002 2t4639831  2,121,949   664s374    6,178,385   3,861,491
3. IWN  "T WF FIS  ESORCE
FA TLIBTES                                           217,661      900062   620t093   425,216    425,216   2,588,248  1WM7=655
WIEIENT AND TECHIANCL ASSISAMCE                          480   246,98    466s276   466,276   240P038   1,420,058    887.534
TUAINI                                                369000    9.420    1533660    1379760    93,240        517,0B0     323,175
Sub-Total NAU IWT OF FISH RESOURCES                     254,141  1,2431470  1,240,029  1,029,252    758,494   4,525.386  2,829,366
C. MET NWWACTURING FACILIIES
NET NNUFACTLURIN FACILITIES                          322,       322,m    322.522   3224522   3229522    196129611   1,007,982
St*-Ttal NET  W AUFCTIRtINS FACILITIE                   322522    322452      322,522   322.522   3229522    196129611   1.007.382
3. COORDINATION NDNITIEIN AND EVALUATION
CORIEINATION , NONITORING AND EWLUMTION               206,256   2189128   218,128    80,752    6880          M9,144    495,090
Sub-Total COORDI NTIUN,  ONR7ORINS AND EVALUATION       206,256   218,128   218,128    90.752    68880          M,144    495,090
Totdl AEIJE COSTS                                       1,206,148 2287,122  49244,510  3,S54,475  1.814.270   13,108,525  8.192,828
PIiwcal CmntinjmnCius                                    19.42     38.691    619719    529888    20,125        192.865    120,541
Price Coninimes                                         97,837    3899774  11PUw426  1.3679671    733,178   3W?34.886  2.3349304
Total PRJECT  COSS                                      1.325,427 2,715,587  S452,465  49975,034 29567.53   17,036,277  1O,647673
=3  -re== =                          s_:           -  C==3 =
Taxs                                                   1,3511   231.965    957,357   53)1         25$391    1",8     L,068.0Z
Foreign Exchane                                       1,019,216  2,052,044 4,056,912 3,706,914  1,962,228   12,738,314   7,9%1,446
Swte.br 5 1984  12:14



ZUIA
FlMRES OEENT PRCT
ProJact Cecwmts by Yosr
Totals Includirn Continuies                                     totals Includiri Cmntirsiiu
{101)                                                           (US8)
1964/1995  1915/196  19WI6 7  197/1M8  1M/19M         Totl       19M4/19951915/196  191/1917  197/118  1M/193    Total
A# IflTITUTIJ.ISESD CROIT SERICES
MTIML FISKIOI                                        287,816   349,895   310,137   338,702   3MM860   1,6554140    179,85    218,684    193,336   211,619   230,537   14034431
CO4IIICAML FIlIE                                      249519    2615U3    2s9n        31,634    349440    146,129    15324    16,402    18,106        190771    210525      91331
COLEC71ON /  EIWING FACILITIES                             -         - 2,596,430 245354329           -  5M131,760          -          - 1w622,76  1,51581             -  3,207,350
KER. LINE OF CIIT                                          -         -          -         -   400000    400,000            -          -         -          -   250,000    250,000
MW_NO S TECHICAL ASSISNTNE                           145,742   206,42    226,746    617178           -    62,758    91089   130,301    141,716    38,619              -     01,24
Sub-Total INUTIflITUIISCD CEDIT SERVICES               456,077   564,940  316296  24?67,454   DO3W9   7.776,056   296629    36s55s7  1M97642? 184,659   502,062   4,915,035
*. IWt ICEM W    OF FISH RESOCES
FACILITIES                                           251,830  1I0981i03   820119I   610,271   664001   3,444,323   157.394   6864315   512,S74   361,419   415,00l  2,152.702
1WEN  MS  TEANDCEIAL ASSISTYICE                          627   283.958   5829961   63556      33,487  1,9566522         392   177411    364,351   397,243   22092    19160,326        O
TRAIN1N6                                              47,045   1229079   204,545   202iM       155144    730,901      29,40      76,M      12790    126,305    96,965    456,S13    °
Sub-Total  AMiE        OF FISH REStCES                  299.502  195049040  1W60763  1447,948  1,72,632  6,031,745   137,1?   940,025  1004,746    904967    732,995  3,769,41
Co MET MlWAFCTtIRIN  FACILITIES
_ . ..   . ......  -.-                                                     I
NET AVUACtURIN6 FACILITIES                           346744    374.590   406.236   445513    484,6U7   2,059770    216,715   2349119    25,148   279,446   302.929   1,297,356
Sub-Total MET PI4WAACItINB FACILITIES                   346744    374V590    40236   445,513    41467   2,059,770   216.715   234,119   255,41          279,446   3022M   1,297,356
D. COORDINATION. INOITORING AD EYALUTIMON
COORDINATION   MONITORING NI) VMALU.ATION            221,105   252.017   274,510   114,119    106.955    968705    138.190   157,511   171,569    71,324    66,147    605441
Sub-Total COORDIIATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION       221,105   252,017   274,510   114,119    106,955    968.705    1381I90   157,511   171,56        71,324    661847    605441
Total PROACT COSTS                                      1.325.427 2,7155687 5,452,655 4.975,034 256U7M    17.0364277   829392  14697242 3,407,910 3M109,396  1604.733  10.647,673
~~~~~~~~~~  X*5XZ =X -- ----------    tl------_Zl__ _ '-_______00
Setebr 5 1994  12114



ZAKNIA
FISHERIES DEVELWIENT PRECT
PROJECT COST SU"Y
1(Ks)                              (USt)                           Z Total
------------------------------------ --  Z                          Fowivin Os
Local      Fortim      Total        Local    Foreign      Total      Excha       Costs
usm~mzzz   zuu332sm2=  mauss    m   uuxaumu  az m2ggaz                    uaaz s
A. INSTITUTIONN.ISED CREDIT SERVICES
ARTISNL FISHERIEN                                      4958950     791,559   14287040?      309906    494724       904,631         61       10
CC IAL FISHEN                                           46620        66,780     113,400      29,138     41,738      70,875         59        1
COELECTI1O  / NAREING FACILITIES                     1,1135971   2,712,201   32,072         697,419  14695,126   2,392,545         71       29
GENAL LINE OF CREDIT                                   160,000      240,000     400,000     100.000    150,000     2509000         60        3
WAAENT  AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                              -     549,504     549,504           -    343,440     343,440        100         4
Sub-Total INSTITUTIONALISED CREDIT SERVICES             1P9189341   4,360,044   6,178,385   1136463  2725,027   3,861,491             71       47
D. MANAGEIENT OF FISH RESOURCES
FACILITIES                                             745,139   1,843,109   2,588,248      465,712  1,151,943   19617PO55         71       20
MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                     27,960   1,392,098   194204058       17,475    8704061     887,536         98        11
TRAINING                                               180,000     3370900    517,090       1124500    2109675     3239175         65        4
Sub-Total MANAGEMENT OF FISH RESOURCES                    953,099   36572,287   4,525,386    5954687  2,232,679   2s828t366           79        35
C. NET MNRJVACTURING FACILITIES
NET MANUFACTURING FACILITIES                           180,180  1h432:431  1J612i611        1124613    895,269   1,007,982         89       12
Sub-Total NET 1WFACTURING FACILITIES                      180,180   19432v431   19612,611      112,613   895,269   1,0079892          89        12
D. COORDINATIONW MONITORING AND EVALUATION
COORDINATION , MONIDRING AND EVALUATION                90,000      702,144     792,144      56,250    438,40      495,090         S9        6
Sub-Total COORDINATIONe MONITORING AND EVALUAIION          90OOO       702144      792,144      56,250    438,840     495,090         B9        6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      3,041.620  10066,906  13,108,525   1,901,012 6,291,916  8,192,828             77      1O0
Phwsical Contilencles                                     98,936      103,929     1924865      55J585     64,955     1209541         54         1
Price Contintencies                                    19167,407   2,567,480   3,7344886      7291629  1,604,675   2#3346304         69       28
---- -------   -----                     -- --------- --- ----            ----
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       4,297,963  12,738,314  17,036,277   2,686,227  799619446  10,647,673          75       130
Septeber 5# 1984  12116



UNIM        - 82 -                                      Table  C17
FISHERIES II£ELP       FILET
mm WI COST MM
(Ku                               (USI)                          1 Total
---------- ----------------0 -- I Forein B3m
Local     Foreign    Total         Local    Forevin    Total       Exchau    Cost
I. INVESTIIT COSTF
A. CIVIL  RS
CIVIL WM                                     485.934     313 43B    304,422    303,709   199,055       502764          40        6
Sib-Total CIVIL UiXS                            4359934     31834K      804,422    303,709    199,0SS     502.764         40       6
3. EWIPIENT
SUP M0T5                                      1739759    294,674    453433    106,600    1779921       2116521         62        3
m  MOATS                                     1 0          17,068    190,7        1019,3     10,968     119,356          9        1
ES11E5                                       369t221    816,200   1138542        230,768    510,125    74039M          69        9
NETS                                           49.690    175572    225,2U         319056    109M732    140o"19         7B        2
EOUIPIT                                      3349460    5119360    645.820    209,033    319640        5218633         60       6
COLD STORAGE LN  A  SM AE                    413,169   1,501405   1,914,574     253,231    938,373   11196,609         73       15
DEHICrLS                                       17M20      61.056      783336      lo,o0    38168       48f.960        78        1
Sub-Total E0UIPIET                             1,531,433   3,367,335   4p393vB23    957,130  2104,584   3,061,764         69      37
C. VEHIClES
vEHICLES                                       24M4M0    194.616    219.09        15,30C   121635    1369935           BP        2
TRUOCS AND SF15                               739200    531.940    655.140        45S7O   363,713    4099463           In       5
Sub-Totl V0tICLES                                97,680    776PS56      497236      61u,0     485.348    546393           W9       7
D. TEOCNICAL ASSISTANCE
IEDIUCOL ASSISTMaCE                                -  2.60M2,6   2.442.936            -  1,626,335  14626.335         100      20
Sib-Total TECHIICAL ASSISTWNCE                        -  2.602P936  2.602P936            -  16d26.335  126h835           100      20
E. TRAINING
TRAINING                                           -    337.06       3370900          -   2109675    210h675          100       3
Sub-Total TRANING                                     -    337,060    337,080            -   210,675    210h675         lO         3
F. NET NANLFACtiUING F_ CLITIES
NET IWIFCTIEIN  FACILITIES                   180130   1.432,431   1612,611      112613   395,269  1,007.392            B9      12
Sub-Total lET INWFACTURING FACILITIES           1300N1    194329431   1,612v611    112.61      M995269  1.007.832        W9       12
Toal IIESIIT  COSTS                              2.29522   38834.925  111309107   1.434,551  5.521.766  6,956,317           79       85
II. 1ETW COSTS
A.   TIINS AND  INTEN          CRSTS
UEHICLE 0 3 n                               105 364    421P456    526P820       65,353   263,410    32P.263           sO       4
NOAT 0 t rl                                 1619714     646,954      06568    101,071    404.294    505.355           B0       6
OIER 0 t N                                  4799260    163t770    63.030    299539    102t.3          401.B94         25       5
Stb-Total OPTM   AS   IWTEWCE COSTS            746933B  1,232060   1v979.41B    466,461    770,050   1.236.511          62       15
Totl IECUREN1 COSTS                                746,333   19232.090  1.9.418    466,461    770,050   1v236.1S16 Q                 15
Total DASELINE  MSTS                              3.041620  10.066.906 13,10B3525   1.901.012  6,291,96   hm192.28            77     100
Phsical Continscins                               98936    1039M         192.865     35.155    6495        12,541          54       1
Price Cutti ffts                               1.167.407  2.567,460   39734986    7V629  1.604675   293349304              69      23
Total  IJECT 1S                                   4.297,963  12973B.314 17.036.27r,  266227  7.9612446 10.6479673            75      130
Swtser St 1934  12 17



- 83 -
4
Table D1
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Funds Allocated for Fisheries Loans 1977-1981 and
Administered by AFC
Fishery Area                          1977/78      1979       1980      1981
........ ... (aO00.e......*. ;    '000 )
Lake Tanganyika                           50         15         35        5
Lake Mveru-Wa-Ntipa                       30          8         19        5
Lake Mweru Luapula                        35          9         21        5
Rangweulu                                 35          8         20        5
Lukangas                                  10          5         11        2
Kafue                                     35          8         20        5
Upper Zambesi                             15         10         20        -
Kariba                                    -          -          -         8
Minor Fisheries                                 -               -         -
Itezhi-Tezhi                           -           -           7        -
Lusiwashi                              -            5          8        -
Fish Culture:  Northwestern               20          8         19        -
Copperbelt                -            4        -         -
TOTAL                                    230         80        180        40
_ __ .. mminin



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Annual Fish Yields from 8 uajor Fisheries 1966-81
(metric tonnes)
Year      Tanganyika        Mveru        Hweru      Kariba (1)    Kafue    Bangweulu    Lukanga    Upper Zaubezi
Wa-Ntipa     L.4pula
*966         6,500         1,672         9,479       1,436        10,709     12,408          658          1,000
1967        11,968         2,865         7,543         980         3,441     12,349          955          1,000
1968        10,104         3,704         7,617       1,410         6,183     11,430        1,602          1,000
1969         7,066         4,125         7,717       1,345         9,938     11,894        1,366          1,000
1970        10,835         4,216         7,326       2,581         9,582     12,375        1,724          3,500
1971         6,988         3,825         8,342       2,311         8,247     11,728        1,900          3,500
1972         6,281         5,812         9,068       1,955         7,874     13,034        2,370          3,500
1973         5,488         8,113         8,031       3,098         6,289     14,032        1,801          3,500
1974         4,522         5,992         8,135       2,181         5,177     15,715        1,707          3,500
1975         7,440        16,765         8,483         *           7,266      9,881        1,802          5.827
1976         6,501        13,330        10,680         *           9,307      7,598          856          5,995
1977         7,866        12,513         9,534         *           9,830      9,496        1,005          3,490
1978         6,474        10,352         7,629         *           8,634      8,942          786          4,475
1979         3,119         7,878         9,438         *          10,851     11,648          765          5,559
1980         8,256         9,C24         7,663         407         7,741     10,366          549          6,572
1981         7,982         5,734         7,744       2,000         9,619      9,343        1,523          6,694
66-81 av.     6,905         6,819         7,908         *           7,688      10,720       1,257          3,536
75-81 av.     6,805        10,799         8,747         *           9,035       9,611       1,041          5,516
(1)  No fishing in Lake Kariba 1975-1979 one to insecurity.



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMHIT PROJECT
Projected Demand Based on Population and Per Caput Consumption Increase
1983     1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990
g....... g......se......... ..........  (toou). e..,  ................. .g.... ges  eae 
At current level of 10 kg
per caput                         60,250   62,100   63,900   65,800   67,800   69,900   72,000   74,100
At 12 kg per cent                            74,500   76,700   79,000   81,400   83,900   86,400   88,900
At 15 kg per cent                            93,100   95,900   98,700  101,700  104,800  108,000  111,200



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Fish Production by Hajor Species
(1981)
Fishery                       Kapenta     Brea-     Catfish      Luciolates     Lates     Other     Total
,,,,,..*.,,,,,,,(o). ............................... .(tn.... ..... ev,.... ..........
Tanganyika                     5,188        -          -           1,197         958        639     7,982        >
Hweru Wa-Ntipa.                 -         4,759         285          -            -         690      5,734
Hweru Luapula                   -         3,470         774          -            -       3,500      7,744
Kariba                         1,200        600        -             -            -         200     2,000
Kafue                           -         5,483      1,635           -                    2,501     9,619
Iangweulu                       -         6,540      1,868           -            -         934     9,342
Lukanga                         -           619        305           -            -         599      1,523
Upper Zambeal                   -         4,016       1,138          -            -       1,540      6,694
Total                          6,388     25,487      6,005         1,197         958     10,603    50,638
Percentage Composition          13.0      50.0       12.0           2.0          2.0      21.0



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJEC?
Fishing Bouts Operating in Zambia
LOCATION             Number of      Canoe       Plankboats   Fibre Class        etal       'ottal    V4ulpIed vith Englees
Flshem en                                   Boats        Boats
Bangweulu              7,696         4,863             29          584           2        4,993                 -
Hweru Luapula           2,954         1,824         1,014           So           0        2,896                129
Mweru Wa-Ntipa         2,124            158         1,120          129           0        1,407                 45
Tanganyika              1,356           233           8S5            5           0        1,093                 57
Kafue (including
Itexhi-Texhi)        2,821         1,641             6          226          31         1,904                e1
Lukanga                  689            515          -               I          -           516                  -
Kariba                 1,004           420             56           36         37           549                 43
Upper Zambezi          1,358         2,483             62           10           2        2,577                  9
Total:                20,275         12,137        3,142           584          72       15.935                364
Percent of Total:                    76.2            19.7          3.7        0.4          100                 2.3



Table El
- 88 -
ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZADB Planned Establhshment of Field Offices
Branch Offices               Liaison Offices
Y EAR                       YEAR
PROVINCE            1985    1986    1987      1984    1985    1986    1987
Lusaka                -       -       -         1       -       -       -
Central                                                 2 2
Southern                  -           1         1       -       1       -
Northern              1       -       -         -       2       1       1
Northwestern          -       -       -        -        -       1       -
Western                            -                    1       -       2
Eastern               -       1       -         1       -       1       2
Luapula               -       -       -         1       -       -       1
Copperbelt            -       -       -        -        1       -       -
TOTAL                 1       1       1        4        6       5       6



- 89 -
ZAMBIA                   Table E2
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ZADB Staffing Plan 1/
Department                         Location                  Y e a r
1984    1985    1986   I187
Executive offlces                Head Office
Managing Dlrector                               I        I        I       I
Director of Operations                          1        1       1        1
Director of Finance &
Planning                                      2        1       1        1
Director of Administration                      1        1       1        1
Support Staff                                   5        5       5        5
Corporate Secretary & Legal    Head Office
Board Secretary                                 1        1        1       1
Legal Officer                                   1        1        1       1
Support Staff                                   1        1       1        1
Projects Department              Head Office
Manager & Assistant                             1        2       2        2
Project Officers                               10       14      14       14
Support Staff                                   4        4       4        4
Credit Department                Head Office
Manager & Assistant                             2        2        2       2
Credit Officers                                12       14      14       14
Fisheries Officers                              2        2       2        2
Support Staff                                   5        5       5        5
Accounts Department              Head Office
Chief Accountant                                1        1       1        1
Accountants                                     6        8       8        8
Clerical 6 Support Staff                       14       14      14       14
Personnel & Training             Head Office
Manager                                         1        1        1       1
Training Officer                                1        1        1       1
Personnel Officer                               1        1       I        1
Admin. Officer                                           1       1        1
Support Staff                                  13       13      13       13
Planning & Development           Head Office
Manager                                         1        1       1        1
Planning Officers                               5        5       5        5
Support Staff                                   1        1       1        1
Data Systems Department          Head office
Manager                                         1        1       1        1
Statistician & Analyst                          1        2       2        2
Support Staff                                   1        2       2        2
Branch Offices                    Province
Managers                                       -         1       2        3
Accountants                                    -         3       6        9
Agriculturalists                               -         4       8       12
Support Staff                                  -         6      12       18
Liaison Offices                   District
Liaison Officers                                4       10      15       21
Credit Supervisors                             16      40       60       82
Support Staff                                  10       22      32       44
TOTAL                                         125      193     242      296
1/ Does not include Fisheries Credit Specialist to be provided under the
project.



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organisation Chart
PS
Ministry of Agriculture
and Water Development
Managing Director                    Project                   Director
. ZADB          -------------    Coordinator  -----------     .  F
Fisheries Loan                   C
Department                         M & E
C|  i            Chief |  Chief
Fisheries      Fisheries       Fisheries
Training       Extension       Research
Officer        Officer         Officer
Authority lines.
Coordination/Advisory lines.
September 23,1983



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
ZAMBIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
ORGANIZATION CHART
CHIEF INTERNAL                                        Board |
F"AUDITOR
OFIC
|DIRecToR of FlNNCXM                                            DIRCCTORI OP PERsoNNeL ||DLrector of Operations|
|    ANOm PLANNINGu|                                      | AND ADMINISTRATION   |                         |             8   _ L
|DATAEF | SY 'STEMS  |    | PLANNINC G | |          PERSO"IL 1,OF|IC_
ACCOUTANTMANAGeR                  DgVEOPHNT                       TRAINING            InllsRTON  |FoeTCRDT                                             _LEGAL                      
MANAGER   l                    fNCRXNCR                           lfAAe                                fHCR          lDEPARTHENr                
| BRANCH| 



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHART OF DEPARTHENT OF FISHERIES
Director
Department of Fisherie      |
|Deputy Dlrector|
At inch                                ----                  DLvisions
Provincial Capital
Provincial Fishery             Chief Fishery Officer         Chief Fishery Officer          Chief Fishery Officer          Senior Training Officer           Senior Fishery Officer
Development Officer                Extension and                     Research                    Fish Culture                      Training                         Statistics
At Certain Provinces                                       D                      I                                                                            |
fish ry hctxtant               FFishery hfistanto            Fishery  sxistanta           Fishery Training Officers            Fishery hsiatants
Expatriate Fishery                                         rical Staff               Technical Officers              Clerical Staff                Fishery Instructors                 Clerical Staff
Research Officer                                                                     Clerical Staff                                                 Clerleal Staff                      Fish Scouts
At Each  istrtet
5 Tr Ining
Fishery Development                                                                                                                 Cer.re
Fisheries Assistants, Technical Officers
Clerical Staff, Fish Scouts



ZAMBIA
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1984                     1985                     1986                     1987                      198S                      1989
Loan Processing                      )JFIMIAIMIJIJIAISIOINID JIFIMIAIMIJIJIAISIOINID JIFIMIAIMIJIJIAISIOINID JIFIMIAIMIJIJA|ISOhINID JIFIHIAIMIJPJIAISIOINID JIFIMIAI|IJIJIAIS|OINID
Negotiations
Board Presentation                                      0
Effectiveneas
Loan Approvals
Fish Productton                                                                                             -       ,,  ,_,_,
Flsh Karketing
Net Manufacturing
F.cilities (DOO)                                                                    ___
Training                                                                                                          ,               ._.
Technical Assistance
Stock Assessment Officer
Liwnologiat                                                     ._.-
Experienced Fishermen
Consultants                                                                                                                                __      __                              _
Fiaheries Credit Specialiat
Project Coordinator                                                          -_                                                 _
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring
Evaluation



2Z                             2r                            2e 
Z A M B I A
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT
*  Artisonal fisheries         Roads
*  Commercial fisheries        Railwoys
O  Marketing facilities    t  Airfields
- R ivers
Swomps
Provincial boundaries
Internotional boundaries
.3
Z     A      I     R      E
f   t   (                        c ~~~~~~~~~~~~\ \t~~~~u bum nboshi
A    N   G   O        A               I                                           LubumbaJ  ,
12-                            Iw SC w2
(               N ORTH
W E STE RNi
- ~-      >    COPPER--
±Zam ,  K aKosemoo                    / r
i            , ~~~~Zombez-                            0                             Mpog
Ka,onbaO'--~
.1~~~~_
Lukulu
-  Koomoem
°Lfulwl                   *                                             s 
Nanm1oknde                      $                    * -   LJMukuIomkwl.o \
|   W    E tST  E  R N                                           -         J 
W EST E R N    Ko ~~~~~~~~~-7N    l                           Mzauk [
i       S                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Kotob..  0 N           )mt
16                                                                                  Mz'~
t nongo                     /                       {; Pe b     hombo
\      ~~~Nonoweshi                      /               S             D    t      osug
,\ \. ~~~~~~~~~~Mw4cbez. o
9         ~    ~~~Ko,lamoolmz 
-K~~~~~~~~~~~K6
._-.~  ~N A M I B IA
-|[-22                        2t {.,r_4C71/BTSW 4AN.ZoiUt- &b                             21



IBRD 18135
23ir Sr                                                                                                MARCH 1914
-           ~~~~Nsuru
Komaha Bay Nsurnbuo                 T  A   N   Z  A   N   I A
,   .1                  ~~~~Mpuhng_ 
>   4WgOM;;unqo                                  }         \ 
7                                              Mhalo Mporoko  
{                    ~~~~~~~N O R T>  N ) 
I..~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
0 A es                  \°M_enoo>--/M  ; 
.)  /'                                   J?         AI-.   :*'                0
s, IlS                                                                                C -  Jl  o ;Ch
A   I  R  E                             {no                        !<      
o detete      J    /         Somiyo0                                                                     J  I 2    h
(IdLubu      adm,o1          L   U   A    P   U    L  A 3
Sal..z.~~~~~~~~~~~ul'
,r    ,      .|/ ChaJ .sh,L  shy
-: N                     r.&Aono K.     Ch
- ~      ~     ~ COPPFRB FLT            Bw noMkubwa         !         >                       sM.,           /        b
~~~~~~~Lu,Abns.l.                                         j -s    S,/ erenle \  iz
- -                            ,t7Koio,i- Mos.                                    < Mkuih.       Kale     J                         1d:
z E C2N T 2 A L  _ 
Kabwe
Keembe 
_ih.somba
Mutulokwa- WoUSAbono                                                      M  O  Z A  M. B I Q  U  E
-lj_>  tUAA,eo mn
N    l         Mao_buk             _            /
\  ,sjCr        ~~Siovongoo  2Ao  ^  d                                                                            sr
'.OUIHERNZM aon                       _in           ARIBA        Z I M  B A B W  E                         L        . I R           1ANZAN*A 
Chana       OIePo          /                                                                    i      8. 
r o ,  AoMo--   i  0   sO  1DO  15C MAILES  ANGOLA      --;
SnttOingw                        C       50      'O      tSC       MG      :50 (LOMAETEAS        r. A M B I A
~~~~~~*    ' *, -rw           D"..  N'     B.t. rr.    r ~     s w_fr1.#VE2
/ j ne z o r <V."n-  I            I   W _  _               &        W              I
km .                                                                                                           ro T_ArL_ oi               -
_.,%-     _.f                                 owrtesuba-SVtIAft-cho                                    tlAlillA|         k      /
*                                                                                                jI~~~~~~~2r  i



