.   OCU      T   CREDIT NUMBER 1529-0-ZA
Project Agreement
(Fisheries Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ZAMBIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated                                  1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1529-0-ZA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      9, 1985, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and ZAMBIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK (herein-
after called ZADB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Republic of Zambia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 7,100,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ZADB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a financing agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and ZADB, part of the proceeds of the credit pro-
vided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to ZADB on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
and
WHEREAS ZADB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed. to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ZADB declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part D of the


﻿- 2 -
Project described in said Schedule with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, finan-
cial, engineering and fisheries practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist ZADB in carrying out Part D
of the Project, ZADB shall employ a fisheries credit specialist
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such specia-
list to be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, goods and civil works required for Part D of the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ZADB undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower for carrying out Part D of the Project against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by ZADB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) ZADB shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) ZADB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for Part D
of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) ZADB shall, with respect to Part D of the Project: (i)
maintain records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives


﻿-3-
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ZADB and the
Association, ZADB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of
Part D of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by ZADB and the Association
of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) ZADB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of ZADB and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. ZADB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Financing Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, ZADB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) ZADB shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Part D of the Project, the performance of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the Financing Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ZADB shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the pro-
gress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by ZADB of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Financing Agreement.
Section 2.08. ZADB shall, with respect to Part D.2 (a) of
the Project:


﻿(a) prepare and submit annually to the Association for its
review and comments a lending program for Sub-loans to artisanal
fishermen;
(b) carry out such lending program by taking into account,
beginning with the second year of Project implementation, the
performance of the Sub-loans during the previous year; and
(c) open Sub-zonal offices in the areas in which Sub-bor-
rowers are located.
Section 2.09. ZADB shall, before making a Sub-loan under
Part D.2 (c) of the Project, submit to the Association, for its
review and comments, the evaluation report to be prepared by
ZADB's management loan committee with respect to the proposed
Sub-loan.
Section 2.10. In carrying out Part D.2 of the Project, ZADB
shall make Sub-loans to qualified individual or private companies
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including that ZADB shall:
(a) charge the Sub-borrowers: (i) an interest       rate not
less than the prevailing interest rate charged by commercial
banks for lending in the agricultural sector; (ii) a commitment
fee of two per cent (2%); and (iii) a processing fee of two per
cent (2%) (up to a maximum of 1,000 Kwacha) of the amount of the
Sub-loans;
(b) require the Sub-borrowers to contribute not less than
twenty per cent (20%) of the costs of the goods to be financed
under the Sub-loans (except in the case of financing of nets
under Part D.2 (a) of the Project);
(c) require the Sub-borrowers to repay: (i) Sub-loans for
the purchase of nets over a maximum period of one year; (ii)
Sub-loans for the purchase of boats and engines over four (4)
years; and (iii) Sub-loans under Parts D.2 (b) and (c) of the
Project over five (5) years;
(d) require the Sub-borrowers to provide adequate liens
for securing the Sub-loans; and
(e) obtain, by written agreement with the Sub-borrower or
by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the


﻿-5-
interest of the Borrower, the Association and ZADB, including in
the case of any such Sub-loan: (i) the right to require the
Sub-borrower to carry out its operations with due diligence and
efficiency and to maintain, as appropriate, adequate records;
(ii) the right to require that the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan be used exclusively
tor the purposes for which the Sub-loan was obtained; (iii) the
right of the Association and ZADB to inspect any relevant records
or documents maintained; (iv) the right to obtain all such
information as the Association or ZADB shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing; and (v) the right of ZADB to suspend
or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Sub-borrower to
perform its obligations under its agreement with ZADB.
Section 2.11. ZADB shall exercise its rights in relation to
each Sub-loan in such manner as to protect the interest of the
Borrower, the Association and ZADB.
Section 2.12. ZADB shall:
(a) review annually, in consultation with the Borrower and
the Association, the level of interest rates charged by it for
lending operations in the agricultural and fishery sector; and
(b) adjust such interest rates as shall be necessary to
ensure the efficient operation of ZADB's lending program.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ZADB
Section 3.01. ZADB shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
economic,   agricultural  and   fisheries  practices   under  the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ZADB shall, until the completion of the
Project, keep the positions of Director of Administration and
Personnel, Director of Finance and Planning, and Director of
Operations filled with qualified and experienced staff and shall
appoint new staff to these positions in consultation with the
Association.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.03. ZADB shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ZADB shall: (a) maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; and
(b) retain,    until    one   year   after    the   Closing
Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of
which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. ZADB shall:
(a) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (i) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as to whether the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it and withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose
for which they were provided; and


﻿- 7 -
(c) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said accounts, financial statements, records and
expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ZADB shall not, until its share capital is fully
subscribed, incur any debt if after the incurrence of such debt
the ratio of debt to equity shall be greater than 1 to 3.
(b) For purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of ZADB
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment, on the date, and to the
extent, the amount of such debt has become out-
standing pursuant to such contract, agreement or
instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(iii) The term "equity" means the sum of the total
unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and
reserves of ZADB not allocated to cover specific
liabilities.
(iv) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
Section 4.04. ZADB shall annually exchange views with the
Borrower and the Association on its capital requirements and
financing arrangements.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ZADB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify ZADB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-9-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ZADB:
Zambia Agricultural Development
Bank
P. 0. Box 310847
Society House
Cairo Road
Lusaka, The Republic of Zambia
Cable address:                    Telex:
ZADB                              ZA 40126
Lusaka
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ZADB may be taken or executed by its
Chief Executive or such other person or persons as ZADB shall
designate in writing, and ZADB shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Byjs/     c6      J
Regional Vice President
Eastern Af ica
ZAMBIA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of para-
graph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ZADB shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. ZADB shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Orders for goods shall be bulked together in bidding pack-
ages and, wherever possible, each bid package shall be for not
less than the equivalent of $50,000.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,pursuant
to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in the
evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 12 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Zambia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group   A: bids   offering  goods  manufactured  in
Zambia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of ZADB and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Zambia equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 13 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for goods under Part D.2 (c) of the Project and
(i) estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, may
be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association, and (ii) estimated to cost less than $20,000
equivalent each, may be procured on the basis of local
shopping after obtaining at least three price quotations.
3.   Orders for goods under Part D.2 (a) and (b) of the Project
shall be placed through local suppliers approved by ZADB,
which shall have adequate sales and after-sales services in
Zambia.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ZADB shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of _
1985.
FOR SECRETARY


