                                          Documentof
                                        TheWorld Bank


                                  FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                        ReportNo. 43788-LR




                               EMERGENCYPROJECTPAPER


       ONA PROPOSEDEMERGENCYFOODCRISISRESPONSEPROGRAM

                                             TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA

              FROMTHE FOODPRICECRISISRESPONSETRUST FUND

                                               FOR

                      AN ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANTTO THE

AGRICULTURE AND INFRASTRUCTUREDEVELOPMENTPROJECT(US$3.0 MILLION);

                                               AND

                      AN ADDITIONAL FINANCINGGRANTTO THE

           COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENTPROJECTI1(US3.0 MILLION);

                                               AND

                                       A GRANT FORA

FOODSUPPORTPROJECTFORVULNERABLE WOMEN AND CHILDREN(US$4.0
                                            MILLION)


                                          MAY22,2008



 HumanDevelopment 2
 PovertyReductionandEconomicManagement4
 Transport
 CountryDepartmentW1
 Africa Region


 Ths document has a restricteddistribution andmaybeusedby recipients only inthe performance o f
 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange RateEffective May 21,2008)
                Currency Unit      =    LiberianDollars (LR$)
                IUS$               =    LR$63.25


                                FISCALYEAR
                              JULY 1 - JUNE30



                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDP     Agricultural InfrastructureDevelopment Project
CAM      Central Agricultural ResearchInstitute
CBO      Community Based Organization
CEP      Community Empowerment Project
CFAA     Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CFSNS    ComprehensiveFood Security andNutrition Survey
CGIAR    Consultative Group for International Agriculture Research
CPI      Consumer Price Index
CPS      Corporate Partners
CQS      Consultant Qualification Selection
C W Q    Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire
DA       DesignatedAccount
DPs      Development Partners
EGIRP    Economic GovernanceandInstitutionalReformProject
EIP      Emergency Infrastructure Project
ESMF     Environmental and Social ManagementFramework
ESSAF    Environmental and Social Assessment Framework
ESW      Economic Sector Work
FA0      Foodand AgricultureOrganization
FBOs     Farmer-BasedOrganizations
FFS      Farmer FieldSchools
FM       Financial Management
FMFA     Financial ManagementFramework Agreement
FPCRTF   FoodPrice Crisis ResponseTrust Fund
FSN      Food Security Nutrition
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GFRP     GlobalFoodCrisis ResponseProgram
GoL      Government of Liberia
HIPC     Heavily IndebtedPoor Country
IFRs     InterimFinancialReports
IITA     International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
ILO      International Labor Organization
INGOs    International Non-Governmental Organization
IPD      Import Permit Declarations
IRP      Infrastructure andRuralProject
ISN      InterimStrategyNote
ISR      Implementation Status Report
IUFRs    InterimUn-AuditedFinancial Reports
LACE     LiberiaAgency for Community Development
LISGIS   LiberiaInstitute of Statistics andGeo-Information Services
LOU      Letter of Understanding
LFCRP    LiberiaFoodCrisis ResponseProgram

MAAFP    Manual o f Administrative, Accounting andFinancialProcedures
M C I   MinistryofCommerce andIndustry
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MGD     MinistryofGender andDevelopment
MOA      Ministryo fAgriculture
M o E    MinistryofEducation
MoF      Ministry o fFinance
MoHSW    MinistryofHealthandSocialWelfare
M o I    MinistryofInterior
MRU      Mano River Union
NFSNS    National Food Security andNutrition Strategy
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
O M      Operation Manual
PDO      Project Development Objective
PEMFAR   Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PFM      Public Financial Management
PFMU     Project Financial ManagementUnit
PLW      Pregnant and Lactating Women
PPC      Public Private Collaboration
PRS      Poverty Reduction Strategy
PTA      Parent Teacher Association
CWIQ     Core Welfare Indictor Questionnaire
SIU      Special ImplementationUnit
SOEs     Statement o f Expenditures
STCP     Sustainable Tree Crops Program
UNHCR    UnitedNations HighCommission for Refugees
UNICEF   UnitedNations Children's Fund
UNMIL    UnitedNationsMission inLiberia
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WARDA    Africa Rice Centre
WFP      World Food Programme
WHO      World Health Organization




                       Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                    Country Director:  Ishac Diwan
                     Sector Manager:   Antonella Bassani
                                       C. Sanjivi Rajasingham
                                       Eva Jarawan
                                       Karen Brooks
                   Task Team Leader    Errol Graham
                                       Chris Jackson
                                       BarbryKeller
                                       Giuseppe Zampaglione


                                                        Liberia
                               FoodPriceCrisisResponseProject

                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                                                                                                            Page

AgricultureandInfrastructure Development Project. Data Sheet.......................................
                                                                          Project                                                              1
FoodSupport Project for Vulnerable Women and Children -Project Paper Data Sheet..................2
Community Empowerment Project I1. Paper Data Sheet....................................................
                                                  Project
                                                                                                                                               3

A.     Introduction........................................................................................................................... 4
B.     Rationale for ProposedBank EmergencyProgram..............................................................                               5
C.     Country Context....................................................................................................................     5
D.     Economic and Social Impact of Crisis..................................................................................                  7
E.     Institutionalor Capacity Issues.............................................................................................            8
F.     Government Responseto the Crisis......................................................................................                  9
G .    Donor Strategiesand Programs ..........................................................................................                10
H.     Bank Response....................................................................................................................      11
I.     Program Components .........................................................................................................           11
J.     Consistencywith Country Strategy .................................................................................... 12
K.     ProgramObjectives, Outcomes, and Monitoring Arrangements........................................                                       12
L.     Appraisal of Program Activities .........................................................................................              13
M.     Compliance with Safeguards Policies.................................................................................                   15
N.     Implementation Arrangements ...........................................................................................                16
0.     Program Rsks and MitigatingMeasures............................................................................                        17


Annex 1: DetailedDescriptionof Project Components.............................................................                                21
Annex 2: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements.......................................                                                35
Annex 3: DetailedProcurementArrangements.........................................................................                             43
Annex 4: ProjectPreparationand Appraisal Team Members.................................................                                        48
Annex 5: LiberiaMap ..................................................................................................................        49


                                        ProjectPaper Data Sheet
                        AgricultureandInfrastructureDevelopmentProject(AIDP)

Date: May 21, 2008                               Team Leader: Gylfi Palsson
Country: Republic of Liberia                     Sector Directormanager: C. Sanjivi

Development Project (AIDP)




     FY                2008         2009             2010             2011              2012
Annual                 4.5          17.0              12.0             6.0               0.5




Have these beenapprovedby Bank management?



The Project Development Objectives remainthe same as the parent project:

The project will support Government's efforts inre-establishingbasic infrastructure andrevivingthe
agriculture activities.




        Total FPCR financing (US$m.): 3.0 million
                                    FinancingPlan (US$m.)
                           Source                                     Total Amount (US$m)
Borrower                                                                        0.00
FPCR TF                                                                         3.0 m
Total                                                                           3.0m



                                                  1

                                       ProjectPaper Data Sheet
                             CommunityEmpowermentProjectI1(CEPII)

Date: May 21,2008                               Team Leader: Giuseppe Zampaglione
Country: Republic o f Liberia                   Sector DirectorNanager: Eva Jarawan
Project Name: Community Empowerment             Country Director: Ishac Diwan

Project ID:P105683
Project I1                                      Environmental Category: B

Borrower: Republic of Liberia
Responsible agency: Liberia Agency for Community Empowerment




Revisedestimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
      FY             2008            2009             2010            2011            2012
Annual                1.00           4.50             4.50             5.OO            4.25
Cumulative            1.oo            5.50            10.00           15.OO            19.25
Current closing date: Closing date: June 30,201 1


from Bank policies?                                                       oYes XNo
                                                                          oYes    oNo

Revisedproject development objectives/outcomes
The Project Development Objective has beenrevised as follow:

As part o fthe Governmentresponse to the social and economic emergency o f Liberia, the Project
will improve poor rural communities' access to basic infrastructure and provide economic
opportunities for vulnerable households inurban and rural areas.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? Ifso, click
here to indicate which one(s).


                                   For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan    [ 3 Credit   [XI Grant (from FPCR Trust Fund)
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total FPCR financing (US$m.): 3.0 million

                                   FinancingPlan(US$m.)
                           Source                                    Total Amount (US$m)
Borrower                                                                      0.00
FPCR TF                                                                       3.0 m
Total                                                                         3.Om



                                                2

                                           Project Paper Data Sheet
            Liberia FoodSupportProjectfor VulnerableWomen andChildren

Date: May 21,2008                                              Team Leaders: Chris JacksodErrol
Country Director: Ishac Diwan                                  Graham
Sector Managermirector: Antonella Bassad Sudhir                Sectors: social protection, education, health
Shetty; KarenBrooks/ Inger Andersen                            Environmental category: C
Lending instrument: Emergency operation




Project ID(s):                                         Total Amount: US$4.0Million

Proposedterms: Grant                                   Expected implementation period:

Expectedeffectiveness date: June 10,2008               Expectedrevisedclosing date: December 31,2010

Recipient: World FoodProgramme on behalfof             Responsibleagency: World FoodProgramme
the Republic of Liberia


Maintain access to food among vulnerable households.

Short Description:




Source                                                  Local               Foreign               Total
Borrower                                                  0                     0                   0
Total IBRD/IDA                                            0                     0                   0
FPCRTF                                                    0.                   4.0                 4.0
Others                                                    0                     0                   0
Total                                                     0                    4.0                 4.0


                                     2008      2009         2010       2011        2012      2013
Total IBRD/IDA                       0         2.0          2.0        0           0         0
Trust Funds
Does the emergency operation require any exceptions from Bank policies?                 Yes [ ] No [XI

Have these been approvedby Bank management?                                             Yes [ 1 N o [ 1
Are there any criticalrisks rated"substantial" or "high"?                                Yes[X] N o [ ]

What safeguard policies are triggered, ifany?                                           None

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any:
Prior to effectiveness of the Grant, Governmentof Liberia andWFP would concludea Letter ofUnderstanding
(LOU) settingforth the scope ofthe programandmodalities,targeting ofbeneficiariesand other matters.

                                                    3

A.       Introduction
1.       This project paper proposes support for a Liberia Emergency Food Crisis Response
Program consisting o f (i)       US$3.0 million o f additional financing to the Liberia Emergency
AgricuZture and Infrastructure Development Project, (ii)US$3.O                         million o f additional
financing for the Liberia Community Empowerment II Project, and (iii)                       a grant o f US$4.0
million for a new Liberia Emergency Food Support Project for VulnerabZe Women and
Children. These are to be made available from the new Global Food Price Crisis Response
Trust Fund(FPCR TF)'. This additional financing and financing o f the new project, totaling
US$10 million, will constitute the Bank's overall support o f the Republic of Liberia's Food
Crisis ResponseProgram (LFCW).

2.       The proposed LFCRP would help finance activities to mitigate both the short-term
and the medium- to long-term impact o f rising food prices inLiberia as a result o f the global
food price trends. The proposed interventions will support the Government o f Liberia's
(GoL's) national strategy to maintainand enhance food security. It includes support to (i)                     the
implementation o f social safety net measures to maintain access to food among the most
vulnerable households; and (ii)       expedite a supply response o f agriculturalproductionthrough
the implementation of measures to raise the yields and consequently the production of
staples. Specific interventions under (i)            include (a) a program for vulnerable women and
children including a school feeding program and (b) a demand-driven public works program
for dry-season employment. Under (ii)                interventions focus on the provision o f essential
inputs and post-harvest interventions to increase the productivity of rice and cassava
production.

3.       The LFCRP was formulated in the context of the Government's own strategic
response to the food crisis and constitutes the Bank's contribution to a joint UN response.
Donor partner co-financing o f the components o f the program i s not anticipated at this time.
However, certain components are expected to be implemented by partners within the UN
framework and this may result insignificant "in-kind'' contributions from these partners.

4.       Theproposed overall allocationis as follows:

     Project Conrponent                                       Anlount
                                                                (ITS$)                   Modality
                                                                            Additional financing Agriculturc
     Conipoirent 1: Agricultural Productivity Interventions   3,000,000     and Infrastructure Oevelopnicnt
                                                                            Project (H3273)


     Component 2: Cashfor W'ork Employment Program                          Additional financing Community
                                                              3,000,000    1En, wermcnt Pro.ect ,[ ~ w 3 0 s o ~

     Component 3: Food Support for Vulnerable Women
     and Children                                             4,000,000                New Project


     TOTAL                                                    10,000'000



'The  FPCR TF is to be established inconjunction with the Bank's Global FoodCrisis ResponseProgram
(GFRP), andis subject to Executive Directors' approval and fundedout ofIBRDsurplus subjectto the approval
of the Boardof Governors.


                                                        - 4 -

B.      Rationalefor ProposedBankEmergencyProgram
5.      Increasing world food prices threaten to undermine recent progress towards the
millennium development goals (MDGs) by reducing household and national food security
and threatening macroeconomic stability. Inpost-conflict and fragile states, social unrest and
instability i s a real prospect. Global price increases have reached crisis proportions in2008:
wheat prices rose from US$375 per metric ton (mt) inJanuary to US$440/mt inMarch while
Thai rice export prices increased from US$365/mt to US$562/mt over the same period. The
impact of high world food prices i s compounded by the pass-through effects o f increase in
fuel prices, which adds to distribution costs and i s resulting in high food price inflation in
many countries.

6.      The Bank has recently put forward a new Global Food Crisis Response Program
(GFW) which aims to allow a comprehensive response to the crisis across a range of
different instruments. GFRP provides an overall framework for the Bank to coordinate its
own contribution to addressing the crisis inpartnership with other multi-lateral organizations
and donor agencies. The initial approach will be to facilitate a rapid Bank response with all
available tools as soon as possible, while supporting the evolving coordination role o f the
United Nations Task Force on the Global Food Crisis established recently in Berne.
Eventually, it i s envisaged to have a more comprehensive partnership modeled along the
lines o f other global programs, such as for Avian and Human Influenza (AIH) epidemic, for
which the Bank has undertaken a role as administrator o f the AIH Facility.

C.      CountryContext
7.      As a country emerging from 14 years of civil war, Liberia is extremely susceptible to
the consequences of high food price inflation, including a very real risk o f reversal of recent
progress inrestoringpeace and the nascent economic recovery. The impacts o f the increases
inworld food prices are already evident inthe domestic economy since food is such a large
share o f consumption. The consumer price index (CPI - in which food carries a weight of
45%) increased 14% in March 2008 - consequently a typical food basket now costs 25%
more than in January 2007 (Figure 1). Higher food prices will pushmore people below the
food poverty line. As reported inthe recent Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaire (CWIQ),
poverty remains endemic with an estimated nationalpoverty rate o f 64%. Moreover, 48% of
the population i s indigent, and unable to meet its basic food needs. The implications o f the
food price increases on the poverty levels o f Liberia are severe. Based on the results o f the
CWIQ survey, it i s estimated that a 20% increase inthe price o frice could leadto an increase
o f 3 to 4 percentage points to the headcount poverty rate. Ths price increase has already
takenplace inMonrovia.




                                                - 5 -

       Figure 1Trends inthe Consumer Price Index; January 2007 -March 2008




                                       Source: Liberian authorities.

8.     Rice i s the main staple food for Liberians, accounting for 37% o f the value o f food
consumption and 50% of daily calorific intake o f the average household, and prices have
increased substantially (Figure 2). Local rice dominates consumption o f rural households
whereas imported rice dominates in urban areas and amongst upper quintiles. (One-quarter
o f the Liberian population resides in Monrovia, in part a consequence of widespread
displacement associated with the conflict.) Liberia imports about 70% of annual consumption
requirements (US$82.1 million in 2007). Current stocks will meet national requirements
through to August 2008 (with consumption o f about 17,50O/mt per month). Rice prices have
particular political resonance especially among urban households. As such, they demand
particular political attention as they can contribute to civil strife as observed in other post-
conflict and/or fragile countries.          The prevailing regime for rice imports essentially
constitutes managed prices for imported rice while market prices for local rice are not
mandated. A fixed wholesale/ retail margin o f US$1 per bag (of 50kg) o f imported rice i s
insufficient to cover transport costs far from Monrovia. While current market prices are
estimated to be US$31 per bag in Monrovia, prices in eastern Liberia are up to US$41 per
bag. (By comparison, prices in Sierra Leone and Guinea are about US$50 per bag, with
considerable informal trade taking place.) With the exception o f palm oil (used for cooking,
but now facing higher demand for export for bio-fuels) other important foodstuffs are
essentially non-tradable and therefore less impacted by global price rises (smoked fish,
cassava, etc).

                  Figure 2 Trends inRice Prices; June 2006 March 2008 -
                                            - -. ___                       -
                                                           -    ___ -   - -
                                                                     I




                         6000- --     nponed me-bcalme
                       M 5000 -                                          /` \
                                                                             \




                         10.00
                                   ~




                          0.00f
                     ~




                                       Source: Liberian authorities.




                                                  - 6 -

9.      Although Liberia remains heavily dependent on food imports (self sufficiency rates
are around 70%), the latest FA0 Crop Assessment shows an impressivenascent recovery in
the domestic production o f staples (Table 1). Production o f key staples - rice and cassava -
has doubled since 2005 to 170,000mt o f (milled) rice and 930,000mt cassava (fresh weight)
and the majority o f farmers expect production in2008 to be higher still. It i s estimated that
20% o f this increase can be attributed to increased area under production as returning
Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) re-engage their farms while 80% i s due to yield growth
associated with the increased use o f new planting material. The Crop Assessment also
estimates post-harvest losses at around 19% indicating that a substantial boost in food
availability couldbe achieved with improved storage andbasic processing technology.

                             Table 1Food Balance Sheet; 2005 -2007




   Source: FA0 Crop Assessment 2008. Notes:     * Cassavaimport requirements reported as cereal equiivalent.

D.      Economic and Social Impact of the Crisis
10.     The increases infoodprices andthe pass-through effects of the increasesinoil prices
have resulted inan acceleration o f inflation inthe first quarter of 2008. This trend i s likely to
persist over the medium term and the projection for end-year inflation has been raised to
13.4% from single digit inflation (9.5%) in 2007. The higher food and fuel prices are also
likely to have an adverse impact on the country's external balance. The current projections
are that the trade deficit will increase in2008 to about 67.4% o f GDP but will gradually fall
back to about 33% by 2010 as exports o f timber and iron are restarted. The larger trade and
current account deficits are likely to be financed by increased foreign direct investment and
higherofficial andprivate transfers. The fiscal impact ofthe food crisis is likely to be greater
inthe short runas the Governmenthasrecently suspendedtariffs onriceimports (ofUS$2.10
per bag, at a cost o f US$1.9 million for the remainder of FY08 and an estimated US$8.4
million for FY09). Since the government i s committed to a balanced cash-based budget with
no borrowing, it will likely have to take additional revenue measures or reduce its
expenditures. Some off-set i s likely from increased revenues from rubber exports which
have also increased in value, as well as other import tariffs levied ad valorem and over the
mediumterm additionalrevenues from the logging and ironore concessions will be realized.
Indeed, latest fiscal data (to December 2008) shows customs duties on all imports 22%
higherthan budgeted figures.

11.     With one-third of the population2residinginurban areas (three-quarters inMonrovia)
o f which 30% are reported to be unemployed or otherwise inactive, rising food prices will
clearly reduce real incomes. In rural areas, over 50% o f household heads are engaged


 The following data is obtained from the recent CWIQ undertaken in2007.


                                                    - 7 -

primarily infarming. Since few households fully meet consumption needs, risingfood prices
only benefit a small number o f net food producers; net food consuming households will see a
reduction in their purchasing power. According to the Comprehensive Food Security and
Nutrition Survey (CFSNS), for which field work was undertaken in2006, 11%o f households
are food-insecure and an additional 40% are highly vulnerable to food insecurity3 with
notably worse figures in the areas most affected by displacement during the war and more
remote regions (respectively Lofa County, and River Gee and Grand Kru - see Figure 3).
Although progress has been made since 2005 - GDP growth o f 7% and 11% in 2006 and
2007 and a doubling o f rice and cassava over this period - the CWIQ reports that 62% of
rural households continue to "live with difficulty" and one-third report an inability to satisfy
their food needs.

                       Figure3: FoodInsecurity andVulnerability;2006.




                                            Source: CFSNS (2007)

E.      Institutionaland CapacityIssues
12.     Liberia i s recovering from 14 years o f civil war which not only devastated the
economy and destroyed infrastructure but also destroyed most state institutions. Since 2003,
the Government o f Liberia (GoL) has formulated both interim and full poverty reduction
strategies (PRS).4 But its capacity for implementationo f both policies and programs remains
extremely weak.

13.     The rebuilding of capacity has begun with assistance from development partners
(DPs) including the Bank.           The Bank has focused on rebuilding institutional capacity,
particularly in economic governance and public financial management, as well as focusing
on reconstruction o f basic infrastructure to spur economic growth. Basic service delivery i s
primarily carried out through NGOs and UN agencies, including the rehabilitation o f social
infrastructure, although many NGOs are withdrawing with the transition from relief to
development. Nevertheless, activities o f these organizations have helpedto mitigate the lack
o f government capacity inmany areas. Inparallel, the Bank has supported the creation o f the
Liberia Agency for Community Empowerment (LACE), which has played an important role


3Food insecure i s defined as households with generally poor or borderline food consumption and very weak
food access, or households with weak or very weak access and poor consumption.
4The PRS and Joint Staff Advisory Note are expected to bepresented to the Board late June 2008.


                                                     - 8 -

inthe rehabilitation of basic infrastructures at the local level. LACE has now operated for
close to three years, under the guidance o f a Board o f directors, an Executive Director and a
Deputy Executive Director, a Finance director and a staff o f 24 people. All staff in LACE
has been trained in community participatory approaches, and selected staff has received
intensive training inprocurement, financial management and compliance with environmental
and social safeguards.

14.     The UN agencies play a major role in augmenting implementing capacity of the
Government by directly managing service delivery functions (in cooperation with the GoL
and other stakeholders). Inparticular inthe case o f agricultural productionand food security,
FA0 is heavily engaged in the recovery of the agricultural sector, particularly amongst the
most vulnerable farm households. WFP implements a national school feeding program in
conjunction with the Ministry o f Planning and Economic Affairs, Ministry o f Education,
UNICEF and other partners as well as a program o f supplemental feeding for pregnant and
lactatingmothers. UNMILi s involved inthe rehabilitation o f infrastructure.

15.     Inall areas, donor assistance continues to evolve from a post-conflict relief mode to
one in which sustainability, national ownership, and institutional development are
increasingly prominent. While much progress has been made in terms o f Government
leadership on the policy and strategy side, its capacity to manage financing and implement
development programs remains extremely weak and overburdened.

F.      GovernmentResponseto the Crisis
16.     GoL has set out its strategic response to the food crisis, which although in the early
stages o f development, reflects consensus among key Ministries (primarily Finance,
Commerce and Industry, and Agriculture), Government consulted with DPs, inparticular the
World Bank and the UN agencies (including UNMIL and the Resident Coordinator/
Humanitarian Coordinator). As its current chairperson, GoL also hosted a regional meeting
o f Ministers o f Agriculture (MOA)and Heads o f State o f the Mano River Union (MRU) to
consider a regional approach.

17.     Government's response focuses on three pillars:

        Mitigating the domestic pass-through of global price rises and ensuring consistent
        supply of importedfoods in thefuture. Measures include: (i)     removing tariffs on rice
        imports; and (ii)reducing the risk o f supply interruptions by negotiating supply
        contracts with friendly governments;
        Maintaining access tofood among vulnerable households by a combination o f direct
        assistance to severely vulnerable households (including IDPs) and targeted feeding
        programs such as school feeding and supplementary feeding for pregnant and
        lactating mothers. Government will also develop/ expand a food- or cash-for-work
        scheme to provide additional income-generating opportunities during the lean season
        for under-employedhouseholds, primarily financed by donors.
        Expediting a supply response by promotingfood cropproduction through distribution
        of essential planting materials (mainly seeds and fertilizer), improved post-harvest
        systems (basic processing technology such as rice millers and improved storage



                                             - 9 -

        facilities) to reduce post-harvest losses. Government will also further encourage
        expansion o f agricultural production into new lands including through incremental
        expansion o f small-holders as well as large-scale commercial farming.

18.     The Government's response outlined above is fully consistent with the recently
approved Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) albeit with an increased focus on short-term
results. It is also consistent with complementary sub-sector policies and strategies including
the draft Food and Agriculture Policy and Strategy (December 2007) and the National Food
Security and Nutrition Strategy (NFSNS - 2008). GoL has yet to fully cost their program,
although some elements have been quantified. For instance, budget projections envisage
over US$8 million in revenue from rice import taxes in FY09 that would be foregone with
the removal o f tariffs; agricultural productivity initiatives to develop swamp rice production
to benefit 25,000 farm families (at an estimated cost o f US$3.5 million); and a national
program o f district-based technology transfer centers (US$4.5 million). Financingneeds are
substantial and beyond the scope o f DPs. Some difficult choices will have to be made.

19.     In addition, while GoL has articulated certain strategies, there remain a number of
policy issues to be resolved. Developing a consistent approach to food policy including
pricing and import regime will be important, as will reform o f the food marketing
arrangements (giventhe role of Liberia Produce Marketing Corporation). Reforms shouldbe
based on sound analytical work which would also feature inthe Government response along
with complementary knowledge generation to help refine medium-term responses. The
Government plans to request assistance from the Bank of priority analyticalwork to feed into
these policy deliberations.

G.      Donor Strategies and Programs
20.     Intensive discussions on support for the government's efforts in responding to the
crises have taken place among key UNactors and inthe UNCountry Team's Food Security
and Nutrition (FSN) technical working group, led by the .UN Resident Coordinator/
Humanitarian Coordinator. These have included primarily UNICEF, FAO, WFP and the
World Bank although ILO, WHO and UNHCR are increasingly involved. Agencies have
contributed their particular perspectives and areas o f comparative advantage to leverage
synergies and avoid duplication.

21.     The result is an emerging UN-family response that reflects a number of existing
approaches combined with innovative rapid-response initiatives aligned with the strategic
pillars o f the Government's response to the crisis, with the Government's Food Security and
Nutrition Coordination Councilproviding a high-level coordinationmechanism.

22.     Other donors with existing or proposed interventions o f relevance include USAID
(institutional strengthening to the MOAand support to small-holder cocoa growers under the
Sustainable Tree Crops Program (STCP). INGOs including Mercy Corp and World Vision
also have significant programs. Infrastructure rehabilitation is financed by a number o f
donors in addition to the Bank including, inter alia, the EC and USAID. There are also
emerging private sector investments including the proposed concession for large-scale rice
farming recently announced (although this i s unlikely to achieve full production for two
seasons).


                                              - 10-

H.       BankResponse
23.      The Bank's strategy for emergency support i s aligned with the Government's
strategic approach and takes place inthe context o f the agreedjoint UNresponse. The Bank
emergency program focuses on measures to address the short and medium to long term
implications o f the global food crisis for Liberia. The proposed program reflects the Bank's
comparative advantage and builds on current strengths -particularly its existing portfolio of
programs inLiberia - and i s cognizant o f proposed responses of Government and other DPs.
It is also fully consistent with the Bank's Global FoodCrisis ResponseProgram(GFRP). In
this context it should be noted that Liberia is very fragile and unable to use existing IDA
resources as its program supports multipleurgent interventions and leaves little flexibility for
reallocation in light of the level o f commitment. The food crisis interventions are proposed
to be financed out o f the newly created FoodPrice Crisis ResponseTrust Fund.

24.      As detailed below, the programhas three components: (i) intervention to rapidly
                                                                                 an
increase productivity o f key food crops (rice and cassava) by doubling yields; (ii)an
employment generation program to provide 800,000 person-days of employment during the
dry-season; and (iii) program for vulnerable women and children including school feeding
                         .a
for two school years (2008/09 and 2009/10)n

I. ProgramComponents
25.      The description ofprogramcomponents is as follows:

0   Component 1: Agricultural Productivity Intervention (US$3.O                           million) to raise
    production primarily through increasing yields and reduced post-harvest losses. It will
    include marketing support to facilitate the supply o f marketable surplus to consumers in
    urban conurbations. This will build on the existing intervention under the Agricultural
    Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP - IDA H3270) which includes similar
    interventions in food crops and small-holder tree crops for export. Additional financing
    provided under this proposal will provide for an expansion o f the food-crops activities
    and for additional quick-impact interventions on post-harvest infrastructure for the
    current planting season. It i s expected to benefit around 150,000 small farmers over the
    three years. I t will also establish a local seed multiplication facilities to produce around
     1,000mt o f certified seed given that international availability o f foundation or certified
    seed i s likely to diminish as neighboring countries seek to scale-up production with
    similar ~trategies.~

0   Component 2:          Cashfor Work Employment Program (US$3.0 million). The existing
    LACE which receives Bank support under the Community Empowerment Project (CEP)
    will implementthe activities under this component. LACE currently delivers demand-led
    community infrastructure and a new module would be developed to use local labor for
    basic community tasks such as sanitation and drainage clearance and the like.                         It is
    expected that over 75% o f component costs will be labor costs thereby maximizing the
    impact on beneficiaries.          By operating through LACE, this component will provide
    additional financing through CEP I1- IDAH3050).

5For instance, existing seed multiplication programs import certified seed from breeders inSierra Leone, and
foundation seed from a WARDA facility inCote d'Ivoire.


                                                    - 11-

0   Component 3: Food Support for Vulnerable Women and Children (US$4.0 million).
    The activities to be financed under this component will include: (i) school feeding
                                                                                    a
    program; and (ii) home rations for girls ingrade 4 to 6, as an additional incentive to
                        take
    encourage greater attendance by girls, and (iii)        a program for vulnerable women, mainly
    pregnant and lactating women.              The program will cover approximately 69,600
    beneficiaries and will be implemented through the World Food Programme (WFP). The
    programwill cover five of the ninemost vulnerable counties.

26.     FinancingInstrument. The proposed interventions will be financed by grants from
the Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund (FPCRTF)6. The FPCRTF i s financed from
IBRD surplus with the specific objective of supporting a food crisis response in the most
fragile and vulnerable countries with little or no access to alternative sources of financing
includingIDA. The primary objectives o f the trust fund include:
    (i) thenegativeimpactofhighandmorevolatilefoodpricesonthelivesofthe
        reduce
    poor in a timely manner,
    (ii)support countries inthe design of sustainable policies that mitigate the adverse
    impacts o f highandmore volatile food prices on poverty, and
     (iii) broad-basedgrowthinproductivityandmarketparticipationinagricultureto
         support
     ensure an accelerated supply response in support o f sustained improvement in food
     security.
27.     The interventions proposed under the Liberia Food Crisis Response Program at this
time are inthe nature of immediate investmentsto reduce the negative impact of high food
prices and increase access by the vulnerable population, which responds principally to the
first objective. There may be the possibility o f a policy-based intervention later.
J.      Consistencywith Country Strategy
28.     The proposed activities are consistent with the current Interim Strategy Note (ISN),
discussed by the Board inJune 2007. The ISN lays out a program o f emergency support for
post-conflict institution building and reconstruction in Liberia with a focus on short-term
stabilization, while buildingthe base for longer-term development. The I S N covers three o f
the four pillars o f the Government's PRS, including: economic revitalization, governance
and rule of law, and infrastructure and basic services. This response to the food crisis, while
unforeseen, responds to Government's and the Bank's continued focus on short-term
stabilization and rapid response to emergency needs, This operation's specific interventions
on cash transfers (through employment programs), support to vulnerable women and
children, and agricultural productivity link directly to the economic revitalization and basic
services work that the Bank i s already undertaking.

K.      ProgramObjectives,Outcomes,andMonitoringArrangements
29.     The program's overall development objectives are: (i) maintain access to food
                                                                         to
among vulnerable households; and (ii)to promote domestic food production through
activities to increase yields. The expected outcomes o f the program are improved access to

6The FPCRTF is to be established inconjunctionwiththe Bank's GlobalFoodCrisis Response Program
(GFW), and is subject to Executive Directors' approval and fundedout ofIBRDsurplus subject to the approval
of the Board of Governors.


                                                  - 1 2 -

food for poor households and vulnerable groups in Liberia and increased production of the
two major staples -rice and cassava. It i s expected that increased domestic production o f the
staples over the medium to long terms will provide a more sustainable means o f mitigating
the impact o f higher world food prices.

30.     For the two restructured operations, monitoring arrangements will be embedded inthe
existingproject's M&E arrangements with measurable indicators as described in Annex 2.
For the new food support for vulnerable women and childrenproject, results frameworks and
M&Earrangements are describedinAnnex 1.

31.     Monitoring and oversight o f the Government's overall food crisis response program
will be carried out by the Liberia Food Security and Nutrition Coordination Council
(FSNCC) under the leadership o f the President o f Liberia. The food security and nutrition
monitoring functions have been delegated to a Secretariat to be established under the
FSNCC. The Secretariat will regularly produce information that describes the exposure to
risks affecting the food security situation o f vulnerable groups and communities across
Liberia. The Secretariat will establish a formal relationship with the Liberia Institute o f
Statistics and Geo-Information Services (LISGIS) and with the Division o f Socio-economic
Research, Marketing, and Agricultural Statistics of the Ministry o f Agriculture as well as the
Monitoring Unit in the Ministry o f Agriculture (MOA). This close relationship will enable
the Secretariat to draw upon data and analytical capacity to effectively perform its
monitoring role. The FSNCC will provide oversight o f donor programs on food security and
nutrition and interventions inresponseto the food price crisis.

L.   81 Appraisal of ProgramActivities
32.     Technical: The war undermined the agricultural sector by destroying physical
infrastructure essential for production and marketing, retarding private input and output
markets (which in any case were insufficiently developed) and preventing two decades of
technological innovation from reaching farmers.           Agriculture thus remains essentially
subsistence with low technology and little marketable surplus. Yields o f food crops are
about one-third o f the African average and considerably below agronomic potential.          A
concerted effort i s needed and Component 1will constitute the Bank's contribution. By using
proven modalities o f farmer field schools (FFS) implemented through farmer-based
organizations (FBOs), and using existing implementingpartners already well-versed in such
techniques, a rapid roll-out o f interventions i s expected.

33.     Absence o f a resurgent private sector and with 30% o f urban and 15% o f the rural
population unemployed or inactive, wages are unlikely to rise considerably. Consequently,
the surging food prices will result in declining real incomes which, given the dominance of
food in household consumption, will have a material impact on well-being (as well as
fomenting social unrest). Consequently, providing income supplement can partially mitigate
these impacts. Unlike other countries, Liberia does not have a cash transfer scheme; when
asked (via the CWIQ survey) what measures GoL could take to improve living standards
almost half o f respondents identified employment generation as the priority. Component 2
will establish a new public employment scheme administered under Liberia's existing
institutional mechanisms for community empowerment as implementedby LACE under the
CEP and CEP I1Bank financed projects, which are both on-going.


                                               - 1 3 -

34.    Finally, some households will remain unable to take advantage o f livelihood
opportunities to mitigate the repercussions from the food price crisis. In such instances. To
maintain well-being, especially nutritional status, direct food transfers are required. These
also provide de facto subsidies to poor households thus maintaining somewhat real incomes.
Component 3 will provide one meal per day to school children as well as additional take-
home rations for girls. Timing o f the meal is important: while it i s better to provide a
breakfast, many schools in Liberia operate a `shift' system with separate classes in the
morning and afternoon, therefore lunchprovision i s optimal for impactingmost students.

35.    The relevant agencies-WFP, LACE, and I I T NSTCP -have confirmed their ability
to absorb this additional funding and that they already possess the requisite technical capacity
or are confident on their ability to complement existing skill sets effectively and rapidly.

36.    Economic and Financial: The benefits from the proposed program are both direct
and indirect as well as short- term and longer-term. As highlightedinthe GFRP document,
the urgency o f a response prohibits quantitative economic appraisal. Instead, a four-part
decision criterion i s proposed based on: (1) policy context; (2) target beneficiaries; (3)
expected benefit, cost-effectiveness o f benefiucost ratios; and (4) analysis of fiscal
sustainability.

37.     The proposed program is consistent with the framework set out in the GFRP. The
overall policy context recognizes the post-conflict nature, the severe market failures and
absence o f alternative measures to significant donor interventions. As noted elsewhere,
policy aspects concerning rice i s likely to be reviewedto ensure a consistent public policy
stance.   Targeting i s explicit in all components and focuses on small-holder farmers
(Component l),    the dry-season under-employed (Component 2) and most vulnerable
(through geographical targeting in Component 3). The combination o f social protection and
productivity-enhancing interventions will ensure the program delivers both immediate
program effects and benefits and longer-term development gains.            Many aspects o f the
program are sustainable - particularly those resulting from Component 1 as well as the
improved education outcomes achieved through Component 3. Component 2 will develop a
modality for labor intensive public works which could be continued beyond the end o f the
current program, subject to additional funding. Like most school feeding programs,
Component 3 i s fiscally unsustainable since it is unlikely that government resources will be
able to continue the program although continued international support can be anticipated in
the future.

38.     Fiduciary Aspects: Dueto the extended conflict situation inthe country which led to
earlier disengagement, the Bank has not carried out a Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) or similar Financial Management (FM) related Economic and Sector
Work (ESW) in Liberia in recent years. A Public Expenditure Management and Financial
Accountability Review (PEMFAR) i s ongoing, which includes an analysis o f the country's
PFM strengths and weaknesses. Preliminary findings from the PEMFAR show that the
Government has taken considerable actions to improve public financial management since
2006. Both physical and bureaucratic infrastructure was decimated by the war, including an
exodus o f most o f the skilled personnel. Thus, the human capital in the area o f financial
management i s decidedly low, affecting both the private and public sectors. The Public


                                             - 14-

Procurement and Concessions (PPC) Act dated September 2005, which came into effect in
January 2006 i s Liberia's first significant step towards subjecting public sector contracts to
meaningful competition. Overall the PPC Act i s well written and comprehensive, and
provides a good framework for the establishment o f a sound procurement system. However,
it contains some weaknesses that have affected the efficient conduct o f procurement. It is
further undermined by the absence of a comprehensive set of implementing regulations
guidelines and manuals, which would provide procuringentities with detailed instructions on
the correct application o f the law. The Act has mandated the establishment o f Procurement
Units and Procurement Committees in all the Procurement Entities. However, the
procurement structures recorded on paper are often only nominal and adequate support and
control systems, such as basic computer systems, transport, manuals and instructions, and
adequate allocation o f qualified human resources are not high enough in the hierarchy to
resist interference.  Fiduciary risks for this program are mitigated by the fact that the
components o f the programwill be implemented through experienced project implementation
units or by experienced international agencies. The risks associated with the need for much
greater speed early in an emergency operation will be balanced by intensified supervision,
including frequent procurement post-reviews (minimum one every six months) and annual
procurement audits, and inclusion o f appropriate legal remedies inthe legal arrangements to
be concluded with the Government and other implanting partners. Inaddition the fiduciary
capacity o f the Bank has also been reinforcedwith the hiring o f a procurement specialist and
financial management consultant basedinthe Liberia country office.

39.      Disbursements for the eligible expenditure under Component 1 (Agricultural
Productivity Intervention) and Component 2 (Cash for Work Employment Program) that are
being financed through additional financing to the on-going operations (Agricultural
Infrastructure Development Project H 327 and Second Community Empowerment Project
H305, respectively) will be accommodated under existing disbursement arrangements under
the original projects.    For eligible activities under Component 3 (Food Support for
Vulnerable Women and Children) arrangements will be made to have the funds advanced
upon effectiveness o f the Grant agreement, to the designated account operated by the World
Food Programme as executing agency on behalf of the Government o f Liberia. The advance
amounts are to be based on an annual forecast submittedby the WFP. The WFP will account
for the advances receivedand spent for eligible activities through interimunaudited financial
reports in conformity with formats agreed with the Bank. Replenishments for the remainder
o f the grant funds will be based on periodic interim unaudited financial reports o f the
expenditure incurred and an expenditure forecast for the balance period. Disbursements will
bemade into an account that may bepooledwith WFP's resources.

M.       Compliancewith Safeguards Policies
40.      Components 1 and 2 o f the program are being implemented through the Agriculture
and Infrastructure Development project and the Community Empowerment Project, both of
which have been rated Category B. Recent ISR (10/30/2007) for the CEP project which
monitored the environmental assessment and voluntary resettlement safeguards reported
them as "satisfactory".      The ISR for the AIDP (11/29/2007) rated the environmental
assessmentas "satisfactory". Component 3 i s to be implementedthrough a new project which
i s rated as Category C. However, there are social concerns that need to be taken into account



                                              - 15-

in terms of balance targeting of the benefits of the program across social and geographic
groups. In this regard, the three components are targeted to the poorest and are regionally
balanced. Food support for vulnerable women and children focuses in the five counties o f
Maryland, Sinoe, Grand Kru, Grand Gedeh, and River Gee in the poorer and more remote
south-east areas o f Liberia. The agricultural productivity intervention will concentrate on
small-holder farmers in the three counties of Bong, Nimba and Lofa - traditionally the
breadbasket of Liberia and the area with the greatest agricultural potential. Given the multi-
sector nature of AIDP, specific EMPs have been developed for the main components (roads,
bridges, agriculture etc).

41.      The existing AIDP is operating under an agreed Environmental and Social Screening
Assessment Framework (ESSAF), whereby the initial environmental and social assessment
was required to have been made by the Government within six months o f project
effectiveness. Given the expansion of the agricultural component, the Government will be
required to prepare an updated Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF),
within six months o f effectiveness of the grant agreement, for the additional activities. The
ESMF will formulate guidelines and procedures for environmental and social screening. I t
will also provide guidelines for pest and pesticides use and management, as efforts, underthe
project, to boost agricultural production and productivity will have pest and pesticide
management implications. Inaddition, the ESMF will discuss institutional arrangements for
implementation, along with any capacity strengthening and awareness raising measures
deemed necessary for relevant stakeholder groups involved in implementation and
monitoring o f project safeguard measures. The ESMF will be disclosed incountry and at the
InfoShop following Board approval o f the proposed additional financing to the AIDP.
Within Counties, the agricultural interventions will focus on existing farmer-based
organizations (FBOs) already producing food-crops in order to maximize the impact on
aggregate production. (Diversification, which requires more complex behavior change on the
part o f farmers, i s not an objective o f this intervention).

42.      The LACE public employment program under Component 2 will largely focus on
rural counties not covered by the other two components as well as some sections of
Monrovia and urban areas where social unrest i s a real risk. Public works will be self-
targeting by providing a lower than market, but still meaningful wage rate.                      The
Government's existing ESMF prepared for the CEP I1in 2007 i s considered adequate for
purposes o f the additional activities.

N.       ImplementationArrangements
43.      Implementationcapacity inLiberia i s extremely limited, with only two public entities
confirmed with sufficient capacity to receive Bank funding directly - the Project Financial
Management Unit inthe Ministryo f Finance and LACE. A few additional agencies manage
implementation o f projects, but require significant        levels o f external technical assistance.
Implementation modalities for the three components have been designed within this
constraint, while also recognizing the imperative o f rapid mobilization.                 Thus, the
agricultural and cash-for-work employment programs will be implemented by government
agencies with existing Bank projects and technical assistance already in place, and the
emergency food support program will be implemented directly by a UN agency with an


                                                  - 16-

     existing program in place. It should be noted that, while the emergency response to food
     prices crisis in Liberia embodies an urgent and immediate response, implementation
     arrangements, particularly for the agriculture and cash for work programs, will be structured
     to establish a foundation for longer-term development interventions to the maximum extent
     possible.

     0.     ProgramRisks and Mitigating Measures
     44.    Dueto the emergency nature ofthe crisis, t h s programwas preparedwithgreat speed
     under the Bank's policy on RapidResponseto Crises and Emergencies, OP 8.00. As a result
     the assessment o f the implementation readiness o f the various components was not as
     comprehensive as it would otherwise be. Consequently, in order to minimize the
     implementationrisks, further actions will be taken to ensure a speedy implementation. These
     actions include: fine-tuning o f the targeting mechanisms and assessing risks in the WFP
     program; working with the Government and other UN partners to identify and animate
     communities targeted for the implementation of the cash for work employment program
     under CEP 11; and contracting IITA and preparing an action plan for "quick wins" to reduce
     post-harvest losses under the AIDP
     45.     The specific country, sector and project operational risks that could jeopardize the
     success of the program and individual components are summarized in the table below along
     with the mitigating measures.


                                                                                                                              Rating
Riskjactom                    Uescrktiibnof risk                   Rating                                                       of
                                                                   Of risk                 Mitkation measures                 residual
                                                                                                                                risk

Macro-      +    Liberia is transitioning from post-conflict to      M     +     The medium-tern economic outlook is            LH
economic   economic reconstruction and development. The                    favorable, with growth rates expected to remain at
framework  macro-economic outlook is promisingwith growth                  9-12 percent, supported by the recovery insectors
           improving steadily since 2004. The Government                   that the government estimates will fuel growth,
           has made progress inimproving fiscal management                 Le., agriculture, forestry, miningand service
           with a fiscal surplus o f 3.8 percent o f GDP in2007.           sectors.
           However, the large debt overhang poses challenges               +     The country benefits from debt relief under
            and increases the country's vulnerability to external          the HPCinitiative rescheduling of debt to Paris
           shocks. External public debt stood at US$4.8 billion            Club creditors and has begun good faith
           or more than 600% o fthe estimated GDP in2007.
            +                                                              negotiations with commercial creditors.
                 External shocks particularly from rising food             +     The Government has prepared a Poverty
           andoil prices couldpose significant challenges for              Reduction strategy focused on rapidpro-poor
           Liberia going forward.
            +                                                              growth. Inaddition the Government hasprepared
                 Poverty i s pervasive inLiberia. Fromthe                  a strategy to respond to the food crisis.
           recent (2007) survey, 64 percent of the population
           lives below the poverty line with most o fthe poor
           living inthe rural areas.




                                                                 - 17-

RLvkfacrops                                                            Rating
                                                                       Of rikk                 Mitigationmeasura


Country       +      The security situation inLiberiaremains             H     +    The activities being supported by the project
Risk          fragile becauseo f the number o f (mostly)                       to maintain access to food by the vulnerable and to
             unemployed ex-combatants who have yet to be                       increase productiono f stapleswill contribute
             reintegratedinto society, the lack o f strong                     directly to addressing some o f the contributory
             domestic institutions which can mediate conflicts                 factors to the country's social tension. Inaddition,
              and enable them to be resolved without recourse to               the Government i s working with UNMILto
              violence, and the fragile political situation in                 maintainan effective security presenceinLiberia
             Liberia's neighbors, CBte d'Ivoire and Guinea.
              +                                                                including at the Borders. UNMILi s scheduled to
                     Political risks loom large as the population              remaininLiberia at least until2010.
              looks for a substantialpeace dividend. Failure to                +    The Government is also using
              deliver jobs, social services and to tackle corruption           communication outreachto better informthe
              couldresult ina lack o f support for the                         public of the global food situation and the likely
              Government's reform agenda.                                      impact on Liberia.
Sector         +     The public service has a dearth o fwell             H     +      The program will aim to mitigate these risks
policies and qualified middle and senior level staff, largely                  through its reliance on existing capacity as well as
institutions becauseo f very unattractive levels o f remuneration.             international organizations and establishedNGOs
              The dearth o f qualified staff is a major constraint to          to implement the various components o f the
             implementing reforms within key agencies such as                  project. This will reduce the burden on already
             the Ministryof Finance.                                           weak public institutions.
Country        +     The government does not have a majority in          H      +     Although this risk remains high, there is
ownership    the country's legislature and a severe food                       strong ownership for the Government's strategy to
(incl.        shortage weaken Government's ability to                          respond to the global food crisis and its impact on
political                                                                      Liberia. Throughcommunication outreachthe
aspects)      collaborate with the legislature and respond.
                                                                               Government will continue to inform o f the
                                                                               developments inthe global food market and
                                                                               measurestaken to mitigate its impact on the poor
                                                                               inLiberia.
Country/       +     The legislative framework to allow for the          H      +   For Liberia as a whole, risks of poor
sector        effective policing o f corruption i s inneed o f                  governance inimplementation remain high and
governance    updating.                                                         anti-corruption instruments intheir infancy.
               +     The Corruption Commission is not yet                       +   However, this program contains well defined
              established to prosecutecase of corruption.
               +                                                                targeted activities and will utilize implementation
                     The regime governing the importation of rice               mechanisms that contain Financial Management
              i s fairly heavily regulated thereby reducing                     and Procurement frameworks that havebeen
             competition inthe market and increasing the risk                   tested and are under constant monitoring (for
              and vulnerability to external shocks.                             components 1 and 2).
                                                                                +    Component 3 will be implemented byWFP.
                                                                                As a signatory to the UNframework agreement
                                                                                for FinancialManagementW P meets the
                                                                                standards o f the UNsystem including the Bank.
                                                                                See more under procurement risks at the end of
                                                                                the risks table.
                                                                                +    Targeting mechanisms are set up explicitly
                                                                                ex-ante for the major part o fthe project, thereby
                                                                                also limiting discretion withregard to who will
                                                                                benefitfrom the Project andpotential mal-
                                                                                governance with regard to geographical or other
                                                                                distribution of benefits.
                                                                                +    Ring-fencingunder this project, reduces
                                                                                governance risks, but these will remain
                                                                                substantial.




                                                                     - 18-

                                                                                                                                 Rating
Riskfuctors                     Descr+iien of risk                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                                 residual
                                                                                                                                   risk
Systemic     4    Ingeneral, the inadequacy o finternal controls            4 The existing projects AIDP and CEP have               M
corruption   inGovernment systems, thehistory o fwidespread                 established fiduciary frameworks. AIDP has
             corruption during the interim government and lack              performed well. Of 100sub-projects under CEP,
             oftrained civil servants make project                          one was found to be affected by corruption and
             implementation inLiberia risky.                                the system o f oversight was subsequently
                                                                            strengthened for all sub-projects.
                                                                            4 The WFP component will be implemented byan
                                                                            international organization for which FM
                                                                            arrangements are inplace, in compliance with UN
                                                                            system requirements.
                                                                            4 Legalremedies will beincluded inthe grant
                                                                            agreement, providing recourse incases of inadequate
                                                                            accounting or misfeasance.
11. Program-specificRisks

Technical/   4 The programis relatively simple inits design                  4 The design incorporatesbroad oversight for
Design       and will rely o n the support o f establishedproject       M   the component to be carried out by the Ministry         M
             management units and international institutions for            o f Agriculture. Technical audits will be used to
             its implementation.                                            monitor the implementation o f the sub-projects

             4 There is a risk that sub-projects inthe cash for             and recommend remedial actions. Poor

             work program may not be implemented ina timely                 performance by implementing partners would

             manner.                                                        disqualify them for future funding rounds.
                                                                             4 The implementation agencies (SIU, LACE
             4 The geographical targeting for the program o f                and WFP will ensure that all proposed targeting
             the support for vulnerable women and children as               is agreed inconjunction with Government on the
             well as the cash for work employment programmay                basis o f clearly explained criteria.
             raise socialipolitical tension inuntargeted areas or
             particular groups being left out intargeted areas.              4 The team will encouragethe Government to
                                                                             use its communication outreach to explain the
                                                                            rationale for targeting certain areas.
                                                                             4 WFP targeting is carried out withm a larger
                                                                             framework, already inplace, of agreements with
                                                                            the Government under letters o f understanding
                                                                             (LOUs). The principles o f such targeting are
                                                                            needs based by county and are commensurate
                                                                            with good targeting practices when it comes to
                                                                             school feeding and nutrition supplements. A new
                                                                             LOUis required as a condition o f effectiveness o f
                                                                             the new Food Support project.
Imple-       4 Implementation capacity is generally weak                     4 By using implementationmechanisms that
mentation    reflecting the l o w levels o f skills within the public   H   have already been tested, the program limits the        M
capacity and sector. This may increase the risk o f supervision             risks that Government could fail to develop new
sustain-     overload.                                                       capacity or systems to implement the program.
ability                                                                      4 BothA D P and CEP have established
                                                                             implementation mechanisms. TA to the S I U
                                                                             implementing AIDP was recently increased and
                                                                             capacity o f LACE under CEP is currently being
                                                                             increased. The school feeding program is
                                                                             implemented directly by WFP to reduce the
                                                                             capacity drain on country systems.




                                                                     - 19-

cRiskfactors                      Descriptionofrisk                        Rating                                                               Qf
                                                                           Of risk                     Mifigatfun measures                   residirral
                                                                                                                                               risk
 Financial       +     The cash-for-works program has inherently                       +   The existing projects AIDP and CEP) have well
                higher fiduciary risks.                                                established fiduciary frameworks and FM
                                                                                       arrangementsand haveperformed well. Financial
                                                                                       management procedure for the cash-for-work

                                                                              S        program will be developed and the external audit
                                                                                       will also focus on this. The Bank team will also          S
                                                                                       provide intensive supervision and implementation
                                                                                       support to the implementing agencies.
                                                                                       +    The WFP component will follow the WBiUN
                                                                                       Framework Agreement on Financial Management
IProcure-        +     The PPCC has not been able to enforce                          +    The SIUand LACE'Sfiduciary framework i s
                 compliance with the new ProcurementAct due to                        being strengthened through technical assistance
                 institutional capacity limitations and procurement                   and close Bank oversight for procurement.
                 knowledge gaps at all levels o f the public
                 procurement system. Implementation o f component                      +   The component's targets and outcomes will
                 3 by the WFP will entail the use o fWFP                              be closely monitored by the Bank technical team
                 procurementpolicies and procedures. The Bank                         during the intensified supervision missions.
I                teamwill not have access to the usualprior review and       H         +   Despite the fact that Bank procedures will not        S
                 other procurement mechanismsto ensure that the funds                 be used for procurement when UNAgency i s
                 have beenused for the purposesintended.                              implementing (as envisaged by the GFFCR) the
                                                                                      Bank would monitor planned outcomes during the
                                                                                      supervision missions. Also the Grant Agreement
                                                                                      betweenthe Bank and WFP will contain provisions
                                                                                      to prevent and address fraud and corruption as well
                                                                                      as establish legal remedies.
                 +     The two projects (AIDP and CEP) for                             +   The safeguard measures inplace for existing
 environ-        additional financing are rated as Category B on                      projects will be extended to the additional financing.
 mental          environmental Safeguards and the new project,                        The recent ISRs for AIDP and CEP have rated the
                 Liberia Emergency Food Support for Vulnerable                        performance on the environmental and social
                 Women and Childrenis rated as Category C.                   M        safeguards as satisfactory.
                                                                                       +   WFP activities (school feeding, rations for girls
                                                                                      and nutrition supplements for pregnant and lactating
                                                                                      mothers) are not expected to trigger any safeguard
                                                                                      policies.

                 Overall Risk (including Reputational Risks)

 Despite the limited scope o fthe activities proposed and the use o f existing or tested implementationmechanisms incountry, the
 governance, fiduciary and capacity environment o f Liberiajustifies the rating o f the overall risk as substantial for this operation.

 Memoitems: Poverty Reduction Strategy for LiberiaDraft 1, March2008
 Abbreviations: L =Low; LH= Lwith WS Element; M=Moderate; S = Substantial; H=High
 WB: World Bank, CG: Central Government, GoL: Government o f Liberia; MoF: Ministry o f Finance; MoH: Ministryof Health.




                                                                         - 20 -

Annex 1: DetailedDescriptionof ProjectComponents
Background

46.     Liberia has a relatively open market to food imports (notwithstanding specific notable
exceptions) and has received substantial amounts o f international food aid in recent years.
However, yields o f staples crops, particularly upland and lowland rice and cassava, are low
relative to their potential and there is considerable room for improving yields in these crops.
While rice yields have increased from 400kg per hectare (ha) over 2005 - 2007, they remain
far below for the average for Sub-Saharan Africa o f about 1,50Okg/ha.

47.     Importers o f rice are required to secure Import Permit Declarations (IPD) approved by
the Ministry o f Commerce and Industry (MCI) for each proposed shipment. Applications
must stipulate the purchase (fob) price, transport and related costs as well as the proposed
wholesale and retail prices. The MCI also closely monitors the rate at which imports are
released onto the market. This way, Government retains some influence on the price and
timingat which rice importsare releasedinto the market.

48.     Food insecurity i s a major issue for Liberia, The comprehensive Food Security and
Nutrition Survey (CFSNS) conducted in 2006 revealed serious levels o f national food
insecurity: 11% o f surveyed households are food insecure and 40% are highly vulnerable
with the recently returned households being the most vulnerable. The survey also found that
39% o f children under the age o f 5 were stunted; 29% underweighted and 7% wasted.
Households that are food insecure or highly vulnerable are concentrated inLofa, Grand Kru,
River Gee, Bomi, Gbarpolu, Nimba and Sinoe counties. In addition, over-reliance on a few
foods prevents nutritional balance, particularly in rural areas where only 15% o f households
have a balanced diet.      Inadequate food and the resulting poor nutrition not only affect
attendance at school but also the ability to concentrate and consequently lead to poor
educational outcomes.

49.     In summary, the underlying causes of food insecurity and vulnerability include:
(i) agriculturalproductioncapacitiesduetolackofhighquality seedsandsubstantial
   low
post-harvest losses due to poor storage and processing techniques; (ii)  low purchasing power
due to limited income generation opportunities in the agricultural and non-agricultural
sectors; and (iii)higher food prices due to the inefficiency in the marketing system and high
transportation costs due to poor roads.

50.     Ultimately, a sustained national response requires the robust recovery o f the
agricultural economy. The immediate response to the food price crisis should be seen as
complementary to existing donor and government efforts in this regard.            The Bank i s
investing heavily in rehabilitation o f the rural road network to better connect farmers to
markets, which includes an intervention to support agricultural value chains in areas where
roads are being rehabilitated. Other donors supporting the agricultural sector include USAID
(roads and the recovery o f the small-holder cocoa sector), FA0 (rice seed multiplication,
other small-scale interventions), and IFCI MIGA (technical assistance to the oil palm and
rubber sectors). NGOs and INGOs are also active, mainly focusing on small-scale food
security and/ or livelihood interventions. A strong agricultural sector cannot be achieved
through exports alone, and strong local demand i s essential if increasing production i s to find
a market.




                                              -21 -

51.     The rapid rise in food prices focused attention on the importance o f strengthening
food production as the foundation o f a buoyant rural economy (as emphasized in the recent
World Development Report on Agriculture). Consequently new interventions are proposed
in the food-crop sectors to expand domestic production both on-farm through yield
improvements and by reducing what are significant current post-harvest losses.         These
interventions are fully consistent with the objective of Enhancing Domestic Food Production
and Marketing Response as set out inthe Global FoodCrisis Response Program.

52.     At the same time, interventions are necessary to maintain household's purchasing
power in the face o f rising prices and to mitigate food insecurity through other mechanisms.
These include programs such as school feeding and supplemental feeding programs for
pregnant and lactating women. These typically have development objectives defined interms
o f increased health status or educational achievement but their modality provides a de facto
subsidy for the household food consumption. The absence o f employment opportunities
necessitates public employment programs, either through deliveringpublic infrastructure with
labor-intensive methods a n d or direct employment programs. Given the demographics o f a
post-conflict economy such as Liberia, it i s essential to target youth.

Component 1: Agricultural Productivity Intervention (US$3.O million) - Additional
Financing

53.     Objective and Rationale: The component seeks to scale-up an existing component
o f the Bank's Agriculture and Infrastructure Development Project (AIDP) which aims to
leverage the economic impacts of restored connectivity by strengthening agricultural value
chains in areas benefiting from road rehabilitation. The target groups are small-holder tree
crop farmers (mainly coffee and cocoa) in Lofa, Bong and Nimba counties and the project
uses the proven farmer field school (FFS) modality for supporting farmer based organizations
(FBOs). The International Institute for Tropical Agriculture (IITA) -part o f the Consultative
Group for International Agriculture Research (CGIAR) system - through their Sustainable
Tree Crops Program (STCP - funded by the USAID and others) have substantial experience
inLiberia andare engagedto implementthe originalprogram.

54.     Under the additional financing, IITN STCP would augment their existing
interventions to include rice and cassava. The existing modality o f working through FBOs
and establishing FFS remains appropriate. Their presence already in the three Counties will
keep overheads down. Additional technical expertise for the new activities will be brought in
by partnerships with local NGOs and FA0 as well as the Africa Rice Centre (WARDA)
based in Benin. IITA i s the world's leading research agency for cassava. The component
will seek opportunities for quick impacts for instance through the provision o f post-harvest
infrastructure to reduce losses in the present growing season. (post-harvest losses are
estimated at 19%). Support to farmers for production will concentrate on maximizing impact
on the 2009 and 2010 planting seasons and this will be complemented by longer-term
capacity building for institutions critical to sustained impacts such as the research system
Central Agricultural Research Institute (CARI) and Country-level extension system. As such,
this component will deliver immediate benefits while simultaneously preparing the
groundwork for a longer-term support to crucial agriculture-related institutions.

55.     Special ImplementationUnit Structure and ImplementationCapacity: AIDP -
as well as other IDA funded infrastructure project in Liberia - i s implemented by a dual
structure o f a Special ImplementationUnit (SIU) located inthe Ministry o f Public Works and
a Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) in the Ministry of Finance. The two-unit


                                              - 22 -

 structure thus ensures an arms length betweenprocurement process and handling o f financial
matters and was designed to minimize possibilities o f corruption. The S l U prepares and
procures substantial number of contracts with reasonable quality and speed.                                                The
implementation requirement resulting from the additional financing for Component 1
represents only marginal increase in expected delivery o f the unit. Implementation risk i s
therefore deemed minimal. That aside, the IDA infrastructure team has and continues to
work intensely with the unit to ensure that delivery o f its work program i s on track. The SIU
 i s currently implementing a program o f about $100 million in Bank grant funding. In its 18
months o f existence it has procured works, goods and services o f close to $70 million,
 whereof about $40 million has already been disbursed. The SIU i s supported by technical
 assistance in procurement, contract management and engineering. Still, restructuring of the
 S I U i s under way with the intention o f significantly scaling up its capacity and ensure it will
be in a position to deliver on expected substantial increase in infrastructure funding from a
 number o f donors.         The SIU recently recruited an Agriculture Expert to strengthen its
 capacity in managing AIDP implementation; this position also provides a strong link with
 MOA.

 56.       IITN STCP were identified as implementing partners under AIDP and approval for
 sole-source contracting confirmed. Arrangements are being finalized for their engagement by
 the GoL under AIDP and these would be revised to reflect this additional financing.

 57.       FinancialManagement,Procurement,and DisbursementArrangements: As it i s
 done inthe ongoingAIDP, the PFMU inthe Ministryo f Finance (MoF) would be responsible
 for financial management related to this component.                          Therefore the FM arrangements
 (including disbursement) for this component will remain as specified for AIDP.                                            The
 procedures applied by the PFMU on ongoing projects are acceptable to the Bank. Financial
 management performance under the ongoing AIDP i s satisfactory. The Unit's capacity has
 been even further strengthened with the recruitment o f the Unit Head who possesses an
 internationally recognized accounting qualification, and two accounting assistants who are
 also expected to be at post at the beginning o f the thirdquarter o f 2008.

 58.       ProjectDevelopment Objectivesand OutcomeIndicators:The AIDP development
 objective i s to support Government's efforts in re-establishing basic infrastructure and in
 reviving agricultural activities. The addition o f the Agriculture Productivity Intervention
 under additional financing fits within this existing PDO, thus no changes are needed.
 Outcome indicators for this additional financing include: (i)                       increased rice production in
 project area; (ii)    increased cassava production inproject area; and (iii) increase incassava an
 and rice yields. The Food Crop Assessment i s being finalized and will provide baseline data.

PDO                        Outcome lndicaturs                       Useof Outcome Information
The project will support   Increased access to water for residents  Restoration of critical infrastructure will indicate success
Government's efforts in    o f Monrovia                             insupporting GOL's top pnority to reinstateassets
reestablishing basic                                                destroyed dunng the war, ensure continued and reliable
infrastructure and in      Port productimty increased               flow of goods to Libena, support safety and security inthe
reviving the agriculture   Increased access to an all seasonroad    country and inrevlmng the agriculture economy
activities                 for targeted rural population            The development o fNational Transport Policy and
                           Increased number o f markets where       Strategc Paper will indicate transition from post-conflict
                           seedrice is available                    to longer-term development-oriented envlronment

                           Percentageincrease inmetric tons o f     Assess capacity o f MPW and MOTto plan for long term
                           cocoa                                    transport network and transport management needs
                                                                    Increased marketed seedrice and cocoa exports i s
                           Increased production of rice and         evidence that farmers are respondingto new marketing
                           cassava inproject areas                  opportunities




                                                           - 23 -

                             OutcomeIndicators                        [!$e of Outcome Information
                             Results hiicators for Each               Useof Results~ o i s j t o r i i 1 ~
One per Component            Component
ComponentA - Policy
Reform and capacity
building

A management contract for    ExternalPort Management Team in          Productivityincrease i s a proxy for improved port
the operation ofthe port of place                                     management
Monrovla

Improvedpolicy                                                        Effectivepolicies support growth of the sector.
formulation intransport      Draft National Transport Policy and
sector                       Strategy Paper formulated and prepared
                             for Government's review and
                             endorsement June 30,2008
Improvedpolicy                                                        [nclusionof result Eramework establishesbasis for policy
formulation inagriculture    Two new agriculture sector policies      evaluation
sector                       completed with results framework
                             submitted to Minister o fAgriculture by
                             December 31,2010
Component B. Agriculture
and Infrastructure
Investments

Roadand nver crossing       New Vai Town Bridge built by              Goodprogress or otherwise may indicate Government
access significantly         December 31,2008                         procurement and contractual management performance
improved inrural and urban                                            that will be addressed ifthe need arises
                             Six main bridges rehabilitated by June
                             30,2009

                             At least40 minor river crossings
                             improved by June 30,2010

                             Rural population within 2 kmof an all
                             season road increases

Oiljetty in the Port of      Refurbishment of the Oil Jetty structure
Monroviawhich i s near       including construction ofnew off-load
collapse                     station, mooring dolphins, and
                             walkways by December 31,2008

Increased access to potable  Refurbishmento fwater treatment plant
water to Monrovia residents  inMonroviabyDecember 31,2008

The value and supply chains  Increased production and sale o frice    Productionand sale o f locally produced seed evidence of
of rice, cocoa and palm oil  seeds on beneficiary sites               emerging functioning seed market
have become more efficient

Increased production and     Increased market throughput in sample    Improved functioning o f market infrastructure evidence o f
marketing of rice seeds      o f markets inproject areas by Dec. 31,  greater efficiency inthe value/ supply chain. Expansion of
                             2010                                     FBOs evidence o f ability o f farmers to organize to seek
                                                                      new knowledge and access market opportunities Data
                                                                      shows effectiveproduction and sale o frice seed. Validate
                                                                      assumption that producers use the markets to dispose o f
                                                                      marketable surplus

Increased production o f     Increase in yields o f rice and cassava  Validate agronomic suitability o f inputs and extension
food staplesprimarily        amongst beneficiary farmers              advice. Evidence o f sufficient market incentives to
though yield improvements                                             produce marketable surplus.




 59.        Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: Existing project monitoring and
 evaluation modalities would be applied to additional activities. This would be augmented by
 the proposed support to the National Food Security and Nutrition monitoring system under
 Component 3. Arrangements for results monitoring are below.




                                                               - 24 -

               3
               n




     0
     2



n
E
W    x
     0

                      I
                      v,
        .-&
        0             N
                      I

       53m

        o a
     0
     2




     2         .-E
               1




     9         c
               E
     0         v1
     2         H

sa
e!
c
.-0
E
L.
a
5




       9
       x

60.     ImplementationPeriod: Scheduled closing o f AIDP is end o f December 2011 and
activities under this additional financing will be completed well before that time.

Component 2:        Cash for Work Employment Program (US$3.0 million) - Additional
Financing

61.     Objective and Rationale: The component aims to provide income support to
vulnerable households in rural and urban areas. The existing LACE which receives Bank
support under the CEP will implement the activities under this component. LACE currently
delivers demand-led community infrastructure and a new module would be developed to use
local labor for basic community tasks such as sanitation and drainage clearance and the like.
It is expected that 75% o f component costs will be labor costs thereby maximizing the impact
on beneficiaries, and that this component will create some 800,000 person days temporary
jobs. By operating through LACE, this component will provide additional financing through
CEP 11. The implementation o f cash for work program through LACEhas the advantage o f
combining the short term income support objective o f the food crisis response with the longer
term objectives o f LACE's regular program.

62.     CurrentProjectPerformance. LACE's performance inmanaging the CEP has been
good. The project has consistently been rated satisfactory or moderately satisfactory. In
recent times the project has experienced some delays inimplementationto be attributed to (a)
delays in processing an extension o f the closing date under CEP I;and (b) shortage of
construction materials with significant impact in costs and calendar for completion o f sub-
projects. Moreover, a recent review o f procurement procedures by LACE highlighted some
weaknesses. In order to strengthen LACE's procurement capacity, the Bank procurement
specialist in Monrovia, with support from HQand from the Accra office o f the Bank, has
been providing support in the following areas: strengthening the quality o f procurement
plans; improving procurement filing and documentation and knowledge in procurement o f
Goods and services; contract management; and closure o f contracts procedures. Under the
auspices o f CEP 11, LACE i s also in the process o f recruiting a new procurement specialist.
Furthermore, the Bank's recently approved EGIRP will work to build procurement capacity
across the public sector. It i s o f note that the project has generated sufficient political support
that a second CEP (CEP 11) has been approved, and will be co-financed by the European
Union.

63.     LACE's implementationand monitoring arrangements are detailed inthe MAAFP, an
internal LACE document that has been approved by LACE's Board and the Bank.                       It
describes procedures regarding personnel management, preparation o f work programs and
budgets, appraisal and approval o f community sub-projects,               disbursement o f funds,
monitoring and evaluation, procurement, and accounting and audit. The Operation Manual
(OM) deals in greater details with the identification, preparation, and implementation o f
community sub-projects. As LACE's involvement in the cash for work program will not
require deviation from its current procurement practices, permissible under its Financing
Agreement with IDA, no revisions to the OM will be necessary. If these activities become a
regular part o f LACE's portfolio, the OM will be revisited. For the purposes o f this program,
however, a brief set o f guidelines (Cash for Work Employment Program Guidelines) will be
developed (to be completed within two months o f grant effectiveness), and annexed to the
OM. The guidelines will cover program implementation, as outlined above, and LACE will
ensure that they will be widely disseminated to the public for enhancing transparency and
buildingownership.



                                                 - 27 -

64.     LACE Structure and Implementation Capacity: LACE is a government agency
that operates under its own procurement and disbursement procedures, and separate,
transparent management and financial systems. LACE was established in 2004 by act of
Parliament with the objectives o f improving poor rural communities' access to basic services
and economic opportunities as well as building capacity at the community and local
government level. LACE i s accountable to the President.           The Board o f Directors i s
responsible for governance and policy-making; specifically, it approves LACE'S annual
budget and work program and its OM and Manual o f Administrative, Accounting and
Financial Procedures (MAAFP), and it appoints the Executive Director, the Deputy
Executive Director (in charge o f Administration), and the Finance Director. The Executive
Director i s the chief executive officer responsible for the day-to-day management o f LACE.
LACE has demonstrated implementation capacity which i s inthe process o f being scaled up
under the IDA-funded Economic Governance and Institutional Reform Project (EGIRP).'
LACE also has the advantage o fhavingwell-established relationships with many community
leaders and local authorities, which will be critical to the successful implementation o f a pro-
poor cash for work program.

65.     Implementation Arrangements:          Building on LACE's experience with direct
procurement for civil works and goods, it i s envisioned that under the cash for work program,
LACE will directly contract existing NGOs, small private firms, or larger community based
organization (CBOs) to undertake labor-intensive small sub-projects inurban and rural areas.
Targeting o f specific areas will take into account both needs (Le. rice surplus or rice deficit
area, presence o f unemployed people) and the geographical coverage of existing
interventions. To this end, LACE will work closely with the various city corporations, the
Ministry of Public Works, and other national and international agencies. Works will most
likely consist o f basic rural road maintenance (side-brushing, possibly ditch-digging) and
urban sweeping and waste collection/ disposal. Liberia has a number o f organizations with
experience working with international organizations and bilateral donors executing exactly
these types o f works. The advantage o f tapping this experience i s two-fold: first, it will
allow the program to roll-out rapidly; and second, it will further contribute to the capacity-
building o f these small organizations, which will be increasingly useful partners in future
endeavors.

66.     LACE's implementationand monitoring arrangements are detailed inthe MAAFP, an
internal LACE document that has been approved by LACE's Board and the Bank.                    It
describes procedures regarding personnel management, preparation o f work programs and
budgets, appraisal and approval o f community sub-projects, disbursement o f funds,
monitoring and evaluation, procurement, and accounting and audit. The OM deals ingreater
details with the identification, preparation, and implementation o f community sub-projects.
As LACE's involvement in the cash for work program will not require deviation from its
current procurement practices, permissible under its Financing Agreement with IDA, no
revisions to the O M will be necessary. If these activities become a regular part o f LACE'S
portfolio, the OM will be revisited. For the purposes o f this program, however, a brief set of
guidelines (Cash for Work Employment Program Guidelines) will be developed, and annexed
to the OM. The guidelines will cover program implementation, as outlined above. Financial
management procedures for the cash-for-work program will also be developed and included
in these guidelines (or included in the LACE's Manual o f Administrative, Accounting and
Financial Procedures - MAAFP).


'IDA-H3850

                                             - 28 -

67.     FinancialManagement,Procurement, and Disbursement Arrangements: LACE
currently operates financial management, procurement and disbursement procedures that are
acceptable to the Bank.      Financial management and disbursement arrangements for this
component will remain as specified inCEP I.The Agency has over the years successfully set
up adequate financial management and internal control systems acceptable to the Bank, and
have succeeded inrecording, processing, preparing and have submitted quarterly interim un-
audited financial reports (IFRs), and timely conduct o f audits.        Financial management
performance in the ongoing CEP I1i s satisfactory. The Bank's FM team would continue to
intensify its supervision and provide FM implementation support to ensure that established
financial procedures are strictly adhered to and where necessary strengthened. As o f April
2008, LACE has complied with fiduciary requirements, and continues to record transactions
properly. Also it has successfully submitted withdrawal applications ina format required by
the Bank.      During the implementation of CEP I,LACE has submitted 34 withdrawal
applications, more than one month.

68.     Regarding procurement, LACE would continue to use established Bank procurement
rules, but would specifically use two procurement mechanisms for this program, both in
conformity with Bank procedures. First, LACE can publisha request for proposals for sub-
projects, stipulating the percentage o f the sub-project budget to be devoted to labor, and the
minimumnumber of persons to be employed. Inawarding contracts, LACEwould take into
account not only satisfaction o f minimum criteria, but also past experience o f the
organization, the women/ men proposed ratio, and the time-frame o f the proposed activity.
Second, LACE will be able to use NCB to select implementing organizations, especially in
urban and peri-urban areas. This method would be used for relatively important contracts (at
least US$50,000) and where LACE can easily design a scope o f works (e.g., for the sweeping
o f roads in a certain section o f Monrovia). The mix o f procurement methods to be used will
depend on LACE'Sassessment of local demand, which will take into account other agencies'
experiences.

69.     The contracted organization will be responsible for recruiting workers - to be done
primarily on a first-come, first-serve basis, though with special provisions for the inclusion o f
women and the coverage o f multiple households in rural areas - and for paying them. The
wage for the program will be set at US$2.50 a day, US$0.50 below the standard unskilled day
wage paid by most organization engaged in similar programs. This will help to promote self
targeting. Local authorities will be involved inmobilizing and sensitizing communities before
the works begin, and will work closely with the implementingorganizations.

70.     Project Development Objectives and Outcome Indicators: The PDO will be
revised as follows: As part of the Government response to the social and economic
emergency of Liberia, the Project will improve poor rural communities' access to basic
infrastructure and provide economic opportunities for vulnerable households in urban and
rural areas. Hence, this additional financing requires a limited restructuring inthe CEP PDO
as compared to the original PDO, to include urban activities. The output indicators for the
new component include the number o fpersons employed incash for work program - the goal
i s to enroll about 10,000 persons in the program in year 1. The project will not monitor the
use o f the additional income by beneficiaries, but at the end o f the project will assess the
overall impact o f the project on vulnerable households and the performance of the
implementation arrangements. The Table below i s the M&E framework o f the entire Project
once the additional financing i s approved. Under the Project Outcome Indicators, the table
includes an indictor to gauge the impact o f the Cash for Work Employment Program on



                                               - 29 -

vulnerable households. Under component 4, a new indicator monitors the number o f person
days created by the Program. Some refinement o f the existing M&E framework i s also
proposed inorder to improve the monitoring o f progress towards the PDO.

                 PDQ                            Project Outcome Indicators                   UseofProjectOutcome
                                                                                                    Information
                                                                                       __I      _I

Aspart of the Government response to      % o f completedsub-projects reflecting         Gauge whether sub-projects
the social and economic emergency of      Beneficiary's priorities                       reflect community priorities
Liberia, the Project will improvepoor     # of children attending primary school in
rural communities' access to basic        "improved" facilities as defined by technical  Case study for Bank work inother
infrastructure andprovide economic        assessment'                                    post-conflict countries
opportunities for vulnerable              % of targeted vulnerable households (at least
households in urban and rural areas.      10,000) reportingincreased income byat least
                                          20%
        IntermediateOutcomes                 IntermediateOutcome Indicators               Useof totermediateOutcome
                                                                                                     Monitoring
Component 1                               # o f schools constructegabilitated            Track progress inimplementing
Community Driven Program                  # o f markets constructed/rehabilitated        sub-projects.
                                          # o fbridges constructedrehabilitated
Improved infrastructure intargeted        # o f wells built
communes                                  # of healthfacilities
Component 2                               % o fPMCs that have 50% women                  Measure improved capacity to
Capacity BuildingProgram                  % o f PMCs managing their ownbank accounts     manage own resources.
                                          % o f communes that have minutes o f the
Improved capacity to respond to           meeting electing PMCs                          Gauge improved inclusion in
community infrastructure development      # o fPMC members successfully trained yearly   decision making bodies at
needs                                     # o fcountyidistrict officials successfully    community level.

                                          trained every year                             Gauge the efficiency of delivery
                                                                                         of training.
Component 3                                % o fproject management expenses as partof
Proiect Management                         total budgeted annual expenditures
Component 4                                Number ofperson days provided in labor        Gauge progress in the
Cash for Work Employment                   intensiveworks                                implementationo f Cash for Work
Program(AdditionalFinancing)                                                             program

Increased access to additional income
from cash for work program



71.        Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The cash for work component will be
folded into existing LACE monitoring arrangements. Contractors such as NGOs, CBOs, and
firms will report to LACE on a weekly basis and on a monthly basis, in particular regarding
the number o f person--days o f employment created through the program. Necessary support
will be also given by technical experts hired by LACE to ensure that tasks are completed as
agreed in the contract, and also that payments are done in accordance with what i s agreed in
the Cash for Work Employment Program Guidelines, which will be prepared no later than
two months after Project effectiveness.                   The Guidelines will also address the issue o f
payments to workers, handling of cash by contractors and NGOs and reporting. At the end o f
the project an independent beneficiary assessment will be conducted to assess the overall
impact o f the project on vulnerable households, the perception o f beneficiaries, and project
implementation. Furthermore, in order to increase transparency and inform communities,
implementing agencies will be responsible for hrnishing all project sites with clear signs,
indicating the type and scope o f works, the name and contact number o f the organization
responsible, the contract amount, the number o f person days o f employment the project will
create, and the source o f funding. Under the Community Empowerment project implemented
by LACE, all project sites have already a sign o f this kind.

*  Improved school facilities is defined as schools that (i) duringthe rainy season; (ii) access to
                                                               function                                with
water and sanitation facilities' inthe school area; and (iii)   with furnished classrooms.


                                                          - 30 -

72.       ImplementationPeriod: It is expected that the program will begin in June 2008,
with activities launched inOctober to coincide with the beginning of the dry season. It will
continue for two dry seasons, thereby endingno later than June 30,2012. To start the project
as soon as possible, and on time for the end o f the rainy seasona set o f actions are proposed,
as included inthe following table:

             Type of action                         By when                                 By whom
1. Preparation of annex to existing      Within two months from Project  LACE with support from World Bank
Manual on Work Emulovment Promam
                       .   <             effectiveness
                                   I
Guidelines
2. Hire a Head of the Work Employment    Immediately     after   Project LACEwith no-objectionby the Bank
Program                                  effectiveness
3.  Organize a workshop on labor         ByJuly30,2008                   LACE
intensive public     works   with  other                                 Government (Ministry of Labor, Ministry of
agencies and Government to exchange on                                   Planning, Ministry o f Finance and Ministry o f
current and future activities                                            Public Works)
                                                                         Other agencies (such as ILO) and NGOs (such as
                                                                         Mercy Corps)
4. Discuss the proposed additional       No later than June 30,2008      LACE and Members of the Board, in particular
financing at the next board meeting                                      Ministry o f Planning, Internal Affairs, Gender,
                                                                         civil society and NGO representatives, USAID and
                                                                         EUreuresentatives



Component 3: Food Supportfor Vulnerable Womenand Children (US$4.0 million).

73.       Objective and Rationale. This aims to reduce the food vulnerability of women and
children from poor counties targeted by the program.                          The component would finance:
(i) feedingonadailybasistopre-schoolandprimaryschoolchildren; (ii) home
    school                                                                                                  take
rations for girls in grade 4 to 6, as an additional incentive to encourage greater attendanceby
girls, (iii) for pregnant and lactating women (PLW) attending clinics and hospitals;
               rations
and (iv) the administrative cost of the WFP and its partners to administer the program
including monitoring and evaluation o f the effectiveness of the program. This component
will also support the piloting o f increased food purchases (possibly at pre-announced prices)
from domestic sources for the WFP program. This i s intended to help stimulate domestic
food production.

74.       WFP has an existing national school feeding program covering all Counties and urban
and rural communities. Over 2005 and 2006, over 600,000 children in over 2,300 schools
were assisted with one school meal per day and 28,000 female children received take-home
rations. The target for 2007 - 2009 i s 450,000 inyear one and 400,000 inyear two. A recent
survey conducted by WHP identified nine counties where chronic malnutrition rates are
`critical' - in excess o f 40%. Consequently, WFP have proposed a special program for
identified five counties in the south-east Liberia which fall within these nine, and have
proposed a special program specifically for those counties. Bank support will not displace
other WFP resources but rather will fill a financing gap and thereby allow WFP to focus on
the five most vulnerable counties with a three year program without scaling back its support
inother vulnerable areas.

75.       ImplementationArrangements. Implementationarrangements are prescribed inthe
Handbook for School Feeding Program in Liberia (July 2007) producedjointly by WFP and
the Ministry o f Education (MoE).                 This sets out clear procedures for implementing the
program, including rules on school eligibility, the rights and obligations o f all stakeholders
including WFP, MoE, teachers and principals, and the parent teacher association (PTA). The
handbook also addressed meal preparation and food safety as well as the monitoring and


                                                          - 3 1 -

reporting on the program. WFP procures all inputs centrally and manages the distribution
network (including to remote areas even inthe rainy season). WFP also designates qualified
NGOs as cooperating partners (CPs) for specific school zones throughout the country. It
monitors, along with the CPs and the MOE, to ensure that the school feeding criteria are
respected and that delivered food i s fully accounted for. WFP i s also accountable to the
donors from which the food aid i s resourced. In consultation with the MOE, WFP has the
right to suspend any school from the program when a school fails to abide by the approved
School Feeding Guidelines. The principal functions o f the CPs are defined by WFP. CPs are
responsible for performing on-site inspection o f school facilities, monitoring, submitting
reports on the status o f schools in various zones, delivering food commodities, updating
school records and assessing school reports.

76.     The Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs (MPEA) will be the lead
counterpartof WFP. This ministrywill serve as the linkto the other stakeholder ministries
including the Ministry o f Education (MOE), Ministry o f Agriculture (MOA,Ministry o f
Health and Social Welfare (MOHSW), Ministry o f Gender and Development (MGD),
Ministry of Interior (MoI) and Ministryof Public Works. The Government's support will be
through the exemption o f taxes on food and non-food items importedby WFP.

77.     The Government of Liberiaand the World FoodProgrammehas signed a Letter
of Understanding(LOU) which sets out the obligations of WFP and the Government.
The LOU i s effective from July 1, 2007 to June 30, 2009. The LOU makes provision for the
Government o f Liberia, at its discretion to undertake in close collaboration with WFP,
periodic assessments o f the program to satisfy itself that everything i s on course as per the
LOU. The signing o f one or more LOUs covering all activities under this component
between the GoL and WFP will be a condition o f effectiveness for the grant to WFP.

78.     ProcurementArrangements. In the implementation o f this component, the WFP
procurement procedures will be applicable and the Bank will not exercise any prior review on
the procurement decisions in that context.      WFP will `be responsible for procurement
activities under the project. However, the Bank will conduct intensified supervision o f the
outcome and results o f the project to mitigate procurement risk in the context o f
implementation.

79.     Budget Arrangements: WFP will prepare annual work plans and budget for the
project and send to the Bank for review within one month from effectiveness and thereafter
byno later than December 15 each subsequent year.

80.     FinancialManagementArrangements. The FM arrangements for this component
would be based on the World BanMUnited Nations Financial Management Framework
Agreement (FMFA). WFP will prepare its annual work program and budget for review by
MOF and the Bank for approval. WFP would handle all the financial management aspects
using its own procedures set out in the WFP Financial Regulations.        WFP will maintain a
separate ledger account for recording the transactions relating to this project. As per the
FMFA, the Bank's audit requirements are met through the normal biennium audit o f the
WFP, and separate audited financial statements and audit reports from WFP for this project
are not required.

81.     WFP would submit periodic interim financial reports (IFRs) to the Bank which
include sources and uses o f funds; expenditures by project activities (sub-components) with
comparative actual and budgeted amounts for the period under review and cumulatively for


                                            - 32 -

the project life; opening and closing balance o f advances received from the Bank; projected
expenditures and cash forecast for the next reporting period; and explanatory notes as needed.
These reports will be submitted to the Bank within 45 days following the end o f each quarter.
Formats o f the IFRs would be agreed between the Bank and WFP within one month o f
effectiveness.

82.       DisbursementArrangements. Upon effectiveness funds will be advanced to WFP
as Recipient based on an annual forecast to be submitted by WFP. Disbursements shall be
made into a WFP Bank account that may be pooled with WFP's resources. Replenishments
o f the advance for the rest o f the period shall be basedon the IFRsdiscussed above.

83.       The current LOU between WFP and the Government o f Liberia stipulates that the
WFP will share its annual Standard Project Report with the Government o f Liberia, donors or
implementation partners. The report will include both quantitative and narrative information.
Quantitative information to be provided will include: the number o f beneficiaries receiving
assistance (disaggregated by sex); the movement o f food commodities; the amount
distributed indifferent areas and to different target group; and the receipt and use o f non-food
inputs provided by WFP.                 Narrative information to be provided include; delivery and
distribution arrangement, operational difficulties encountered and measures taken to
overcome them; causes o f losses and steps taken to reduce them; the acceptability of the food
provided and information on complementary inputsfrom other sources.

84.       Project Objective and Results Framework: The project development objective of
this component is to maintain access tofood among vulnerable households.

  1, PDO                                    Outcome Indicators                                     Use of Outcome
                                                                                                   information
                                                           -I--                              -
 The project development objective is to    1. Number of (or %) pre-school and primary             Verify implementation
 maintain access to food among                 school children from vulnerable household           performance and impact of
 vulnerable households.                        receiving meals on a daily basis at school.         the project.
 Increased access to food by school         2. Number (or %) of girls (grade 4 to 6) receiving
 children                                      take-home rations.
 Increased access to food rations for       3. Number (or %) o fpregnant and lactating
 pregnant and lactatingwomen (PLW)             women receiving food rations


85.       Monitoringand EvaluationArrangements. The WFP will be responsible for the
monitoring and evaluation o f the program with oversight from the School Feeding Unit inthe
MinistryofEducation. The ParentTeachers Associations are also being encouragedto play a
greater role inthe monitoring o f the program. Inaddition, there are plans for a national food
security and nutrition monitoring and early warning system with possible funding under the
joint UNprogram o f support to the NFSNS.

86.       Arrangements for Results Monitoring are as follows:

                                                       Target Values
     Intermediate O u t e ~ ~ a s e k eYKI   --           I Frequency of
     Indicators                      2008                   tieports             Instruments           Data Collection
     Numberofchildrenreceiving       To be       62,000    Semi-Annually         Based on school
     meals                           determined                                  register              WFP
     Numberof girls receiving        To be       4,300      Semi-Annually        Based on school
     take home rations               determined                                  register              WFP
     Number of Pregnant and          To be       3,300      Semi-Annually        Register at clinic    WFP
     Lactating Women receiving       determined                                  and hospitals




                                                         - 33 -

87.     Implementation Period. It is expected that the program o f food support for
vulnerable women and children will begin inJuly 2008 and runfor two years to June 2010.

88.      Environmentaland Social Safeguards. This project triggers no environmental and
social safeguards issues and i s rated as category C. However, the project has been designed
to take account o f concerns regarding social equity and targeting o f food aid to the poorest
and most vulnerable. In this regard, the project focuses in the five counties o f Maryland,
Sinoe, Grand Kru, Grand Gedeh, and River Gee in the poorer and more remote south-east
areas o f Liberia.




                                             - 34 -

Annex 2: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

Introduction

89.    A financial management assessment was carried out inaccordance with the Financial
Management Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Board on November 3,
2005. The objective o f the assessment was to determine whether the implementing entities
have acceptable financial management arrangements, which will ensure: (i)        the funds are
used only for the intended purposes in an efficient and economical way; (ii)    the preparation
o f accurate, reliable, and timely periodic financial reports; and (iii) safeguard the entity's
assets.

90.    The assessment was carried out by the Bank financial management team and included
interviews with key staff (including the Unit Head at PFMU and Finance Director o f LACE)
at the Project Financial Management Unit (PFMU) in the M o F and the LACE. This
assessment draws upon experience with World Bank funded projects in Liberia, several of
which are disbursingfunds through the PFMU inthe MoF and LACE.

Overviewof Programand ImplementationArrangements

91.    The objective o f the project is to mitigate both the short-term and the medium- to
long-term impact o f rising food prices in Liberia as a result o f the global food price trends.
The proposed interventions will support the Government o f Liberia's (GoL's) national
strategy to maintain and enhance food security. It includes support to (i) the implementation
o f social safetv net measures to maintain access to food among the most vulnerable
households; and (ii)expedite a supplv response of agricultural production through the
implementation o f measures to raise the yields and consequently the production o f staples. It
seeks to scale-up an existing component o f the Bank's Agriculture and Infrastructure
Development Project (AIDP P104716) which aims to leverage the economic impacts of
restored connectivity by strengthening agricultural value chains inareas benefiting from road
rehabilitation.

92.      The Project Financial Management Unit in the Ministry o f Finance and the Liberia
Agency for Community Empowerment would be responsible for the financial management o f
the Agricultural Productivity Interventions and Cash for Work Employment Program
components respectively.

93.     The Food Supportfor Vulnerable Womenand Children component will be handled by
the WFP. WFP will receive grant funds directly from the Bank under a separate Grant
Agreement. WFP i s a signatory to the FMFramework Agreement between UNagencies and
the Bank. Therefore the FM arrangements for this component will adopt the arrangements
outlined inthe FMFramework Agreement.

CountryAccountabilityIssues

94.     Due to the extended conflict situation in the country which led to earlier
disengagement, the Bank has not carried out a Country Financial Accountability Assessment
(CFAA) or similar FinancialManagement (FM) related Economic and Sector Work (ESW) in
Liberia in recent years. A Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability
Review i s currently ongoing, which includes an analysis o f the country's PMF strengths and
weaknesses. Preliminary findings from the PEMFAR suggest that the Government has made


                                             - 35 -

considerable progress in the area o f financial management since 2006. However, a few
aspects have been identified for further strengthening, including the need to improve the
budget classification system; increase the computerization o f FM systems; improve
accounting that will eventually move towards an accrual basis; and improve the quality o f
expenditure reporting through IFRs. To that effect, with the World Bank support, there i s in
place an established `centralized' project financial management unit, the PFMU inthe MoF,
which has competent FM staff with professional accounting qualification acceptable top the
Bank. In addition, there i s a pool o f few skilled personnel that are available to support the
project at LACE to handle community type o f activities

95.       The risk analysis and mitigationmeasures are limited to Components 1and 2.

                     Table 1: Summary of RiskAnalysis COMPONENTS1AND 2
                                                                     -

 Inherent Risk                           Risk  RiskMitigation Measure                                             Residual
                                         Rating                                                                   Risk
                                                                                                                  eating
 Country Level
 Poor F Mperformance due to a lack o f          Establishmentof the `centralized' F M unitinthe MoF to handle
 adequately qualified F Mprofessionals.         all project finances in the short to mediumterm, and LACE to
                                                handle CDD type projects while concurrent PFM TA under           ;I
                                                EGIRP concentrate on targeted PFM training for both public and
                                                private sector staff. A PFM reform programi s being
                                                implemented.
 Entity Level
 PFMU (MoF):
 Entity management may politically         M    A strong project financial management unit (PFMU) will be         L
 interferewithproject financial                 responsible for project financial management.
 management controls, even though
 there hasnot been any such incidence      L     LACE'S capacity has been examined and found to be sufficient.    L
 so far.                                        This will be closely monitored.

 L A C E                                        b) LACEwill support capacity building                             L
 a) LACE'S F M systems may not be          M    of local authorities by providingsome
 adequatefor the implementation of the          resources for training and supervision as set up under CEP 11.
 scaled-up project.
 Project Level:                            H    See mitigation measures outlined under Internal Controls and      S
 CashTor-workprogram is inherently              Auditing
 riskyfrom ajduciary perspective
 given the nature of activities involved

 Overall Inherent Risks:                                                                                         s
 Control Risk:
 Internal Control Procedures:
                                                Projectwill use F M procedures established at PFMU for the        M
 PFMU(MoF):                                     financial management o f AIDP. Documentationof these
 a). FMpolicies may not be adequate             procedures ina manual has been completed. The Financial
 and maynot evenbe inplace.                     ManagementUnit (PFMU) has a competent and qualified staff
 There is also likelihood o fproject            with specific job descriptions that will help minimize any
 management may override existing               possibility o f irregular control from outside
 controls.

 L A C E                                        Projectwill use F Mprocedures establishedat LACE for the          M
 a). F M policies may not be adequate           financial management of CEP 11. The manual will be revised to
 and may not even be inplace.                   include FMprocedures to guide the new `Cash-for-Work'
                                                program. Internal audit unit inLACE will also watch on
 b).Management may override existing            compliance with procedures set out inthe revised manual.
 controls.




 Fund Flows

 PFMU (MoF):                                    Experience gained from the on-going operations will substantially L
 a) Project may not submitwithdrawal            reduce this risk. The task team will monitor this activity and



                                                         - 36 -

 applications on timely basis, thereby
 causing possible implementation
 delays.                                     Past experience gained from the on-going operations (CEP Iand
                                             CEP 11) will reduce risk.The task team will monitor this activity
 LACE                                        and provide the necessary assistanceand advice
 a) Project may not submit withdrawal    M
 applications on timely basis, thereby
 causing implementation delays.
        *InternalAudit (/A)

 PFMU (MoF):                                 The PFMUhas a qualified internal auditor to ensure there are         L
 The MoF now has a small Internal            adequate internal checks to address any weaknesses.Additional
 Audit unit which may soon become            technician level audit staff will be added to complement the
 overwhelmedreducing its                     available resource
 effectiveness
                                             The existing internal audit unit at LACE will be strengthened to     L
 LACE                                        design and implement riskbased auditpractices especially on the
 The Internal Audit (IA) may lack            sub-projects. The unitwill also verify transactions under the
 support to implementprocedures and          `Cash-for-Work' program to ensure there i s compliance with set
 audit programs, intimely manner, for        FMprocedures inthe revised manual.
 effective operation

 ExternalAudit

 PFMU (MoF);                             M   Most recent audit report indicatedthat PFMUwas fully compliant
 The audited financial statements of the     withregardto fiduciary requirements. Plans are inplace to usethe     L
 project will be submitted late.             existing PFMU audit arrangements for the new project. Auditor's
                                             TOR will be expanded to cover this operation infull.
 LACE:
 The audited financial statements of the M   The selected independent auditor for CEP I1at LACE will have
 project will be submitted late.             hisTOR revised to cover activities under Component 2 and also
                                             require the auditor to verify a sample o f the subprojects to ensure
                                        -
 Overall Control Risk                     S
 Overall FMRisk                         - S


Strengths and Weaknesses

96.       Strengths. The PFMU in the MoF has been functional for sometime now and it is
responsible for project financial management under the Bank supported portfolio. The staff
o f this unit has acquired useful experience in managing Bank financed projects, which will
benefit this operation as well. The Unit has been further strengthened with the recruitment o f
a Unit Head who is already at post, and two additional accounting assistants who are
expected to be at post at the beginning of the third quarter 2008. The use of the existing unit
will also ensure the speedy and timely implementation of the proposed project.                                     It is
envisaged that the PFMU will maintain at all times appropriate and robust financial
management systems and practices that meet the acceptable standards.

97.       LACE is already well established and experienced in the management o f similar
activities from successful implementation of CEP I.The FM staff o f LACE is already
managing a Bank assisted project. Because o f this prior experience, it is expected that LACE
will take on the new project smoothly and quickly. The use of LACE will also ensure the
speedy and timely implementation o f sub-projects that are approved in the course of time.
LACE has established and maintained, at all times, appropriate and robust financial
management systems and practices that are considered satisfactory to the Bank since April
30,2008 when it was declared fiduciary compliant.

98.       Weaknesses and Time Bound Action PZanSimilar to other post-conflict countries,
the general overall fiduciary environment inLiberia is very weak. With exception o f the Unit
Head and the existing accounting staff, all the other new accounting staffjoining the PFMU



                                                     - 37 -

has limited experience in World Bank financial and disbursement procedures. The ultimate
full benefit o f the PFMUis yet to be fully realized especially with the Unit Manager at post.
Successful handling o f the additional responsibility requires that the project financial capacity
o f the newly recruited accounting assistants will have to be buildquickly.

99.     Likewise, the LACE also faces similar challenges as an agency operating in a
generally weak fiduciary environment in a post-conflict country. Successful implementation
o f this project will require strong ownership and active support from the government
authorities and other implementingpartners.

                                          Table 2: Actions and Conditions




         AIDP and CEP I1are agreedupon.                                                         Effectiveness
2.       Designand agree on IFRformats for useby WFP for periodic financial        MoF and WFP  Withinone month of
         reporting                                                                              Effectiveness
3.       Finalization o f updates inthe Financial Management Procedures Manual     LACE and MoF ByJuly 31,2008
         for LACE to incorporate procedures to guide `Cash for Work Employment'
         program at the community level e.g. targeting, equity and transparency,
         accountabilityetc.
4.       Trainindmentoring of newly recruited accounting assistants at PFMUin     UnitManager   Within first month of
         FMinprojects.                                                             PFMU         coming on board.
5.       Review TOR for the Auditor to expand scope of work to incorporate new     UnitManager  Within3 months of
         project for (i)
                       PFMU and (ii)engagement o f auditor for LACE with TOR       PFMU/LACE    Effectiveness
         that cover activities under Comuonent 2


ImplementingEntities'FMCapacity

100.     The PFMU has a Unit Head who is assisted by a Project Accountant, both o f whom
possess international accounting qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. Two
accounting assistants are also expected to be at post at the beginning o f the third quarter
2008. They are supported by three accounting staff seconded from the MoF. There i s also
an Internal Auditor and Procurement Specialist who posses qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank.                 The newly recruited staff will be trained in World Bank
disbursement procedures, ones they assume duty to enable them to manage the resources of
Bank fundedprojects inLiberia.

101.     The LACE finance unit i s also headed by a Finance Director (FD). The FD i s a
qualified accountant with extensive project financial management experience. H e i s assisted
by two accounts officers.               The job descriptions o f the assistants ensure the presence of
effective internal controls and avoid duplication o f functions. The FD i s responsible for the
Project's day to day financial management and ensures that resources provided for project
activities are managed for the benefit o f the Project, including keeping adequate books and
records, recording transactions correctly and ensuring that the Interim Unaudited Financial
Reports (IFRs) reflect the true financial affairs o f the Project. All the accounting staff
participated in a capacity building training workshop which was organized by the Bank FM
team inLiberia.

102.     The FM capacity in both PFMU and L A C E have been assessed and found to be
adequate to easily accommodate the additional responsibilities arising from the new project
activities.    The situation of capacity and skill mix will be monitored closely to ensure



                                                            - 38 -

proactive measures are taken as needed, especially in LACE with the new `Cash-for-Work'
program which will need close monitoring.

BudgetingArrangement

103.    Both the PFMU and LACE would adopt the cash budgeting arrangement under the
on-going AIDP and the CEP I1projects. The annual project budget will be based on agreed
annual work program that will be closely monitored and reviewed during implementation.
Similarly, financial planning and budgets will be useful in projecting in-year expenditures
and guide PFMU and LACE indeveloping realistic cash forecasts resultingto improved cash
management.

Accounting

104.    The PFMU will be responsible for the day to day financial management o f the
proposed project in addition to that o f other ongoing projects (the Agricultural Infrastructure
Project (AIDP - P104716), Emergency Infrastructure Project (EIP - P100160) and the
Infrastructure and Rural Project (IRP - P101456). The PFMU will use the existing
accounting system based on the FM procedures and accounting manual that provides for
adequate segregation o f functions, capable o f recording all accounting transactions, and
reporting correctly all assets and liabilities o f the project. The system i s also capable of
producing accurate periodic financial reports, including interim un-audited financial reports
(IFRs) and annual project financial statements.       Accounting transactions processing and
reporting are done using S U N Accounting software. The financial statements are guided by
the International Public Sector Accounting Standards

105.    LACE like the PFMU, will also use the existing accounting system under the CEP I
and CEP I1 to recording, process and report all transactions under this new project. The
financial management system would follow the financial accounting procedures established
for the ongoing Bank financed projects.

InternalControland InternalAudit

106.    The existing internal control framework inboth PFMU i s considered adequate for the
time being.    The segregated roles o f various players in the line ministries/departments
involved and in the PFMU provide an acceptable control environment.              In addition, the
internal audit function inPFMU will also be extended to cover activities under this project in
the same depth as i s the case under AIDP for Component 1. The internal audit function in
PFMUi s fairly young. It's presently a one person unitmanagedby a professionally qualified
accountant. As the portfolio o f projects grows, there i s risk that the unit will increasingly be
overwhelmed which could undermine its effectiveness. To mitigate this risk, the unit will be
monitored closely with a view to strengthening it and modernizing it by introducing risk
based approach in planning its work program. LACE will need to pay special attention to
riskposedto project funds at the community subproject level.

107.    The present internal control arrangement in LACE i s considered adequate.            T h i s
arrangement will also be applied to the activities o f the project under Component 2. The
internal audit unit inLACE will also review activities under Component 2. Inparticular, the
internal audit unit will focus on risk especially with regard to the new `Cash-for-Work
Employment' program. The current FM procedures manual will be revised to include FM



                                             - 39 -

procedures to guide the implementation o f the new `Cash-for-Work Employment' program.
T h i s should be accomplished by end July, 2008

Flow of FundsArrangements

108.      Disbursement Arrangements - Disbursement for the eligible expenditure under
Component 1 (Agricultural Productivity Intervention) and Component 2 (Cash for Work
Employment Program) that are being co-financed from the Global Food Price Crisis
Response Trust Fund will be implemented through the existing disbursement arrangements
under the on-going operations (Agricultural Infrastructure Development Project P104716
[H32701(and SecondCommunity Empowerment Project P105683 [H3050] respectively). A
new segregated Designated Account shall be authorized for each o f these co-financing Grant
Agreements for the funds flowing from this Trust Fundand these Accounts shall be managed
and accounted for by the respective project implementationagency o f each original project.

109.      The proceeds o f the grant would be disbursed over a two year period. On project
closure, a period o f four (4) months (grace period) after the closing date, as agreed with the
Bank, would be allowedto complete processing o f disbursement for expenditures incurredup
to and untilthe closing date o f the grant.

DesignatedAccount (DA)

110.      The PFMU will continue to operate a centralized funds management system for the
project. All withdrawal applications under Component 1 will be prepared here based on
eligible expenditures incurred under the project.       Separate Designated Account will be
maintainedby PFMU. Similarly, LACE will also operate a separate Designated Account for
the new (additional financing) project from which expenditures under Component 2 will be
met. The two Designated Accounts will ideally be replenished at least once every month, to
ensure the project does not experience any liquidity or cash flow difficulties.

Financial Reporting

111.      As being currently done under the on-going infrastructural projects (AIDP, EIP,
EIPSC, and IRP) being implemented by the PFMU, and CEP Iand CEP I1by the LACE, both
entities will prepare quarterly interim un-audited financial reports (IUFRs). The content an
IFRis summarized as:

          The Quarterly Financial Reports; this consists o f a statement o f cash receipts by
          source and expenditures by main expenditure classifications for the period and
          cumulatively; cashbalances o f the project; and supporting schedules comparing actual
          and budgeted expenditures by component andor activity within component and
          explanations o f any variances. A bank reconciliation statement and bank statements
          showing the activities or movement o f cash inthe Designated Account are needed to
          help determine cash requirement for the next period.

112. As inthe case o f the ongoing projects, IUFRswill be submitted to the Bank within 45
days o f the end o f each quarter inthe case o f LACE, while it will be 30 days o f the end o f the
quarter in the case o f the PFMU. The content and format o f these reports will follow closely
the agreed formats in use for the ongoing Bank projects, and will be agreed upon within one
montho f Effectiveness.



                                              - 4 0 -

AuditingArrangements

113.    Similar to the on-going projects being implemented by the PFMU and the LACE,
independent and qualified auditors, acceptable to the Bank, will carry out an audit o f project
financial statements. TOR for the auditors will be expanded to cover the new project. The
TOR o f the auditor will specifically including verifying a sample o f the subprojects in the
new `Cash-for-Work Employment' program. The auditor for the PFMU has been appointed.
The auditor for LACE to audit the CEP I1 project will also audit the new project.
Consideration is being given to re-appoint the same auditor who i s auditing the CEP Iproject.
The audit arrangements (finalization o f TORSand appointment o f auditor by LACE) will be
finalized within three months o f Effectiveness.


114.    The project financial statements including movements in the Designated Accounts
will be audited in accordance with International Standards in Auditing (ISA).         Since the
components are implemented by different entities, it i s envisaged that both the Components
will be audited separately. Components 1 and 2 will each have a single opinion issued to
cover the Component's financial statements, Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs) and
transactions under the respective Designated Accounts, in accordance with the Bank's audit
policy.

115.    The auditors' reports and opinions in respect o f the project financial statements
including the management letter for the respective Components 1 and 2 shall be furnished to
the World Bank within six months following the end o f each fiscal year.

SupervisionPlan

116.    Duringproject implementation, intensive supervision will be providedto bothPFMU
and LACE inorder to ensure that the project financial management arrangements are inplace
and functioning at all times. The first supervision mission after effectiveness will include an
FM Specialist to review the systems and operations introduced by the PFMU and LACE
respectively.   There will be a minimum o f two to three supervision missions per year,
complemented by desk reviews o f quarterly IFRs. In addition, the World Bank's financial
management specialist in the Liberia country office will provide day-to-day support and
technical guidance to the PFMU, LACE and other implementingpartners o f the sub-projects
especially under the LACE'Scomponent. With regard to WFP, desk review o f IFRs will
suffice unless there i s good basis for visiting WFP Headquarters in Rome to resolve any
exceptional FMtechnicalities that might arise.

World FoodProgramme(WFP)-implementedComponent

117.   The FM arrangements for this component would be based on the World Bank/United
Nations Financial Management Framework Agreement (FMFA). WFP will prepare its
annual work program and budget for review by MOF and the Bank for approval. WFP would
handle all the financial management aspects using its own procedures set out in the WFP
Financial Regulations.    WFP will maintain a separate ledger account for recording the
transactions relatingto this project. As per the FMFA, the Bank's audit requirements are met
through the normal biennium audit o f the WFP, and separate audited financial statements and
audit reports from WFP for this project will not required.




                                             -41 -

118.    WFP will submit periodic interim financial reports (IFRs) to the Bank which will
include sources and uses o f funds; expenditures by project activities (sub-components) with
comparative actual and budgeted amounts for the period under review and cumulatively for
the project life; opening and closing o f advances received from the Bank; projected
expenditures and cash forecast for the next reporting period; and explanatory notes as needed.
Formats o f the IFRs would be agreed between the Bank and WFP within one month o f
effectiveness.

119.    Upon effectiveness funds will be advanced to WFP as a Recipient based on an annual
forecast to be submitted by WFP. Disbursements shall be made into a WFP Bank account that
may be pooled with WFP's own resources. Replenishments o f the advance for the rest o f the
period shall be basedon the IFRsdiscussed above.

Conclusion of FMAssessment

120.    The financial management assessment established that the financial management risk
for the project i s substantial. The recruitment o f a Unit head for the PFMU and a project
accountant (both posses international accounting qualifications and experience acceptable to
the Bank), the recruitment o f two additional assistants to boost the staffing capacity at the
PFMU, the requirement for the finalization of the FMProcedures Manual and the training of
the newly recruited accounting assistants in project financial management as well as other
mitigation measures will ensure that residual financial management risk i s reduced to
moderate when all the measures are implemented.

121.    Similarly, actions which were started during CEP I, which have been put inplace
                                                              and
prior to effectiveness o f CEP I1will ensure that the identified risks are adequately mitigated.
The engagement o f a professionally qualified accountant as FD o f LACE, the adherence to
the revised FM procedures manual that has taken into account the new `Cash for Work
Employment' program and compliance with adequate internal controls, and the agreed
auditing arrangements for the project will ensure that residual financial management risks i s
maintained at moderate level.


In summary, the conclusionofthe assessment is that the proposedFMarrangements for
the Projectas describedmeet the Bank's minimumrequirementsfor FMunder OPBP
10.02.




                                             - 4 2 -

Annex 3: DetailedProcurementArrangements

Agricultureand Cashfor Work Components

A.       General

122.       For the Agriculture and Cash for Work Components, procurement o f goods and
works and selection o f consultants would be carried out in accordance with (i)        the World
Bank's "Guidelines:     Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004,
revised in October 2006; (ii)"Guidelines:      Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revised in October 2006; (iii)           Requirements o f
OP8.00 for Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies, and (iv) the provisions stipulated in
the Grant FinancingAgreements, The various items under different expenditure categories to
be financed are described below. For each contract to be financed by the Grant, the different
procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification,
estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
Government and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at
least annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

123.     Procurement of Works: Works to be procured under two projects include: (i)
minor/small rehabilitation works that would be required to enhance agricultural production,
and (ii)  minor works that may be associated with the delivery o f required services o f public
value to be executed under cash-for-work mechanism. The procurement will be done using
simplified bidding documents or standard Request for quotations agreed with or satisfactory
to the Bank. In response to the new Framework for Rapid Response to Crises and
Emergencies captured in OP8.00, and to facilitate project implementation and quick delivery
o f results, no objections will be given, where appropriate, to the application o f the following:
Using rapid procurement methods (direct contracting or simple shopping) for engaging the
services o f qualified Agencies or civil works contractors already mobilized and working in
emergency area; Using lists o f pre-qualified contractors with good track record to whom
periodic invitations are issued, The pre-qualification document may use a simplified format;
extending contracts issued under existing projects for similar activities by increasing their
corresponding contract amounts, Where alternative arrangements are not available, using
Force Account for delivery of Works services directly related to the project objective; and
using NCB,      accelerated bid times not below 21 days, and streamlined procedures and
applying Bank provisions on the use o f bid-securing declarations and the elimination or
waiving o f bidbond or, bid securities for small contracts.

124.     Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under the two projects would include (i)
hand tools, materials, protective clothing, etc under the employment generation strategies that
would lead to provision o f services that have public value, (ii)seeds, fertilizers, tools,
spraying equipment, protective clothing, harvesting equipment, simple storage facilities, etc
which come under the agricultural production inputs component.           Inresponse to the new
Framework for Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies captured in OP8.00, and to
facilitate project implementation and quick delivery o f results, no objections will be given,
where appropriate, to the application o f the following: Using rapid procurement methods
(direct contracting or simple shopping) for engaging the services o f qualified Agencies /
programs and/or suppliers o f goods; using lists of pre-qualified suppliers with good track
record to whom periodic invitations are issued. The pre-qualification document may use a
simplified format; Extending contracts issued under existing projects for similar activities by


                                              - 43 -

increasing their corresponding contract amounts; and Using NCB, accelerated bid times not
below 21 days and streamlined procedures and applying Bank provisions on the use o f bid-
securing declarations and the elimination or waiving o f bid bond or bid securities for small
contracts.

125.     Selection of Consultants:      Consultancy services include the agricultural inputs
technical assistance services to be provided by the International Institute for Tropical
Agriculture (IITA). It will also include the hiring o f individual consultants to provide TA and
training, NGOs to manage the implementation processes on the ground, and firms to provide
necessary inputs. The project has been classified as a rapid response program where, in
conjunction OP8.00, Accelerated and Streamlined Procedures may apply to improve the
flexibility, speed, and effectiveness o f the Bank's emergency response. The use o f a "pool o f
experts" or a list o f "pre-selected' consulting firms and/or individuals may, therefore, be an
appropriate method for supporting project implementation. Such a method will remain
consistent with QCBS, CQS, andor the Selection o f Individual Consultants. No-Objection
will also be given for sole-sourcing (single-sourcing) o f consulting firms, where it presents a
clear advantage over competition. Firmsalready working inthe area and which have a proven
track record in similar assignments may be the most suitable; Selection o f consulting firms
through Consultants' Qualification Selection (CQS) method for contracting firms already
working in the area and which have a proven track record for the provision o f technical
assistance.

126.     The selection process would be conducted by the Implementing agency (IA) for a
series o f assignments   -- with standard TORS-- before credit effectiveness, and would be
subject to Bank prior reviews. Duringproject execution, the IA would just have to pick-up
experts or firms from the list, based on their availability to carry out the assignment.
Remuneration and fees would be resolved, at time o f pre-selections, and prescribed in a
framework agreement - a sort o f retainer contract. While this approach will expedite ad hoc
recruitment o f consultants for specific frequent assignments, it does not require any special
waiver or clearance, because it will be fully consistent with the regular procedures. For all
contracts to be awarded following QCBS, LCS and FBS, the Banks Standard Request for
Proposals will be used.

127.     Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO
equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with
the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

128.     Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract for firms, and
single source selection o f consultants (firms and individuals) will be subject to prior review
by the Bank. Prior review o f the evaluation process o f the selection o f individual consultants
(i.e. comparison o f three CVs) will only be carried out in exceptional circumstances, for
example when hiring an Advisor for the entire project duration which could result in a
substantial contract amount. Such contracts will be identified inthe procurement plan.

129.     Training and Workshops: Training will be carried out on the basis of approved
programs on a yearly basis. The programs will identify the general framework o f training and
similar activities for the year, including the nature and objectives o f training and workshops
as they relate to the project objectives.

130.    Incremental Operation Costs: In addition, projects will finance incremental project
implementation-related expenditures such as in-country travel, per diem, office supplies,


                                               - 44 -

office rentals, utilities, maintenance, consumables, communication costs, etc. These will be
financed by the project on a declining basis, and would be procured usingthe Liberia Public
Procurement and Concessions Law, where appropriate.

131.    The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as
well as model contracts for works and goods procured would be available for IDA review by
effectiveness.

B.      Assessment of the LACE and Special ImplementationUnit of the Ministry of
PublicWorks's Capacityto ImplementProcurement

132.    The implementing Agency for the Cash for Works component i s the LACE with the
overall responsibility o f (a) assuring steady progress o f the procurement in accordance with
an implementation schedule reviewed and approved by the World Bank; and (b) ensuring
satisfactory implementationo f procurement activities includedinall contracts.

133.    A review o f the capacity o f LACE and o f selected CBOs to handle and monitor
procurement under the project was camed out as part o f the broader assessment o f the
capacity in the country to implement Bank projects. The assessment was undertaken by the
Bank Procurement unit inFY05. At the time o f this initial assessment, there was very little or
no procurement capacity in LACE and the implementing CBOs. To mitigate procurement
risks at the project implementation level, training in procurement was provided to staff o f
both LACE and the CBOs. Further, inresponse to the assessment, and to manage and provide
guidance for procurement, LACE recruited a Procurement Specialist, with qualifications
acceptable to IDA, to:        (i)plan and process all procurement done centrally for all
components; (ii)   assist PMCs to prepare procurement plans for their respective sub-projects;
(iii) theimplementationoftheprocurementplans, and(iv)trainPMCsstaffinthe
     monitor
use of procurement procedures agreed under the Project, including compliance with World
Bank Procurement Guidelines.

134.    However, procurement capacity within LACE remains weak due to weak
procurement planning, filing, and management, particularly for goods and services, where
compliance with Bank non objection procedures i s required. Further, during Mid-term
review ofCEP I(January 2007), the World Bank team found that there is still scope for
LACE to improve its capacity inprocurement and contract management.

135.    One lesson learned from the implementation o f CEP Ii s that there is a need to train
several staff on procurement inorder to ensure that the required expertise i s always available,
even if there i s a high staff turnover or an increase in the volume o f business. That is why
several LACE staff members participated recently in a procurement workshop in Monrovia.
Another lesson learned i s that, inpost conflict counties, the implementing agency (LACE in
the case o f Liberia) must have, at least initially, a leadership role in training and assisting the
CBOs and Community Facilitators (CFs) incarryingout procurement for the sub-projects. As
the CBOs and CFs become more experienced, L A C E should be able to become less involved
and spend more time on the monitoring o f procurement done by CBOs with the assistance o f
CFs.

136.    Under CEP 11, in order to further strengthen LACE and mitigate the risks at CBOs
level, LACE will recruit a new Procurement Specialist based in Monrovia. Focal officers in
the CBOs with relevant qualifications and experience will be identified and trained in
procurement under community participation strategies. Following this, to the extent that the


                                               - 45 -

Engineers to be based inthe Monrovia HQ,Lofa, Bong and South East Region counties have
divisional responsibilities for respective counties within Liberia, these Engineers shall also be
trained in procurement and contract management, and their capacities built continually, in
order to offer additional procurement supportto the CBOs within their areas of coverage.

137.      The implementing Agency for the Agricultural Productivity Intervention
component i s the SIU/MPW. The capacity of the S I U has been assessed recently. The S I U
is currently implementing a program o f about US$lOO million in Bank grant funding. In its
18 months o f existence it has procured works, goods and services o f close to US$70 million,
whereof about US$40 million has already been disbursed. The S I U i s supported by technical
assistance in procurement, contract management and engineering. Still, restructuring o f the
S I U i s under way with the intention of significantly scaling up its capacity and ensure it will
be in a position to deliver on expected substantial increase in infrastructure funding from a
number of donors. The implementation requirement resulting from the additional financing
for component 1 represents only marginal increase in expected delivery o f the unit.
Implementation risk is therefore deemed minimal.

138.      Procurement risk assessment i s substantial.

C.        ProcurementPlan

139.      Six-month procurement plans for project implementation under components 1 and 2
will be prepared to reflect project implementation plans. Thresholds, Procurement Methods
and Prior Review Requirement will be the same for the new activities as under the original
AIDP and CEP I1 projects.

D.        Frequency of Procurement Supervision

140.      In addition, it is recommended to carry out supervision missions to conduct post
review of contracts which are not subject to the above prior review requirements on a
frequency o f three procurement supervision missions each year, to visit the field and to
carryout a post review o f procurement actions. The procurement post-reviews should cover at
least 20 percent o f contracts subject to post-review.

141. Procurement Audits: Not later than three months after the end of each financial year,
the Grant recipient will submit to the Bank a procurement audit report prepared by
consultants selected in accordance with the guidelines for selection o f consultants, based on
TOR approved by the Bank and incorporated in the project implementation manual. The
audits would (a) verify that the procurement and contracting procedures and processes
followed for the projects were in accordance with the Financing Agreement; (b) verify
technical compliance, physical completion and price competitiveness o f each contract in the
selected representative sample; (c) review and comment on contract administration and
management issues as dealt with by participating agencies; (d) review capacity of
participating agencies inhandling procurement efficiently; and (e) identify improvements in
the procurement process in the light of any identified deficiencies. The Borrower and IDA
will review all thresholds stated in this section on an annual basis. Amendments may be
agreed upon based o n performance and actual values of procurement implemented.
Amendments to the FA may be proposed accordingly.




                                               - 4 6 -

142.   Procurement Management Reports: The IAs will, every quarter, submit procurement
management reports to IDA. The format and content o f Procurement Management Reports
will be agreedbetween the Bank and each IA within one montho f effectiveness.

143.   Publication of Awards and Debriefing:       The results o f the bidding process for all
ICB and NCB for goods and works, and also for consultant contracts estimated at
US$200,000 and above, in response to paragraphs 2.60 and 2.65, and 3.4 of the World
Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004 and
revised in October 2006; and paragraphs 2.28 and 2.29 of the "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004 and revised in
October 2006 shall be published. .

144.   Fraud and Corruption: All procuring entities as well as bidders and service
providers, i.e. suppliers, contractors and consultants shall observe the highest standard o f
ethics during the procurement and execution o f contracts financed under the project in
accordance with paragraphs 1.14 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraphs 1.22 of the
Consultants Guidelines.

Food Support for VulnerableWomen and ChildrenProject

145.   Procurement procedures and intensified supervision. For the Food Support for
Vulnerable Women and Children component, WFP procurement procedures would apply in
keeping with the provisions of the FPCR TF Resolution. The Bank will not have access to
the usual prior review and other procurement mechanisms to ensure that the funds have been
used for the purposes intended. Despite the fact that Bank procedures will not be used for
procurement, the Bank will closely monitor the component's targets and outcomes and report
on them duringintensified supervision missions.

146.   Fraud and corruption and legal recourse. For this project, the Bank and WFP shall
agree to provisions to prevent and address fraud and corruption and establish legal remedies,
along the lines of the WFP/World Bank agreement for program implementation in Sudan.
These provisions will be set out inthe direct Grant Agreement between WFP and the Bank.




                                            - 47 -

Annex 4: ProjectPreparationandAppraisalTeamMembers


Key institutionsresponsible for preparationof the Program:

MinistryofFinance, MinistryofAgriculture, LACE, MinistryofPublic Works.

WorldFoodProgramme



                           Table 3.1: ProjectProcessingSchedule
                                      Planned             Revised        Actual
RRC review                     May 19,2008                           May 19,2008
PID to PIC                     May 20,2008                           May21,2008
ISDS to PIC                    May20,2007                            May 21,2008
Appraisal                      May 21,2008                           May 21,2008
Negotiations                   May21,2008
Board approval                 May29,2008
Plannedeffectiveness           June 10,2008
Mid-term review                June 10,2009
Closing date                   June 31,2010


     Table 3.2: Bankstaff and consultantswho workedon the Programincluded
            Name                                   Title                  Unit
 Christopher Jackson           Economist (Co Task Team Leader)       AFTAR
 Errol Graham                  Sr. Economist (Co Task TeamLeader)    AFTP4
 Charles Annor-Frempong        Sr. Economist                         AFTAR
 BarbryKeller                  Country Officer                       AFCGH
 Kremena Ionkova              Urban Specialist                       AFTU2
 Amadou Tidiane Toure         Lead Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
 Jonathan Pavluk               Sr. Counsel                           LEGAF
 Rajiv Sandhi                  Sr. Finance Officer                   LOAG2
 GyfiPalsson                   Sr. Transport Specialist              AFTTR
 Giuseppe Zampaglione          Sr. Operations Officer                AFTH2
 Baba ImoruAbdulai            Procurement Consultant                 AFTPC
 John Nyaga                   Sr. FinancialManagement Specialist    AFTFM
 Anna Kristiina Karjanlahti   Junior Professional Officer            AFPT4
 OwusuAgyei                   FinancialManagement Consultant        AFTFM




                                             - 48 -

Annex 5: Liberia Map




     LIBERIA




                        - 49 -



