                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001586



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-92454)



                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.0 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA

                                    FOR AN

 EMERGENCY FOOD SUPPORT FOR VULNERABLE WOMEN AND CHILDREN



                                 June 29, 2011




Agriculture and Rural Development Unit (AFTAR)
Sustainable Development Department
AFCW1
Africa Region
                              LIBERIA
           Food Support for Vulnerable Women and Children

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective May 25, 2011)
                    Currency Unit = Liberia Dollar
                          US$ 1.00 = LD 60

                            FISCAL YEAR


                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CEO        County Education Officers
CFSNS      Comprehensive Food Security and Nutrition Survey
CPI        Consumer Price Index
DEO        District Education Officers
DPs        Development Partners
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FM         Financial Management
GFRP       Global Food Crisis Response Program
GoL        Government of Liberia
GTHR       Girls’ Take Home Ration
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency
           Syndrome
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Association
IDPs       Internally Displaced Persons
IFR        Interim Financial Report
INT        Integrity Vice Presidency
ISN        Interim Strategy Note
ISR        Interim Status Report
LFCRP      Liberia Food Crisis Response Program
MDGs       Millennium Development Goals
MUAC       Mid-upper Arm Circumference
M&E        Monitoring and evaluation
Mt         Metric ton
MoE        Ministry of Education
MoHSW      Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (Ministry of Nutrition
           and Mother and Child Health Divisions)
NFSNA      National Food Security and Nutrition Strategies and Action
           program
NGO        Non-governmental organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Development
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PIA      Program Internal Audit
PRS      Poverty Reduction Strategy
PTA      Parent-Teacher Association
RF       Results Framework
SF       School Feeding
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Fund
UN       United Nations
WFP      World Food Program
WHO      World Food Organization




                  Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                 Sector Director: Jamal Saghir
                Country Director: Ishac Diwan
                 Sector Manager: Karen McConnell Brooks
            Project Team Leader: Christopher Paul Jackson
               ICR Team Leader: Kadir Osman Gyasi
                                             LIBERIA
                          Food Support for Vulnerable Women and Children


                                                          CONTENTS


A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................... v 
B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................... v 
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................... v 
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................... vi 
E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................... vi 
F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................... vi 
G. Rating of Project Performance in ISRs ........................................................................ vii 
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................. viii 
I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................... viii 
1. Project Context, Development Objective, and Design ................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4 
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 9 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 17 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance. ........................................................ 18 
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 20 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementation Agencies/Partners ............ 21 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 22 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 23 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)...... 30 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 32 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 33 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 33 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR ............................................................................ 34 
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders (WFP) .............. 44 
Annex 9. List of supporting Documents ........................................................................... 45 
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 46 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Liberia Emergency
                                                                          Food Support for
Country:                Liberia                 Project Name:
                                                                          Vulnerable Women and
                                                                          Children
Project ID:             P112107                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-92454
ICR Date:               06/30/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          WORLD FOOD
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:                 PROGRAM BEHALF
                                                                          OF REP. LR
Original Total
                        USD 4.0M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 3.9M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 3.9M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 World Food Program
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:             05/29/2008     Mid-term Review:           07/31/2009
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010       12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory Government:        Satisfactory
                        Moderately          Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                        Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory      Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                                25                   25
Other social services                                                 75                   75


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Global food crisis response                                           100              100

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:          Ishac Diwan                          Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:            Martien Van Nieuwkoop                Martien Van Nieuwkoop
Project Team Leader:       Christopher Paul Jackson             Christopher Paul Jackson
ICR Team Leader:           Kadir Osman Gyasi
ICR Primary Author:        Kadir Osman Gyasi


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Liberia Food Support Project for Vulnerable Women and Children is financed by the
Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund (FPCRTF) and is implemented by World Food
Program (WFP). The Project Development Objective is to maintain access to food among
vulnerable households during the period of high food prices. The project will provide
financing for a focused school feeding program in the five Counties in the South-East of
Liberia which exhibit the most severe chronic malnutrition rates. The program will
provide daily meals for beneficiaries, as well as take-home rations for girls. It also
provides food suplements for pregnant and lactating women. It provides a de facto
subsidy for food consumption for beneficiary households to mitigate the fod price shock.


                                               ii
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target       Formally     Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target      Completion or
                                              documents)           Values      Target Years
                  Number of (or %) pre-school and primary school children from vulnerable
Indicator 1 :
                  households receiving meals on a daily basis at school
Value
quantitative or   57,242                    62,000               n/a          59,991
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                07/31/2009           07/31/2009   06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          96.8% of target but 104.8% over the baseline
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     [Number (or %)of girls (grade 4-6) receiving take-home rations
Value
quantitative or   2,169                     2480                 n/a          4,300
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                07/31/2009           07/31/2009   06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %          81% of target but about 160% over the baseline
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                approval                       Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of pregnant and lactating women receiving food rations.
Value
(quantitative     TBD                       4647                 N/A          3,300
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/30/2008                   07/31/2009         07/31/2009    06/30/2010
Comments          Rate of achievement could not be estimated for this PDO indicator due to lack of
(incl. %          baseline data. The target was however achieved in 2008. In 2010, the project
achievement)      further refined its targeting and focused on the most vulnerable women




                                                 iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                 Actual
       Date ISR
No.                           DO                  IP         Disbursements
       Archived
                                                             (USD millions)
  1    12/29/2008         Satisfactory        Satisfactory              2.00
  2    06/24/2009         Satisfactory        Satisfactory              2.00
  3    12/21/2009         Satisfactory        Satisfactory              2.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         iv
1. Project Context, Development Objective, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     Liberia is a fragile state affected by pervasive poverty and destitution, exacerbated
by the country’s long civil war (1989–2003), which destroyed the county’s economy and
human capacity. The protracted war devastated the country’s basic infrastructure and
rendered access to most productive inputs, services, and markets impossible. Public and
private institutional capacities both at the national and local levels were severely
disrupted or destroyed.

2.     Liberia struggles with high levels of household food insecurity. According to the
2006 Comprehensive Food Security and Nutrition Survey (CFSNS), 2 11 percent of
households were food-insecure and 40 percent were highly vulnerable to food insecurity.
Children were also severely affected by food insecurity; 39 percent of children under age
5 were stunted, 29 percent underweight, and 7 percent wasted.

3.     Agricultural production capacities were and continue to be low and the country
relies heavily on food imports to feed its population, especially in urban areas.
Agricultural productivity is low partly owing to the prolonged conflict, which displaced
farming communities, degraded transport and processing infrastructure, and diminished
productive capacities such as capital assets and skilled personnel, inter alia. These
constraints have limited the ability of the farming population to produce marketable
surpluses, which would contribute to food security and reduce poverty.

4.      Global food prices increased sharply during 2008. Benchmark prices for rice and
wheat jumped by 217 percent and 136 percent, respectively, between 2006 and 2008.3
The World Bank estimated that 100 million people worldwide fell into poverty.4 Rice
prices are especially important for Liberians, because rice accounts for 37 percent of the
value of food consumption and 50 percent of daily caloric intake for the average
household. Food price increases were compounded by the pass-through effect of high
fuel prices, which added to distribution costs and to inflationary pressures: Liberia’s
consumer price index (CPI), rose from 127 in June 2007 to 167 in June 2008 and reached



2
 According to the Comprehensive Food Security and Nutrition Survey, the counties most
affected by food insecurity are the areas the most affected by displacement during the war
and more remote regions (especially Lofa, River Gee, and Grand Kru Counties).
3
 Stefan Steinberg, “Financial Speculators Reap Profits from Global Hunger,? Global
Research, April 24, 2008.
4
 Robert Zoellick (World Bank Group President), Speech to the World Food Security
Summit, Rome, June 6, 2008.

                                             1
184 in August 2008. For a typical household in Liberia, the cost of food increased by 25
percent in January 2008 alone. Increasing world food prices threatened to undermine
recent progress towards the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and to increase the
risk of social unrest and instability.

5.      As a country emerging from 14 years of civil war, Liberia’s recent development
gains are vulnerable to the consequences of high food price inflation. Peace and the
nascent economic recovery could be severely undermined. Rice prices in particular have
political resonance in Liberia, especially among urban households, as demonstrated by
the so-called “rice riots? of 1979 that precipitated the civil war.

6.     The Government of Liberia’s (GoL’s) strategic response to the food price crisis in
2008 had three pillars:
    Mitigating the domestic pass-through of global price rises and ensuring
       consistent supply of imported foods in the future. Measures included: (i) removing
       tariffs on rice imports and (ii) reducing the risk of supply interruptions by
       negotiating supply contracts with friendly governments;
    Maintaining access to food among vulnerable households by a combination of
       direct assistance to severely vulnerable households, including internally displaced
       persons (IDPs), and targeted feeding programs such as school feeding and
       supplementary feeding for pregnant and lactating mothers. Government also
       expanded a food- or cash-for-work scheme to provide additional income-
       generating opportunities during the lean season for under-employed households,
       primarily financed by donors.
    Expediting a supply response by promoting food crop production through the
       distribution of essential planting material (mainly seed and fertilizer) and
       improved post-harvest systems (basic processing technology such as rice milling
       equipment and improved storage facilities) to reduce post-harvest losses.
       Government also sought to further encourage expansion of agricultural production
       into new lands through incremental expansion of small-holders as well as
       promotion of large-scale commercial farming.

7.      The World Bank’s support to GoL’s response to the food crisis in Liberia under
the Bank’s Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP) focused on measures to
mitigate the short- as well as the medium- to long-term implication of the rising food
prices in Liberia. The Liberia Food Crisis Response Program (LFCRP) was implemented
through three operations: (i) an agricultural productivity intervention (US$ 3 million),
processed as an additional financing to the Liberia Emergency Agriculture and
Infrastructure Development Project; (ii) a cash-for-work employment project (US$ 3
million), processed as an additional financing to the Liberia Community Empowerment II
Project; and (iii) food support for vulnerable women and children (US$ 4 million),
processed as a stand-alone intervention, the Emergency Food Support Project for
Vulnerable Women and Children, implemented through the World Food Program (WFP).
The three operations were processed simultaneously through preparation of a single
emergency project paper following emergency procedures.


                                            2
This ICR covers the interventions under the Emergency Food Support Project for
Vulnerable Women and Children, which closed on December 31, 2010.

1.2 Original Project Development Objective (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.     The project development objective (in the data sheet for this operation) was to
maintain access to food among vulnerable households.

Table: Key Performance Indicators
Component a             Key Performance Indicator
School Feeding          62,000 pre-school and primary school children from
                        vulnerable households receiving meals on a daily basis
Girls’       Take-home 4,300 girls (grades 4-6) receiving take-home rations
Rations
Vulnerable Women        3,300 pregnant and lactating women receiving food rations
a
  The components of the project are as defined in the signed Food Price Crisis Response Trust Fund Grant Agreement
of July 2008 between the International Development Association acting as trustee of the Food Price Crisis Response
Trust Fund and the World Food Program.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by Original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.      The primary beneficiaries of the project included pre-school and primary school
children from vulnerable households, as well as vulnerable women defined as pregnant
and lactating women up to six months after delivery. The project targeted the five most
vulnerable counties (Maryland, Sinoe, Grand Kru, Grand Gedeh, and River Gee), located
in the poorer and very remote South East Region of Liberia. These counties are
characterized by chronic food insecurity and high levels of malnutrition. They also have
quite low pre-primary and primary school enrollment and a wide gender difference in
primary education. Among its primary beneficiaries, the project also targeted girls in
grades 4-6 in districts with low enrollment and wider gender disparity to receive the take-
home ration.

1.5 Original Components

10.   WFP’s Liberia program, supported by the Emergency Food Support Project for
Vulnerable Women and Children, included two components:

        Component 1: School Feeding, including the Girls’ Take-home Ration (US$
         3.6m). The school feeding interventions funded by the Bank covered the period
         from September 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010. The component aimed to provide
         hot meals for pupils in public and community pre-schools and primary schools in
         the counties of Grand Gedeh, Sinoe, Rive Gee, Maryland, and Grand Kru. The
         intervention was to feed on-site an average of 60,000 school children in the five

                                                        3
          counties for the 195-day school year with 195 grams of food per child (150 grams
          of cereals, 30 grams of pulses, 10 grams of oil, and 5 grams of salt), providing
          714 kilocalories. In addition, monthly take-home rations of 25 kilograms of
          cereals and 1.8 kilograms of vegetable oil were to be provided to an average of
          4,200 girls in grades 4–6. The take-home ration was intended as an additional
          incentive to encourage greater school attendance by girls.

         Component 2: Vulnerable Women (US$ 400,000). This component targeted
          pregnant and lactating mothers as a means of making food accessible to this
          vulnerable group of women. It supported the distribution of food rations to
          pregnant and lactating women attending hospitals and clinics in the five selected
          counties.

11.      The project also supported WFP’s overheads in line with normal WFP operations.
WFP overhead costs for the operation were included in the related project components’
costs. It should be noted that the component activities listed above fitted well into WFP’s
medium-term program objectives based on enrollment and gender equality in primary
education (Component 1) and access to maternal health services (Component 2), which
differed from the objective of the Bank’s short-term response, which was to maintain the
availability of food through these programs in the face of rapidly increasing costs.

1.6 Revised Components

12.       The Project’s components have not been revised.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

13.    There was no change in project design, scope and scale, implementation
arrangements, or funding.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project preparation, design, and quality at entry

14.     The Liberia Emergency Food Support for Vulnerable Women and Children
Project was prepared as part of the Bank’s response to rapid global food price inflation in
2008 and its consequent effect on the economies of poor countries. Project preparation
was very rapid. Using the emergency procedures under OP 8.0, it took only 22 days to
prepare the project and obtain Board approval, following the GFRP Framework adopted
in May 2008. The Board approved the operation at the same time as the GFRP
Framework was approved, Liberia becoming the first recipient, along with Haiti.

15.    The project was prepared by an experienced multi-sectoral task team brought
together by the Bank to ensure good documentation and swift processing of clearances
and approval of the project. The operation benefitted from the guidance provided in the
GFRP framework document, which reflects the Bank’s knowledge base on social safety

                                              4
nets, agriculture, and policies related to food prices/market stabilization. The project
preparation team received strong management support and made good use of cross-
sectoral collaboration.

16.     The Bank team also consulted with other development partners (DPs), in
particular the United Nations (UN) actors—WFP, United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF), World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR), and Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)—to ensure that its
intervention was prepared in conformity with the joint UN response, for greater synergy
and improved coordination. It facilitated the Recipient’s ownership by making sure that
the operation addressed the critical need of the country and through intense consultations
throughout the preparation to ensure that GoL shared in the responsibility of project
implementation. The project design was influenced largely by the need to get food
quickly to the vulnerable households that were most affected by the food crisis. The
design also sought to ensure that the response was consistent with the government’s
short-, medium-, and long-term measures to mitigate the effects of the food crisis on the
population. The project therefore had a simple, straightforward objective of making food
accessible to vulnerable women and children. The intervention was build around existing
WFP activities in Liberia, particularly its school feeding and nutrition programs. The
decision to select WFP as the implementing agency was most appropriate, given the huge
capacity constraints in Liberia and WFP’s reputation in the implementation of food aid
(especially school feeding and nutrition programs) across the world. The project was
designed as an additional financing to on-going WFP activities in Liberia.

2.2 Implementation

17.     WFP implemented the project on behalf of GoL, pursuant to the Letters of
Understanding signed between WFP and GoL. It worked very closely with key
government institutions (the School Feeding Unit of the Ministry of Education and the
Nutrition and Maternal and Child Health Division of the Ministry of Health and Social
Welfare) to build national capacity and instill national ownership. Project implementation
started swiftly and proceeded according to schedule. Very little time was required for
mobilization because WFP was already on the ground. A Handbook for School Feeding
in Liberia, developed by WFP with GoL in 2007, covered all WFP operations Liberia and
served as the project implementation manual. The Handbook served as a guide and
simplified field implementation of the School Feeding component. It was clearly written
and sufficiently detailed to give project staff and implementation partners guidance for
implementation planning, including beneficiary targeting, the school food basket
(including ration composition and ration calculation), food delivery and distribution, meal
preparation, and food safety, as well as monitoring and reporting, among other
implementation arrangements. The Handbook also establishes coordination mechanisms
with other UN agencies as well as the WFP’s relationship with GoL and other partners
such as non-governmental organizations (NGOs), community-based organizations, and
local communities, and specifies the roles and responsibilities of each partner.




                                            5
18.      The project was implemented through the WFP Central Office in Monrovia, two
sub-offices in the South East Region, and in partnership with the School Feeding Unit of
the Ministry of Education (MoE) and the Nutrition and Mother and Child Health
Divisions of the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MoHSW). The School Feeding
Unit coordinated implementation of the School Feeding component from the government
side and worked through a Regional School Feeding Coordinator, County Education
Officers (CEOs), and District Education Officers (DEOs), who were responsible for
monitoring implementation of school feeding by the school principals and teachers. The
CEOs and DEOs were responsible for ensuring that the records of enrollment and
attendance were accurate and that school authorities adhered to the established code of
conduct. They regularly monitored schools to ensure compliance with the program’s
criteria. The Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) and the School Feeding Division of MoE
were supported by WFP with training and logistics. At the school level, the principal was
responsible for the actual distribution of the food aid to the targeted beneficiaries, while
community members, including PTAs and school food management committees,
monitored the delivery and use of the food in schools. A code of conduct was developed
to guard against misconduct by school officials in the management of the food stocks.
WFP handled the programming and logistics from its Country Office in Monrovia, and
procurement was done from WFP headquarters in Rome. WFP sub-offices in the targeted
region handled the allocation and distribution plans, the MoE/WFP assessment of school
reports, as well as the logistics trip reports. County monitors followed up on the
implementation of the program in the targeted schools. This setup fostered government
ownership during implementation.

19.     Overall, project implementation was carried out as planned. Food stocks were
procured and distributed in accordance with the schedule. Stocks were pre-positioned to
ensure some availability during the rainy seasons, when Liberia’s roads become
impassible. However, this did not prevent considerable problems to implement the
GTHR activities during the rainy season in two (Sinoe and Grand Kru) out of the five
counties. WFP supported capacity building for government counterparts to enable them
to perform their roles. WFP Field Officers as well as the Program Internal Audit (PIA)
Unit performed periodic monitoring and reviews to ensure that food stocks were used for
the purpose for which they were procured. PTA and communities involvement was less
than expected, however, despite the capacity-building support to strengthen and empower
these associations. 5 Limited involvement of PTAs and communities led to increased
support and oversight from WFP monitors, the PIA, CEOs, and DEOs. WFP monitors
were hands-on in their support to the communities and addressing of issues that crop-up
during monitoring. PIA staff also conducted audits each year. Schools and health



5
  Strengthening and empowering PTAs and communities can take time, especially in a
post-conflict context. Their active participation in projects such as this one is crucial,
because limited involvement can negatively affect food preparation (the provision of
cooks); the provision of water, cooking fuel, and condiments; and oversight of activities
related to food.


                                             6
facilities that breached the code of conduct received warning or suspension letters (Annex
4 provides statistics on facilities warned or suspended). The MoE was also extremely pro-
active in addressing issues raised by WFP, keenly demonstrating zero tolerance for
mishandling school feeding stocks. MoE rapidly followed up on issues and when
necessary suspended teachers or school principals to ensure that schools that got
suspended due to the misconduct of their principals were reintegrated into the program as
quickly as possible.

20.     The project has effectively purchased and delivered to targeted communities large
volumes of food with limited losses, except for nine stolen containers in the Port of
Monrovia. WFP informed the National Port Authority and sent an official letter to request
that they pay for the value of the stolen commodity. The National Port Authority never
replied. A complaint was lodged with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. GoL has
conducted an investigation, but the report has not yet been shared with WFP. WFP is
waiting for a reply from the Ministry. INT was notified by the Bank task team and kept
abreast of follow-up actions taken by WFP and GoL.

21.     Nevertheless, WFP’s engagement to lead implementation as a means of
overcoming the capacity constraint in Liberia guaranteed good governance in the
procurement and management of food stocks. This resulted in timely delivery of good-
quality, hygienic food and hot meals to the beneficiary women and children.

2.3 Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

22.     The performance indicators were defined well to measure the PDO. They were
simple to measure, well adapted to the type of operation and country context, and in line
with the PDO. The project chose to measure the number of beneficiaries, given that
assessing the quality of access to food based on nutrition levels is quite complex to
undertake, especially under an emergency project.

23.     The WFP system of monitoring food from purchase to delivery at the community
level was especially effective and transparent. The system to track food purchases and
deliveries to communities relied on an effective mechanism using various cross-checks
and barcode stickers.

24.     The project did not have a baseline value for Key PDO Indicator 3, related to food
rations for vulnerable women. Nor did the project develop a Results Framework to track
implementation progress. The lack of a baseline value for the Key PDO Indicator 3
complicates assessments of the results for this activity, as it is not possible to measure
whether access to food was maintained from the start of the project. The development of
a simple Results Framework with sub-outcomes would have been useful to track progress
in implementation and targets more closely. Although not envisaged during its design, the
project could have benefited from an independent evaluation. An independent evaluation
could have provided additional information on the project’s impact, especially lessons
learned for designing similar operations in the future.



                                            7
25.     The monitoring report format and frequency agreed upon between the Bank and
WFP reflected WFP’s standard reporting format. The choice to rely on WFP’s current
reporting system was intended to limit additional cost to WFP but was not optimal to
track progress. In a number of its reports, WFP appeared to have tracked beneficiary
targets differing from those agreed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). No
specific reason was adduced for the apparent differences in the agreed targets. For
instance, the target for vulnerable women used by WFP was lower than originally
specified in the PAD. WFP also did not always inform the Bank about the
number/frequency of schools and clinics provisionally suspended from the project for
misusing food or other implementation issues, although WFP and GoL were pro-active in
addressing those issues (see Annex 2).

26.     WFP project implementation was supported by committed MoE staff. WFP
trained MoE staff and conducted project activities jointly with them. Unfortunately,
MoE’s capacity to monitor and collect data on the number of beneficiaries was
challenged by: (i) constraints on mobility and accessibility and (ii) limited capacity owing
to high staff turnover and the limited number of sufficiently trained staff. Consequently
WFP frequently had to verify and correct data collected by MoE to limit the tendency to
inflate enrolment data.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

27.     Social and Environmental Safeguards: None of the Bank’s safeguard policies was
triggered.

28.     Financial Management: The financial management arrangements of the project
were carried out in the context of the World Bank/United Nations Financial Management
Framework Agreement signed in March 2006. Under this agreement, WFP carried out the
financial management of the project using its established financial rules and procedures.
WFP’s financial management arrangements for the project were centralized in Rome,
Italy. The unit maintained satisfactory staffing, budgeting, funds flow, disbursement,
internal controls, and financial reporting arrangements. The Bank supervision review
missions that examined the operations of the Grant Account, disbursement procedures,
and transactions on payment vouchers and other account records concluded that WFP
carried out its financial management responsibilities satisfactorily and per the
requirements for financial management under the Framework Agreement. Interim
financial reports were submitted to the International Development Association (IDA) on
an annual basis and in conformity with the format agreed between IDA and WFP. The
annual standard project reports to the Bank also contained financial reports consistent
with the financial regulations.

29.    Procurement: As per the Framework Agreement, WFP’s procurement guidelines
and procedures were used. Consequently the Bank had no access to the usual prior review
and other procurement mechanisms to ensure that funds were used for the intended
purposes. The Framework Agreement expected that WFP would ensure the same care
and due diligence with project funds as in undertaking procurement using its own funds.

                                             8
The principles of transparency, impartiality, and competition were to be followed to
ensure the efficient use of funds. The Bank’s only monitoring tool was to follow up on
the project’s targets and outcomes. No serious procurement issues were reported.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

30.     The WFP has expressed interest in continuing the partnership with the Bank. Its
interest is particularly relevant as vulnerability to food insecurity remains high in Liberia,
and some of the project’s targeted counties such as Grand Gedeh and River Gee have
been affected by the influx of refugees from Côte d’Ivoire. Southeastern Liberia has
limited agricultural activities and food trade with Côte d’Ivoire ceased when the unrest
began, limiting food supplies in local markets. The government and WFP have called for
the Bank to support a follow-on operation, but it is not clear whether GFRP remains open
for a follow-on request or whether other specific emergency response funding streams
could support a follow-on operation by the Bank. Meanwhile, there are indications that
WFP management is putting in place a bridging modality for 16 months from September
2011 to December 2012 that would allow WFP to align its support in the country to the
national Poverty Reduction Strategy 2013–2016.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

31.     The project’s overall objective remains as relevant now6 as at approval. With a
large portion of the Liberian population either food insecure or highly vulnerable to food
insecurity,7 the intervention was a timely response to the rising food prices of 2007–08
that were pushing more people into poverty. The project’s objectives, design, and
implementation were fully consistent with GoL priorities and its strategic response to
alleviate the impact of the food price crisis, and the project provided GoL with the means
to provide social assistance to the poor in crisis. The project’s simple design was also
appropriate to Liberia’s socioeconomic circumstances, weak capacity, and related poor
governance.

32.     Consistency with Government Priorities: The program was consistent with the
priorities articulated in the government’s strategic emergency response to overcome the
food crisis of 2008, which was designed after intensive consultation with civil society and
development partners, including the UN and the World Bank. The specific measures and


6
  The world is once again experiencing spiraling commodity prices. After declining in the
second half of 2008, food and oil prices have resumed their upward trend. International
food prices have risen almost to the levels of 2008. Some commodities (such as maize)
have reached record highs.
7
    According to the 2008 and 2010 reports of Liberia CFSNS.


                                              9
objectives of the intervention were also consistent with the current Interim Strategy Note
(ISN), discussed by the Board in June 2007. The ISN lays out a program of emergency
support for post-conflict institution building and reconstruction in Liberia with a focus on
short-term stabilization, while building the base for longer-term development. Moreover,
the country’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS 2008–2013), Education Sector Plan, and
the Education Reform Act of 2010 list interventions under this project among the key
elements for improved and quality education. The intervention is also consistent with
complementary sub-sector policies and constitutes an essential part of the National Food
Security and Nutrition Strategies and Action program (NFSNA Program).

33.    Project Design: The design of this operation was appropriate and fully consistent
with the Bank’s GFRP, Liberia’s fragile policy environment, and its economic
circumstances. The intervention was coordinated with other donors in the context of a
joint UN response. The design of the Bank’s overall response to the food crisis in Liberia
(of which the Emergency Food Support for Vulnerable Women and Children was part)
took the portfolio approach by proposing: (i) interventions to expand domestic food
production through support for yield increases and post-harvest management; (ii) short-
term income support through cash-for-work programs; and (iii) school feeding and
supplementary feeding for pregnant and lactating women. The focus on short- to
medium- and long-term strategies to maintain and enhance food security for the poor
adequately supported the government’s poverty reduction program as well as its
economic stabilization program, which has received strong Bank support.

34.    The project relied on a limited number of simple results indicators, which is
deemed an appropriate choice for emergency interventions of this kind. The choice of
WFP to lead implementation helped to overcome Liberia’s capacity constraint, leverage
WFP’s massive infrastructure and operational experience in delivering food aid, and was
instrumental in guaranteeing rapid implementation and good governance in procuring
food stocks and distributing them to the intended beneficiaries.

35.      Relationship with Bank Strategy: The project was fully consistent with the
purpose of the Bank’s GFRP, which was endorsed by the Board in May 2008. As noted,
the support to Liberia was among the first of its kind to be financed under the GFRP. The
operation was also consistent with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy of 2003 and
the interim assistance strategy then under preparation, which supported the
implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper implementation. Although the
operation did not incorporate education sector objectives, it nevertheless complemented
planned medium- and longer-term multi-donor interventions in Liberia, such as the
Education Pool Fund, as well as the Catalytic Fund of the Education for All Fast Track
Initiative. The Bank is the technical manager of the Catalytic Fund.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

36.    Overall, the project has been successful at maintaining access to food among
vulnerable households. The project maintained access to food for its intended
beneficiaries from September 2008 to December 2010.

                                            10
37.    School Feeding - Key PDO Indicator 1: In response to the high food prices,
school meals were provided in support to the vulnerable rural population. The key project
performance indicator for the School Feeding component was 62,000 pre-school and
primary school children from vulnerable household receiving meals on a daily basis,
against the established baseline of 57,242. On average, the project provided 59,608
children with hot meals per school year (Table 1). It successfully provided daily hot
meals to 59,991 children (97 percent of the target) during the 2010/11 school year; 46
percent of the recipients were girls.

Table 1: Average Number of Children Receiving Hot Meals on a Daily Basis at
School (per school year)
School Year                               Beneficiaries*          Percentage of
                                   Male      Female      Total   Target Reached
2008/2009                          32,393   24,849       57,242        92
2009/2010                          35,142   26,448       61,590        99
2010/2011**                        32,411   27,580       59,991        97
Average number of pupils receiving 33,315   26,292       59,608        96
daily hot meals
Source: Ministry of Education, 2010
* WFP definition of beneficiaries: a targeted person who is provided with WFP food during the reporting
period.
**The World Bank support was for three school years. Food purchased by the World Bank for school
feeding is still being distributed. Distribution is project to end in June 2011 with the school year.

38.    It should be noted that the number of beneficiaries fluctuated during the school
year, and beneficiaries could not always be reached for all feeding days. Some schools
could not be reached by the project, particularly during the rainy season, because of poor
roads or bridges. At the peak of the rainy season, some 70–80 percent of schools could be
inaccessible, although WFP had prepositioned some stocks to mitigate major disruptions.
The severe rains of 2009 particularly affected food delivery to schools in Grand Kru and
River Gee. The number of beneficiaries reached peaked during the dry season, when
most of the targeted schools were easy to reach. The number of beneficiaries also
dropped during peak agricultural seasons when child labor was in demand.

Table 2: Average Number of Children Receiving Hot Meals on a Daily Basis                            at
School (per school year per county)
School Year                                   Beneficiaries
                           Maryland  Sinoe    Grand      Grand   River                                Total
                                              Kru        Gedeh   Gee
2008/09                    19,000    5,686    7,184      15,739  9,633                                57,242
2009/10                    18,070    7,216    5,582      21,561  9,161                                61,590
2010/11                    22,454    7,305    6,200      14,295  9,737                                59,991
Average number of pupils 19,841      6,735    6,322      17,198  9.510                                59,608
receiving hot meals
Source: Ministry of Education 2010


                                                  11
39.     Girls’ Take-home Rations - Key PDO Indicator 2: The project distributed a
monthly family ration (retroactively) to girls in grades 4–6 who had attended at least 80
percent of school days in the previous month. The target for this key project performance
indicator was 4,300 girls receiving take-home rations annually against the baseline of
2,169. The project successfully maintained girls’ access to take-home rations in every
year it operated. The number of beneficiaries remained above the baseline during 2008–
10, with an averagely of 2,894 beneficiaries per school year (Table 3). During the
2010/11 school year, 3,469 girls (81 percent of the target) received take-home rations.

40.     The low performance on this indicator is partially due to the type of targeting
chosen for the Girls’ Take-home Ration (GTHR): the project targeted schools with a
gender disparity in enrollment exceeding 15 percent. The target schools were limited in
number and also geographically spread out, further complicating the logistics of food
delivery. GTHR was more complex to manage than school feeding because the ration
was distributed on a monthly basis and in a larger quantity per beneficiary. GTHR
activities were even more negatively affected than school feeding by poor infrastructures
and problems of access during the rainy season.

41.     As with the school feeding effort, the severe rainy season of 2009 also cut off a
significant number of schools from food deliveries for GTHR, with a resulting drop in
beneficiaries in that year. Sinoe, Grand Kru, and some districts in Maryland were
particularly affected. The delivery of GTHR improved significantly following the
government’s investment in rural roads and bridges.

Table 3: Average Number of Girls Receiving Take-home Rations Once             per Month
per School Year
School Year                       Beneficiaries                               Percentage
                Maryland Sinoe Grand Grand        River   Total               of Planned
                                 Kru     Gedeh    Gee                         Beneficiaries
                                                                              Reached
2008/09             1,150         294   353        429     211      2,437     57
2009/10             1,103         202   170        932     369      2,776     65
2010/11             1,419         417   213        930     490      3,469     81
Average             3,672         913   245        2,291   357      2,894     67
number of
girls
Source: Ministry of Education, 2010

42.     Vulnerable Women - Key PDO Indicator 3: The target of this key project
performance indicator was to provide food rations to 3,300 pregnant women and lactating
women who visit health facilities for antenatal and postnatal care (up to six months after
delivery) in the targeted counties annually. The project, on average, provided
supplementary feeding rations to 3,094 pregnant and lactating women annually between
September 2008 and December 2010 (Table 4). The numbers varied from year to year:
After reaching the target of 3,300 in 2008, in 2010 the project provided rations to 2,981
women (90 percent of the target), a slight decline attributable to the retargeting done in

                                              12
2010.8 From 2008 to 2009, the project targeted all pregnant and lactating women coming
to clinics, health centers, and hospitals in the five counties. In 2010, the project further
refined its targeting to focus on pregnant and lactating women with a Mid-Upper Arm
Circumference (MUAC) of less than 23 centimeters, pregnant adolescents (under 17
years), and HIV-positive pregnant women. This change in targeting caused the numbers
of beneficiaries to drop. The lower performance on this indicator was also due to the fact
that WFP planned to target 3,000 women instead of 3,300 as stated in the grant
agreement.

    Table 4: Pregnant and Lactating Women Receiving Rations
     Calendar Year                           Beneficiaries
     2008                                           3,300
     2009                                           3,000
     2010                                           2,981
     Total                                          9,281
     Average Number of Women                        3,094
    Source: Ministry of Health 2010

43.    The project’s overall benefits and impacts on beneficiaries are much greater than
simply maintaining access to food among vulnerable households. The additional benefits
are described in Section 3.5.

3.3 Efficiency

44.     The Liberia Emergency Food Support for Vulnerable Women and Children is a
rapid response project and thus does not lend itself to rigorous financial and economic
analysis. Nevertheless, the efficiency with which the intervention was prepared was
extremely high and deserves acknowledgement. The project’s rapid preparation (22 days)
enabled the intervention to reach the intended beneficiaries in the shortest possible time.
As noted, the selection of WFP to lead the implementation resulted in rapid
implementation, good governance, and high efficiency in the distribution of food stocks.
WFP procured and delivered food stocks to the targeted communities with very limited
losses (see details in Annex 2). With its logistical spread across Liberia (including two
sub-offices in the project area) and haulage capacity, WFP positioned some stocks in
strategic locations with the aim to limit major disruptions during the rainy season, when
rural Liberia is barely accessible. WFP Monrovia estimates the cost of feeding one school
child per day to be around US$ 0.26, based on current (May 2011) FOB price of
commodities.9



8
 The ICR team was also notified that some health facilities were suspended (2009 and
2010) for failing to report promptly to WFP in accordance with agreed schedules.
9
  This estimate compares favorably with WFP’s standard cost per school child, given the
recent surge in global food prices. See Gelli et al. (2009), “The Costs and Cost
                                            13
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Ratings

45.     The overall outcome of the project is Satisfactory. The intervention set itself clear
and achievable objectives, which remain relevant. The implementation was carried out by
a reliable agency with an existing program, which enabled rapid mobilization. The
operation substantively achieved the planned targets and contributed to the achievement
of some development outcomes associated with school feeding and nutrition programs. It
helped to maintain access to food for children in targeted schools and for pregnant and
lactating women who attended clinics and hospitals in the targeted counties.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impact
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

46.     Poverty Impacts: The project’s primary focus was the most vulnerable
households suffering from the food crisis. School Feeding and GTHR allowed
households to spend less of their income on food. By providing school meals and take-
home rations, the project not only improved the health and nutrition of pupils but freed
household income that would otherwise have been used for food. Based on WFP ration
quantities and local market prices in Harper and Zwedru as of June 2011, the monetary
value of the food transferred is estimated at about LD 4,355 (US$ 73.00) per child per
school year for hot meals and LD 27,431 (US$ 458) for a girl in grade 4–6 for the take-
home ration. The value transferred per child was thus far higher for GTHR. An average
household with five children in the lower primary grades and a daughter in the upper
primary grades received close to LD 49,209 (US$ 820) per school year, a significant
resource that could allow the household to buy food, invest in productive assets, and
ultimately improve its livelihood. Indeed, in many rural areas teenage girls are required to
pursue some economic activity. The take-home ration serves these girls well in providing
extra income, whether eaten or sold, and averting coping strategies detrimental to their
socioeconomic growth and development. The ration also reduced the time and costs
associated with buying food in local markets, which could be then be used for other
productive activities.
 
47.     In the same way, the supplementary food provided to pregnant and lactating
mothers contributed additional income to vulnerable households by reducing food
expenditures. A pregnant or lactating woman attending an antenatal or postnatal clinic in
the targeted counties not only received improved health and nutrition for herself and her
child but went home with a monthly transfer valued at about LD 3,327 (US$ 55). This
added household income has high potential to increase investments in productive assets,
and could lead to improved socioeconomic wellbeing.




Effectiveness of Providing Food through Schools in Areas of High Food Insecurity, Food
and Nutrition Bulletin 30(1).


                                             14
48.     Gender Aspects: Gender was strongly embedded in the project design and
targeting, and the project imparted multiple benefits to women. Supplementary feeding
rations benefited 9,281 pregnant and lactating women and served as an effective
incentive for them to come to clinics and hospitals, where they received a package of
other benefits free of charge, including:
     Follow up visits for the woman and child with medical staff at each monthly
        pickup of the ration.
     Education of women about nutrition and complications in pregnancy, HIV/AIDS,
        the purpose of antenatal care, baby care, preparing for delivery, and the
        importance of taking medication.
     Detection and prevention, including tests for HIV and tuberculosis, treatment for
        malaria, and a mosquito net. Women attending some clinics also benefited from
        other programs (for example, in some places UNICEF provided items for the
        mother and the child as some women do not possess anything).

49.     Aside from encouraging women to appear for more regular antenatal visits,10 the
rations distributed at the clinics and health centers caused more women to deliver in a
clinic or health center and caused the share of babies with live birth weights under 2,500
grams to decline. Ministry of Health statistics indicate that since the inception of the
intervention, the number of pregnant and lactating women seeking healthcare has been on
the rise. As reported in Table 5, in clinics and health centers in the target counties during
2008–10:
     Third antenatal visits increased by 69 percent.
     Fourth antenatal visits (or more) increased by 135 percent.
     Deliveries in health facilities increased by 114 percent.
     The number of births under 2,500 grams decreased by 27 percent and live births
        in health facilities increased by 114 percent.
     The share of live births under 2,500 grams represented 6 percent of live births in
        2008 and 4 percent for 2009 and 2010.

Table 5: Health Indicators for Clinics/Health Centers Participating in the WFP
Intervention
County      Indicator                    2008  2009       2010         Total
TOTAL       Antenatal 3rd visit          2,881 5,026      4,855        12,762
            Antenatal 4th or more
            visit                        2,488 5,297      5,850        13,635
            Total deliveries in facility 1,206 2,289      2,582        6,077
            Live birth in facility       1,162 2,168      2,484        5,814
Source: Ministry of Health 2010
* Data for Gbarraken Clinic (Maryland County) not available.
Note: No data available for 2007. Detailed data per County in Annex 2.




10
     WHO recommends at least three antenatal visits.


                                                   15
50.     A similar trend has been observed in hospitals across the targeted counties (Annex
2). On the other hand, GTHR helped maintain the primary education gender ratio in the
targeted schools at the baseline level. 11 It also created greater awareness about the
importance of girls attending and staying in school.

Social Aspects:
51.     School Feeding and GTHR: WFP observed that its interventions in school feeding
and GTHR contributed to increased and stabilized school attendance for boys and girls in
schools in the project area, a phenomenon confirmed through discussions with school
authorities during the field visit. WFP also noted that its activities have (i) enhanced
children’s ability to focus in class and (ii) created much awareness about the critical role
of education for boys and girls. In addition, the strategy to support the development and
training of PTAs is empowering some communities to be more involved with school
activities.

52.     Vulnerable Women: At hospitals and clinics, the project created an environment
in which women felt comfortable talking about pregnancy and reproductive health issues.
While in the field, the Head of Maternal and Child Health Department at Martha Tubman
Memorial Hospital (Grand Gedeh County) stated, “The women are now happy to come to
the clinic.?

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on
longer-term capacity and institutional development)

53.     The project has enhanced the government’s capacity at the national, county, and
community level. A large number of public officials enhanced their technical skills
through training in food management, monitoring, food calculation, and record keeping
(see Annex 2). The training targeted monitors, supervisors, national and regional
coordinators, district and county focal persons, as well as school principals and teachers.
In addition, public officers at the county level gained useful work experience conducting
joint implementation, supervision, and monitoring activities with WFP staff. The project
also developed a nutrition counseling card with the Ministry of Health to help clinic
workers advise patients on how to feed themselves and their babies.

(c) Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

54.     The primary objective of the intervention was to deliver relief to the women and
children most affected by the food price crisis. Beyond this, the intervention made great
contribution to the government's efforts to attain universal primary education, especially
for girls (MDGs 2 and 3). Based on field observations and discussions with WFP staff,
the take-home rations have been an incentive even for older girls with children to attend



11
 Data available from WFP, referred to in their final report, are for Liberia as a whole,
making it difficult to assess only the five target counties in the project.


                                            16
or return to school. With the ration, girls have more time to dedicate to school and study
instead of looking for food for themselves and their babies. In addition, their parents are
more willing to take care of their babies while they are in school, as they benefit as well
from the ration. The maternal and child health feeding program has also supported efforts
aimed at improved nutrition and health status for children, mothers, and other vulnerable
groups (MDGs 4 to 6), while capacity-building supported by the project helped to create
a knowledge base and policy framework for Liberia to develop and manage a home-
grown school feeding program.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshop

55.    No beneficiary surveys were conducted, but government officials, beneficiaries
(school pupils, mothers, and parents), and WFP staff with whom the ICR team interacted
were full of praise for the intervention. WFP’s school feeding program in Liberia would
have run into difficulty, but the Bank’s contribution was substantial and gave stability to
the program.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

56.     Risk to development outcome is Moderately High considering that global food
prices are on the rise again. The FAO food price index reached a record level in February
2011, virtually surpassing the 2008 peak. Maize prices are about 73 percent higher;
crucially for many of the world’s poor countries, including Liberia, rice prices have
increased more slowly than those of other grains. Staple food prices, including the rice
price, will continue to increase in Liberia as fuel prices increase, however, and the
number of households requiring food assistance is not likely to decrease.

57.     As mentioned briefly, the fragile political situation in Liberia’s neighbors,
particularly Côte d’Ivoire, threatens to worsen food security in the project zone. As the
Ivorian political crisis peaked in January 2011, refugees poured into Liberia, particularly
into the South East Region where the intervention was implemented. The high pressure
on local communities is destabilizing local economies and exerting tremendous stress on
household economies. The situation could deteriorate as the hunger season peaks in July–
August, when rice stocks are exhausted, roads become impassable, and market prices
rise.  Because the  conflict in Côte d’Ivoire has blocked cross-border trade, the resulting
surge in demand for food has already almost doubled the local rice price in Grand Gedah
County. Poor households are even more vulnerable in the hunger season, when their
farm-related incomes are diminished but they depend on markets for most of their food.

58.     The sustainability of the project’s outcomes depends on the continuous support of
WFP’s human and financial resources. WFP is currently helping the government to
mainstream school feeding in its national development strategy. A school feeding policy
under development seeks to consolidate international agreements, national policies, and
principles and priorities related to promoting school feeding and thus improving the
access to and quality of education in food-insecure areas. The ability of WFP to mobilize
more resources to continue its support to the targeted counties will determine the

                                            17
sustainability of the outcomes.WFP is the only organization providing food support in
these five counties.

59.     By and large, Liberia has improved its capacity to deal with school feeding,
although further efforts are required. Capacity-building supported by the project has
helped to create the knowledge base and policy framework for the country to develop and
manage its own school feeding program. By providing staff with resources (including
resources for transport and other logistics) as well as knowledge of managing school
feeding programs, the project has strengthened the institutional and implementation
arrangements for school feeding at the central level (the School Feeding Unit within
MoE) as well as at the county and district levels. In MoE, management and monitoring
capacity have been built at the county and district levels. Food management committees
as well as PTAs have been formed and trained in stock management, measurement, and
reporting. WFP also works with MoE in monthly joint monitoring and supervision as part
of efforts to enhance national capacity and move toward national ownership and
resourcing (see Annex 2 for details).

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through
lending phase)

60.    Rating: Highly Satisfactory. The project was well conceived. It met the dire need
of Liberia, a country characterized by high food insecurity and malnutrition, struggling to
improve access to primary education for boys and girls after a protracted civil conflict.
The design was intentionally simple and the objectives straightforward. The portfolio
approach adopted by the team in tackling the food crisis in Liberia was consistent with
both the government’s development pathway and Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy.
The Bank’s intervention was swift: As noted, it took only 22 days to prepare the project
and obtain Board approval. The selection of WFP to implement the project overcame
capacity constraints in Liberia, sped project implementation, and assured good
governance in procurement and management of the food stock.

(b) Quality of supervision

61.     Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Bank ensured quality supervision,
although direct implementation support was kept limited, in accordance with the
provisions of the UN Framework Agreement. To implement the intervention and monitor
progress, the Bank relied on WFP’s credibility and its substantial operational experience
in delivering food aid. As such, Bank missions to support project implementation were
very minimal, although strongly focused on the project’s targets and outcomes and
benefiting from periodic close reviews of project reports. The Bank financial
management (FM) specialist on the task team closely monitored and reviewed the
financial reports and offered feedback to aid implementation. A major shortcoming of
Bank supervision, however, was the fact that no aide memoires and implementation

                                            18
support mission reports were filed in the project portal, although the Interim Status
Reports (ISRs) that were submitted do contain relevant information. According to the
project portal, after the last ISR was archived in mid-December 2009, almost one year
passed without an archived ISR (a draft with relevant information was created in August
2010 but never submitted for approval). Furthermore, the Bank supervision missions
could have benefited from involvement of Bank staff from the education, health, and
social protection sectors, especially as WFP does not have a nutrition specialist in
Liberia. Technical support in this area would have been relevant during implementation
support missions. At the same time, it should be acknowledged that the project’s
performance indicators did not call for the generation of nutrition-related information to
assess progress and outcomes.

(c) Justification of the overall Bank performance

62.     Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The overall Bank performance is rated
Marginally Satisfactory, reflecting the high quality and speed of project preparation as
well as the less-than-satisfactory supervision. The program was sound, reflected the
Bank’s strategic objectives for Liberia, and supported clearly focused activities that were
well aligned with the government’s strategic program.

5.2. Borrower Performance
(a) Government performance

63.     Rating: Satisfactory. The GoL was very quick in responding to the food crisis by
outlining its strategic vision while galvanizing donor support to complement its efforts.
While efforts were being made to mobilize international assistance, the government was
prepared to take hard decisions to address the crisis, by taking steps to radically reduce
taxation on major food imports as a means of alleviating the impacts of rising prices on
the population.12 Although the government was not directly in charge of implementing
the project, it has shown strong commitment to the operation and was very responsive in
all matters during preparation and implementation. To support the implementation
strategy, the government established a School Feeding Unit within MoE, headed by a
Director, as a cooperation partner with WFP and appointed staff to support
implementation, including regional coordinators as well as county- and district-level
monitors. The government showed a strong sense of ownership and took timely measures
to sanction principals who violated the code of conduct guiding project-implementing
agents.




12
  Liberia's removal of food taxes (including import duties) cost about 1.1% of its gross
domestic product (see “Food and Fuel Prices: Recent Developments, Macroeconomic
Impact, and Policy Responses,? International Monetary Fund, June 30, 2008).


                                            19
(b) Implementing agency or agencies performance

64.     Rating: Satisfactory. Overall, WFP successfully implemented the project
activities as planned and achieved most of the project’s targets. The commitment to
achieve envisaged development outcomes was very strong, as the intervention fell in line
with its operational mandate. WFP has largely delivered on its commitments and has
been responsive to Bank requests in relation to project monitoring and reporting. WFP’s
school feeding staff and monitors conducted joint supervision and monitoring of the
implementation of the program with MoE regional coordinators and county monitors.
Through this intervention, WFP (i) assisted the country’s efforts at mainstreaming school
feeding through its support for the development of national school feeding policy; (ii)
developed institutional capacity for implementing school feeding programs effectively,
cost-efficiently, and sustainably; and (iii) promoted the transition towards national
ownership and resourcing of school feeding programs.

65.     In terms of fiduciary compliance, WFP carried out its FM responsibilities
satisfactorily per the requirements under the general Framework Agreement, with the
exception of prompt and full notification of the theft of food stocks from the Port of
Monrovia. At the time of the ICR, WFP was seeking compensation from the Port
Authorities who, according to WFP, had legal responsibility for the containers that had
yet to be cleared. WFP Rome was primarily responsible for FM and the local Liberia
office was responsible for implementation, but coordination between the Rome and
Liberia offices on FM issues apparently was sometimes difficult. All FM inquiries had to
be channeled to Rome, which sometimes resulted in delayed responses.

(c) Justification of overall rating

66.      Rating: Satisfactory. Government’s response to the food crisis was positive and
swift. It temporarily removed import duties on food commodities to mitigate the effect of
rising food prices on the people of Liberia. It engaged staff, on its payroll, to partner with
WFP in the implementation of the intervention and has been implementing measures to
improve accountability. WFP is enhancing the capacity of government to develop and
implement home-grown school feeding and nutrition programs.

6. Lessons Learned

67.     A number of lessons have emerged from implementing the project. A central
lesson is that emergency projects with simple designs and straightforward objectives are
highly likely to be implemented successfully. A strong commitment from government
and partners, including the Bank, is also needed to prepare and implement emergency
programs speedily and effectively.

68.     In fragile countries with weak institutional capacities, reputable institutions
already operating in the country are likely to be good partners for implementing project
interventions successfully and rapidly. WFP was firmly on the ground in Liberia and,
with its logistical capacity, was ready to get things moving fast. WFP’s experience in

                                             20
working with government partners and delivering food to the most remote communities
in Liberia was crucial for the success of the project.

69.     Fostering intersectoral linkages could enhance the prospects of achieving high
levels of impact. Promoting concepts such as WFP’s Purchase for Progress (P4P)could
help grow the agriculture sector, promote local purchases, and nurture a home-grown
school feeding program. Because the effectiveness of interventions such as WFP’s school
feeding program, which involves bulk haulage of stock, depends on the quality of roads
and bridges, linkages with future investments in rural infrastructure could have a
significant, positive impact on WFP’s activities.

70.    The UN Framework Agreement guided the partnership between the Bank and
WFP in this operation, and the Bank accepted WFP’s standard reporting formats.
Monitoring reports and their frequency should meet both WFP’s and the World Bank’s
needs, however. The WFP and the Bank should discuss how to collaborate to develop a
common reporting standard that would meet the needs of both institutions.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementation Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower

No comments were received from GoL, but comments were received from WFP (Annex
8) and taken into account in the final version of the ICR.

(b) Other Partners

N/A




                                          21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
(Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)

                                                     Actual /Latest Percentage of
                                  Appraisal Estimate
Components                                           Estimate       Appraisal
                                  (US$ million)
                                                     (US$ million)
1. Direct Operating Costs of
Food Support Program under 3.74                        3.68           98.4%
Parts A, B. and C of the Project
2. Indirect Support Costs under                                       100%
                                0.26                   0.26
Part D of the Project
3.
4.
Total Baseline Cost               4.00                 3.94           98.6%
Physical Contingencies            0.00                 0.00           N/A
Price Contingencies               0.00                 0.00           N/A
Total Project Costs               4.00                 3.94           98.6%
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) 0.00                0.00           N/A
Front-end fee (IBRD only)         0.00                 0.00           N/A
                                                       3.94           98.6%
Total Financing Required          4.00


(b) Co-financing
(The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in SAP/AUS;
Percentage of Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)

                                    Appraisal         Actual/Latest
Source of         Type of                                             Percentage of
                                    Estimate          Estimate
Funds             Financing                                           Appraisal
                                    (US$ million)     (US$ million)
[Government]
[IBRD/IDA]
[Donor A]         [WB-
                  administered
                  TF]
[Donor B]         [Parallel
                  financing]




                                          22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The project does not have a results framework providing indicators by type of activities,
but it measured several indicators to assess progress on activities.

Food Distribution and Losses
The project has effectively purchased and delivered to targeted communities large
volumes of food with limited losses (Table A2.1), except for 9 stolen containers in the
Port of Monrovia. The system of food delivery to the community relies on an effective
tracking mechanism using various cross checks and a bar code sticker. The project
purchased: (i) salt, bulgur, vegetable oil and pulses and peas for school feeding; (ii)
vegetable oil and bulgur for the take home ration; and (iii) mixed corn soy blend for
vulnerable women.

Table A2.1: Food Distribution and Losses 2008-2010 (in tons)
Commodity        Quantity          Arrived       Pre-Loss       Distributed*   Post Loss      Balance Stocks**

Salt              80                 80.025        0             78.125        0.25           1.65
Bulgur            2,205.5            2,201.95      1.4           2,199.8       0.7            0.05
Vegetable Oil 252.966                252.93        0.036         252.733       0.161          0
Pulses/Peas       648.85             648.85        2.2           577.275       63.275***      6.1
Mixed Corn 141.1                     141.1         0.05          140.25        0.8            0
Soya Blend
Source: World Food Program, 2010.
*Food distributed is defined as food reaching the targeted communities.
** Balance stocks already allocated for 2011 June distribution.
*** The loss is due to 4 containers stolen at the Port of Monrovia.

For the nine (9) stolen containers, WFP informed the National Port Authority and sent an
official letter to request that they pay for the value of the stolen commodity. The National
Port Authority never replied. A complaint has been raised with the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs. The government conducted an investigation, but the report has not been shared
with WFP.WFP is still waiting for a reply from the Ministry.

Non Food Items Distribution
The project distributed: (i) cooking pots, washing and other cooking utensils to schools
based on the number of students and (ii) a set of plates, spoons, cups to the targeted
beneficiaries (Table A2.2).

Table A2.2: Non Food Items Distributed per County (2008-2010)
County            Schools     Students     Cooking    Cooking     Washing      Plastic     Plastic   Eating
                                           Pots       Spoons      Pans         Plates      Cups      Spoons
Grand Gedeh      123       15,739          225        111         444          15,739      15,739    15,739
Sinoe            39        5,686           79         39          156          5,686       5,686     5,686
River Gee        50        7,789           91         45          180          7,789       7,789     7,789
Maryland         79        19,000          144        66          264          19,000      19,000    19,000
Grand Kru        39        7,184           74         37          148          7,184       7,184     7,184
Total            330       55,398          613        298         1,192        55,398      55,398    55,398
Source: World Food Program, 2010


                                                     23
Schools
The project has managed to reach 310 schools in 27 districts during the academic year
2010-2011, which represents 46 percent of the public schools with the 5 counties (Table
A2.3). The number of schools reached fluctuates frequently. It usually drops during the
rainy season due to lack of access.

Table A2.3: Average School Feeding Coverage (Academic year 2010)
County                  Total           Schools Benefiting from   Coverage
                       Schools              School Feeding
Grand Gedeh              149                     83                 56%
Sinoe                    190                     47                 25%
Grand Kru                140                     30                 21%
River Gee                102                      57                56%
Maryland                 176                     93                 53%
Total                    757                     310                41%
Source: Ministry of Education, 2010.

Both public and private schools were targeted in 2008, but this was subsequently
reviewed to include only public schools in the program. The number of schools dropped
in 2009, as the project focused only on public schools. This change in targeting is due to
the fact that the Ministry of Education has the authority over public schools and has no
leverage over private schools in case of issues. The MoE can sanction teachers and
school administrator within public schools in case of issues (misuse of food, poor
management of food, etc), which is not the case for the private schools. Twenty schools
in Grand Gedeh benefited from the support of FAO to establish school gardens. The
project reached 83 schools for Girls Take Home Rations. It did not manage to reach many
schools due to its targeting with a gender disparity over 15 percent.

Clinics and Hospitals
Table A2.4 lists the total number of health care facilities that benefited from the project.
The project managed to reach 39 clinics and 3 hospitals. Some of the clinics and hospitals
have been sanctioned by the project for poor reporting and misuse of food. As a result
some of the clinics have been off the project for a month at a time until they solve the
issues identified by WFP.

Table A2.4: Clinics and Hospitals Benefiting from Project
County                            Clinics              Hospital
Grand Gedeh                          9                    1
Sinoe                                6                    1
Grand Kru                            5                    -
River Gee                            9                    -
Maryland                            10                    1
Total                               39                    3
Source: Ministry of Health, 2010.




                                                 24
Capacity Building of Government Staff and Institutions

Ministry of Education School Feeding Division
The project has enhanced the capacity of Ministry of Education at all levels: national,
county, district and community. The trainings included food management, monitoring,
food calculation and record keeping. In order to further enhance the capacity of the staff,
the World Food Program has worked closely with the Ministry of Education undertaking
joint project activities on a monthly basis: implementation of activities, logistic,
monitoring, supervising, reporting, etc. It has put a strong emphasis to improve
government monitoring of activities.

Table A2.5: Number of School Feeding Staff from the Ministry of Education
Trained
Type                                                                       Staff Trained
National Coordinator                                                              1
Monitors                                                                          8
Regional Coordinator                                                              1
Data Analyst                                                                     1
Parent Teacher Association County Focal Person                                    5
District Focal Person                                                            28
School Principal (for 351 schools)                                              351
School Teacher (for 351 schools)                                                351
Total                                                                           746
World Food program, 2011.

The project for each school formed and trained Food Management Committee, which are
composed of the principal, teacher and cook. The Food Management Committees were
trained in food handling, stocking, measurement, reporting, etc.

Ministry of Health

The project has trained staff from the Ministry of Health at national and clinic/hospital
level. It includes: the national nutrition coordinator, the focal point for all clinics for the
county, the officer in charge of the clinic, the Maternity and Child Health supervisor,
Tuberculosis Program supervisor and HIV/AIDS program supervisor. The project trained
approximately180 staff. In addition, the project also developed nutrition counseling card
with the Ministry of Health to help clinic workers advise patients about how to feed
themselves and their babies.

Formation and Training of Parent Teacher Association

The project formed and trained Parent Teacher Associations. The association can be quite
large depending on the community involvement and include a committee composed of 6
parents. Based on field visits and discussion with WFP staff, it appears that the level of
involvement from parents in PTAs is still somewhat limited and varied across schools
supported by the program. An example of an empowered PTA seen in the field is an
association where parents : (i) contribute money or in kind to compensate the cook (who
is frequently a parent) for its work; (ii) provide vegetables to complete the lunch of the

                                                 25
children (including working on the school garden); and (iii) get involved in the school
decision and meet regularly. In this case PTAs can become a potential oversight
mechanism at the community level. On the other hand, non-functional PTAs will lead to
lesser oversight about food use and distribution, difficulty in finding a volunteer cook for
the school and a less diverse diet for children.

Warning and Suspension Letters Issued to Schools and Clinics by WFP

In order to ensure accountability and proper follow-up of project rules and guidelines at
the community level, the project undertake control/monitoring activities through the
Monitors and Program Independent Audit Unit, who decide on the actions to be taken.
They review food management, storage, preparation, distribution and adequate record
keeping, etc. Disciplinary actions are taken against schools non-compliant with the
project guidelines and the School Feeding Code of Conduct from the Ministry of
Education. The system and the number of WFP staff in place to ensure accountability and
adequate use of food at the community level are inadequate for a project of this scope
(see M&E section). The data below as the sanctions determined by monitors were only
available for Grand Gedeh, River Gee and Sinoe (collected from the field trip).

Table A2.6a: Program Independent Audit Site Visits and Actions Taken July 2008-
June 2009
County                      July-December 2008*                                  January-June 2009

                    Percentage   Percentage    Percentage     Total          Percentag   Percentage       Percentage of
                    Warning      Suspension    Satisfactory   Number of      e Warning   Suspension       Satisfactory
                    Letters      Letters       School         Site Visited   Letters     Letters Issued   School
                    Issued       Issued                                      Issued
Grand Gedeh              4             2            3             18             11            0               89
Total school: 123
Sinoe                  27             0            73             32            28             3               69
Total school:39
Grand Kru               0             0             0             20             0             0               100
Total school: 39
River Gee              17             4            79             27            11             0               89
Total school: 58
Maryland               45             3            52             17            12             0               88
Total school: 79
World Food Program, Program Internal Audit, 2011.
*Data on number of school visited for this time frame are not available from data provided.




                                                    26
Table A2.6b: Program Independent Audit Site Visits and Actions Taken July 2009-
March 2010
County                            July-December 2009                                  January-June 2010

                    Total     Percentage   Percentage    Percentage     Total     Percentage   Percentage   Percentage
                    Number    Warning      Suspension    of             Number    Warning      Suspension   of
                    of Site   Letters      Letters       Satisfactory   of Site   Letters      Letters      Satisfactory
                    Visited   Issued       Issued        School         Visited   Issued       Issued       School
Grand Gedeh             0          0            0              0           12          33           0            67
Total school: 80
Sinoe                 14          14           0             86           0            -           -             -
Total school: 44
Grand Kru             0            -           -              -           0            -           -             -
Total school: 54
River Gee             19          26           5             68           21          14           0            86
Total school: 52
Maryland              22          14           0             86           11          9            0            91
Total school: 108
World Food Program, Program Internal Audit, 2011.

Table A2.6c: Number of School Receiving Disciplinary Actions (2009-2011 for
Grand Gedeh, River Gee and Sinoe*)
Action Taken                                         School
                                       2009       2010           2011
World Food Program Issued Warning
Letter to the Principal                42         14             13
World       Food     Program    Issued
Suspension Letter to the Administrator 4          17             1
World Food Program, Sub-Office of Zwedru, 2011.* The data for other Counties were not available.
** Type of Disciplinary Actions based on PIA and Monitor reporting.

During implementation, several of the schools were suspended or issued warning letters
according to the type of issues encountered. The World Food Program issued letters to
the Ministry of Education to inform them that they have warned or suspended a school.
The Ministry of Education follows up on the issues to ensure that it is addressed; it can
involve suspending a teacher or a school principal (sometimes the shortage of teachers
and principals does that they are just moved to another school as a sanction). The
Ministry of Education is committed to a zero tolerance for misuse of school feeding
program activities and has a code of conduct for School Feeding. WFP and the Ministry
of Education have been pro-active in addressing issues when identified.

Clinics and hospitals benefiting from the vulnerable women activities are subject to the
same disciplinary actions as the schools. Clinics and hospitals issues are solved at the
sub-office level (no data about suspension or warning were available at project national
office). The Martha Tubman Memorial Hospital visited during the mission actually had
previously been suspended for a month for poor reporting on the distribution of its use of
food for rations. It quickly was reintegrated within the program with the support of WFP
monitor.


                                                    27
ANNEX Health Data

Table A2.7a: Health Indicators for the Clinic/Health Centers under WFP
Interventions
County                        Indicator            2008         2009           2010          Total
Grand Kruh            Antenatal 3rd visit           262          193            577          1,032
                      Antenatal 4th or more         145          135            395           675
                      visit
                      Total delivery in
                      facility                      115          100            218          433
                      Live birth in facility        115          91             199          405
                      Live birth under 2500g         3           19             17            39
Maryland*             Antenatal 3rd visit           869         1785           1101          3755
                      Antenatal 4th or more
                      visit                         837         1414            912          3163
                      Total delivery in
                      facility                      458          679            549          1686
                      Live birth in facility        452          619            518          1589
                      Live birth under 2500g        15           40             28            83
River Gee             Antenatal 3rd visit           689         1929           2076          4694
                      Antenatal 4th or more
                      visit                         515         2593           3247          6355
                      Total delivery in
                      facility                      227          859           1112          2198
                      Live birth in facility        214          815           1071          2100
                      Live birth under 2500g        45           32             40           117
Sinoe                 Antenatal 3rd visit           236          423            478          1137
                      Antenatal 4th or more
                      visit                         379          470            513          1362
                      Total delivery in
                      facility                      107          134            182          423
                      Live birth in facility        88           133            178          399
                      Live birth under 2500g         7            1              3            11
Grand Gedeh           Antenatal 3rd visit           825          696            623          2144
                      Antenatal 4th or more
                      visit                         612          685            783          2080
                      Total delivery in
                      facility                      299          517            521          1337
                      Live birth in facility        293          510            518          1321
                      Live birth under 2500g         3            4              5            12
TOTAL                 Antenatal 3rd visit          2881         5026           4855          12762
                      Antenatal 4th or more
                      visit                        2488         5297           5850          13635
                      Total delivery in
                      facility                     1206         2289           2582          6077
                      Live birth in facility       1162         2168           2484          5814
                      Live birth under 2500g         73           96             93          262
Ministry of Health, 2010. *Data for Gbarraken Clinic (Maryland County) were not available.
No data were available for 2007.




                                                  28
In Clinics/Health Centers (2008-2010):
     The number of 3rd antenatal visits increased by 69 percent.
     The number of 4th antenatal or more visits increased by 135 percent.
     The number of delivery in facility increased by 114 percent.
     The number of birth under 2,500g has increased by 27 percent while the live birth
        in facility has increased by 114 percent.
     The share of live birth under 2,500g represented 6 percent of the total live birth in
        2008 and reduced to 4 percent for 2009 and 2010.

Table A2.7b: Health Indicators for Hospitals under WFP Intervention
County                   Indicator           2008    2009      2010     Total
River Gee      Antenatal 3rd visit            555    1001       998     2554
               Antenatal 4th or more visit    442     930      1703     3075
               Total delivery in facility     794     937      1108     2839
               Live birth in facility        770     950       1087     2807
               Live birth under 2500g          42      56       40       138
Sinoe          Antenatal 3rd visit            678     242       457     1377
F.J. Grante Antenatal 4th or more visit       335     129       207      671
Hospital       Total delivery in facility     255     399       458     1112
               Live birth in facility        164     367       439       970
               Live birth under 2500g           8      46        35      89
Maryland       Antenatal 3rd visit            548     382       298     1228
J.J. Dowsen Antenatal 4th or more visit       737     423       797     1957
Hospital       Total delivery in facility     607     556       549     1712
               Live birth in facility        532     485       504      1521
               Live birth under 2500g          70      93       14       177
TOTAL          Antenatal 3rd visit           1781    1625      1753     5159
               Antenatal 4th or more visit   1514    1482      2707     5703
               Total delivery in facility    1656    1892      2115     5663
               Live birth in facility        1466    1802      2030     5298
               Live birth under 2500g         120     195        89      404
Ministry of Health, 2010

In hospitals (2008-2010):
      The number of 3rd antenatal visits decreased by 3 percent.
      The number of 4th antenatal or more visits increased by 79 percent.
      The number of delivery in facility increased by 28 percent.
      The number of birth under 2,500g has decreased by 26 percent while the live
        birth in facility has increased by 38 percent.
The share of live birth under 2,500g represented 8 percent of the total live birth in 2008;
it increased to 11 percent in 2009 and reduced to 4 percent in 2010.




                                              29
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the
analysis)

An economic and financial analysis was not required under Bank’s operational policy for
emergency operations (OP8.). Notwithstanding, there were indications of significant
socioeconomic impact of the intervention. Anecdotal evidence from WFP reports
gathered by the ICR mission suggest that the program has had a positive impact on
school attendance, with parents and teachers also claiming that the project had positive
impact not only on enrollment but also on health and children’s learning ability.

WFP Monrovia estimates the cost of feeding one child per day in the school feeding to be
around USD $0.26 per child per day, based on current (May 2011) FOB price of
commodities13.

It is estimated that school feeding program provides a significant transfer to poor
households in the targeted communities. By providing school meals and take home
rations, school feeding is not only improving the health and nutrition status of the pupils
but importantly freeing up household income that would otherwise be used for food
consumption. The financial value, which is equivalent to the monetary value of the food
transferred, could be invested by households, and part of these savings in productive
assets. Based on WFP ration quantities and local market prices in Harper and Zwedru (as
of June, 2011) it was estimated that the food value transferred was about LD4,355 (equiv
to USD73.00) to a child per school for the hot meals (Table A3.1) and LD27,431 (equiv.
USD458) for a girl in upper primary grade 4-6 benefiting from the take home ration for
girls (Table A3.2). The value transferred per child was thus far highest for GTHR. This
means an average household with 5 children in the lower primary and a daughter in the
upper primary received closed to LD49,209 (USD820) per school year, a significant
resource that could allow the poor household to buy food and invest in productive assets,
and ultimately lead to improved livelihoods. Similarly, a pregnant or lactating woman
attending antenatal and clinic in the targeted counties not only received improved health
and nutrition for herself and her child but also went home with monthly value transfer of
about LD3,327 (equiv. USD55) see Table A3.3 below.




13
   This estimates compares favorably with WFP standardized cost per school child ( Gelli
et al 2009: The Costs and cost effectiveness of providing food through schools in areas of
high food insecurity, Food and Nutrition Bulletin, vol. 30 no.1), given the recent surge in
global food prices.


                                            30
Table A3.1: Value Transfer to a Child on Daily Hot Meals
School Feeding Ration Quantity in      Price    Value Sch.      Total      Value
                per     Local          per      per      days   Value      (USD)
                child   Measure        salmon Sch.       in a   per Sch.
                (kg)    (Salmon        cap      day      year   yr (LD)
                        cap/schnapp (LD)
                        bottle)
Bulger Wheat 0.15       0.54           30       16.2     197    3191.40    53.19
Pulses/beans    0.03    0.099          40       3.96     197    780.12     13.00
vegetable oil   0.01    0.055          35       1.925 197       379.23     6.32
Salt            0.005                                           5.00       0.08
Total                                                           4355.75    72.60

Table A3.2: Value Transfer for Girls Take Home Ration
                          Quantity in      Price    Value
                Ration    Local Measure per         per               Total
                per       (Salmon          salmon Sch.      Sch.      Value
                child     cap/schnapp      cap      Month month       per Sch.  Value
 THR            (kg)      bottle)          (LD)     (LD)    in Yr     yr (LD)   (USD)
 Burgar Wheat          25               90       30    2700       9    24300.00 405.00
 Vegetable Oil        1.8             9.94       35   347.9       9     3131.10   52.19
 Total                                                                 27431.10 457.19

Table A3.3: Value Transfer to Vulnerable Women Receiving Supplementary
Feeding
MCH           Ration         Quantity in Local  Price per    Value per        Value
Rations       pervuln        Measure (Salmon    salmon cap Sch Month          (USD)
              Woman (kg) cap/schnapp bottle) (LD)            (LD)
CSB           25             90                 30           2700             45
Vegetable     2.5            13.8               35           483              8.05
Oil
sugar         2              4.8                30           144              2.4
Total                                                        3327             55.45




                                        31
     Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

     (a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
Names                       Title                             Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending (from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet)
Christopher Jackson         Sr. Economist                     AFTAR    Co Task Team
                                                                       Leader
Errol Graham                Sr. Economist                     AFTP4    Co Task Team
                                                                       Leader
Charles Annor Frempong      Sr. Rural Development Officer     AFTAR
Barbry Keller               Country Officer                   AFGH
Kremena Ionkova             Urban Specialist                  AFTU2
Amadou Tidiane Toure        Lead Procurement Specialist       AFTPC
Joanthan Pavluk             Sr. Counsel                       LEGAF
Rajiv Sondhi                Sr. Finance Officer               LOANG2
Gyfi Palsson                Sr. Transport Specialist          AFTTR
Giuseppe Zampaglione        Sr. Operations Officer            AFTH2
Baba Imoro Abdulai          Procurement Consultant            AFTPC
John Nyaga                  Sr Financial Management           AFTFM
                            Specialist
Anna Kristina Karjanlahti   Junior Professional Officer       AFPT4
Owusu Agyei                 Financial Management Consultant   AFTFM
Supervision (from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs)


Christopher Jackson         Sr Economist (Task Team Leader    AFTAR    Task Team Leader
Barbry Keller               Sr Country Officer                MNCA2
Anthony Mensah Bonsu        Procurement Consultant            AFTHE
Ismaila B. Ceesay           Lead Financial Management         AFTFM
                            Specialist
Robert Wallace DeGraft      Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Johnson
Maxwell Bruku Dapaah        Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM


                                                 32
(b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
(All fields are pre-populated by the system)
                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle          No. of Staff Weeks      US$ Thousands
                                                        (including travel and
                                                        consultant costs)
Lending
FY08                            0.0                     0.657
FY09                            0.8                     2.693
TOTAL:                          0.8                     3.350
Supervision/ICR
FY09                            7.29                    45.133
FY10                            2.6                     9.619
FY11                            11.6                    36.973
TOTAL                           21.75                   54.752


Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                         33
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR

                                   WFP Report
           Liberia Food Support Project for Vulnerable Women & Children
                          September 2008 – December 2010

I.      Project Background and Operational Objectives

1. At the end of the war in 2003, WFP supported the return and resettlement of refugees
     and internally displaced people (IDPs) in partnership with the Government and other
     agencies through a regional recovery project. It anchored communities and restored
     livelihoods through school feeding and food for work (FFW) (UN Millennium
     Development Goal (MDG) 1). The Government proclaimed four pillars in the PRS as
     the framework for building peace and reversing under-development. Following
     repatriation and resettlement in mid-2007, WFP shifted its intervention to the national
     priorities of delivering basic social services and revitalizing the economy as
     articulated in the PRS.

2. WFP channeled its interventions through a school feeding project (DEV 10733.0) for
     south-eastern Liberia and a protracted relief and recovery project (PRRO 10454.0)
     covering all 15 counties, composed of nutrition programs and interventions to restore
     sustainable livelihoods. Both projects contribute to the Government's efforts to attain
     universal primary education, especially for girls (MDGs 2 and 3). The maternal and
     child health feeding programs support the improved nutrition and health status of
     children, mothers, and other vulnerable groups (MDGs 4 to 6).. WFP's capacity
     building (MDG8) created a knowledge base and policy framework on food security
     and nutrition. WFP supported three comprehensive food security and nutrition
     surveys, a market study, and the development of the National Food Security and
     Nutrition Strategy.

3. A Grant Agreement (TF092454) dated 2008 entered between International
   Development Association acting as trust of the Food Price Crisis Respond Trust Fund
   and World Food Program acting as implementing agency on behalf of Government of
   Liberia in respect of ascertain activities under the National Food Security and
   Nutrition Strategy and Action Program. The Grant was to support the implementation
   of the Development School Feeding Project (10733.0) and the Nutrition /MCH
   activities under the Protracted Relief and Recovery Operation (10454.0 and 10821.0)
   in the southeastern counties. The World Bank provided U$ 3.6 million to support
   School feeding under the Development Project (DEV 107330) and US$ 0.400 million
   to support the MCH activities under PRRO 10821.0.
4. This project is being implemented over three years in five counties in south-eastern
   Liberia. The region is among the most affected by the country's civil crisis due to its
   remoteness and prolonged neglect by past leaderships. It also faces direct socio-
   economic challenges such as food insecurity, high child mortality and chronic
   malnutrition among children; factors which exacerbate low school enrolment high
   drop-out rates, especially among girls, and high rates of illiteracy. The development

                                             34
      school feeding project supported the government's efforts and is in line with WFP
      Strategic Objectives 4 and 5 (SO):
       To increase school enrolment and maintain attendance (SO 4);
       To reduce drop-out rates among girls (SO 4); and
       To enhance government's management capacity and ownership of the program
          (SO 5).

II.      Project Description & Areas of Intervention

5. The objective of the project was maintain access to food to the vulnerable households
      and the project cover the following areas:

2.1 School Feeding: “Provision of school feeding of pre-school and primary school
children in the counties of Grand gedeh, Sinoe, Grand Kru, Maryland and Grand kru?.

6. The development School feeding (SF) project covers three school years (1 September
      2008 – 31 August 2011) and is implemented in five counties in southeastern Liberia:
      Maryland, Grand Kru, Grand Gedeh, River Gee and Sinoe. This region is among the
      most affected by the civil crisis due to its remoteness and prolonged neglect. Factors
      such as food insecurity, high child mortality rates and chronic malnutrition among
      children exacerbate low school enrolment, high drop-out rates, especially among girls,
      and high rates of illiteracy.

7. The development SF project supports the government’s strong commitment to
      developing the southeast through three main objectives: (1) increase school enrolment
      and maintain attendance; (2) reduce drop-out rates among girls and (3) enhance
      government’s management capacity and ownership of the project. The SF project
      provides a daily hot meal to pre and primary school students. The food basket for
      daily school meals consists of 150 g bulgur wheat, 30 g pulses, 10 g vegetable oil and
      5 g iodized salt. The SF project targets 61,715 beneficiaries. .

2.2 Girls’ take Home rations

8. The project provided monthly take-home rations for girls in grades 4 to 6 in
      communities where the gender gap in school enrollment is 15 percent or more. Take-
      home rations serve as incentives for parents to keep girls in school and encourage
      greater school attendance. Take-home rations consist of 25 kg bulgur wheat and 1.83
      kg vegetable oil.

2.3 Vulnerable Women

9. Provision of health interventions targeting pregnant and lactating women by
      providing rations to attending clinics and hospitals. WFP’s Maternal and Child Health
      (MCH) project operates under the Protracted Relief and Recovery Operation (PRRO)
      in coordination with Ministry of Health and Social Welfare (MOHSW). The MCH
      project supports government efforts to improve health through two main nutrition

                                              35
       activities: improve nutritional status and break the inter-generational cycle of
       malnutrition, and strengthening capacity of national and sub-national institution to
       monitor food security and nutrition.

2.4 Project Administration

10. Provision of support to finance the Recipient’s cost of administration of the project
       activities, including monitoring and evaluation of the National Food Security and
       Nutrition Survey Program. Under this area two main activities were supported:

          Strengthen the monitoring capacity of the MOE’s school feeding unit at central,
           county and district level through the transfer of logistics equipment, relevant
           training and funds. WFP in consultation with MOE School feeding unit and
           Education officers proposes the development of the new way of working through
           four levels with strong institutional and implementation arrangements at Central
           level with the School feeding Unit, Regional Officer, County Coordination and
           District. In particular to have assigned specific staff from MOE payroll in charge
           of the overall management of the school feeding within the geographic area with
           sufficient staff, resources and knowledge on the programme and infrastructure for
           implementation at the school level.

          Conduct the Comprehensive National Food Security and Nutrition Survey
           covering the 15 counties. WFP in coordination with MOA, MOHSW, LIGS, UN
           agencies and partners was conducted the CFSNS on September 2010. The results
           are showing that the food security has improved but significant challenges
           remain: 64% of the population lives on US$ 1 or less per day and 41% cannot
           meet minimum daily caloric requirements. Chronic malnutrition measures very
           high14 at 42%, with highest levels measured in children aged 18-29 months
           (46%). Consequences are grave: lower academic performances in children and
           declining productivity in adults, perpetuating poverty and impeding economic
           development.

III.       Project Achievements

3.1 School Feeding Beneficiaries Targeting and Food Distribution

11. During the period 2008 to 2010 the development SF project reached on average
       59,608 primary and pre-primary children in 349 schools in 27 districts in the five
       counties of southeast Liberia (table 1), affected by high food prices. There were also
       found to have high school dropout rates. Targeting was mainly geographic, focusing
       on districts with low enrolment and wide gender disparity. Secondary targeting was



14
     WHO threshold for “very high? chronic malnutrition is 40%.


                                               36
      institutional, focusing on pupils attending government and community primary and
      pre-primary schools.

12. WFP distributed cooked meals and girls take home ration to targeted schoolchildren,
      the peak of the beneficiaries reached was during the dry season when roads are easily
      passable to most of the targeted schools. During the report period 2008-2010 the
      ‘Girls Take Home Ration’ (GTHR) beneficiaries reached were on average 2894
      representing 66% of the targeted plan of 4,371 girls (table1). Underachievement in
      the GTHR component of the project is attributed to bad road conditions which limited
      access to majority of targeted school in two of the five project counties (Sinoe and
      Grand Kru) during the rainy season and the poor road infrastructure which rendered
      many schools inaccessible for long periods of time, especially during and
      immediately after the rainy season. Areas particularly affected were Grand Kru, Sinoe
      and some districts of Maryland counties.

13. School feeding, including both hot meals and girl take-home rations, contributed
      towards maintaining the primary education gender ratio in the targeted schools at
      baseline level. However, there appeared to be a significant drop in the proportion of
      girls to boys compared to the previous year. WFP CO was still investigating the cause
      of this drop up until the release of this report. Notwithstanding, school feeding also
      helped to stabilize school attendance for both boys and girls. It is proposed to
      mobilize a wider community to improve gender access and equity (with specific
      nutrition activities for teenage girls both in-school and accompanying the take-home
      rations) and it is planned a joint campaigning with MoE with all development
      partners. The campaign is to be directed towards teachers and PTAs as well as parents.

Table 1: Beneficiaries 2008 -2010
                                                    Planned Beneficiaries                            Actual Beneficiaries
                                                                                                                               % Plan
     Year           Activity                    Male        Female         Total          Male        Female         Total     Actual
            Hot meals                           36,005       25,710        61,715         32,393       24,849        57,242       93%
     2008   Girls Take Home Ration                   0        4,371         4,371                       2437         2,437        56%
            Hot Meals                           36,005       25,710        61,715         35,142       26,448        61,590     100%
     2009   Girls Take Home Ration                   0        4,371         4,371                       2776         2,776        64%
            Hot Meals                           36,005       25,710        61,715         32,411       27,580        59,991       97%
     2010   Girls Take Home Ration                   0        4,371         4,371                       3469         3,469        79%
            Average Hot Meals                   36,005       25,710        61,715         33,315       26,292         59,608     97%
            Average GTHR                             0        4,371         4,371              0        2894           2894      66%

14. The attendance rate for boys and girls had fluctuations reaching to 85% for boys and
      girls in the lasted follow up year (2010). The enrolment data remains a huge
      challenge for the Ministry of Education. The gender ratio is 0.85. Based on the MOE
      National school census15, girls still lag behind boys in enrolment, retention and


15
  MOE – Final Report of the 1984 National Policy Conference on Education and Training and 2007/08 National School Census
Report and recently released 2008/9 school census data.


                                                            37
   completion at all levels of education. As the educational ladder is ascended, the
   situation worsens. For example, the Gender Parity Index (GPI) is 0.88 at the primary
   level but only 0.69 at the senior high school level. The National GPI data show that
   there have been significant improvements in getting girls into primary school since
   1981 from 0.59 to 0.89 in 2009, however still high variations among counties and
   districts in particular in Grand Kru, where progress is still to be made, having gender
   gaps remain above 15 percent.

Table 2: School feeding Outcomes
                                                                             2008                  2009        2010
Strategic Objective 4:Reduce Chronic hunger and
undernutrition
Attendance rate: percentages of boys attending classes in WFP-
assisted primary schools
                                                                                     85               80.1        85
Attendance rate: percentages of girls attending classes in WFP-
assisted primary schools
                                                                                     91               86.43       85
Gender ratio: ratio of girls to boys enrolled in WFP-assisted primary
schools
                                                                                     0.87             0.98       0.86
Strategic Objective 5:Strenghten the capacity of countries to
reduce hunger
Number of areas of technical services and cooperation where
                                                                                      2                    3          2
capacity building activities were provided. (IBIS, MOE and Peace Corps ).

15. The MCH project targets pregnant and lactating (P/L) women with MUAC below
   21cm, adolescent pregnant women under 17 years and HIV+ pregnant women
   beginning at first prenatal care visit to delivery. Lactating mothers who attend infant
   welfare clinic - up to 6 months after delivery are also targeted. The MCH project
   provides a daily ration of 200g of CSB, 25 g of oil and 20 g of sugar. Total targeted
   beneficiaries were around 3,000 in the targeted counties.

 Table 3: Maternal and Child Health (MCH) beneficiaries
                                  Planned beneficiaries                Actual beneficiaries
      Year           Activity
                                  Female         Total       Female         Total         % Plan /Actual

       2008         MCH               3000       3,000          3300          3300                110%
       2009         MCH               3000       3,000          3000          3000                100%
       2010         MCH               3000       3,000          2981          2981                  99%

3.2 Food Transport, Delivery and Handling

16. Apart from regional salt purchases, all other commodities were procured
   internationally because of availability and cost-effectiveness. All commodities arrived
   through the Freeport of Monrovia and were stored initially in WFP's warehouses in
   the port. Food was then transported by UNMIL vessel to Harper (Maryland county),
   and to Zwedru (Grand Gedeh) by WFP and commercial trucks. Deliveries to schools
   were done by WFP trucks. Heavy rains made many roads impassable for part of the
   school year, negatively affecting the volume of food delivered. WFP has now
   deployed one pick-up vehicle to each of the two sub-offices implementing this project
                                                      38
    to help them deliver food across roads rendered impassable for trucks but that may
    still be negotiable with light vehicles.

17. Firm enforcement of WFP warehouse procedures and vigorous monitoring of schools
    by WFP Program Internal Audit (PIA) staff kept storage losses low. Transit losses
    were contained by engaging cargo superintendents to monitor container seal usage for
    sea transport between Monrovia and Harper, and introducing container manifests and
    revised tally sheets.

18. In April 2009 a number of containers were reported missing in the Port of Monrovia,
    and that these contained food stocks procured with World Bank funds. The issue has
    been followed through by WFP Liberia CO and has demanded that the National Port
    Authority (NAP) pays for the value of the stolen commodity, which was in the NPA's
    custody at the time loss was reported. The NPA has not accorded us with a response
    in spite of repeated requests. In accordance with the basic agreement with the
    government, WFP has taken the matter to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
    Furthermore, pursuant to our basic agreement, a letter was sent to the Minister for his
    government intervention to refund WFP for the value of the stolen commodity. WFP
    is waiting for the Ministry's response.

Table 4: Food Distribution and Losses
                                                                            Post    Balance
COMMODITY           PO QTY        Arrived      Pre Loss Distributed         Loss    stocks*
   SALT              50.000        50.025                        48.125     0.250    1.650
 CERWBG            1,225.500 1,223.250           0.100         1,222.950    0.150    0.050
  VEGOIL            124.022       124.022           -           123.898     0.124    0.000
  PULSPY            275.000       275.000        0.550          267.600    0.750     6.100
 CERWBG             980.000       978.700        1.300          976.850     0.550    0.000
  VEGOIL            118.944       118.908        0.036          118.835     0.037    0.000
   SALT              30.000        30.000           -            30.000       -      0.000
  PULSPY            148.850       148.850        0.800           86.800    61.250    0.000
  MIXCSB             11.500        11.500           -            11.500       -      0.000
  PULSPY            225.000       225.000        0.850          222.875    1.275     0.000
  VEGOIL             10.000        10.000                        10.000              0.000
  MIXCSB            129.600       129.600        0.050          128.750    0.800     0.000
                   3328.416 3324.855             3.686         3248.183    65.186    7.800
* Balance stocks already allocated for 2011 June Distribution.

3.4 Non Food Items Distribution

19. At the beginning of the school year 2008/2009 on September Non-food items (NFIs)
    were procured and distributed to accessible public adult literacy and community
    schools targeted under the school feeding program. A set of plates, spoons and cups
    each were allocated for targeted beneficiaries. Cooking pots, washing and other
    cooking utensils were provided based on number of students in each school. The
    minimum number of cooking pots, washing pans and cooking spoons per school was
    two each. During this years of the school feeding implementation the NFI were

                                                  39
       restocked to some schools and distributed to the new targeted schools in the 5
       southeastern counties.

   Table 5: NFI Distribution in September 2008-2019
 Name of        No of     No of     Cooking   Cooking   Washing   Plastic    Plastic    Eating
  County      schools*   Students    Pots     Spoons     Pans     Plates      Cups      Spoons
Grand Gedeh      123      15,739      225       111       444     15,739     15,739     15,739
   Sinoe          39       5,686       79        39       156     5,686      5,686       5,686
 River Gee        50       7,789       91        45       180     7,789      7,789       7,789
 Maryland        79       19,000      144       66        264     19,000     19,000     19,000
Grand- Kru        39       7,184       74        37       148     7,184      7,184       7,184
   Total         330      55,398      613       298      1,192    55,398     55,398     55,398

   3.5 School Feeding Enhanced Capacity

   20. A key objective of the SF project was to enhance government’s management capacity
       and ownership of the program. Monthly joint monitoring by WFP and MoE staff, and
       the increasing role entrusted to MoE in the planning and implementation of school
       feeding activities have enhanced the sense of ownership demonstrated by MoE
       officials. This overall, has strengthened the groundwork for eventual handover of the
       program.

   21. During 2009-2010, the program shifted from a cooperating partner-driven monitoring
       and reporting system to more participation by the MoE School Feeding division in
       planning, coordinating, monitoring and reporting at central, regional, county and
       district levels.

   22. An implementation strategy for school feeding with a corresponding joint action plan
       was developed with an annual budget of US$39,958 to cover the training and
       monitoring activities. The funds were transferred to the MOE School feeding
       ECOBANK account and it was utilized as per the MOE & WFP budget. As part of
       the Joint Action Plan with MOE MoE agreed to provide 50% of the running and
       maintenance costs of vehicles and motor cycles used by MoE/SF staff and cover the
       cost of the staffing ; one regional coordinator; .

   23. The MoE has enhanced its role in managing the implementation and monitoring
       through the commitment of resources. The MoE assigned one regional coordinators
       for the southeastern counties and seven county school feeding focal persons and
       district monitors to support implementation. The Coordinators provide general
       oversight for implementing, monitoring and reporting of the project. All MoE staffs
       were trained and provided logistic support; one vehicle for the Regional coordinator
       and seven motorbikes.

   24. Additional staff also was assigned to work with school feeding; two technical staff
       assigned for the data base and one for program monitoring respectively and based in
       the Country Office. Four MoE staff were trained in warehouse management and
       assigned in Grand Kru and Sinoe Counties. Subsidiary warehouses have been

                                               40
      established in these counties for the purpose of pre-positioning food to be used during
      the peak of the rainy season.

25. Joint planning, monitoring, and concurrent capacity building increased the MoE's
      know-how and participation, enabling it to assume a larger role in managing and
      monitoring. This helped strengthen the quality of education in the targeted schools.
      World Bank funding was crucial to the project and FAO supported the establishment
      of school gardens. WFP, US Peace Corps, MoE PTA Unit, and the NGO IBIS
      conducted community-mobilization and PTA trainings that increased community
      ownership and involvement.

26. Training workshops were conducted for all education officers in five counties to
      develop their skills in managing and monitoring implementation of the school feeding
      program. More Ministry of Education (MOE) staff was trained than projected because,
      in addition to the planned county school feeding focal persons and the county and
      district education officers, MOE county and district PTA focal persons were included
      in the trainings. PTA trainings were also organized through an international NGO
      (IBIS) and with Peace Corps Volunteers assigned to WFP Zwedru SO covering the 5
      southeastern counties.

27. On December 2010 WFP coordinate with MOE to start to develop the School
      Feeding Policy. This school feeding policy addresses concerns and the way forward
      around the roles and responsibilities, starting with the mandates of various
      stakeholders at central and decentralized level, which will guide the need for
      substantive coordination among all, further development of community involvement
      of PTAs in school feeding and the objectives of developmental activities around the
      school as well as adherence to Code of Conduct by all stakeholders. The purpose of
      the Policy is to:
       Consolidate Liberia school feeding related identified issues, lessons learned, best
          practices and evaluation findings into political, management, financial, and
          administrative mechanisms arranged to reach the agreed goals at central and
          decentralized level.

         Guide GoL and partners at central and decentralize level on objectives,
          strategies and priority decisions around the what and why of school feeding
          programs as well as required coordination among all to meet the following
          objectives and related outcomes for school feeding programs.

IV.       Main implementation challenges, lessons learned and way forward

28. School Performance: Despite several measures to encourage proper food
      management and utilization at the school level, the performance of some schools has
      not been satisfactory. Authorities of some of the schools visited during monitoring
      missions were suspended or issued warning letters for various reasons, ranging from
      food mismanagement to poor storage and/or poor recordkeeping. WFP and the MoE
      are planning joint interventions to better engage partners on governance issues and
      codes of conduct, increase accountability, and combat widespread corruption at all
                                              41
   levels. In addition, WFP is working with partners in strengthening the MoE
   monitoring system by integrating MoE school monitors into M&E monitoring
   activities at county and district levels.

29. In particular WFP is working with partners on joint action for “Zero tolerance? and
   National authorities are being consulted on the use of anti-corruption posters with hot
   line numbers. In addition, WFP is working with partners in strengthening the
   monitoring capacity of MoE. The Ministry has developed a new M&E system known
   as School Based Record System which is aimed at improving monitoring capacity of
   the Ministry from the school all the way up to the county level. The new system will
   use network of Monitors and computers based at county level for timely monitoring
   and regular reporting so as to improve performance of school on all aspects of school
   feeding including food management.

30. Community Participation: The PTA involvement is limited. Sensitization and
   advocacy activities should be intensified to address this issue. MoE , Min of Justice
   and Min of Internal affairs under the leadership of the superintendant and CEO at
   county level, the commissioners and DEO at the district, join in their efforts to
   mobilize the leaders of the community, parents and the schooled and unschooled
   youth to achieve minimum standards of interest and support for education, the
   sustaining of school feeding and school infrastructure and make sure that there is an
   elected and functional PTAs, that children go to school and prevent dropout.

31. School Statistics: Obtaining reliable data from the MoE on number of beneficiaries is
   a major constraint for the program. Figures from MoE are usually incorrect and
   mostly inflated. This impacts program cost as WFP often has to verify the beneficiary
   figures regularly. To correct this issue, WFP is working with MoE, within the context
   of the Education Reform Act and intended decentralization of powers to the County
   Executive Officer under the County School Board, in setting up a monitoring and
   evaluation structure. Monitoring of School Feeding program will be an integral part
   of this new structure which will use School Based Record Systems (SBRS) for
   collection of daily and periodic education sector monitoring data from each class and
   each school and submit to districts, counties and finally to the national MoE. The
   new system collects student data from each class and each school on daily, weekly
   and monthly basis. The data collected from classes and schools will randomly be
   verified by network of Monitors to be hired as part of the new M&E system. This will
   significantly reduce the possibility of any laps for corruption

32. The School Based Record Systems (SBRS) will be launched July 2011. It uses class
   books, school record books and school resource books for recording daily and
   periodic data on education sector monitoring indicators. The data is passed on to
   District Education Office (DEOs) on a monthly basis. Periodic reports on School
   Feeding program shall be collected from schools and submitted through DEOs and
   county education officers (CEOs) to the MoE at the central level through SBRS.
   County School Feeding Focal Persons will assist CEOs to this end. Existing school
   feeding reporting formats and system shall be redesigned to fit into the new SBRS.


                                           42
33. Food Delivery: Poor road infrastructure, both the major highways and the feeder
   roads leading to schools, has been a major constraint for food delivery. Between 70 to
   80 percent of schools are usually cut off or inaccessible during the peak of the rainy
   season. Construction of larger storage capacity to hold few months ration (up to 3
   months) is being considered to pre-position commodities before the seasonal heavy
   rains.

34. Low capacity of MOE staff at regional, county and district level. Despite the recent
   additions of staff, there remains a need for staff with additional skills in coordination,
   management, supervision and reporting. The planned decentralization of MoE is
   aimed at improving capacity of County Education Offices and eventually District
   Education Offices so that decision can be made at these levels. The first phase of the
   decentralization focuses on County Education Office where highly qualified CEOs
   will be hired effective July 2011 as part of capacity building assistance to the County
   Education. The Cabinet of Liberia has already endorsed the new Education Reform
   Act which has attractive salary and benefit for the new highly qualified CEOs. In
   addition the new M&E system will hire one M&E expert and one Data Analyst for
   each of the 15 counties as part of capacity building assistance




                                            43
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders (WFP)

Annexes – Results Framework Analysis

Under annex 4 outcome by component – It is important to clarify here that data on school
participation in school garden activities is available contrary to the way it is mentioned in
the report. The data can be forwarded to the Bank’s ICR team if still required.

Under the section warning and suspension letters issued to the schools and clinics by
WFP, data for Maryland and Grand Kru are available as indicated in table below.
Statement needs to be reworded.


Food Support for Vulnerable Women and Children

Page 1 para 2 What about using the 2008/2010 CFSNS data as baseline figures? These
are the only available proxy data for baseline information.

In the footnote on page 3 para 8, it is better to say “WFP targeted girls in grades 4 – 6 in
districts with low enrolment and wider gender disparity to receive take home ration? as
the statement applies only to this component of the project. The clarification is necessary
because all accessible districts in the 5 counties were targeted for the daily school meals
regardless of enrollment or gender gap.

Page 10 para 2. Component-1. It is better to say covers the period Sept 1 to December 31,
2010, rather than say three school years as a school year in Liberia runs from Sept –
August.

On page 6, para 18, school feeding management committee should be reworded as
“School Food Management Committee?.

On page 6, para 19, Program Independent Audit should be reworded as Programme
Internal Audit.

Page 7 para 23. The project uses the 2006 comprehensive food security and nutrition
survey data as baseline figures. Please refer to copy of report. Progress is measured
against data in the subsequent reports - 2008 and 2010 CFSNS.

Page 7 para 24. As a matter of corporate responsibility, WFP Standard Project Reports
are completed by 31st March of each year and shared with donors through its
headquarters in Rome. I am not sure if this was not the case with the 2009 report as
mentioned in this paragraph. However, the reports are available and can be shared with
the team if still required.




                                             44
Annex 9. List of supporting Documents


   1. A Review of School Feeding in Liberia – WFP Liberia, April 2011.

   2. A Case for System Transformation: The 2008/2009 National School Census.
      Ministry of Education. Republic of Liberia. October 2010.

   3. Food Security and Nutrition Survey. Republic of Liberia. September 2009
   4. The food Security and Nutrition Situation in Liberia: Comprehensive Food
      Security and Nutrition Survey 2010. Draft Report. October 2010.

   5. Impacts of Rising Food-Fuel Prices and Refugee Influx in Liberia. Emergency
      Food Security and Market Assessment. Republic of Liberia. June 2011.

   6. National Nutrition and Food Security Strategy: A Cross Sectoral Strategy for the
      Government of Liberia. March 2008

   7. Hand Book for School Feeding in Liberia. Ministry of Education and World
      Food Program. July 2007.

   8. World Food Program: Standard Project Report 2008. Development Project

   9. World Food Program: Standard Project Report 2009. Development Project

   10. World Food Program: Standard Project Report 2010. Development Project

   11. 11WFP: Liberia Food Support Project for Vulnerable Women & Children
       September 2008 – December 2010




                                         45
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33435R2
                         11°W                                                            10°W                                                           9°W                                                           8°W




9°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9°N




                                                                                                                                                                                                         LIBERIA
                                                                                                                                        GUINEA
       SIERRA                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                           Irié
       LEONE                                              To                             Voinjama
                                                         Buedu
                                                                                         Kolahun

                                       To                                       Mt. Wuteve          L O FA




                                                                                                                            .
                                    Pendembu                                     (1,380 m)




                                                                                                                           ts
                                                                                                                   M
                                                        Vahun
8°N                                                                                                                    i                                                                                                                                   8°N




                                                                                          e
                                                                                                                  iz

                                                                                         ng
                                                                                                              g
                                     To                                          Ra  i                 o   no
                                   Kenema
                                                           Gelahun
                                                                            g   iz                 W                       Zorzor                                                    To
                                                                    o    lo                                                                                                         Lola




                                                                                                                                                                                                      .
                                                   ya           W




                                                                                                                                                                                                    ts
                                                 be                                                                                                                        Yekepa
                                                                                                                                                                           Yekepa                    M




                                                                                                                                        nda
                                             G
                                                           fa
                                                                                                            Via
                                                                                                                                                                                               ba




                                                                                                                                    Nia
                                                        of                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                       im
                                                                                                                                                        Nzérékoré                  N
                                                   L




                         Kongo                            GBARPOLU                                          Gbalatuah                                                         Senniquellie
                                                                                                                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Danané
          To                                                                                                                                                   Ganta        Karnplay
        Zimmi    GRAND                  Bopolu
                Bo
                  CAPE                                                                                       Gbarnga
7°N                                                                        l                                                                  Palala                                                                                                       7°N
                                                                    P   au
                 MOUNT                                          St.                                 Zeansue
                                                                                                     Zienzu            BONG                            Yopie
                                                                                                                                                                       Sagleipie
                                     Tubmanburg                                            Totota
                                                                  Bong Town
 Robertsport                                                                                                                                                    NIMBA                                                         CÔTE
                                 BOMI
                                                                                                                                                                                           n
                            Klay
                                                                  MARGIBI                                                    Botata
                                                                                                                                                                         Gloie
                                                                                                                                                                                    Nu
                                                                                                                                                                                       o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            D’IVOIRE
                                   Careysburg                                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                        hn                Tapeta
                                                                                                                                                         Tappita                          Toulépleu
                                                                  Kakata                                                              Jo
                                                                                                                                  St.
                                            Bensonville                                                                                                                              Tobli
                     MONROVIA                                       Harbel
                                                                                            GRAND
                                                                                            BASSA                                       Guata                                    Poabli
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Kola Town
        MONTSERRADO
                                                                           Hartford                    Gaamodebi                                                                                                   Zwedru
6°N                                                                                                                                                                                                  Babu                                                  6°N
                                                                                                                   RIVER CESS
                                                                  Buchanan
                                                                                                    Trade                                                                     GRAND GEDEH
                                                                                                    Town
                                                                                                                           Gonglee
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Dube
                                                                                                                                                                                    Pyne
                                                                                                                                  tos
                                                                                                                              Ce s       Bokoa

                                                                                                Cestos City                                                    SINOE                                                   Pelokehn

                                                                                                                                                  Kopo           Juazohn                                     RIVER GEE
      AT L A N T I C OC EAN                                                                                            Sehnkwehn                                                                        Kahnwia
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Kanweaken                  Fish Town
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tawake
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tawlokehn
5°N                                                                                                                                       Greenville                                                                                                       5°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M
                                                                                                                                                                                       GRAND                                A     Nyaake
                                                                                                                                                                 Nana Kru                                 RY
                                                                                                                                                                                        K R U Barclayville
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LA




                                                                                                                                                                              Sasstown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        N




                LIBE R I A                                                                                                                                                                          Grand Cess                    Plibo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Tabou

                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                   Harper

                COUNTY CAPITALS

                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4°N
                RIVERS

                MAIN ROADS
                                                                                         This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                               0             20          40      60        80       100 Kilometers
                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                RAILROADS                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                         Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                COUNTY BOUNDARIES                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                 0                    20              40             60 Miles

                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                         10°W                                                           9°W                                                           8°W

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      JULY 2007
