Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4857-GH 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 4, 2011 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4857 -GH 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated February 4, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
GHANA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
(a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.  
The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred and forty one million Special Drawing Rights (SDR141,000,000) 
(variously,
 “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are July 15 and January 15 in each year. 
2.06.
 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. 
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the 
Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework and
 
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
the Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in 
carrying out the Program and with the adequacy of the 
Recipient’s 
macroeconomic policy framework. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its Minister responsible for Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P.O. Box MB40 
Accra, Ghana 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
ECONOMICON 
2205 MIFAEP GH 
 
233-30-2667069 
Accra 
      233-30-2663854 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Accra, Republic of Ghana, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GHANA 
 
By: /s/ Kwabena Duffuor 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Waqar Haider 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following: 
1. 
The Recipient has, through MOFEP, established in the Bank of Ghana a basic 
process for an efficient cash management system for the government of Ghana 
consolidated fund, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 34 of the 
Letter of Development Policy; 
2. 
The Recipient has, through MOFEP, established a basic process of compiling 
claims and outstanding payments system for all its ministries, departments and 
agencies, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 36 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
3. 
The Recipient has, through MOFEP, prepared a harmonized chart of accounts for 
budgeting, accounting and reporting for all its ministries, departments and 
agencies, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 35 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; 
4. 
The Recipient has, through its Office of the President (Public Sector Reform 
Secretariat), completed a definitive roll of subvented agencies, and a 
categorization of said agencies as follows: (a) the subvented agencies that would 
stay on government subvention for the foreseeable future; and (b) the subvented 
agencies that would be analyzed for a decision regarding their closure, 
withdrawal from government subvention, partial commercialization, or full 
commercialization, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 50 of the 
Letter of Development Policy;    
5. 
The Recipient has, through its Ministry of Energy, commenced implementing 
recommendations of the electricity financial recovery plan dated 
 
February 16, 2010 for the Volta River Authority (VRA), the Northern Electricity 
Department of the VRA, Electricity Company of Ghana and Ghana Grid 
Company (power utility companies), in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 43 of the Letter of Development Policy; 
6. 
The Recipient has, through its Ministries of Employment & Social Welfare, 
Education, Health and Local Government & Rural Development, agreed on 
assignment of institutional responsibilities, allocation of adequate budget, detail 
objectives, action plan and timeline for the adoption and use of a common 
targeting mechanism for the Livelihood Empowerment Against Poverty (LEAP), 
National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) & School Uniform Programme, in 
Page  7
6
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 66 of the Letter of Development 
Policy; 
7. 
The Recipient has, through MOFEP, submitted to its Cabinet for decision a 
Petroleum Revenue Management Bill based on broad consultations with 
stakeholders, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 68 of the Letter of 
Development Policy; and 
8. 
The Recipient has, through MOFEP, prepared and submitted to its Cabinet for 
decision a revised Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) 
institutional framework including the oil and gas sectors, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 71 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amount.
 
The Financing is allocated in a Single 
Withdrawal Tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the 
Financing.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out 
in the table below: 
 
Allocation 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR)
 
Single Withdrawal Tranche 
141,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
141,000,000 
C. 
Withdrawal Tranche Release Condition   
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the 
Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; 
and (b) with the appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy 
framework. 
D. 
Deposit of Financing Amount:
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
 
agree:   
1. 
the withdrawal from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
Page  8
7
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon the deposit of the Single Withdrawal 
Tranche of the Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is 
accounted for in the Recipient
’s budget management system, in a manner 
acceptable to the Association.
 
E. Audit. 
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the account referred to in Part D.1 of this Section II audited by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
such audit to cover the accounting of the amount referred to in Part D.2 
of this Section II; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and  
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the said 
account, and audit, as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
F. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
G. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each July 15 and January 15 
 
commencing July 15, 2021 to and including 
January15, 2031 
1.25% 
commencing, July 15, 2031 to and including, 
January 15, 2046 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
1. 
“Bank of Ghana” means the central bank established and operating pursuant to 
the Bank of Ghana Act, 2002, (Act 612), of the laws of the Recipient. 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national  
or international financing institution or agency other than the Association 
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association 
or the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant 
or loan; 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including set 
gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  11
10 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
3. 
 
“Electricity Company of Ghana” means the electricity company established and 
operating pursuant to the Statutory Corporations (Conversion to Companies)  
Act, 1993 (Act 461), of the laws of the Recipient. 
4. 
“Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative” or “EITI” means the non-profit 
association established in 2002 pursuant to the laws of the Kingdom of Norway, 
said  association consisting of representatives of governments and relevant 
agencies, oil, gas and mining companies, investors, asset management companies 
and pension funds, local civil society groups and international non-governmental 
organizations engaged in a voluntary global compact for the improvement of 
transparency in countries that are dependent on extractive industries.  
5. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010 with the 
modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix. 
6. 
“Ghana Grid Company” means the company established and operating pursuant 
to the Companies Code, 1963, (Act 179), of the laws of the Recipient. 
7. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter from the Recipient to the 
Association dated December 10, 2010 declaring the Recipient’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
8. 
“Livelihood Empowerment Against Poverty” or “LEAP” means the Recipient’s 
conditional and unconditional cash transfer programme for the extremely poor 
and vulnerable population in Ghana.  
Page  12
11 
 
9. 
“MOFEP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, 
and any successor thereto. 
10. 
“National Health Insurance Scheme” or “NHIS” means the national health 
insurance scheme established and operating pursuant to the National Health 
Insurance Act, 2003, (Act 650), of the laws of the Recipient. 
11. 
“Northern Electricity Department” means a distribution department of the Volta 
River Authority responsible for distribution of electricity to the northern sector of 
the Recipient’s territory. 
12. 
“Office of the President” means the Recipient’s office of the President.  
13. 
“Petroleum Revenue Management Bill” means the petroleum revenue 
management bill dated July 12, 2010 and providing a framework for the 
collection, allocation and management of the Recipient’s petroleum revenue in a 
responsible, transparent and accountable manner, and for related matters. 
14. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the Letter of Development Policy dated December 10, 2010 from 
the Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
15. 
“Public Sector Reform Secretariat” means the public sector reform secretariat 
established and operating under the Office of the President. 
16. 
“Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of 
Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
17. 
“School Uniform Programme” means the Recipient’s programme for provision 
of school uniforms to needy and vulnerable pupils. 
18. 
“Subvented Agencies” means the autonomous agencies of the Recipient, which 
are partially or wholly financed through the exchequer under annual budget 
appropriation in accordance with the respective establishing statutes, and the 
term includes any supra-national body so financed. 
19. 
 
“Volta River Authority” or “VRA” means the authority established and 
operating pursuant to the Volta River Development Act, (Act 46), as amended, of 
the laws of the recipient.
 
Page  13
12 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
Page  14
13 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
