Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5999 
Operation Name 
Poverty Reduction Support Credit - PRSC 7 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Gen. Public Adm. (62.5%), Energy (25%), Social Protection 
(12.5%). 
Project ID 
P117924 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERNMENT OF GHANA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
September 16, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
September 28, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
November 16, 2010 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The proposed operation takes place at a challenging juncture, as Ghana continues to grapple with 
large macro-economic imbalances,
 
which sharply contrast with positive medium-term 
development prospects building on relatively strong institutions, recent oil discoveries and 
democratic dividends, as well as a strong record of poverty alleviation in the last two decades. 
The Ghanaian economy has been hard hit since late 2007 by a cumulative series of shocks 
(droughts, floods, fuel, food, and financial crises), which exacerbated a structural trend of 
widening fiscal imbalances, and exposed the economy to the need for sharp correction. Indeed, 
by end-2008, fiscal (on a cash basis) and current account deficits, including grants, respectively 
culminated at 14.5 and 18.7 percent of GDP. In response, the Government elected in January 
2009 immediately adopted a multi-year stabilization program aimed to put the debt to GDP ratio 
on a downward path from 2011 onwards, which received the financial and technical support 
from the World Bank (Economic Governance and Poverty Reduction Credit, EGPRC, June 
2009, SDR194 million) and the International Monetary Fund (Extended Credit Facility, ECF, 
July 2009, SDR387 million).  
While there are early signs of stabilization, achievements from 2009 need to be consolidated in 
2010 and 2011 to pave the way for a developmental use of oil revenue expected to start flowing 
in December 2010. Since 2009, the economy has shown strong signs of stabilization, while 
weathering the impact of the global financial crisis. Both fiscal and current account deficits were 
significantly reduced, the exchange rate was stabilized and consumer price inflation decelerated 
to single digit levels. But the large stock of public expenditure arrears and outstanding 
commitments uncovered in the second half of 2009 makes the ambitious fiscal stabilization 
objectives set forth in the 2010 Budget much more difficult to meet, while weakening private and 
financial sectors, as well as utilities’ operational capacities. In the face of it, an important 
external and counter-cyclical support is justified to crowd in domestic private investors, foster 
the liquidation of public arrears and address related banks’ vulnerabilities.  
Page  2
2. Operation Objectives 
 
The proposed first one-tranche Development Policy Operation of a programmatic series of two 
(PRSC7 and PRSC8) supports the authorities’ efforts to consolidate ongoing fiscal stabilization 
efforts and protect the development objectives set in the Ghana Shared Growth and Development 
Agenda (GSGDA) for 2010-2013. The GSGDA emphasizes the need for macroeconomic 
stabilization and greater executive efficiency, transparency and accountability to provide the 
adequate setting for the reduction of poverty and socio-economic inequalities through 
agricultural, private sector, infrastructure and human resource development.  
Specifically, the PRSC7 supports continuing and deepening policy reforms initiated in 2009 to: 
(i) restore budgetary discipline and (ii) tackle long-standing public sector and energy issues, 
while (iii) protecting the poor and (iv) preparing for the oil era. Government’s efforts supported 
by the PRSC7 concentrate on measures to: 
ƒ
Establish basic processes for (i) effective cash management of the Government 
Consolidated Fund and (ii) compiling claims  & outstanding payments, and prepare the 
chart of accounts for budgeting, accounting and reporting for all MDAs; 
ƒ
Begin implementing recommendations of the electricity financial recovery plan, and 
complete a definitive roll-out of Subvented Agencies in preparation for their continued 
subvention, rationalization, divestiture or commercialization; 
ƒ
Reach an agreement between relevant Ministries (Ministries of Employment & Social 
Welfare, Education, Health and Local Government & Rural Development) on 
institutional responsibilities, budget, detailed objectives, action plan & timeline for the 
adoption & use of a common targeting mechanism for the LEAP, NHIS & School 
Uniform programs; 
ƒ
Submit to Cabinet for decision (i) the oil and gas revenue management bill after 
consultations with stakeholders, and (ii) the revised EITI institutional framework to 
include the oil and gas sectors.  
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The updated FY8-12 CAS progress report of March 2010 underlines the need and opportunity 
for adjustments in the strategy to flexibly address challenges unforeseen when endorsing the 
CAS in 2007. While the overall objectives of reducing poverty and inequality set out under the 
CAS remain relevant, the difficult macroeconomic situation, the discovery of oil and gas and the 
arrival of a new administration warrant adjustments to the strategy, as reflected in the CAS 
progress report presented to the Board in Q3 FY10. Such adjustments are made possible by the 
larger than foreseen annual allocation of IDA15 resources for Ghana, which has risen to US$450 
million. Major adjustments include in particular Front loaded Development Policy Operations, to 
respond to macro-economic stabilization needs (EGPRC and PRSC7 at US$300 and US$200 
million respectively), after which annual contributions will come back to US$100 million, from 
PRSC8 in FY12. 
4. Financing 
Page  3
The PRSC7, to be financed by the International Development Association, is a credit of US$200 
million equivalent, with a 10-year grace period and a 35 year maturity. 
 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The Borrower of the PRSC7 is the Government of Ghana and the implementing agency the 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. The PRSC7 is fully aligned with the Multi Donor 
Budget Support Group. 
 
6.  Benefits and Risks 
 
Expected outcomes from the proposed operation include reduced public arrears, improved cash 
management and budget planning, reduced vulnerabilities in the financial sector, restored 
financial  and commercial viability in energy utilities, effective decentralization, improved 
targeting mechanisms for social programs, sound and transparent use of oil revenue, and the 
establishment of a solid regulatory framework for the oil and gas industry. 
 
Risks include potential downside risks from a slow (or absence of) recovery in the global macro-
economic situation, with implications for export receipt growth and financing prospects (from 
public and private foreign creditors) for Ghana; political feasibility risks related to the fiscal 
adjustment (increased utilities’ tariffs, single spine implementation notably) with new elections 
looming and oil revenues forthcoming, which would weaken macro-economic stability and 
further increase banks’ vulnerabilities; oil spillages, technical and regulatory problems faced 
with oil production, which would affect the environment and diminish expected oil revenues; and 
energy-related risks of various natures, including higher oil prices than budgeted, lower rains 
than expected, lower flows of gas from Nigeria  through the WAGP than planned, which would 
all have negative implications for budget execution (through the development of larger 
contingent liabilities in utilities).  
 
7.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Measures supported by the proposed operation are not expected to have any significant impact 
on the environment. The implementation of measures to improve public financial management, 
the classification of SAs, the agreement on responsibilities for a common targeting mechanism, 
and the adoption of the oil revenue management bill are all environmentally neutral. The 
extension of EITI to oil and gas sectors has no bearing either on the environment, as only 
concerned with revenue measurement. Finally, the increase in electricity tariffs could improve 
energy conservation, and is not expected to induce any significant switching to dirty energy in 
net terms. In Ghana, electricity is used for lighting and running appliances, but not for cooking. 
As such, electricity tariff increases could only induce switching to kerosene for lighting, but such 
a
substitution effect is expected to be negligible given that poor households (typically the most 
sensitive to changes in relative prices of energy given its importance in overall budget) will not 
be affected. Besides, a greater use of kerosene would be offset by a lower use of crude oil to 
generate electricity, as Ghana utilities would use this theoretical opportunity to reduce its average 
cost through higher resort to hydroelectric generation in relative terms. 
Page  4
Measures supported by the proposed operation are expected to have a significant positive and 
direct effect on poverty reduction. These include: (i) the strengthening of social protection 
through the adoption of a common targeting mechanism; (ii) adopting legal instruments for 
reduced risks of mismanaging oil revenues and increase their allocation in support of the 
GSGDA, and (iii) restoring the financial viability of the electricity sector, which is critical for 
pro-poor economic growth and employment creation. The strengthening of public financial 
management is also expected to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of public resources in 
the delivery of social and development services, as is also the clarification of subvented agencies 
responsibilities and mandate in support of the GSGDA. More broadly, the proposed operation 
will support the macro-
economic stabilization program, thus reducing the poor’s and near poor’s 
exposure to macro-economic shocks. The Poverty and Social Impact Assessment (PSIA) of 
recent electricity tariff increases suggests an insignificant impact on poverty. As the majority of 
the poor still do not have access to electricity and/or consume less than 50 kWh per month 
(tariffs were not increased for this category), the poverty implications of these new tariffs are 
expected to be insignificant.     
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Sébastien C. Dessus 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5337+4122 / 233-30-221-4122 
Fax:  
Email: sdessus@worldbank.org 
Location: Accra, Ghana (IBRD) 
 
9.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
