Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB5313
 
Project Name 
Ghana EGPRC II 
Region 
Africa 
Sector 
Gen. Public Adm.(50%), Energy (25%), Water and 
Sanitation (12%), Social Protection (12%). 
Project ID 
P117924 
Borrower(s) 
Government of Ghana 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
Date PID Prepared 
December 7, 2009 
Estimated Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
March 9, 2010 
Estimated Date of Board Approval 
May 28, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The proposed operation takes place at a challenging juncture, as Ghana grapples with large 
macro-economic imbalances and an exceptionally unfavorable global environment, which 
sharply contrast with its generally positive medium-term development prospects, relatively 
strong institutions, recent oil discoveries and democratic dividends. The Ghanaian economy has 
been hard hit since late 2007 by a cumulative series of shocks (droughts, floods, fuel, food, and 
financial crises), which exacerbated a structural trend of widening fiscal imbalances, and 
exposed the economy to the need for sharp correction. Indeed, by end-2008, fiscal and current 
account deficits, including grants, respectively culminated at 14.5 and 18.7 percent of GDP. In 
response, the Government elected in January 2009 immediately adopted a multi-year 
stabilization program, which received the financial and technical support from the International 
Monetary Fund (Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, PRGF, July 2009) and the World Bank 
(Economic Governance and Poverty Reduction Credit, EGPRC, June 2009).  
While there are early signs of stabilization, achievements from 2009 need to be consolidated in 
2010 to pave the way for a developmental use of oil revenue as they start flowing late 2010. The 
2010 Budget, which was submitted to Parliament on November 19 2009, foresees a reduction of 
the fiscal deficit from 10.2 percent of GDP in 2009 to 7.5 percent in 2010, with the aim to put the 
debt to (non-oil) GDP ratio on a downward path from 2011 onwards. The fiscal deficit objective 
set forth for 2010 can be considered ambitious, given the discovery in August 2009 of a larger 
than anticipated stock of expenditure arrears and outstanding commitments accumulated in 2008 
(9.7 percent of GDP) which needs to be promptly re-paid to protect growth and the private 
sector. But this will not be sufficient. Without important external support, the financing of the 
deficit internally would crowd out private investors, and bears the risk of re-igniting rapid 
currency depreciation and inflation, and the unsustainable accumulation of high interest debt. 
Slower growth, rapid inflation and reduced ability to finance MDG-related programs could 
threaten to reverse the very significant developmental gains recorded in the last decade, and to 
weak
en Ghana’s ability to generate broad-based benefits from significant oil revenues in the near 
term.  
Page  2
The proposed operation deepens efforts undertaken under the Economic Governance and Poverty 
Reduction Credit (EGPRC) approved by the Board in June 2009. Both the need for exceptional 
financial assistance requested by the authorities and the current focus of policy makers on fiscal 
issues make a stand-alone operation a more appropriate instrument for Bank support to the 
authorities at this juncture than initiating a new PRSC series. Following efforts undertaken under 
the EGPRC, the proposed operation will continue to support the authorities’ efforts to restore 
fiscal discipline through improved public financial management and transparency, address long 
standing issues in public sector and energy which will enable Ghana to improve the quality of its 
public expenditures and prepare the ground for an efficient use of oil revenues, and protect the 
poor through improved social protection. 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The proposed one-tranche Development Policy Operation aims to support the authorities’ efforts 
to consolidate ongoing fiscal stabilization efforts and protect the development objectives set in 
Ghana’s draft Medium Term Development Policy Framework (MTDPF) for the period 2010-
2013. The draft MTDPF emphasizes the need for macroeconomic stabilization, to provide the 
adequate setting for agricultural modernization, the provision of productive infrastructure, human 
development, and the reduction of geographical disparities. Specifically, the EGPRC II supports 
continuing and deepening policy reforms initiated under the EGPRC to: (i) restore budgetary 
discipline and (ii) tackle long-standing public sector and energy issues, while (iii) protecting the 
poor and (iv) preparing for the oil era. The proposed operation is aligned with the World Bank 
Group’s Country Assistance Strategy objectives for FY08-11 and with the World Bank’s Africa 
Action Plan. 
The proposed operation is fully aligned with the harmonized Multi-Donor Budget Support 
(MDBS) process. The World Bank was a founding member of the MDBS initiative and has been 
the permanent co-chair of the group, providing US$100 million of annual support through a 
series of poverty reduction credits (PRSCs) between 2003 and 2008. The MDBS process is a 
central instrument of aid harmonization in Ghana. It includes the identification with the 
Government of a selective joint matrix of policy actions to be supported by Development 
Partners (DPs), aligning their monitoring and evaluation frameworks through a common rolling 
3-year Progress Assessment Framework (PAF). In April 2009, Ghana’s changing reality 
prompted the Bank to respond to Government’s request for extraordinary assistance through the 
EGPRC, given the need to support efforts not anticipated when the PAF was designed in April 
2008. Efforts were subsequently conducted among DPs and the Government to fully align the 
proposed operation with the MDBS. 
The proposed operation is part of a larger program of support to Ghana in CY10 that focuses on 
public financial management, energy, safety nets, agriculture, water and natural resource 
management. The program includes two sector development policy operations (natural resource 
management, US$10 million, and agriculture, US$25 million), and investment projects in 
electricity (US$50 million), gas (US$300 million through an IBRD enclave), public financial 
management (US$20 million), safety nets (US$40 million), and water and sanitation (US$60 
million). 
 
Page  3
3. Preliminary 
description 
There is a strong macro-economic rationale for providing swift counter-cyclical external 
financing against demonstrated progress on key actions and reforms and a credible adjustment 
plan.
 
Ghana’s medium term development prospects remain bright, building on past records, 
strong institutions and the promises of oil and democratic dividends. But a pre-requisite is 
macroeconomic stability, which is being hurt by the combination of the current global crisis with 
inherited pre-existing imbalances. Against demonstrated progress on critical actions and a 
credible adjustment and reform plan, the proposed front-loaded assistance would help maintain 
the development momentum by making the needed adjustment less abrupt and more credible, 
before the expected arrival of oil and the recovery of the global environment in 2011. 
Efforts supported by the EGPRC II concentrate on measures to: establish effective cash 
management and commitment control systems, and extend EITI transparency principles to oil 
and gas sectors; implement the electricity financial recovery plan, and adopt the civil service bill; 
implement the single register for social programs beneficiaries, adopt the sanitation sector 
investment plan; and adopt the oil and gas revenue management framework, and incorporate 
instructions in budget preparation guidelines for the compilation of agricultural spending. 
Measures supported by the proposed operation are expected to have a significant positive and 
direct effect on poverty reduction. These include: (i) the strengthening of social protection 
through scaled up and better targeted cash transfer programs; (ii) policy actions aimed at 
restoring the financial viability of the energy sector, which are critical for economic growth and 
employment creation, and (iii) and paving the way for greater allocation of public resources to 
sanitation and agriculture. The strengthening of public financial management is also expected to 
enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of public resources in the delivery of social and 
development services, as is also the clarification of civil service responsibilities in support of an 
effective decentralization. More broadly, the proposed operation will support the macro-
economic stabilization program, thus reducing the poor’s and near poor’s exposure to macro-
economic shocks. It will also raise the likelihood of a pro-development use of forthcoming oil 
revenue.  Although not foreseen to have a significant impact on poverty (given the poor targeting 
efficiency of electricity subsidies embedded in the tariff structure), the increase in electricity 
tariffs planned as part of the implementation of the electricity sector financial recovery plan will 
be subject to a Poverty and Social Impact Assessment. 
4. Environment 
Aspects 
The specific reforms supported by the proposed operation are not likely to have a significant 
negative effect on the country’s environment and natural resources. The supported reforms aim 
primarily at strengthening public financial management (including oil revenue management), 
improving social protection mechanisms, clarifying civil service responsibilities, and paving the 
way for greater allocation of public resources to water and agriculture. The implementation of 
the electricity sector financial recovery program will seek to restore financial sustainability, 
without considering expanding generation capacity. More generally, the Government’s reform 
agenda builds on Ghana’s robust environmental institutional framework and considerable 
capacities to set environmental management standards. The institutional framework is defined by 
the 1991 National Environmental Policy, the 1992 National Environmental Action Plan, and the 
Page  4
1994 Envi
ronmental Protection Agency (EPA) Act. The Government’s agreements under the 
2008 Natural Resource and Environmental Governance (NREG) program build on this 
framework, and are supported by a World Bank programmatic Development Policy Operation. 
The NREG Program supports institutional reform, including strengthening the budgetary and 
financing arrangements for environmental protection by the Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA), further decentralization of services and greater engagement of civil society and local 
communities in natural resource and environmental governance. The EPA has since the late 
1980s adopted Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) as a management tool to screen 
undertakings likely to pose adverse impact on the environment. EIAs became legal in 1999 and 
are applied to all development projects and programs that have the potential to give rise to 
significant social and environmental impacts. EIAs are mandatory for seventeen types of 
activities classified as critical, including mining, petroleum and gas field development and 
exploration, construction of dams, harbors and roads, and logging and disposal of timber. In 
addition, the EPA has been one of the leading users in Africa of Strategic Environment 
Assessment (SEA) as a tool for the assessment of major policies, programs and investments. 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: IDA 
Amount: US$200 million equivalent 
 
6. Contact 
Point 
Sébastien Dessus 
Lead Economist, AFTP4 
Telephone: 233 21 214122 
Fax: 233 21- 227887
 
Email:sdessus@worldbank.org 
 
