 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14833

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                             Date Posted: 11/09/2015

                 Country: Ghana
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                      Yes   No
                            How many operations were planned for the                                  2
                           series?
                            How many were approved ?                                                  2
              Series ID: S127314
        First Project ID : P127314                                                Appraisal                 Actual
         Project Name: Poverty Reduction           Project Costs (US$M):                      100.0              100.04
                           Support Grant
                           (prsg-8)
  L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                       100.0              100.04
       Sector Board:       Poverty Reduction        Cofinancing (US$M):

          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                  01/20/2011
                                                              Closing Date:             06/30/2011          06/30/2011
          Sector(s):    Central  government   administration (44%);  Oil and gas (25%); Transmission  and  Distribution
                        of Electricity (13%); Other social services (12%); General finance sector (6%)
         Theme(s):      Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (38%); Regulation and
                        competition policy (25%); Social safety nets (13%); Decentralization (12%); Other Financial
                        Sector Development (12%)
    Second Project ID :P117924                                                     Appraisal               Actual
        Project Name: Poverty Reduction             Project Costs (US$M):                    215.0                 219.1
                        Support Credit (prsc-7)
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     215.0                 219.1
     Sector Board:      Poverty Reduction            Cofinancing (US$M):
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                  01/26/2012
           Cofinancers:                                       Closing Date:             06/30/2012          06/30/2012
          Sector(s):    Central government    administration (50%),  Oil and gas (25%), Other social services (13%),
                        General energy sector (12%)
         Theme(s):      Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (50%), Regulation and
                        competition policy (25%), Social safety nets (13%), Managing for development results (12%)
Evaluator:              Panel Reviewer:          ICR Review                   Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Aghassi Mkrtchyan       Clay Wescott             Lourdes N. Pagaran          IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    According to the Program Document (PD) the program’s objectives were: a) restoring budgetary discipline and
    financial stability; b) tackling long-standing public sector and energy issues; c) protecting the poor; and d)
    preparing the economy for the oil era (Program Summary, page vii of Program Document (PD)). The Financing
    Agreement does not state the objectives.


 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

     Fiscal Discipline and Financial Stability : The government planned to address challenges in this area through
     establishing a basic process for effective cash management of the Consolidated Fund, compiling claims and
     outstanding payments, and preparing a harmonized chart of accounts for budgeting, accounting and reporting for
     all public administration agencies (MDAs). Actions in this policy area were aimed at reducing non-wage public
     arrears, reducing the ratio of bank’s non-performing loans, and increasing bank’s capital adequacy ratio.

     Long-standing public sector and energy issues : This included completing the classification of subvented
     agencies in preparation for their continued subvention, rationalization, divestiture or commercialization, approving
     decentralization policy and action plan by Cabinet; and implementing recommendations of the electricity financial
     recovery plan. It was expected that program implementation will lead to a reduced number of subvented
     agencies, personal transferred to district assemblies, decline in subsidies and areas of electricity utilities, and
     improved operations of electricity utilities.

     Protecting the poor : This policy area was aimed at coordinating relevant Ministries (Employment and Social
     Welfare, Education, Health and Local Government and Rural development) on institutional responsibilities,
     budget, detailed objectives, action plan and timeline for the adoption and use of a common targeting mechanism
     for the Livelihood Empowerment Against Poverty, National Health Insurance Scheme and School Uniform
     programs. The mechanism was expected to improve targeting efficiency of pro-poor social programs and their
     complementarity, while reducing implementation costs, thereby facilitating their extension for broader coverage of
     the poor.

     Preparing the economy for the oil era : This included supporting the Cabinet in making timely decision on (i) the
     oil and gas revenue management bill in consultation with stakeholders, (ii) the revised Extractive Industries
     Transparency Initiative (EITI) institutional framework to include the oil and gas sectors and (iii) establishment of a
     solid capacity that would contribute to a sound oil and gas regulatory framework to ensure sustainable
     development of the oil and gas industry. It was expected that the reforms will lead to Ghana Extractive Industries
     Transparency Initiative audit reports and publication of quarterly reports in petroleum receipts.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

      The program provided US$ 319.04 million to the Government of Ghana. The first operation was appraised in
     November 2010 and approved by the Board on January 20, 2011. It became effective on February 09, 2011. The
     credit was disbursed in full (US$ 219.1 million) on effectiveness, and the operation was closed as scheduled on
     June 30, 2011. The second operation was appraised in November 2011 and approved on January 26, 2012. It
     became effective on January 27, 2011. The credit was disbursed in full (US$ 100.04 million) on effectiveness,
     and the operation was closed as scheduled on June 30, 2012. The difference between planned and actually
     disbursed amount on both operations was due to exchange rate fluctuations.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

     IEG assessed the relevance of objectives as High.

     The program addressed key challenges that Ghana was facing in in fiscal management, public sector reforms,
     managing oil revenues and protecting the poor. With respect to the fiscal discipline, Ghana experienced
     deterioration of fiscal situation in 2008 that had to be addressed to preserve the gains of growth and poverty
     reduction of previous year. At the same time the discovery of major oil resources put a premium on creating
     sound institutions for managing oil revenues in inter-temporary responsible way. These objectives were in line
     with Ghana's development and poverty reduction strategy. The objectives were also consistent with the CAS for
     2008-12, and the series was an integral part of the updates of the CAS. The operation was fully aligned with the
     multi-Donor Budget Support (MDBS) process, which is the central instrument of harmonization of donor support.



b. Relevance of Design:
   IEG assessed the relevance of design as Modest.
   PDOs were underpinned by relevant policy areas that addressed various aspects of government’s reform
   program. Prior actions were in many cases logically linked to the objectives, were steps forward towards paving
   the way for delivering the outcomes sought by the operation. The causal chain, reflected in the policy matrix,
   linked objectives to policy actions and outcomes in most cases. There were design weaknesses, however, that
   affected the quality of result’s chain.

        In the policy area of fiscal discipline, expected outcomes and respective prior actions do not fully represent
         challenges reflected in the objective. Prior actions addressed only public financial management issues
         leaving the most pressing challenges under the objective unaddressed, thus undermining program's
         prospects in restoring fiscal discipline. In particular, the program's design did not respond to the
         implementation of the “Single Spine Salary System” (SSSS) policy and its negative impact on fiscal
         sustainability. The policy, which called for a drastic increase in public wages, was announced by the new
         Government in 2009, while its key fiscal parameters and the estimates on potentially very large fiscal impact
         were available at the time of design and implementation of the second operation. Lack of prior actions to
         truly ensure fiscal discipline and macro stability in this challenging environment was a key shortcoming. This
         review also finds that the choice of reduction in non-wage budget arrears as the key outcome lacks
         relevance as it does not represent the extent of challenges that Ghana was facing at the time of program
         design in achieving the objective of fiscal discipline.

        Some prior actions lacked criticality. Institutional content of both prior actions in public sector reforms in the
         area of subvented enterprises was weak, and that affected the quality of results chain. Although
         classification of subvented enterprises and submission of an action plan to the cabinet were steps forward in
         this reform area their institutional content (draft document submitted for the Cabinet’s review without clear
         prospects of its subsequent approval and implementation) was too weak to be used as key prior actions for a
         budget support operation. In addition, one of the outcomes sought in the area of public sector reforms –
         number of subvented agencies with performance contracts to be increased from zero to two – seems overly
         modest given that there were more than 100 subvented enterprises at the time.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Restoring Budgetary Discipline and Financial Stability : Modest

   Policy actions supported by the program in restoring fiscal discipline included reforms in cash management,
   charts of account and payment systems. These actions, however, were not sufficient and effective for improving
   the fiscal discipline with respect to both specific outcomes sought by the program – reduction of budget arrears,
   and fiscal discipline in a broader sense. The target for reducing non-wage public arrears was met in 2011.
   Performance for 2012 is not given in the ICR, but the Program Document of Ghana Policy-based Guarantee
   reports that there was net accumulation of overall arrears in 2012 and beyond (page 11) indicating that the 2012
   target was not met. With respect to broader fiscal discipline, as a result of a major increase in the wage bill
   following the implementation of SSSS, uncontrolled increase in public sector employment, and expenditure
   overruns on other current expenditures Ghana’s fiscal situation substantially deteriorated during 2012. Fiscal
   deficit increased from around 6 percent of GDP in 2010 to 11.6 percent in 2012, of which around 4 percentage
   points of the increase were due to increasing public wages (author's calculations based on IMF Ghana: Sixth and
   Seventh Reviews Under the Three-Year Arrangement Under the
   Extended Credit Facility IMF, and IMF 2014 Article IV). Fiscal expansion resulted in debt accumulation and
   inflation due to monetary financing of the deficit. Overall, although the program was aiming to restore the fiscal
   discipline that had been weakened in 2008-2009, Ghana’s fiscal and macro situation deteriorated in 2012 under
   the program as a result of controversial policy choices.

   With respect to the financial stability, the program sought to strengthen financial sector stability measured by
   improved capital adequacy ratio and the ratio of non-performing loans in the banking system by implementation
   of the new financial sector action plan. The ICR reports a decline of non-performing loans to 13.2 percent by
   mid-2012 from 17.6 percent at end 2010. However, this ratio remains high compared to the pre-crisis level of less
   than 8 percent. With respect to Banks’ capital adequacy ratio, in 2012 it was around 18 percent, below the target
   value of 20 percent.

   On balance, achievement of this objective is assessed as modest reflecting very weak fiscal performance and
   relatively strong performance in the financial sector.

   Tackling Long-standing Public Sector and Energy Issues : Modest
   The ICR highlights that the reforms of subvented agencies were slow. The action plan on reforms was
   implemented only partially. The number of subvented agencies, as a result, was not brought down as expected,
   while introduction of performance contracts with only two agencies was not sufficient to trigger institutional
   change in the sector. Progress in decentralization was more tangible. Following the approval of decentralization
   action plan some important actions were taken, including the transfer of 2/3 of civil servants to the district
   assemblies, revision of intergovernmental fiscal framework and introduction of composite budgeting framework at
   the local level.

   In the area of reforms in electricity tariffs there was little progress under the program. The financial recovery plan
   for the electricity sector supported by the program was implemented only partially leading to discontinuation of
   periodic tariff revision mechanism since December 2011. This resulted in an increase in electricity subsidies
   instead of their elimination as sought by the program. In contrast to the reforms in electricity subsidies,
   government’s actions were more productive with respect to the reforms in the oil refinery (TOR) and the oil
   storage company (BOST). Government’s actions included an increase in regulated prices for petroleum product
   and restructuring of TOR’s debt. These actions strengthened companies’ financial liabilities and reduced
   government’s contingent liabilities. The ratio of operating costs against operation revenues – the outcome
   indicator on financial performance - was brought down from 178 percent in 2009 to 135 percent in 2012, which
   was in line with the target value.

   On balance, efficacy of this objective is assessed as modest. Most of the prior actions (four out of six) under this
   objective were in areas with limited achievements, such as subvented agencies and electricity tariffs.

   Protecting the poor : Substantial

   Under this objective the program supported introduction of new targeting mechanisms (common targeting
   mechanism) to reduce inefficiencies. The system was introduced and successfully piloted, resulting in selection
   of all new beneficiaries of Livelihood Empowerment Against Poverty program through common targeting
   mechanism as of 2012, which was the target outcome for this objective.

   Preparing the economy for the oil era : Substantial

   Government reform actions under this area was aimed at creating an institutional framework for an effective use
   of newly found oil resources for Ghana’s developmental needs. The program supported a number of legislative
   initiatives to create institutions for oil revenue management, including a framework for distribution of oil revenues
   to the budget and stabilization fund, a petroleum regulation agency and strengthening EITI to include oil and gas
   sectors. This newly established system for managing oil revenues has proved mostly effective since oil
   production began in 2010, and allocations to the budget and stabilization fund were largely in line with the
   adopted policy.

   Overall macroeconomic performance : Ghana’s overall macroeconomic performance was mixed in 2011-2012
   Acceleration of GDP growth that took place in 2011 was mostly due to oil production. This, however, took place
   against the background of a major fiscal destabilization due to large increases in public wages and monetary
   financing of the deficit that led to exchange rate instability and double-digit inflation.




5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   IEG's outcome rating of moderately unsatisfactory reflects the substantial relevance of the program's objectives
   and modest relevance of design, substantial achievements of the objectives on protecting poor and preparing for
   an oil era, and modest achievements of the objectives on restoring fiscal deficit and reforming long-standing
   issues in the public sector. This review finds that with program’s support some important institutional changes
   were achieved in the areas of managing oil revenues and targeting of the poor for key social welfare programs.
   There were some partial achievements with respect to the financial stability and managing contingency liabilities.
   However, the key objective of restoring fiscal discipline was not achieved, while Ghana’s fiscal situation
   deteriorated further during program implementation posing a major challenge for overall economic management
   and reforms. The lack of progress in the reforms of subvented agencies and in electricity subsidies also affected
   the overall performance of the program.
a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   There are a number of risks, including global economic environment and political feasibility of some of the
   reforms. This review highlights that in spite of IMF's new program focused on restoring fiscal sustainability there
   are still risks to restoring fiscal discipline. As a result of large deficits in 2012-2014 public debt increased by 25
   percentage points of GDP in three years between 2011 and 2014 reaching around 65 percent as of end 2014.
   Although the share of non-performing loans remain relatively low there are also issues with banks’ loan
   classification as highlighted by the IMF (2014 Article 4) that may affect the quality of banks’ assets going forward.
   Lack of substantial progress in the electricity sector poses major risks to availability of electricity that can
   substantially affect Ghana's growth outlook. On the other hand, progress in strengthening the transparency in oil
   sector through publication of the first report by Ghana EITI on oil and gas in December 2014 (www.gheiti.gov.gh)
   and quarterly reports on petroleum revenues suggests that reforms to strengthen oil revenue management are
   being sustained. Furthermore, IMF reports further reduction in non-performing loans in 2014 to 12 percent (2014
   IMF Article IV), showing continuing progress in this reform area.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The ICR highlights a number of strong features of Bank performance at entry, such as strong alignment of the
   program with Ghana Shared Growth and Development Agenda, building on multi-donor platform for budget
   support, consultations with sector working groups. The program preparation also benefited from key analytical
   products that provided diagnostics and policy recommendations that underpinned the choice of policy actions
   supported by the program. Quality of entry, according to the ICR, also benefited from a good alignment of
   operations’ with Government’s budget timeline that ensured timely disbursements.

   Quality of entry, however, suffered from lack of adequate response from Bank's side to the government policy
   of in public wages under SSSS. Although at the time of preparation of the first operation there were
   uncertainties with respect to the scope and magnitude of intended public wage increase, by the time of
   preparation of the second operation (end 2011) full information and details on government's plans was
   available, which, however, was not taken into account in designing the second operation. In addition, the
   review finds that the program document of the second operation does not adequately assess the risks to the
   program implementation arising from implementation of SSSS - although the policy was already in
   implementation at the time, the issue of large public wages disrupting macro stability is only briefly mentioned
   in the section on risks in the PRSC-8 PAD. This shortcoming in the quality of entry substantially affected
   program’s design.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   The ICR highlights strong cooperation and dialogue with the Government and donors, close monitoring of
   implementation of prior actions, as well as participation of the Bank team in monthly sector working groups
   and annual multi-donor budget support review sessions. The ICR suggests, however, that the quality of
   supervision suffered because no ISRs was prepared by the team. This review adds that there is no evidence
   that the Bank team was engaged in a dialogue with the government on the critical issues of public wages and
   risks to fiscal sustainability at supervision stage of the first operation.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory
  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


    The ICR highlights government’s strong ownership of reforms, engagement with donors, timely updates and
    revisions of Ghana’s development strategies in a participatory manner. The ICR, however, also points out that
    the government was reluctant to propose more critical policy actions to be supported by the program which
    affected the rigor of the program. This review also finds that government actions to raise public wages to a
    fiscally non-sustainable level during implementation of the series was not compatible with program’s objective
    of restoring the fiscal discipline.



  Government Performance Rating :                           Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The ICR reports that the Government and Implementing Agencies were indistinguishable and only one rating
    is provided.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The design of M&E suffered from data limitations characteristic to many governance and institutional reforms.
   The design of M&E drew on MDBS Performance Assessment Framework. The ICR notes that the indicator on
   non-wage arears lacked clarity. This review finds that some monitoring indicators were output rather than
   outcome oriented (such as performance contracts signed with subvented agencies, personal transferred to
   district assemblies, etc.). The review also highlights that the program document of the second operation does not
   provide explanation on the changes in some of the indicators and their target values in the second operation.



b. M&E Implementation:

   The ICR reports that data collection for program monitoring was implemented through government agencies and
   sector working groups and coordinated by MDBS Secretariat. The ICR reports no major issue with M&E
   implementation.

c. M&E Utilization:

   The ICR reports that the Government utilized program’s M&E for its ongoing work with donors and in updating
   national strategies and annual budgets.


 M&E Quality Rating: Modest
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The ICR does not report safeguard issues.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    The ICR does not report fiduciary issues.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory    The rating reflects substantial relevance
                                                                              of objective, modest relevance of
                                                                              design, and modest achievements of
                                                                              two program objectives. This review
                                                                              highlights that a major deterioration in
                                                                              fiscal and macro situation took place at
                                                                              the time of implementation of the
                                                                              second operation as a result of policy
                                                                              choices that substantially effected the
                                                                              objective on restoring fiscal discipline.

          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory    The key factor affecting Bank's
                                                                              performance was that the program did
                                                                              not respond adequately to
                                                                              Government's actions to increase
                                                                              public wages to a fiscally unsustainable
                                                                              levels

       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory    Borrower's performance was affected
                                                                              by controversial policy choices during
                                                                              program implementation that directly
                                                                              jeopardized one of the objectives and
                                                                              undermined the overall macro and
                                                                              fiscal situation in Ghana in 2012 leading
                                                                              to accelerated inflation and substantial
                                                                              debt accumulation.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    The ICR highlighted a number of lessons, such as importance of focusing on a relatively small number of prior
    actions, the role of ownership, shortcomings of process-oriented prior actions, etc. In addition, this review
    suggests the following two lessons:

          The lack of adequate political economy analysis can undermine program's design and success. The
           program document of the first operation presented the change in the government as a potential catalyst
           for a positive change and restoring fiscal discipline. The document, and subsequently the design of the
           operation, however, neglected the fact the new government was under strong pressure to go ahead with
           previous government populist plan of substantial increase in public wages.

          In programmatic series there is a widespread perception in the Bank that a setback with respect to
           programs’ approval may be costly in terms of relationship with the borrower, even if there are major
           impediments in successful program implementation. Ghana PRSC 8 is a vivid example of such a situation
           when the Bank decided to go ahead with the financial support notwithstanding possible reputational risks
           at a time of controversial policy choices that led to large debt accumulation.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No

Why?

    There are a number of important aspects in this series that could be further scrutinized for understanding how the
    instrument of budget support operates in various contexts. Specifically, it is important to understand how the
    presence of other donors in Ghana and multi-donor budget support platform affects decision making process,
    including in Bank's support in macro and fiscal areas. As Ghana is an emerging oil producer it is interesting to
    see how Bank's cooperation helped the country to create necessary institutional framework for managing oil
    resources in a responsible manner and how budget support operations can fulfill this function. An in-depth
    evaluation may also help to understand how an environment characterized by continuous large-scale debt
    accumulation affects Bank’s DPOs.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides detailed accounts and analysis on many important aspects of the program. It, however, fails to
    mention some important details with respect to the fiscal and macro situation. In particular, the ICR could have
    provided more information about the macroeconomic and fiscal situation during program implementation and at
    preparation of the ICR. More specifically, the ICR does not mention that at the time of preparation of the ICR
    Ghana was experiencing fiscal destabilization. Less importantly, the ICR omitted one of the outcome indicators
    (use of composite budgeting) from the data sheet.

    On balance, the quality of the ICR is satisfactory.


a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
