Document of
FILE COpy                            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                                D   Sh
Report No. P-1781a-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IIITERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROGRAM CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
February 22, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
SDR 1.00     =     Tanzania Shilling (T.Sh.) 9.66
US$ 1.00     =     Tanzania Shilling (T.Sh.) 8.30
T.Sh. 1.00   =     US$0.12
TANZANIA FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th
1/ In October 1975 the Tanzanian Shilling was pegged to the
value of the Special Drawing Rights (SDR) of the International
Monetary Fund. The US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling exchange rate
is therefore subject to change. Conversions in this report
were made at US$1.00 to T.Sh. 8.30 which is close to the recent
average exchange rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PROGRAM CREDIT
'TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
program credit for the equivalent of US$15.0 million to the United Republic
of Tanzania on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
A. Introduction
1.        The last full economic report on Tanzania (AE-26) was distributed
to the Executive Directcors in 1972. While it has been some four years,
therefore, since the last comprehensive economic report was issued, a substan-
tial volume of economic and sector work has been carried out during this
period. A three-volume agricultural sector report was issued in December 1974,
and a three-volume industry and mining sector report and a special economic
study on the fiscal aspects of Tanzania's recent decentralization of Government
were distributed in April 1975. In early 1974, at the Government's invitation,
Bank personnel participated in a special task force which assessed the impact
of the increase in petroleum prices on the Tanzanian economy. A further analysis
of recent economic developments was contained in the Program Loan President's
Report (No. P-1517a-TA cf November 25, 1974), and the Government's progress in
implementing policies and programs designed to close the balance of payments gap
was reported in a special memorandum to the Executive Directors (SecM75-687) in
September 1975. In March 1976, also at the request of the Government, Bank
staff assisted a Government task force in the preparation of a report which
analyzed the fiscal implications of the new targets for universal primary education
and universal rural water supply. These sector reports and special economic
studies have formed the basis for our dialogue on economic policy issues with
the Government and for the development of our program of operations. Finally, a
basic economic mission was conducted in July-August 1976. The basic economic
report is currently under preparation and it will be discussed with the Government
in Spring 1977. The updating report on the Tanzanian economy which is incorporated
in this President's Report (Annex V) is based on the findings of the basic mission.
A summary of Bank Group operations in Tanzania is included in Annex II.
B. General Background
2.        Tanzania has a total area of approximately 945,000 km2.   The population
of 14.8 million (mid-1975 estimate), which is increasing at about 2.7 percent
per year, is predominantly rural. About 93 percent of the population lives in
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



rural areas, and 90 percent of the labor force is engaged in agriculture.
Agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single sector in
the Tanzanian economy. Roughly 40 percent of GDP is derived from the sector
and half of this constitutes subsistence production. Agricultural exports,
which account for 80 percent of total exports, include mainly cotton, coffee,
cashewnuts and sisal. With a per capita income of only $170, Tanzania is
classified as one of the 25 least developed countries as defined by the
United Nations. (Country data are provided in Annex I.)
C. Government Development Objectives and Strategy
3.        Tanzania has experienced a degree of continuity and stability in
political structure, leadership and objectives which is virtually unrivalled
in Africa. The TANU party, under the leadership of President Nyerere, has
been the unifying force in Tanzania's political evolution since the early
1950s. For the past decade, following the Arusha Declaration of early 1967,
Tanzania has pursued the objectives of social equality, self-reliance, the
eradication of absolute poverty, and economic and social transformation.
The fundamental strategy underlying Tanzania's development has emphasized
rural development, social ownership of the principal means of production, and
full participation of all regions and population groups in the development
process. Economic growth has been an important objective but the leadership
has been willing to forego short-term income gains for longer-term structural
change and more equitable distribution.
4.        In restructuring the political, economic and social life of the
country the leadership has introduced an impressive series of far-reaching
institutional reforms. The most important of these measures are well known:
most large-scale units in manufacturing, finance and wholesale trade have
been nationalized; the Government has sharply increased its share of revenue
in GDP through progressive taxation; a significant portion of public expenditure
control has been delegated to the regions and districts; and incomes policy
has prevented a further widening of the urban-rural gap and has narrowed wage
differentials within the formal urban sector.
5.        Rural development receives the highest priority in Tanzania inasmuch
as over 90 percent of the population, most with per capita incomes of less than
$100 per year, live in the rural areas. The approach to rural development is
through villagization. Collecting the scattered population into villages is
seen as essential for transforming production methods and to facilitate the
provision of services such as agricultural extension, credit, input supply,
marketing, roads, water, schools and health.



- 3 -
6.        Mass mobilization of the population is facilitated by the political
party organization wh:ich starts with the ten-family cell and is linked
successively to village, division, ward, district, region and national levels.
Party representatives at each level participate in organizing the development
effort. In 1972 the central government administration was decentralized, giving
substantial planning and implementation authority to regions and districts.
Each district and reg.ion is expected to have its own development plan and budget
subject to central government guidelines, control and finance; between 1972/73
and 1975/76 the regional share of the government development budget has risen
from 8 percent to 14 percent.
7.        The overrid-Lng goal is to develop a socialist economic system.    In
furtherance of this objective new government parastatal enterprises havJe been
established in virtually all sectors of the economy.    There is also state
intervention in markel: pricing; prices of capital, labor, land, imports,
industrial and agricu:Ltural products and consumer goods are controlled directly
and by indirect methods such as import licensing.
D. Economic Performance
(i)  Background to the 1974 Economic Crisis
8.        Between 196,' and 1973 Tanzania's GDP at factor cost was growing at
an annual rate of 4.5 percent. With population growing at 2.7 percent per
annum per capita outpuLt was rising at only 1.8 percent per year on average.
Domestic savings reached 18 percent of GDP while gross investment was sustained
at between 20 and 25 percent of GDP, extremely high rates for a country at
Tanzania's low level of per capita income. The growth rate of GDP was not
commensurate with the magnitude of the investment effort, however, in part
because of the high proportion of investment which was directed into slow-
gestation infrastructure and social services projects such as the transportation
links with Zambia, but: also because of sluggish growth in the agricultural sector
and stagnant or declining productivity in parastatal enterprises.
9.        During this period Tanzania's overall balance of payments situation
was generally satisfactory, despite the disappointing performance of the export
sector. The rapid growth in imports was more than compensated by increasing
capital inflows, largely from bilateral sources on soft terms. The overall
balance of payments was in surplus in most years during 1969-73, resulting in
a modest buildup in net foreign exchange reserves to slightly over $150 million
at the end of 1973, the equivalent of almost four months' imports.
(ii) The Economic: Crisis of 1974
10.       In 1974 Tan2:ania was suddenly confronted with a severe economic crisis,
caused in part by drouLght and dramatic import price escalation. Failure of rains
in late 1973 and early 1974 caused major declines in production and marketings of
the major foodgrains. In response the Government was compelled during 1974 to



- 4 -
import large quantities of grain, particularly maize, on commercial terms in
order to alleviate the hardships inflicted by drought. At the same time
the production of Tanzania's main export crops was also affected by drought,
and the resultant declines in export volumes prevented Tanzania from taking
advantage of the commodity price boom during 1974. On the import side, total
cost of merchandise imports rose by over 50 percent between 1973 and 1974,
despite a slight decline in volume. As a result of these factors the trade
deficit widened from $158 million in 1973 to $340 million in 1974 while the
overall balance of payments moved from a surplus to a deficit of $140 million. 1/
Industrial production also stagnated in 1974 due to shortages of imported raw
materials resulting from the growing foreign exchange constraint, and to interrup-
tions in power and water supplies. While production declined, domestic demand
increased rapidly because of expansionary fiscal, monetary and wage policies. The
imbalance between domestic demand and supply, combined with the sharp escalation in
import prices, resulted in severe pressure on the domestic price level.
11.       Although the severity and suddenness of the crisis were largely the
result of forces outside Tanzania's control, many of the problems were fore-
shadowed by longer-term economic trends which, at least partially, were subject
to Tanzanian control. One important adverse trend was in the composition of
growth; the rate of growth of material production had been falling for several
years and the overall GDP growth rate had been maintained only by an acceleration
in the growth of services, particularly of public administration. Much of the
slump in agricultural production was due to poor weather but the average growth rate of
agricultural output failed to exceed the rate of growth of population for the six
years prior to the harvest failure of 1974. In the modern sector many enterprises
experienced declining labor productivity which has been attributed to lack of
incentives, poor discipline and ineffective management. Furthermore, while the
ratio of domestic savings to GDP rose during the 1960s, reaching a high of 18
percent in 1970, it had declined to 15 percent by 1973. Public savings were also
falling as a share of GDP, mainly due to the slow growth of parastatal enter-
prises' surpluses and the rapid increase in government recurrent expenditures.
12.       The crisis of 1974 was also aggravated by a series of steps which were
taken before the full extent of the country's economic difficulties was perceived.
First, the minimum wage was increased by over 40 percent on May 1, 1974, thereby
raising average labor costs by about 35 percent. The intention was to compensate
low-paid wage earners for past and anticipated future cost of living increases;
the effect was to worsen inflation and to aggravate the decline in domestic
saving. The second step was the acceleration in the pace of villagization
during 1974 which led to the physical relocation of several million people.
This mass villagization program inevitably caused some disruption in agricultural
production, in part because of inadequate planning and preparation. Because
the newly settled peasants understandably concentrated their efforts on growing
subsistence food crops, and were encouraged to do so by the Government, the
marketed surplus of export crops in affected areas bore a disproportionate share
of the disruption (cotton is the prime example). Thirdly, in late 1974 and
early 1975 the TANU Party leadership advanced the target dates for universal
1/ The overall balance of payments gap was financed largely through drawings from
the IMF (gold tranche, first credit tranche and 1974 Oil Facility) and by a
rapid depletion of reserves which fell to $60 million (net) at the end of
1974, equivalent to only one months' import requirements.



- 5 -
primary education (UPE) and universal rural water supply (URWS) from 1989
to 1977 and from 1991 tc 1980, respectively. In large part the pressure for
rapid expansion of social services arose from the accelerated villagization
program - the newly-settled villagers expected the benefits of improved
social services - although the declaration of these new targets should also
be seen as exhortative attempts to mobilize self-help efforts by the villagers
themselves.
(iii) The Government's Response to the Economic Crisis
13.       Once the extent of the problems facing the country was realized the
Government formulated a comprehensive program of policy actions to bring the
balance of payments under control while maintaining the pace of the development
effort. The principal elements of the program included a reallocation of
investment in favor of directly productive sectors, measures to raise agricultural
output, and constraints on wages and on public and private consumption. This
program was reviewed with the Bank at the time of appraisal and negotiation
of the program loan in late 1974, and approval of that loan was based on the
Bank's agreement with and support for the proposed program. These measures were
described in the President's Report for the program loan (Report No. P-1517a-TA).
The Government has, over the past two years, successfully carried out most of
this program, as described below.
14.       From mid-1974 the Government tightened import controls, particularly
for consumer goods and industrial raw materials. Automobile imports were
curtailed drastically and liquor and tobacco imports were banned. In addition,
overseas travel allowances for business and tourism were reduced, certain
dividend remittances were suspended, and remittances by residents to relatives
abroad were restricted. Import licensing was further tightened in 1975,
leading to sharp volume declines in imports of consumer goods, including textiles,
and industrial raw materials and spare parts. The Government has also taken
several steps since early 1974 to restrain domestic consumption of petroleum
and petroleum products. These measures include increases in the domestic retail
prices of gasoline and related products to reflect the full rise in import
costs, the mandatory closing of petrol stations on weekends, reduction of speed
limits, and a ban on Sunday driving during certain hours.
15.       In addition to restricting the volume of non-food consumer goods
imports, the Government took further politically difficult steps to slow down
the rate of growth of private consumption demand. Retail prices of basic food-
stuffs were raised sharpLy in late 1974, thereby eliminating retail subsidies
which had previously benefitted primarily urban consumers. Indirect taxes on
textiles, beer and cigarettes were raised to absorb excess consumer demand for
these items, and further tax increases on these and other consumer items have
been incorporated in the 1975/76 and 1976/77 budgets. User charges for water
and electricity have also been raised. While consumer prices have increased
substantially an extreme:Ly restrictive wage and salary policy has been followed



- 6 -
since May 1974. The minimum wage was frozen between May 1974 and May 1975,
at which time it was increased by 12 percent for urban workers and by 15
percent for rural workers while the wage freeze was maintained for all
employees earning more than T.Sh. 440 per month. There have been no further
legislated wage and salary increases since May 1975. In the future wage
increases will be geared to improvements in labor productivity.
16.       On the production side, the Government has taken a number of steps
to stimulate agricultural production. The share of Government development
expenditure allocated to the agricultural sector has increased from 16 percent
in 1973/74 to 23 percent in 1976/77. During late 1974 and 1975 the Government
urged farmers to grow more food under the campaign "farming as a matter of life
and death". The main features of this campaign were appeals to the population
to expand the area under cultivation and free distribution of seeds and
fertilizers under the national maize program. As a result of these factors,
and given improved weather conditions, the 1975 maize and rice crops were much
better than in the two previous years.
17.       Recognizing the importance of agricultural pricing policy, and the
fact that producer incentives had been dampened by low producer prices, the
Government announced substantial increases in agricultural producer prices in
May and November 1974. Also, in order to keep the issue of adequate producer
prices under continuing review, an agricultural price review unit was
established in the Marketing Development Bureau of the Ministry of Agriculture
with the assistance of a team of FAO experts. Following extensive studies of
cost-price relationships and farmer incentives this unit has recommended, and
the Government has adopted, further producer price increases for all major
crops in 1975 and 1976. As a result of these improvements producer prices are
now close to export or import parity levels at the current exchange rate. The
Government intends to maintain agricultural prices at levels which will provide
adequate incentives to farmers and which will create a balance between export
crops and food crops for domestic consumption.
18.       In the past agricultural production has also been handicapped by
inadequate project planning and implementation. Managerial staff has been
dispersed too widely and staff turnover has been extremely heavy as a result of
the Government decentralization and creation of new agencies. The Government rec-
ognizes the need to assign competent Tanzanian managerial staff to agricultural
projects and to ensure that they have sufficiently long tenure to enable them
to become effective on the job. In an effort to improve agricultural sector
planning and implementation a project coordination unit has been established
in the Ministry of Agriculture with responsibility for monitoring and expediting
implementation of projects under the Ministry. A Bank staff member and an
Agricultural Development Service (ADS) staff member have been assigned to the
unit. Currently about ten other ADS advisors are working in Tanzania. 1/ In
project preparation the Bank has assisted directly in the preparation of three
comprehensive regional development projects as well as the National Maize
Project (Credit 606-TA) which is the first phase of a comprehensive national
agricultural development program.
1/ This represents approximately 40 percent of the total number of ADS
advisors presently in the field in the Eastern Africa Region.



- 7 -
19.       Despite Government efforts to increase the availability of agricul-
tural inputs and credit, agricultural production has been adversely affected
by the inadequacy of the distribution system for production inputs, agricultural
output, and consumer goods, including inadequate storage and road transport.
In 1976 the Government introduced a number of changes in the distribution net-
work. The former system of cooperative societies and regional cooperative
unions is being replaced by newly-established village cooperatives which
will represent all village members. These village societies will
deal directly with the parastatal crop authorities, such as the tea, tobacco,
cotton, sisal, coffee and cashew authorities, which have been assigned the
responsibility, on a region-by-region basis, for all input distribution and
crop purchases. While these changes were intended to economize on marketing
and input supply costs by reducing the number of stages in the process, the
reforms were introduced precipitously and a period of trial and error in the
new supply and marketing structure can be anticipated. The Bank Group is
facilitating improvements to the agricultural distribution system by supplying
between 60,000 and 80,000 tons of storage capacity under the maize project
and by financing a consultant's study of the entire grain storage system. We
have also financed a consultant's study of the trucking industry under the
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 507-TA). The consultantts report has been
completed and we are developing a project for assistance to the road transport
sector based on its recommendations.
20.       As a major cDmponent of its effort to expand material production, the
Government has made significant progress during the last three fiscal years in
reallocating public investment in favor of the directly productive sectors of
agriculture (cited above), industry and mining. 1/ As early as 1971, following a
mid-term review of the Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74), the Government recognized
the need to reallocate development expenditures to more productive, quick-yielding
investments. While it has taken some time for this policy decision to be
reflected in the pattern of investment expenditures, because some major infrastruc-
ture projects such as the Tazara Railway and the Phase I Kidatu Hydroelectric
Project have only recently been completed, and because the identification and
preparation of directly productive investments is a lengthy process, the results
can clearly be seen in the 1974/75, 1975/76 and 1976/77 development budgets.
21.       This fundamental restructuring of public investment necessarily
means that relatively Less investment resources are available for other
sectors, in particular for primary education and rural water supply. In
recognition of this fact, and also because the recurrent and capital cost
requirements of these targets would be entirely unmanageable even under normal
economic circumstances if they were to be implemented using past methods, the
Government is stressing the need for local self-help, particularly in village
school construction, lower cost delivery systems based on lower design standards,
and cost recovery. At the Government's invitation the Bank participated, in
March 1976, in a study which analyzed the fiscal implications of these social
sector targets and examined alternative, lower-cost solutions for delivery of
these vital services.
1/ The Bank Group has supported this effort by significantly increasing the
proportion of our own lending to these sectors over the past three fiscal
years. See Annex [I for details.



- 8-
(iv) Major Issues for the Future
22.       In our view the general thrust of the Government's policy framework
is correct and those initiatives already undertaken represent a commendable
effort to confront the economic crisis. However, both the Bank and the
Government recognize that further adjustments are required to deal with the
severe constraints to growth which still remain. This need for further adjust-
ments is predicated on the assumption that present levels of real external
capital flows may be neither sustainable over the long-run nor consistent with
the Tanzanian objective of self-reliance. Even at the present level of external
aid the management of the balance of payments has required import restrictions
which have taken some toll of potential output.
Parastatal Efficiency and Capacity Utilization
23.       One important factor underlying the present economic difficulties
in Tanzania has been the poor performance of parastatal manufacturing and
marketing enterprises. With parastatals accounting for about half of value
added in manufacturing, declining labor productivity in these enterprises has
contributed significantly to the slow growth of material production. The
causes of inadequate performance are numerous and complex. These enterprises
have been largely insulated from the discipline of market forces by the pre-
vailing system of wage, price and import controls and by deliberate deemphasis
of the profit motive. They also suffer from a basic scarcity of trained
managerial personnel and skilled labor, weak incentives for management and
workers, starting-up problems in some recently initiated industrial activities,
and periodic shortages of key inputs. While numerous Government agencies are
intended to oversee and control the operations of parastatal enterprises, clear
guidelines for setting objectives and responsibilities and for evaluating
performance have been lacking.
24.       The low productivity of parastatal enterprises has been accentuated in
the past two years by a decrease in capacity utilization. This underutilized
capacity in the manufacturing sector has been largely due to periodic disruptions
in power and water supplies which have been or are being corrected and to the
shortages of foreign exchange for spare parts and materials which can only be
alleviated in the short-run by increased external aid in the form of quick-disbursing,
freely-usable foreign exchange. Solutions to the longer-term problems of low labor
productivity and parastatal inefficiency are more difficult. These issues were
addressed in the Bank's 1975 Industrial and Mining Sector Survey (647-TA) as well
as in the 1974 program loan discussions. They were also the focus of a 1975 ILO
report 1/ and of numerous Government internal policy papers. Many remedial
measures have been suggested, including (a) streamlining the structure of parastatal
organizations; (b) decentralizing greater decision-making authority to enterprise
managers; (c) revising the incentive framework for managers and workers with
stronger use of negative incentives, including reductions in work force when over-
manning becomes an obvious problem; (d) modifying the present system of cost-plus
price setting to induce greater cost-consciousness on the part of enterprises; and
1/ Report to the Government of Tanzania on the Past, Present and Future of
Income Policy in Tanzania, International Labour Organization, Geneva, 1975.



- 9 -
(e) elimination of Treasury subsidies to loss-making parastatals and/or
shutting down enterprises which make continuing losses.
25.       Despite awareness of and concern over parastatal inefficiency,
Government has not yet developed a comprehensive framework for dealing with
the problem. Some steps have been taken, including retrenchment of staff
in clearly overmanned parastatals such as the Tea Authority, Texco (the
textile holding company), the cement works and the meat packing plant; an 8
percent ceiling imposed on allowable cost increases for overheads in manufacturing
firms which apply to the National Price Commission for price increases; and the
hiring of a foreign co'nsultant group to advise on operational and managerial
improvements for National Development Corporation (NDC) subsidiaries.    However,
the Government is still reviewing the problems and possible solutions for this
sector before making far-reaching changes. The Bank has conducted a series
of reviews of many of the parastatals with which we have been associated in
our projects (tea, tobacco, cashews, sugar, livestock and meat) and we have been
assisting the Government in attempts to improve the operations of these enter-
prises. Over the next 18 months we are planning to carry out further studies
on exporting parastata:Ls and on the parastatal sector as a whole.
The Need :or an Export Policy
26.       Another probLem area which has been highlighted by the economic crisis
is the poor performance of exports. The low growth in export volumes prior
to 1974 was primarily due to the slow growth in agricultural production, but
it may also be partly attributed to an ambivalence toward primary commodity
exports, which in some quarters were regarded as symptomatic of the colonial
pattern of trade. However, this ambivalence was not compensated by a sufficient
effort to encourage processing industries which would increase the domestic
value added component of agricultural exports. The cost of this lukewarm
attitude toward the export sector was borne home by the crisis.
27.       Since the economic crisis the Government's attitude has changed and
some measures to stimulate exports have been taken. Cash crop producer prices
have been increased anc! certain taxes on agricultural exports have been reduced.
In October 1975 Tanzania devalued the shilling by 14 percent, acting in
conjunction with Kenya and Uganda. The principal motivation for this action
was to afford greater incentive to export producers by permitting increases in
the shilling prices of their products. The Government has also proceeded with
the expansion of agricultural processing industries in sugar, tea, cashew,
tobacco and sisal and is seeking a stronger export orientation for existing
resource-based industries such as textiles, wood products, cement, leather and
leather products. Some investments in these subsectors have already occured
and others are planned. An export promotion bureau has been set up in the
Ministry of Trade and an export department has been established in the Bank
of Tanzania to facilitate export financing. The World Bank has been asked by
the Government to conduct a study of the prospects and problems of processed
and manufactured exports. This study will be carried out during 1977.



- 10 -
28.       While all of the above are steps in the right direction further
efforts will be required over the medium term. In the long run Tanzania may
have possibilities for mineral-based exports, but for at least the next
decade a successful export strategy must rest on boosting agricultural and
processed exports. The export effort remains subject to serious uncertainties,
in particular the problems of institutional change, marketing and transport in
agriculture and low factor productivity in manufacturing. These problems
pervade the entire economy and until they are ameliorated they will continue
to hamper export growth. To compensate for them exports will require special
inducements. Producer prices are likely to need continued, periodic upward
adjustments if the relative profitability of export crops is to be improved
and then maintained. For processed and manufactured exports the Government's
investments in new capacity should be accompanied by changes in the institutional
and price framework, including export subsidies where needed to make such
exports financially viable.
Budget Control
29.       Another major problem which has become apparent during the economic
crisis is the difficulty which the Treasury is having in keeping Governmental
expenditure within budgeted limits. From 1968/69 to 1972/73 current expenditures
grew at approximately 16 percent per annum, a high rate but one which is
consistent with the rapid expansion of the public sector under the Government's
program of socialist development, and furthermore this rate was matched by a
corresponding growth in current revenues. In 1973/74 and 1974/75, however, the
rate of growth of current expenditures rose to almost 40 percent per year, well
above the rate of growth of revenues. This acceleration of expenditure growth
contributed to a high rate of Government borrowing with serious inflationary
consequences. In response the Government introduced a budget for 1975/76 which
called for containing current expenditures at a level significantly below the
revised estimate for 1974/75. However, actual recurrent expenditures in 1975/76
exceeded budgeted amounts by a considerable margin, with the result that Govern-
ment borrowing from the banking system exceeded the already inflationary level
of 1974/75 and far exceeded the ceiling established in the annual Finance and
Credit Plan and agreed with the IMF as one of the conditions for a second credit
tranche drawing during 1975/76. 1/ Quite clearly, it was proving difficult to
reverse the pattern of rapid expenditure growth in an environment characterized
by continuing inflation and an underlying tendency to extend human and Y'inancial
resources in pursuit of ambitious social and economic goals.
30.       For a considerable time after the budget control problem first emerged
it was not fully perceived because of delays in expenditure reporting following
decentralization and because the Treasury had instituted a new system of budget
control which was proving difficult to implement. However, there is now full
recognition of the problem and a determination to correct it, and several
significant steps have already been taken. In March 1976 the Government
1/ Because Government borrowing exceeded the limits of the IMF Agreement, Tanzania
was unable to make any drawings under the standby during 1975/76.



- 11 -
reduced total civil service employment by almost 10,000 persons,or some 6
percent, through forced retirements and dismissals. In addition no general
wage and salary increases have been granted to Government employees since
May 1974, beyond the ,mall adjustment in the minimum wage for the lowest
paid groups in May 19'75. An "early warning" system has been set up to monitor
regional expenditures (about 20 percent of the total) on a monthly basis and
central ministry accolnts on a quarterly basis.
31.       For 1976/77 the Government intends to limit the growth in total
public expenditures to 16 percent while revenues are expected to rise by 17
percent, due largely l:o new tax measures. After allowing for a reduced
level of carry-over expenditures from the previous year, an overall budgetary
deficit slightly lower than that for 1975/76 is forecast. Net Government
borrowing from the banking system is to be limited to T.Sh. 700 million, a
reduction of 40 percent from 1975/76. In January 1977 the Government entered
into an agreement with the IMF for further drawings on IMF facilities (balance
of first credit tranche plus trust fund) based on the above-mentioned ceilings
on public spending and credit expansion. The Government intends to adhere to
this agreement even if the credit ceiling necessitates a further reduction in
planned expenditures. However, the problems of over-commitment and over-
expenditure have growl to such magnitude over the past three fiscal years that
further corrective measures may be needed and full restoration of fiscal
control will be a matter of some years rather than months.
(v) Economic Performance in 1975 and 1976
32.       The major macroeconomic indicators have generally improved since
1974, reflecting both improved weather and the effects of the policy measures
which were introduced to deal with the crisis. Agricultural production
increased by 6.6 percent in 1975 compared to a decline of 3.3 percent in 1974,
while total GDP grew by 4.6 percent compared with only 2.2 percent in 1974.
This was despite the f'act that during 1975 production of cotton and some other
cash crops still suffered from disorganization due to villagization. In 1976,
some of the problems cf villagization were being rectified through "operation
correction" and since rains were once again favorable agricultural production
was generally good. Ereliminary estimates are that both agricultural production
and total GDP increased by about 5 percent in 1976. However, output in the
modern sectors of industry and construction has remained at a depressed level,
in part due to shortages of building supplies, raw materials and spare parts
occasioned by the severe import restrictions which have been imposed to
conserve scarce foreign exchange. The high investment rate has been sustained
during this period, in large part through increases in the level of foreign
assistance, but there has also been a modest recovery in the domestic savings
rate. While inflation worsened in 1975, there was a significant reduction in
the inflation rate in 1976.



- 12 -
33.       The goods and services account of the balance of payments continued
to deteriorate in 1975 due to continuing production difficulties and declines
in some agricultural export prices. Total export receipts declined by 10
percent from the level of 1974. Despite further reductions in the volume of
non-food imports, the total import bill rose by 6 percent over 1974 due to
continuing import price inflation and the necessity to continue food imports
during the first two-thirds of the year. As a result of these trends the trade
deficit increased from $340 million in 1974 to $400 million in 1975, and even
after allowing for a high level of project-related capital inflows and a huge
increase in grant assistance and concessional food aid, there was a residual
deficit of almost $75 million. Whereas the 1974 residual deficit was filled almost
entirely through a combination of IMF assistance and reserve depletion, the 1975
deficit was met through foreign assistance from a wide variety of sources,
including a $30 million program loan from the World Bank, further IMF drawings
(1974 and 1975 oil facilities), bilateral program aid and other multilateral
assistance. The total foreign assistance inflow during 1975 exceeded p300 million,
or over $20 per capita. However, because of the very concessional terms on which
aid has been given to Tanzania, and the Government's refusal to use higher cost
commercial loans and suppliers credits, the overall debt service ratio has remained
low - including a notional 40 percent share of the debt of the East African
Community Corporations it was less than 8 percent in 1975. (Further details on
external debt are provided in Annex II.)
34.       In 1976 the balance of payments picture improved.    The trade deficit
declined due to strong export performance, especially for coffee and cotton,
and to a slight fall in the value of imports occasioned by a greatly lessened
need for foodgrain imports and continuing tight restrictions on all other
categories of imports. Project related capital inflows remained at the high
level of prior years, although exceptional balance of payments assistance was
limited to $24 million (SDR 21 million) from the IMF's export compensatory
financing facility. (Tanzania was eligible for this drawing because of the slump
in exports in 1975.) The overall balance of payments is expected to show a
surplus of about $35 million for the year and net foreign exchange reserves
have increased to $115 million which is equivalent to two month's import require-
ments at the 1976 level, a modest improvement over end-1975 but still an inadequate
level.
(vi) Balance of Payments Forecast
35.       For 1977 the Government's objectives are to sustain the 5 percent rate
of growth of GDP attained in 1976 and to further reduce the rate of domestic
inflation. Based on this overall growth target, our projections indicate a
widening of the trade deficit by some $100 million, reflecting primarily a
selective liberalization of imports following several years of very tightly
constrained import levels. The value of exports is projected to increase only
moderately. Almost all of the improvement in exports in 1976 was due to higher
prices for coffee and cotton, along with a recovery in the volume of cotton
production, and further increases of this magnitude cannot be counted on in 1977.
Thus even with anticipated improvements in the volume of sisal, cashew, tea and
tobacco exports the total increase in export earnings is not expected to exceed
9-10 percent.



- 13 -
36.       On the import side an increase of some 20 percent in value terms
(13 percent in real terns) is projected. Consumer goods imports have been
maintained at austerity levels for the past three years, and this restraint
will continue during 1977. However, raw materials and spare parts imports
have been severely constrained with the result that essential industries have
been suffering from production bottlenecks. The Government intends to relax
the import control system sufficiently to allow for an increase in the volume
of industrial inputs and spare parts sufficient to raise the average utiliza-
tion rate of industrial capacity from 60 percent to 80 percent.    The projected
rate of growth in industrial output is 7 percent, compared with an average
annual growth rate of only 2.5 percent over the period 1974-76. The program
of import liberalization is also designed to permit an increase in inventories
which are inadequate at the present time, and in spare parts for the transportation
sector. Finally, it is intended to increase foodgrain imports from $15 million
in 1976 to $20 million in 1977 in order to begin building a strategic grain reserve.
37.       Our balance of payments forecast assumes that grant assistance plus
project-related capital inflows will be maintained at roughly the same level
in real terms as in 1976. The same holds true for net service income. The
residual deficit in the balance of payments which results from the above set
of assumptions is $50 miLlion. Details of the balance of payments forecast,
and a comparison with earlier years, are shown in the table below:
]3ALANCE OF PAYMENTS SUMMARY
TANZANIA MAINLAND
(Millions of Current US$)
1/        2/
1973      1974       1975      1976      1977
A.  Exports (f.o.b.)                 327.9      380.7     328.4     438.3      480.0
B.  Imports (c.i.f.)                -485.7     -719.1    -731.9    -692.1     -835.0
Trade Balance                 -157.8    -338.4     -403.5    -253.8    -355.0
C.  Services (net)                    18.6       21.2      60.9      60.1       65.0
D.  Transfers (net)                    5.0       45.3      93.0      83.3      100.0
Balance on Current Account    -134.2    -271.9     -249.6    -110.4    -190.0
E.  Public Capital (net)             136.0       97.7     108.7     110.2      115.0
F.  Other Capital (net)               -6.5       31.9      21.0      23.9       25.0
G.  Net Errors and Omissions          35.3        3.9      46.5      11.0        -
Overall Balance                 30.6    -138.4      -73.4      34.7     -50.0
H.  Exceptional Financing 3/           -         53.6      64.2      24.2
I. Net Change in Reserves
(+ = decrease)                 -30.6      84.8        9.2     -58.9
Total of H and I               -30.6     138.4       73.4     -34.7
1/ Estimated.
2/ IBRD staff projections.
3/ Includes IMF facilities, IBRD prograr loan, and other bilateral
and multilateral balance of payments support.



- 14 -
PART II - THE PROGRAM CREDIT
38.       The analysis in Part I indicates that Tanzania is currently facing
extremely difficult problems in the pursuit of its development program.
Two objectives have dominated the Government's policy response to the economic
crisis: first, to protect the population from possible famine by importing
sufficient food to meet minimum requirements, and second, to maintain the
pace of the development program - to follow a strategy of "growing out of the
crisis" despite the reduced availability of real resources. It has been
possible for Tanzania to continue the investment effort and at the same time
to alleviate the burden of drought for the poorest groups in the society only
because of the exceptionally high levels of foreign assistance which have been
committed over the past three years. This assistance has afforded the Govern-
ment time to begin a restructuring of the economy in order to cope with the
shift in the terms of trade as well as with the factors underlying the sluggish
growth trend of the major economic sectors. The Government has responded with
a series of measures to curtail petroleum and non-essential imports, to hold
down recurrent budget expenditures, to reallocate public development expenditures
to directly productive sectors, to impose a public sector wage and salary
freeze, to raise consumption taxes, and to stimulate higher agricultural pro-
duction through substantial increases in producer prices. To a considerable
extent the modest recovery in the Tanzanian economy over the past two years may
be attributed to the fact that this comprehensive restructuring program was
undertaken rapidly and forcefully. While we are greatly concerned about the
magnitude of Tanzania's economic difficulties, we are persuaded that the Govern-
ment is fully committed to carrying out a program of policy actions to confront
the economic crisis. We have analyzed that program carefully and we feel that
it is one which the Bank Group should continue to support. The Government's
committment to maintain and to strengthen the elements of this restructuring
program is set out in a memorandum of policy understandings from the Minister of
Finance which is attached as Annex VI to this report.
39.       The Tanzanian Government first approached the World Bank in mid-1974
to request program lending for assistance in meeting the immediate balance of
payments crisis. In the discussions relating to the program loan it was clearly
recognized (a) that the economic crisis stemmed from longer-term trends in
the Tanzanian economy as well as from immediate drought and import price effects;
(b) that a wide range of policy measures would have to be introduced if the
Tanzanian economy was to regain its development momentum without sacrificing the
poiitical, social and economic goals of the country; and (c) that balance of pay-
ments support would be required from many sources, both bilateral and multilateral
in addition to the World Bank, if the projected 1975 balance of payments gap was
to be covered.
40.       The Bank's first program loan of $30 million approved in December 1975
was an important element in the Tanzanian Government's ability to meet the
balance of payments crisis without sacrificing the development program. Foreign
exchange provided under the loan was utilized for essential imports of capital
equipment, intermediate goods and raw materials for which other sources of foreign
financing were not available. The program loan was fully disbursed by the end
of May 1975, only four months after effectiveness. Furthermore, the Bank assisted
the Government in mobilizing additional balance of pavments support from bilateral
sources, in particular through the meeting of the Consultative Group for Tanzania
held under the Chairmanship of the World Bank in April 1975. Finally, during the
program loan discussions the Fank made an important contribution to the design
of the Government's program of policy actions to cope with the economic crisis.



- 15 -
41.       From the outset of the first program loan discussions in 1974 it
was fully recognized that the process of adjustment to the economic crisis
would be both difficult and protracted. It was understood that the balance of
payments problem was likely to persist through the 1970s before the measures
which the Government was taking to restructure the economy could have full
effect. Therefore it was also recognized that further balance of payments support
beyond 1975, from the Bank Group as well as other sources, could well be required.
The Tanzanian Government did request a further program credit of $30 million from the
Bank Group in late 1975. In response to this request a special economic mission
visited the country in November 1975 to examine the economic situation and to
appraise the adequacy of the Government's development policies and investment
program. The credit was negotiated in April 1976; however, the decision was
made not to proceed further with the credit at that time for two related reasons.
First, we were extremely concerned about the problem of growing imbalance between
recurrent revenues and expenditures which had only become evident following
release of the provisional accounts for 1974/75. Second, we were concerned that
our assistance should not substitute for IMF facilities. While Tanzania had taken
full advantage of IMF facilities in 1974 and 1975, and had negotiated a standby
agreement for a second credit tranche in 1975/76, the agreement had been breached
because of excessive Government borrowing from the banking system - a direct out-
growth of the budgetary problem. Since April of last year we have been following
closely the Government's efforts to restore expenditure controls, as well as
negotiations between Tanzania and the IMF over reestablishment of a standby
agreement. The Tanzanian Government has now produced a program for short-run
fiscal management which has been accepted by the IMF, and her eligibility
for credit tranche drawings has been reestablished. Based on this agreement
between the Government of Tanzania and the IMF, we are satisfied that corrective
measures are being taken to curb the growth of public consumption.
42.      Tanzania was able to improve her balance of payments position slightly
in 1976 without additional program lending from the Bank Group or further IMF
drawings beyond the export compensatory facility, in part because of the bonanza
of high world coffee prices, but also because of continued stringent controls
on imports. However, as a result of this continuation of drastic import controls
the need for balance of payments support has merely been postponed into 1977.
The immediate problem nDw confronting Tanzania is to obtain financing for a
projected 1977 balance Df payments gap of some $50 million. Most if not all
of the financing should be quick-disbursing program aid. Commitments rust be
secured as early as possible in order that necessary import liberalization not
be further delayed.   The alternative would be either a drawing down of foreign
exchange reserves, whichi would be undesirable, given' that reserves are still
at the comparatively low level of only two maonth's import requirements, or
ccntinuing restrictions on essential imports which wotuld delay econoric recovery.
43.      We believe thai: Tanzania's anticipated 1977 balance of payments deficit
can be financed through a combination of program assistance and food aid. The
remaining portion of Tanzania's expanded first credit tranche plus trust fund



- 16 -
allocations from the IMF should provide approximately $13 million, while the
OPEC Special Fund will furnish $5.5 million. The Government anticipates
bilateral program assistance of $15-20 million; if this amount materializes
the remaining gap would be approximately $15 million. Therefore we are
recommending that the Bank Group should provide a program credit of $15
million at this time to cover the remaining deficit in Tanzania's balance
of payments for 1977. We believe that this reduced amount should be sufficient
to insure the desired amount of import liberalization, and that the commitment
should be made at this time in order that the Government can plan its import
program for the entire year without waiting several months for additional aid
commitments. It must be admitted however that the size of the gap cannot be
estimated with complete accuracy because of the uncertainty associated with
certain key variables such as the coffee Trice, or fluctuations in agricultural
output due to weather. It is possible that the deficit could exceed our estimate
if a less favorable outcome should occur in export performance or import require-
ments. In this event Tanzania would have recourse to the IMF for a second credit
tranche (SDR 15 million). Nevertheless, it is still possible that the Government
could approach the Bank Group for further program assistance during the year if
either bilateral assistance should fall short of expectations or if the gap should
be significantly larger than we have forecast. W4e will remain in close touch
with the IMF and will monitor the balance of payments situation closely over the
course of the year in order to assess the degree to which Tanzania's essential
balance of payments requirements are being met.
44.       Given the magnitude of the projected balance of payments deficit
in 1977, the heavy volume of project-related capital assistance already
anticipated, and the time that would be required to commit and disburse new
project loans, it would not be possible for external lenders to assist in
any immediately effective way through additional project lending, even with
a substantially increased element of local cost financing. If capital goods
and construction materials imports were to be reduced by the extent of the antici-
pai:ed deficit, public sector .nvestment would have to be curtailed by a like amount
and this would sericusly undermine the development effort.   Furtherrore,
because a very high proportion of total capital goods imports are financed
entirely by foreign donors under development assistance programs, curtailment
of these imports would have little if any beneficial balance of payments effect
in the short-run. Over the past few years we have significantly increased
our lending to directly productive projects, as well as the share of local
currency costs covered by our loans and credits, and these projects are
beginning to have a favorable impact on the balance of payments. While there
have been problems associated with implementation and disbursement under
these projects we have been working on many fronts to improve implementation
performance, as described in Annex II, and these efforts are beginning to show
results. While we can therefore anticipate further improvements in disburse-
ments of Bank and IDA project loans, this has already been taken intc account in
our balance of payments forecast.



- 17 -
45.      The justification for the program credit emerges, firstly, from
the foregoing analysis of the short- and longer-term development problems
facing Tanzania; secondly, from the review of the Government's policies and
programs to deal with these problems; thirdly, from the estimate of external
assistance available to help finance the balance of payments gap; and
finally, from the expectation that a residual gap will remain unfilled, thus
leading to a further cutback in production in key sectors, unless the Bank
makes available quick-disbursing assistance. This justification conforms to
Bank policy in respect of program lending. Moreover, it is complementary to
Bank project assistance. The risks associated with this program credit are
the basic risks associated with the bold and imaginative development strategy
upon which Tanzania has embarked. Essentially these risks reduce to the
question: can the strategy result in effective programs and policies which
increase material production in the country? This risk is very clearly recog-
nized by the Governmenz. This recognition has led to the adoption by the
Government of policies and programs which address the problems of production,
which in turn has prov[ded the basis for the rapid development of the Bank's
involvement in project identification, preparation and implementation in recent
years. The risks are reduced to the extent that many of the policies and programs
have already been introduced. However, these actions cannot avoid the fundamental
risks associated with development in a least-developed country such as Tanzania
in which the respcr.se to changes in policies is highly uncertain. Furthermore
these risks are made even greater by such extraneous factors as the weather
and the international t:erms of trade. Nevertheless we are sufficiently
impressed not only by i:he genuine commitment of the Government to its develop-
ment objectives but also by its commitment to taking strong actions to achieve
these objectives that we believe that these risks should be accepted.
46.      I, therefore, recommend that a credit of $15 million be made to
Tanzania at this time in support of the Government's development program.
In assessing the special circumstances underlying the need for this program
credit to Tanzania, the following general criteria were given special emphasis:
(a)  the country should have an ongoing development program
and should have taken and intend to take supporting
economic and financial policy measures which provide a
satisfacl:ory basis for external assistance; and
(b)  the needed timely transfer of resources from external
lenders -Ln support of the ongoing development program
cannot be achieved effectively and expeditiously solely
by the fijnancing of specific investment projects,
including justifiable local currency expenditures.
I am satisfied that the proposed credit meets these criteria.



- 18 -
47.      Procurement procedures under this credit will be the same as those
followed under the first program loan. Foreign exchange provided under the
credit would be utilized for agreed categories of essential imports of capital
and intermediate goods fcr the public and private sectors. No disbursements
would be made for food, fuel, fertilizers and consumer goods. Tanzania would
be reimbursed for foreign exchange expenditure on eligible imports on the basis
of import documents and evidence of payments submitted to the Association.
Appropriate arrangements to this effect have been agreed between the Association
and the Borrower. In order to simplify disbursement procedures, individual
import expenditures of less than $1,000 would not be eligible for reimbursement.
No disbursements would be made for imports for which other sources of foreign
financing have been secured (Section 2(d), Schedule 1, draft Development Credit
Agreement). It is expected that the proceeds of the proposed credit would be
disbursed by the end of July 1977.
48.       It is anticipated that the major part of the credit proceeds would be
used for direct Government and parastatal enterprises' imports, following
procedures of the Government Central Tender Board which are satisfactory to
the Association, or procurement policies in accordance with the Bank Group's
guidelines. A part of the credit proceeds would be used for private sector
imports, which have accounted for about 40 percent of total imports in Tanzania
in recent years; procurement of these imports would be subject to normal coumer-
cial practices. Practically all countries from which prospective suppliers are
likely to be interested are represented by missions in Tanzania. Adequate time,
usually at least six weeks, must be given for prospective suppliers to prepare
and submit tenders. These procedures ensure full opportunity for participation
by foreign suppliers. The bids are evaluated on the basis of prescribed procedures
and are awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder. As a check, particularly on the
private and parastatal sectors, the Bank of Tanzania requires that, with a few
exceptions, all imports be subject to compulsory quality and quantity inspection
and price comparison by the General Superintendence Company of Switzerland before
shipment is effected. General Superintendence is required to ascertain whether
f.o.b. prices invoiced correspond, within reasonable limits, with the generally
prevailing export prices. The above procedures are generally sound and ensure
economic procurement of goods.
49.       The Bank of Tanzania will open a special project account in the
name of the Government, to which the Tanzania shilling equivalent of the
imports financed under the project will be credited. The Government will
withdraw funds from the project account to cover expenditures under the 1976/77
and 1977/78 Government Development Budgets for each of the following votes:
Prime Minister and Second Vice President's Office; Agriculture; Education;
Commerce; Industries; Communications and Transport; Lands, Housing and Urban
Development; Works; Finance and Planning; Health; Water, Energy and Minerals;
and Natural Resources and Tourism (Schedule 3, draft Development Credit Agreement).
The use of the counterpart funds in financing investments would be limited to
those expenditures which are not otherwise financed by external sources.



- 19 -
PAIRT III - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the recommendation of the Committee referred
to in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
and the draft resolution approving the proposed Credit are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. The draft Development Credit Agreement
follows the form previously used for this type of Credit.
51.       I am satisf'ied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement. of the Association.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, DXC.
February 22, 1977






ANNEX I
Page I of I, pages
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA- SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU MN2)----------                                  -- ------------
---------------                       ~~~~~TANZANIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TNtAL       945.1                                          MOST RECENT
A7YRTC.        .                           960       1 97 0  ESTIMATE           KENYA           KOREA , ReEP. OF MALAYSIA-
..NP PE3 CAPITA (USA)                         70.0       120.0        170.0               160 .0      2270 .0      660 . 0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTIC:S
POPULATION (MAID-YR. MILLIONI               9.6 /a      12. 9 La.    14.7 /a              1. 2      31. 4        10.11
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                           I 0.0       16. 0         t                  19 .0       3 19 .0       32.0
PER SQUARE KM.    ARIUC. LANIF           23.0 /a      23.0..*                                    1 320.0       291 .0
VI TAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH MATE PER THOUSAND            51.5        50.,         50.2                 4~9.0       35.0         4~2.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOU',ANO           27.1         23.0        20.1                 17.0        11.1.        1 2.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/T11OU)         1 90.0       1 60. 0 Lkb     .                 55 0/k         ..0.8./a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH T'RO)           36.7        [1.3         44a.5                [7.5        57.?7        56.7-
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE.                              3 . 2        3. 2                 3. 4        2 .6         2.6 /
POPULATT0T GROWTH RATE CZ)
TJTAL                                     2. 3/a      3. 0 /a      2.? I a              3. 1        2.3
JAR3AN                                    5.0          5.,-        5.7                  6.5         6.1,         3.6
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAJ                 4 .6        6. 0        6.8                  9.9        1.1.2        27.8
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
13T 16 TEARS                           4.2 5                                            4 6'  .6.  62 .1     44.7.?/
Ii TO b4 YEARS                           555         510       ~    .                  A5.                      52.1 7-,
65 YEARS AND OVER                         2.0  a      2. 6                              3 . 6       S.13         3.2 7;
AGE )EPENDENCY RATIO                        0,4-        0. 9 /b                           I 1.1        .M          0. 9
EC04JMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0 Zsa     1. 2 /a,.    .                   1.1/Ab      1.641 
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CUMJLAT IVRE. THTLI).                         ...                           66.1 i                  222.2
U S EPS ClX OF MIARRM TED0 ONMEN I                                                                  4....  .12.0  B.O0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)             6 900.0~    5600.3 J  a  63010.0 Is           5100.0,/2  1 04100.0    2 9 00. 0 /a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE II)             96:.0        91.0  ~        .b                90.0/c.     5 0.5 /a     1.3.0
UNEMYLLJYED (I OF LABOR F)RCE)                ..          .            ..                   .         5.           6.:00  a
1ITCOM7 DISTRIBUTION
OF PAIRTE INCOME RtEC*O BY-
HIGHEST   Si OF   HOJSEl+'JLDS             ..         33. 5         ..20.2/d                       17.1         2B. 3
HIGHEST 201 OF    HOUSEHOQLDS              ..        61.1                             52..         1.5.        56.0
LOWEST   201 OF   HOUS9JVOLDS              ..         2. 3          .3.9                                         3. 5
L)WEST   601 OF   HOUSEHOLDS               7. .A                     .it.? I                       17.7         11.2
DIST013UTIOS* OF [AND OWNERS41-
Z 3OdNED VT TUP 101 OF OWNEAS                 .                        ..                            2B0. 0
t INED AT SMALLEST 10; DANFRS               ......2. 0
.rALTIl AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                20OOO.OZ2.,d2t57O.Y,/8   21450. 0 /~nb         78TOOA      221 0.0/
?POPLATION PER NURSING PERSIN             8900 0,4,d.3h489o.z     617 0.0              i T~o 7.    1760. o       o-ao.o /a.e
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL lEO               530.0     7.d 00.0           ..               81.0       1 9 20.0      270.0 /'a
PER :-APItA SuPPLY OF
CALORIES CX OF TEQJIREMENTS)             69. 0       73. 0        9B.0 /c             10 1.0      1 0 3.a       964. 0/a d
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER OAT)                  6 2.0       43. 0        63.0 7c              71.0        65.0         69.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAl,   AND PUL,E          220e        23. 0           .2 9 .0                       1 9 .       20.0 ~g
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 16                    .. 4.                                         ..                     5.5
EDUCA TI ON
ADJUJSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMAT4Y SCHOOL                          24:.04      3b.0/If      4a3 04               6L         1064.0        B 9. 0/a
S:C0O40A-Y zsCHOJL                        201           .7         3.00                 9 .0/      41.0_
YEARS OF SCH.JOLINS AROVIDED
( F IR ST AN D S ECOAD L EV EL)          1 3.0       13S.0        0 3.0                13.0        12 .0        IS. 0/a
VOCATION4AL ENRO..LMENT
CX OF SECONDARY)                         2 3.0       10* 0/d        *                   2. 0/       16.0         3. 0/a
ADULT LITERACY MATE (l)                    17.0                      4; [.0A             3 0.0        87.0        i7.0 /f
HOUS 14G
PERSON   PE   OM(AVERAGE)I 8I2.                                                                                    2. 
OCCUJPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT                               .             ..                              .           .
PIPED WATER (l)                            ..         30.0/b.oa     a..                             O.O Al/     6 5. 0 
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
Cl OF ALL OWE..INGS)                       .                         ..                            50.0         6 3. 0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (2)                         ...                       ..                             0. 0        10.0
CONSUM4PTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU PnF,)              2.0        11.0         1 6.0               4 8.        1 26.0       41. 0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POPI-               3.0 /a      3. 0         3 .0                9 .0         2.0         23.0 /a
ELECTRICITY (KWH/TA PER CAP)                13.0a       31 0 /       37.0 /a              a .0       307.0        38207
NEWSPRINT CR6G/YR PER CAP)                  010.1I                    0.1                 0.5          3 .         6. :00T
-- - - - - - - - - - -  - - -- - - - - -! !   - - - --  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -  - - -  - - -
SEE NO0TES AND DEFINITIONS ON F'EVERSE



Page 2 of 4. pages
NOTES
feless otherwis   oared, data for 1960 refer to any year bet.-e 1959 and 1961, far 1970 between 196,8 and 1970,..ad for Mont Recen         E-intmae betwee
1973 aedI1975
so Mla,ysia bat bee    sol-re   as on eb-letive country hecass~ It. Ipoplation to coparble Iete           an d ion econaic dovelopen     I ssreral steps ahead
of la_anI
TAN7y,sIA            _19960   /a  Mainland Taneoin.      lb  1957, Afri.an pepulaIt-e,     L.R gaie of population under 15 ned 65 and ove      to... tota  labor
forte.    Id  1962.   /e   1961-63,   /f   1958, Z.ane1bar.   /&  1963.   . lb  IncludIng midwIvsadMte          ih midwifery
qoaIlflcatt-e; registered, oat all practIcing in the l...otesy;       It  h-I2 and 13- 18 years of age  optiey
1977D    I   Maleloed Toananta;    lb  1967,    Ic Rg..o.holes;    Id  1965.    /e  lrban only,    /f  7-13 and 14-19 yeu-    of age
renp.eetivaly.
MosT lECF.NT ESTINATE-     /0  Moisl-od Tocean ia;   lb   1972.   In   19697I overge.      /d  7-13 and 14-19 year   of age r-peccively
KFNYA                1970     Iagginter-d only,        l   RaIo" cf puylaio     olo   1   osd 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 yas.        /   I ahct fcrc
__  ge 15-59 year,     /d  r,ban bc-iseboids      In oIsioe d , no Il      rci leIo      h   csty,       fSlyerofa.
iTetu1 secon.darly   ioodstouher trloinig at the third l eve
.KOREA,REPf. lI       1970    /0  An preceetge of evPIplyveet ,    /b  gegicterd      /.  Registered, not all prcticieg Ie the c-uety,         Ad  Pt pod eater
MAIASSA IA            1970    /a  West Malaysia.    lb  R"gis ter..d  pplicets, fyi cur,     I,   .tovenert Iely.    /d   1964-66.   Ic   12-18 yeat  of ago,
________       -      I/f  1967,   Li pIped eater lesido.
R9, A0ust 10, 1976
DEFINITTONlS OF SOtXIA1 INDiCATIIRS
Lao.d Area ILhou too2)                                                              Pcpltm2teoo              oon-Popeltoon       divdd by eubor of y...cticing
TotL   - Total scref  copris-og ised are     ed tinland stets.                       nIal and locale grabs to   u   s   "ttaind' o    .ertIIfied  sIr-e-   -ed
Aglrc.-  Mont roon    ostonato of agierrlI OIse onod toeporarily c..auIliaty PersonnelIwith trainin lor Its.prtec
penoci lvEc      crpt, p-sc-ton     -oktb     nhsgadn          rt    i I kyialueye i1-aetal hod - FP 1sltion divided by nuobee of hospital beds
falisa.                                                                           a-ilablo to yahloc and pci atc geeo         e  seild        hoptlad
COP net ceylta (10$) - GNP yet capita estisto      at coe-t earket prices.            -ntodial ad pr-evetive core.
isluaodb  oe covesonethod an World Bank AOla        (1973-75                                f S             of%  -egstcnot)    Covpired irln enorgy
basi), 1960. 1970 o-d 1975 data,                                                   equivalent of net food supplies00     la   Ie is-osoty   ,at Ipita Per day.
aew itolle scppliea, coprin   d-isntic prod,,itrin, imports less eaprs
PooIaItion  and vital stratinricn                                                     ad oba-g,in cootok. net s_pplien e_c lode aetiaI f-d, seeds, q.-oti-
pontilation  (nid-ys. million) - An ef Juy f'Irs  ifctaalb                  Ies uned Ic food prove-ning ad     ane; on d-ntribati-i.ryieet
a--cgo of tao ecd-yeor esti-at-; 1960. 1970 aed 1975 daCo.                         wre: en_eatd by Fobandonph ysiologicl need            Int oona    activity
and bnolIth -onsdorageoconsetItenperator. boy h               ghis. a"ge aod
Piaaacdensiy - co ....a. las - Mld-yoar pvpa lai-a per squar       kilo-         ondistribution    of populosion, oidaloiglTfr              sto It_ao
ntr(100 hncrac"s) of totaIleam..bl                                                   IotaI.
Pocolat-a   d--nty tv-ye   55a    inn of agi-   I-od - Compared an above fuI         a  cpt    sceptoogoen(Jyigr~y                    P--yaco  soryt-f pot
aolclorl  ad only.                                                          -apita ens nopply cf food per dny, net n-pply of food is defined as
above   roqeire...stS fer all cei-oien established by l'511A f.ioeo,vl
Ostal sttsisRsea                                                                                Services provide for a cisinui     oIoitc    f 651 g--an  f
Cro'de birth rate yetr thousand - Anesal   ,oe births yet rthousad of s, Id-(         prtt      e  dy    n   0 gon    of animal and Puls    prtoin;. of shic
Toot popobar_c.    eno-yea - -itloti, vce_ge- ediogis 1960 aed 1970                10  rmssiol    d l, suma    pro-ois; those sta-Lirds   r   lwrI    hnthose
aed  f o-eraoaonoding to 195fr              `c ennte"        ca                     f7   grus of c'Ial psatecoac      23 grams cfaimlp totem       a 
I rsdr dath rar  yet thusand -Anesel deaths Per tho-sad of osd_-ya             a_eag    cv 51,-  erid . pr_posd byeAti      heilhilcl Ws-Id o.,d Si.iccy
uyo"ta.....v    . tee-ea  a-tch`est- uveragen ending ic 1960 and 1970. and       -c a,ftr.espply             lq ir ,inl  oat I outg-  pi-oleis      ~ vel   if-tas
f ici-visar 500rafe.odief In 1975 f.r mosr tecot  esiaetervdfo                              a   isad     a si6     gr_s,p,     1
aIfa-i corlti ty race (/thus) -Aoe..aI deaths of -f-ots c-d- con yca- of            Der    ao,t,iiae          -S - Aenua1 deaths prrthio-sad ic     gegOi
a1ge yr rh i-vs d liv  birt1hs.                                                    1-ft y      le ocind.   is chrs ago grasp. s-gg-ted00a        indicator of
I~ifcooerrocyas        bit  (yr_  - Aor-ge nitber of yoors of 1tfele-ot-cg             icsrtio
it  irh,iinalyfire-year averges    nd-9g in 1960, 1970 and 1575 fcc
rsss toprdortive tte-Averae vomber of liv  dasghte.rn aIoa     ill         Alatderintrto-pimyshol- gEtollot s1                          f al  iosi
beat i h, t      . conlerprodcrtv  perid if she espertenn_    present ae           poetaeof Prinery school-age P.pitnn             inoe      hildre- aged
syrfcfrtlt           aos.sal         iv-eraergsedngi690                             -lyears hot adjoted For differs;:t lftchs        fpIviy      dacatIoI
19711 and 1975 for dceloptgco_      rin                                            fr. coctri_ .s dI -nIc..r.I ed.catton     -trol  . teo  -ov escod 1011/
PoPulation grovth rae(.-tol            C-Copoud annua     l g c  rates of mid-        s.oess      puplsar    bal is     boeIho ofisa       seh-il age.
year population far 1950-iS, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                  daieerolita1ic.nefyujjij-Cmped .saoe
Peootngoth rte   2. -lbrha   - Compted:Iegrowth rote of total                 secodary education rv    Ire    t least Foot year. of app- -adpray
popolatIIIn; difeetdfetosof -rban areas may effect compaca-                          Itr.ztootis  pr-cdesgeerl       voai    Itrrahertraiin
bility of data aeong ccsetr                              t.. iro tloc                            fee rpepits    2t    17 yea`      aP, ar       I 'pe.Iae
irbas ypiilasion (. oftoal     .-Fitu    of orbag to total popolation,                coorn    are g-e-raily  -clded.
different, definitons   f iibae area   cay affect coparbility cf data            Year- bf schoolroaJu_revidtdA,first an    scd -2  eo)      Total years of
aong l.o.ettio       - b      eschooIlg, at -Iscodary level,CvIaIoe                                                          tsrIit.i      sabep-
Ago st.....r. (percent) -CIr.(0-li years), working-ago (15-64 yas,                    tially Ie -npIetoly nbclodnd.
sod r-rrrd (65 year    aod coct) as perc-trage    of nid-year popalai,jon.       Toaialricm~Zfcoyg                      ,-Vacoalititon
Age depe-d.ncy   ratio - Raits of popsiatioc ander 15 and 65 and ove     so           i-clnd   technical, induntrea1 oother progeass sehioh ipoate
tooof aecs 15 throogh 64.                                                       indep,odestly ov as depac    .teet  of s.eondary intiotio-
EC.=onirdependenc.y ratio -    aR.ia cf populo tin bedet 15 and 62 and ovr           dnlt literac~yrate_(%) - ,ito _erte a  Its (able so real -id write) a
to the  obor forge in ago gr..oP 15-64 years.                                      peroenra.ge of total adult popalation aged IS yearn a-    over.
fanty_lanig-cn  eor    iconlotloeh.oit)    C-enua-g- cober of
acceptors of birth-cotroI device      nder aspcsof oatcona        fecily        LP)I 27i
Planning program  niec   -ceptgon.                                               Parsons  e   t n   aerge      A-erage cober of peron      p2rtoco, In
Fa-ily PIlanning-.ne.n    f2. of ataried woe)-Prrcoctagen of married                  _rcpied no-eensionsi dseelogo in orha- areas, delliogs en.iedo
wosen of child-beorreg ae (15-44 yearn) who su  birth-control de~icen        onpnnet uto tes      etae  a,d uneo_oPied Pars
so  1 all  arrod wme  is sane age grmip.                                       ciapled         REelio  wirhot pined teaer 3)  0- cPid -oiioen i-al
dwelIngs In   ban adr      Ral sf0  withoot i-nide  or vc-de piped
felsiot                                                                          eater facilities aspercontae of alt onspid dwellings.
Total Ishne forc    ithomady) - Econmically action poernen, inclodleg               Aens. to o1-rretct_rv,Qpfjaildsealin      )   - Cnentional dwellings
armd fornen and Rnmlyd but -n1lding          hueivs       tadentn, etc.             with electricity in linig quartersa      pe-rcet oft cocil dwellingn in
definiti_n In earioi    e_otri_ are not coparable.                                 ara   ad -rurl r1
Labor forte Is    ginrc.i          Agrinnltrsira  Iahbr frc- (in farming,           Rural dweMllgsConeegiod toj e~lot trinty K        CePsted as above for
foretry, hunting, and fiahinog) an pleretage of total labor fnre-                 rura  dwelings wily.
Unemloyd   I%o    lbor force)   U- oployed are    toaly defined an person
.bo are able and wigling to rai    a job, ont nfajobonagive         day,         Conaon5 tine
remained net of aIjob, and neeking    nrk forI specifted miniee     perImd      Radio_rocei,ru (pee thbo PIP) -All types of reciver         Fnr radt- broad-
nor enneeding on   wekb; nay not ha toparblo ber.ieeroine           doe to          at   to genera   pu blit pet t,houad afpoI'tlsts      es1de.
different definitions of unemPlo-yed Rnd   --rc   of data, e.g. employ-            onlicen..ed reenienro incneries and in years when       einer      oo  f
mont office satncr., -ap            - reys, coPulsory ummploytont innltacr.        ra dio sets aus In affect,idata fole robes  years may eat be comparable
sinr1e most tooiLr_e abolihed licnieg.
Income ditstibiitine - rerrneratgo ofpI  vaeIncm      (both In nauh acd hind)       Pasengr crt                    -fanngttP5cmrIevtercr
roeloiod by richest 52., richest 202, ptoorest 202.. ad poorest 402.I bI          teaing lens than eight persons. nlio        aIbloces- ;hearses-aed
households.                                                                        military -hehlets.
Clsticty ilwhy~erto),-Avsaal ciscpioof ied-tni-.1eon
btctrshutson  of land ownerthi 0Percen tages of land wand by wealthiest      enteriat  public and prIva,te e,letricity tokilosat hear      pee caysta,
I11. and p.ooret lOT. of land miesReoneaty, band ottprdosion data, withebc alloueant                                                        toe I o-e_o
grids but allowing for i-po-n sod -al-ar      of ol erit-r.-Y
Health and nurrition                                                                News prin  (g/rpeco        - Per capit   anneal. c--mpt.io to kiloflraus
popolacion  per ohysincac- Popalarion dicided ~by num,ber of pr-iroirog   on tiataed fros dometic prIdoorio    Plus eet Lnportn of news print.
physician      qulfied frm     edicu- ohoc tI      ivr try_  levl



Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC DEVEIPMEN DATA
(Amounts irn milllons of U.S. d-olla-rs-T
Actu,,Ll         ..... Projected           i167 -   1973 -    1975 -   1975 -    1973    1975    1980
1973      1974     1975       19Y76     197 7   1980       in,72   1975     197 7     1980
NAT 1014AL ACCOUTIES                                                                           L 
At 1973               1-ic~& Exchange ILtt.c         A~  e ~Annual ~Growth ~Rat es     As Percent of GUY
Gross Domestic Product          186-6.42-1917.6    1966.7      2065.1   2168.3  2510.1        6.0     2.7       5.0      5.0     100.0   102.0   101.0
Gains from Terms of Trade ()___            -20.5    -38.4      +19.7      -5.0   -24.9                                                    -2.0    -1.0
Gr-oss Domestiv -In-come        1866.4    1897.1   192 8.3     20 84.8  2-16F3.3  2485.2      5.0      1.6      5.9      5.2     10.0100.0       100.0
Import (incl. NYS)               545.1    508.4     474.6      427.4     464.1   549.1        7.4    -6.7      -1.1      3.0     29 .2    24.6    22.1
Exports    ' (import capacity) 417.2.      304.1    275.5       328.2    324.1   436.8        2.7   -18.7       8.5      9.7     22.4     14.3    17.6
Resource Gap                     127.9     204.3    199.1       99.2     140.0   112.3                                            6.9     10.3     4.5
Consumption Expenditures        1588.8    1654.2   1669.1      1719.0   1829.1  2062.5        5.5     2.5       4.7      4.3     85.1     86.6    83 0
Investmient   "  (incl. stocks) 405.5     447.2     458.3      465.0     474.2   535.0        9.7     6.3       1.7      3.1     21.7     23.8    21.5
Domsestic Savings                277.6    242.9     259.2      365.8     334.2   422.7        2.5    -3.3      13.5     10.3     14.9     13.4    17.0
National Sav-ings                271.3    269.5     309.7      402.1     375.1   447.5        3.2     6.8      10.0      7.6     14.5     16.1    18.0
MiRCH{ANDISE TRADE                          Annual Data at Current Prices                                                         As Percent of Total
1973    1974     1975
Imports
Capit.al goods                 116.0    149.5     199.8                        309.4                                           23.9     20.8    27.3
Intermediate goods )(a"lfuels) 180.7    228.7     213.7                        455.9                                           37.2     31.8    29.2
Fuels and related mnaterials    41.8     74.3      87.8                        156.2                                            8.6     10.4    12.0
of which:   Petroleum        (41.8)   (74.3)    (87.8)                      (156.2)                                          (8.6)   (10.4)  (12.0)
Consompt'ion good              147.2    266.')    230.5      __         __     279.5                                          ...aaa7.     ( ..LA. ..1..s.
Total Mrb     Imorts (elf)     485.7    719. L    73-1. 9    692.1     835.0  1200.9                                          100.0    100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary products Gmcl. fools) 26 1. 3   304."1    259.4                        581.6                                           79 .7    80.1    79.0
Fuels and related materials     12.5     18.3      18.1                         36.0                                            3.8     4.8      5.5
of which:   Petroleum        (12.5)   (18.3)    (18.1)                       (36.0)                                          (3.8)   (4.8)    (5.5)
Manufactured goods              54.1     572'.     50.9                __      132.9                                           16.5     151     1.
Total Merch. Exports (fob)     3777    3iM7;      3IT8       438. 3   480.0    750.5                                          100.0   100.0    100.0
Tourism and B3order  Traae       ..        .
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Average 1973 -     100         ______
Export Price Index             iS0.     145.!    142.0       189.1    187.~9   218.~6
Import Price Index             100.0    159.1'    168.4      178.6    195.3    239.7
Terms of Trade Index           100.0     912.'    84.3       105.9     96.2     91.2
Exports Volume Index           100.0     79.1      70.5       70.7     77.9    104.3
VALLUE AD)DED BY SECTOR           Annual Data et 1973 -    Prices and Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Rates       As Percent of Total
1967-72  1973-75   1975-80        1973     1975    1980
Agriculture                    645.1    624.)    666.7       700.0    724.5    808.4          2.6       1.5      3.9          359.4   358 .1   36.2
Industry and Mining            306.2    3062,    299 2       314.2    329.9    395.3          5.0     -1.2       5.7          18.7     17.1    17.7
Service                       686.1     742. f   783.9       823.0    874.7   1029.5          6.1       6.8      5.6         _41      ..Ai..  ..Ai..
Total                         1637.4   1673.1.  1749.8      1-837.2  1929.1   2233.2          4.75      3.        .0O        100.0    100.0   100.0
Prelim,       Eat.
PUBLIC FINANCE                    FY73     FY 7L    FY 75       FY 76                                                             AIs Percent of GDP
(Ce-ntral Goverrnment)                                                                                                            1973    1974    1975
Current Receipts              2284     3022     3900        3994                                                              20.1     21.8    21.2
Current E~xpenditures        2066      2695     3991        3630                                                              18.1     21.1    20.5
B3udgetary Savings            218       327      -91         364                                                               2.1      0.7     1.4
Other Public Sector           564       754        .                                                                           3.9      4.7
Public Sector Investment      956      1642     2352        2309                                                               9.9     12.6    12.5
CURRENT EXCPENDITURE DETAILS                  Actual        Prelim.   Eat.
As % oa      urn     xpend.           FY1972  FY1974     FY1975   FY1976
Education                               ITT     17T7 Y    T3T       171
Other Social Services                   14.5    15.5       12.2     14.4
Agriculture                              8.9    12.1       13.3      7.0
Other Economic Services                 12.4    12.2      10.3       9.2
Administration and Defense              36.2    35.1       30.9     31.9
Other                                   10.3     7.9      18.3      20.4
Total Current Expenditures             100.0   100.0     100.0     100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                               1965-      1973-    1975-   1975-
(Calculated from 3S-year averaged data)           1972      1975      1977    1978
Average ICOR                                      7T9       T-T       7.5        X
Import Elasticity                                  1.6      -2.5     -0.2      0.6
Mrginal Domestic Savings Rate                     0.1       -0.2      0.4      0.3
Marginal National Savings Rate                     0.2       0.6      0.3      0.2
lABOR FORCE ft..1fl7       TotalLabor Force                                     Value Added Per Worker (Current Prices)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                In Millions         %of TotaLl                            In U.S.Dollars     Plercent o6f A-ver:ge
MU-          ~~~1971                                  1971                  1971
Agriculture                           5.3                91                                     98                     43
Industry                              0.1                 2                                   1590                    694
Service                               0.4                 7                                   2170                    948
Total                                 5.8               100                                    229                    100
not applicable          nil1 or negligible
not available        --less than half theEACI
smallest unit shomn                                                                                              FeraryC19A



Page 4 of 4 pages
,frAfcErffS, EXTEr0:AL ASSIdTArCr A'i1D DL:'i
asmem_nts in millimcs of U.S. dollars at. ruret nrice.T)
Avg. Annual
Actual                        Estimated                       Projected                                             Growth Rate
1973        1974        1975                1976         I77         107d       1979        1980                                1973-1980
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                          417 2       465.9       461.0               576.0         621.7     809.8       915.2       1029.6                                 13.8
Iports (incl. NFS)                           545.1       779.1       794.2               750 1        890.2     1035.3      1158.5       1294.1                                 13.1
Resource Balance (X-M)                      -127.9      -313.2      -333.2             T777T           ZSS      -225.       -r24.        -2645                                  10.9
Interest (net)                                -3.9         0          -2.1               -15.8         -17.9     -21.3       -28.1        -36.6                                 38.0
Direct Investment Income                      -7.4        -4 0        -7.3                -3.8          -3.6      -5.0        -5.0         -5.0
Workers' Remottance                              -           -           -                   -             -          -           -            -
Current Transfers (net)                        5,0        45.3        93.0                83.3         100.0      100.0      100.0        100.0                                 55.0
Balance on Current Accounts                 -134.2      -271.9      -2496               -110.4        -90.0     -151.8      -176.4       -206.1                                  6.3
Private Direct Investzent                      9.9         6 3         5.6                 6 0           6.0        6.0        6.0          6.0
Official Capital Grants
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursemients                              98 7       138.0-/     229.4-/             188.8-        234.4     282.9       328.7        364.7                                 21.0
-Repayments                                 -16.4       -14.1       -15.0               -21.6        -23.2      -23.9       -25.8        -34.2                                 10.5
Net Disbursements                             82 3       123.9       214.4               167.2         211.2     259.0       302.9        330.5                                 22.0
Other M&LT Loans
Disbur sements
N-Repaymen.ts
Net Disbursem ents                             .          ..          ..                  ..           ..           .           ..
Actua l                   Es timat ed
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                   72.6        56 93/      20.43/              -3.9                                      1972      1973     1974      1975        1976
Change in Net Reserves                       -30 6        84.8         9.2               -58.9        DE? A4ND DEBi SRRfICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed 359.9     460.2     611.1     787.5       787.5
GRANT AND ILOANIOOMMITMENTS
Official Orants & Grant-like                  58.5        65.8        96.8               123.7         Interest on utblic Debt       6.6       8.2       8.6      11.2        12.8
Repayments on Public Debt    29.1      16.4      14.1      15.0        21.6
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                      Total Public Debt Service    35.7      24.7      22.7      26.2        34.5
IBRD                                           -        65.0        30.0                             Othet Dect Service (net)
IDA                                         22.6        61.2        10.0                             Tot,a Debt Servuce (net)                                     ''          *-
Other                                        1.8         7.1         7.1
Other Multilateral                             -           -           -                           Burden on Export Earmngs (%)
Governments                                 82.8       127.1        91.3
Suppliers                                      -           -           -                             Prblic Debt Service           9.0       5.9       4.9       5.7         6.0
Financial Institutions                         -           -           -                             Total Debt Service             ..        ..
Bonds                                          -PDS'Direct Invest. Inc.                                                           10.1       7.7       5.7       7.3         6.6
public Loans n.e.i.
Total Public MALT Loans                      107.1       260.4       138.4                          AVerage Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanuong on Dec. 31, 1975                   Int. as % Prior Year DO&D     2.3       2.3       1.9       1.8         1.6
ZXTERNAL DEBT                                  Disbursed Only             Percent                       -4mort. as % Prior Year DO&D  10.2       4.6       3.1       2.5         2.7
World Bank                                        80.71. 
IDA                                               80 8                    10.3                       I8RD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Multclateral                                19 0                     2 4                         "  as % Public Debt O&D       6.7       7.1       6.7      10.2        10.1
Governments                                      557.6                    70.8                            as % Public Debt Service4/ 3.5       8.9      12.5      18.4        20.4
Ruonler.                                         23 8                     3.0
Financial Institutions                             12.3                    1.6                       ID) Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                              4.2                     0.5                        " as % Public Debt O&D        13.7      12.5      10.4      10.3        12.0
Public Debts n.e.i                                  9.4                    1 2                           as 8 Public Debt Service4/ 1.2        1.7       2.9       2.8         2.6
Total Public M&LT Debt                           78 .5                   100.0
Other M&LT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
. not applicable                                                  e staff estimate                   I/ Includes drawing on Arab Fund for Africa ($7 1 m)
not available                                                  - nil or negligible                2/ Includes bilateral and multilateral program assistance
not available separately                                      --  less than half the              3/ Includes use of LMF resources
but included in total                                             smallest unit shown            4/  IBRD and IDA debt service as % of public debt aersece
EA CPIA
February 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
A. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
Lending Program
1.        Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.    Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1962, 25 IDA credits and 12 Bank loans, amounting to
$418.8 million, have so far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania
has been a beneficiary of 10 loans totalling $244.8 million which have been
extended for the common services and development bank operated regionally by
Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African Community.
The only IFC investments in Tanzania to date, totalling $4.7 million, were made
in the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. Sections B and C of Annex II contain summary
statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations as of October 31, 1976, and Section D contains notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
2.        In keeping with Tanzania's overall development strategy our
lending operations are increasingly focussing on the rural sector and on
directly productive projects. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 15 loans
and credits made directly to Tanzania had been for infrastructure. Of the
21 Tanzania operations approved since then all but six have been for
directly productive projects. These directly productive projects are
supporting both the agricultural and industrial sectors, including maize,
tea, tobacco, sugar, cotton and cashew production, livestock and dairy
development, fisheries and textiles. The first Bank Group assisted project
in the forestry sector was recently approved and will provide the raw material
for Tanzania's first pulp and paper plant, which is under preparation for
consideration for Bank Group financing. We plan to continue assistance for
such directly productive projects: a project to support selected industries
at Morogoro is expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors
in the near future, a proposed second rural development project in Tabora
Region has been appraised and a third rural development project is under prepara-
tion for Mwanza and Shinyanga Regions. At the same time we are proceeding with
the National Agricultural Development Program (NADP) strategy which was
recommended in the agricultural sector report. The National Maize Program
(Credit No. 606-TA) was the first NADP project approved and a second project
is currently under preparation.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
3.         While it should be borne in mind that over sixty percent of total
Bank Group lending to Tanzania has been approved in the last three fiscal
years and that initial start-up difficulties are perhaps inevitable, the
project implementation difficulties referred to in Section D of this Annex have
been greater than anticipated. Some of these problems stem from the scarcity
of suitably trained and qualified manpower, some reflect the understandable
reluctance and apprehension of an essentially conservative traditional rural
sector to adopt new technologies, and others are a reflection of the strains
created in a society which is attempting a fundamental transformation from one
type of economic, institutional and political system to another. The Government
has become extremely conscious of these implementation issues and is taking
steps to resolve the underlying problems. An earlier reluctance to recruit
technical assistance for implementation has been replaced by a willingness to
utilize such assistance whenever it is demonstrably necessary. The Bank's
Resident Office in Dar-es-Salaam, which has been expanded from one to two
professional staff members, is giving special attention to implementation problems
and the Bank has intensified the support which we are providing to project
implementation through supervision missions. The close proximity of the Regional
Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA) has helped considerably in this effort. Also,
at the request of the Government, about 10 technical staff have been supplied by
the Agricultural Development Service (ADS) and a Bank staff member has been
seconded to the Project Implementation Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture. In
project preparation as well we are attempting to alleviate critical bottlenecks.
RMEA has already been heavily involved in the preparation of projects in the
agricultural sector. Our ability to supply such assistance has proved to be
particularly valuable in a country such as Tanzania where project preparation
capacity is extremely limited and will continue to be so for some time. In
addition, we have provided a technical assistance project (Credit 601-TA)
designed to strengthen Tanzania's project preparation capabilities. In a
longer term attempt to alleviate the human resource constraints our lending
is increasingly emphasizing formal and non-formal training. Furthermore, a
conscious attempt is being made to develop less complex projects.
4.        In terms of debt outstanding and disbursed, the Bank Group is
Tanzania's second largest creditor after the People's Republic of China.
Other major lenders are Sweden, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and the
Federal Republic of Germany. The current low overall debt service ratio of
about 8 percent (including a notional 40 percent share of the debt of the
East African Community Corporations) is expected to rise to about 12 percent
by 1985. Including a notional 40 percent share of EAC debt, the IBRD is
presently holding 15 percent of Tanzania's outstanding external debt and IDA
10.8 percent; the IBRD share is expected to fall to about 10 percent by 1985
and the IDA share to rise to about 13.1 percent. Debt service payments to
the Bank are about 30.9 percent of total debt service payments; the corresponding
share for IDA is 2.2 percent. These two figures are projected to become 30.6
percent and 3.5 percent, respectively, by 1985. The Bank's exposure is high
because several major donors are now making their aid available either on grant
basis or very concessional terms and because, as a result of prudent debt
management, suppliers' credits have been kept to a minimum. The average interest
rate on loans to Tanzania outstanding at December 31, 1975 amounted to only 3.5
percent and the average final maturity was 42 years.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
East African Community (EAC)
5.        The 1967 Treaty for East African Cooperation made provisions for
far-reaching and comprehensive economic cooperation arrangements among Kenya,
Tanzania and Uganda. In its initial years the EAC had set up institutions,
policies and procedures for operating the common market and the large infra-
structure services, and encouraging progress was achieved. It has been followed,
however, by a period of tension and mutual suspicion concerning the distri-
bution of net benefits derived from the Community. This arose out of diverse
political developments in the Partner States and increasing pressures from
certain quarters to gain control of the common services. The growth of inter-
state trade was impaired as a result of restrictive measures concerning
trade and foreign exchange. These difficulties were aggravated by the severe
budgetary and balance of payments constraints faced by all three Partner
States in the past few years. As a consequence, there has been a continuous
diminution in the authority of the Community institutions and in the effect-
iveness of accountability procedures. Failure to agree on arrangements for
transfer of funds between the Regional Offices and the service Headquarters
have often paralyzed the operation of the Headquarters, affected their morale
and on a number of occasions led to delays in meeting their external obligations.
6.        In 1975 the Partner States recognized that their fundamental poli-
tical and economic differences had so affected the working of the Community
that a review of the 1967 Treaty was called for. A Commission was appointed
for this purpose in November 1975 consisting of three cabinet-level members
from each country, with Mr. William Demas, Chairman of the Caribbean Develop-
ment Bank, as Chairman. The Commission adjourned sine die in November 1976
without being able to make agreed recommendations regarding the future structure
of the EAC. The Authority of the EAC consisting of the Presidents of the three
countries have received a personal report from the Chairman of the Commission.
The Authority has not met since 1972 due to political problems between the
countries, and it seems unlikely that the Presidents will meet in the near future
to resolve the EAC problems. Meanwhile further deterioration in Community
relationships has led to a disorderly dismantling of the Corporations. The
Railway Headquarters has liquidated itself and the nationals working in the
Headquarters have joined their respective Regional Offices. Recently the East
African Airways Corporation (EAA) collapsed in part due to the lack of effective
mechanism for interstate transfer of funds. The Headquarters of the East
African Harbours Corporation exists in name only with the ports authorities in
Mombasa and Dar es Salaam functioning autonomously. The East African Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation, which so far has functioned wiTh a semblance
of Headquarters responsibilities, is fast decentralizing its functions to its
Regional Offices. Thus, with the exception of the East African Development Bank,
all the other headquarters of the service corporations of the Community are in
an advanced stage of disintegration and disarray.
7.        For several years the Community problems have had a serious impact on
debt service payments by the Corporations and these events culminated in 1976
when service payments on several Bank loans were delayed. As a result, disburse-
ments on Bank loans to the Community were suspended by the Bank in April 1976
and, as the Executive Directors were informed on May 25, 1976 (SecM76-383), a
mission visited East Africa to discuss with the Presidents and Finance Ministers



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
these debt service problems. Agreement was reached on May 28, 1976 to ensure
remittances from the Regional Offices of the Corporations to cover all overdue
payments and, as these were made by June 1, 1976, the suspension was lifted.
Since then debt service payments have been made on time and the Agreement to
cover service payment responsibilities was extended in December 1976 to include
1977 external debt obligations.
8.        The difficulties facing the EAC and the common services have affected
the Bank's lending to the Community. Except for a second line of credit to the
EADB in March 1976, the other corporations have received no new loans from the
Bank since 1973. The Bank has continued to disburse on its 6 ongoing loans to
the Corporations and as of December 31, 1976, $44.4 million remain to be dis-
bursed. In addition, the Bank has provided assistance in the preparation of
Railways, Harbours and Telecommunications development projects. However, in
the light of the virtual break up of the service corporations the Bank is
reviewing its ability to assist with current investments and urgently needed
future investments. Bank staff have over the past year or so been providing
whatever assistance has been requested by the Partner States and by the Review
Commission. The Bank has also made it known to the Partner States that further
assistance for moving in an orderly manner to new institutional arrangements
would be made available should this be requested.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1976
(US$ million)
Amount less cancelLations
NQ.      Year    Borrower     Purpose                   Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
Four Loans and seven credits fully disbursed            70.2   52.0
586-TA   1969    Tanzania     Roads                      7.0               1.9
149-TA   1969        "        Education                         5.0        0.4
217-TA   1970                 Tobacco                           9.0        0.5
232-TA   1970                 Education                         3.3        0.8
265-TA   1972                 Roads                             6.5        1.1
287-TA   1972                 SmalLholder Tea                  10.8        3.3
371-TA   1973                 Education                        10.3        9.3
382-TA   1973                 Livestock"                       18.5        9.6
454-TA   1974                 Cotton                           17.5       15.0
460-TA   1974                 Tanzania Investment Bank          6.0        2.5
1014-TA   1974                 Cashewnut                 21.0              11.9
495-TA   1975                 Sites and Services                8.5        5.1
507-TA   1975                 Highway Maintenance              10.2        9.3
508-TA   1975                 Rural Development                10.0        9.0
1041-TA   1975                 Sugar                      9.0               5.6
580-TA   1975                 Dairy                            10.0        9.0
1128-TA   1975                 Textile                   15.0              13.6
1172-TA   1975                 Tanzania Investment Bank  15.0              12.5
601-TA   1976                 Technical Assistance              6.0        6.0
606-TA   1976                 National Maize Program           18.0       17.3
607-TA   1976                 Education                        11.0       10.9
1306-TA   1976                 Power2/                   30.0              30.0
1307-TA   1976                 Forestry                   7.0               7.0
652-TA   1976                 Fisheries                          9.0       9.0
658-TA   1976                 Tobacco Processing2'              8.0        8.0
Total                                  174.2  229.6     208.6
of which has been repaid             __1,   _3,_
Amount sold                 0.1
of which has been repaid Q.1
Total now outstanding31                172.6  225.8
Total undisbursed                       82.5  126.1
_______________________.___________________________
I/ Includes grant participation of $6.2 million of which $3.4 is undisbursed.
,' Not yet effective.
3/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYAL TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF DECEMBER 31- 1976
(US$ million)
No.      Year     Borrower    Pur2ose                     Amount less cancellations
Bank          _udizbuLaad
Three loans fulLy disbursed                              75.0
638 EA   1969       EAHC      Harbours                   35.0               1.9
674 EA   1970       EARC      Railways                    42.4              9.6
675 EA   1970       EAPTC     TeLecommunications          10.4              0.01/
843 EA   1972       EADB      Development Finance          8.0              0.0
865 EA   1972       EAHC      Harbours                    26.5              8.1
914 EA   1973       EAPTC     Telecommunications          32.5              9.8
1204 EA   1976       EADB      Development Finance         15.0             15.0
Total                                     244.8              44.4
of which has been repaid
Total now outstanding                     208.7
Amount sold                 24.4
of which has been repaid Z4A4            0
Total now held by Bank3/                  208.7
Total undisbursed                          44.4
1/ $10,653.49 remains undisbursed.
2/ $5,843.80 remains undisbursed.
3/ Net of exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
D. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(as of February 15, 1977)
There are currently 24 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217-TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million
Credit of October 9, 1970; Date of Effectiveness -
February 1, 1971; Closing Date - December 30,__17
Project infrastructure investments are 95% compLete, all 15
complexes and 114 viLlages are established and water development has
improved with 54 vilLages having permanent water supplies, 50 temporary
water and the remaining 10 are being surveyed for water. Only 314 km
of roads have been established compared with appraisal estimates of
1,104 km. The reduced road construction program is however considered
sufficient for present production. A total of 10,700 farmers, about
70% of appraisal target have been recruited and total production of wet
leaf from the project is estimated to have increased from 675,000 kg in
1974-75 to about 1.2 million kg in 1975-76. Measures to enforce minimum
tobacco acreages per family are expected to contribute to increased
tobacco production. However, yields per hectare and quality of leaf
have been below anticipated levels. Improvements are required to
strengthen the extension and cooperative services.
Credit No. 287-TA - SmalLholder Tea Project: $10.8
million credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
July 26, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
After initial serious management problems the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has now finally reached a satisfactory level of senior
staffing and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and an improve-
ment in the control over the field activities. A recent supervision mission
These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regardina
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the actions beina taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
estimated that 5,734 hectares had been planted by the end of 1975/76
season, i.e. 69% of the target of 8,300 ha which should have been
achieved by June 1974. Yields are Lower than expected due to competi-
tion from coffee and/or maize in some areas and Lack of labor and poor
soil conditions elsewhere. This may adversely affect the viability
of TTA which is already seriously overstaffed and depends on factory
profits for its revenue. TTA has prepared an initial proposal for a
second phase project but before proceedina considerable examination
of existing problems will be needed.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closina Date - December 31, 1977
Project implementation has been extremely slow and disbursements
thus far have been a fraction of the appraisal forecast. This reflects
the size and complexity of the project and delays encountered in recruiting
staff and concluding contracts for the construction of abattoirs and supply
of heavy earth moving machinery. Project implementation is expected to
pick up momentum now that scie of these problems have been resolved. However,
a number of post-appraisal developments such as marked reduction in the
world market price of bully beaf and meat products, escalation of project
costs, the availability of adequate beef supplies, delays in project imple-
mentation and the weak financial position of the implementing oroanization
have adverseLy affected viability of the project. Because of this an
indepth review is beino undertaken by the Bank staff and consultants.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness - April 5,
1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
This project continues to face severe operational difficulties
although progress has been made during the year in the consoLidation of
scattered hoLdings into villaae block farm areas. There have been continu-
ing difficulties in effectively usina technical assistance and in properly
integrating project management with the regionaL authorities. More important,
recent analysis of research data by RMEA and the Bank-financed project pre-
paration team in Mwanza has raised questions about the technicaL package
oriainaLLy recommended for this project. This matter is presently under
close examination by the Government and the Bank and various options are
being considered. A Dank technical review mission is scheduled to visit
Tanzania in March.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0
milLion Locn of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 2'1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The project has been progressina satisfactorily with materials
for civil works either on site or in transit. Original completion target
dates are likely to be achieved in spite of an initial delay of about two
months. The Cashewnut Authority's take-over of the industry and consoLi-
dation of its activities are proceeding slowly. Its Finance and Accounting
Department needs strengthening to speed up the establishment of meaningful
financial and physical control over the Authority's activities. Recruit-
ment of senior staff at departmental head level needs to be intensified
in order to develop capacity for growth resulting from the project's con-
struction of five additional cashewnut processing factories.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
The rate of construction of most villaae infrastructure durina
the past six months has been impressive. The villagers' self-help con-
tribution is extremely positive, and the organization of Government
services has considerably improved, although the supply of critical
materials still presents a bottleneck. The construction of classrooms
and godowns are going on very well but performance on health facilities
and on water supply systems is disappointing, the latter due to limited
implementation capacity of the Regional Water Engineer's Office. Agricul-
tural performance is mixed. Last year's crop seems to show sizeable in-
creases in the regional production but yield levels are low. Moreover,
farmer commitment to the present season's crop seems     mixed    with late
planting and limited interest in procurina inputs. Proposed Government
programs of villaae-level trials and improved agricultural extension have
not yet begun.  Delivery of part of the present season's inputs has been
delayed by the unavailability of train wagons in Dar es Salaam. Marketing
of last season's crops proceeded generally satisfactorily, although problems
of cash advances continue to arise and credit payment is only about 35%.
Training of village bookkeepers and extension workers is going accordina
to schedule. Little progress has yet been made on the minor project com-
ponents of fisheries, feeder roads and livestock. The baseline survey for
project evaluation is virtually completed and promises interesting results.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 24, 1975; Closing Date - December 31_ 1979
Estate and outgrower development continues satisfactorily and
ahead of schedule. Project management is confident that all clearing
and planting could be completed one year earlier than forecast. The new
factory was opened by the President of Tanzania on August 3, 1976 and
commenced milling on September 10, 1976. Initial teething problems
have hampered output and attempts are being made to sort these out.
The housing construction program has improved and completion will only
be slightly behind target. There continues to be difficulties in the
provision of adequate project funds from the Government and the lack of
a clear policy for cane growing by estate, outgrowers, and ujamaa villages
is likely to affect future supplies.
Credit No. 580-TA Dairy Development Project: $10.0 million
Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - November 28,
1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
The Government is proceeding with the recruitment of key personnel
and the first phase of procurement. The first supervision mission is
scheduled for early 1977.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: $18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Although the National Maize Project had a satisfactory start it
is now beset by a number of problems. The deficiencies of support services,
the lack of extension field staff, shortages of transportation and the
instability of regional supervisory staff are seriously limiting the
effective and systematic transmission of innovations to farmers. Contri-
bution of farmers to the financing of project inputs for the 1975/76 season
have been disappointing. Because of the shortfall in farmers' contribu-
tions and the tiaht budoetary situation of the Government, the project
is also facing problems of financing its 1976/77 input requirements.
Another problem is the lack of coordination between the central ministry
responsible for the overall project and the regional authorities in charae
of local implementation. Finally, the recent disbandment of cooperative
unions has created a serious gap in the maize marketina system which the
National Maize Corporation (NMC) has difficulties to fill. The growing



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
transport problem is seriously affecting maize marketing as well as input
delivery by parastatals to regions.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: $8.0 million
Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress achieved during the 1975/76 planting season was satis-
factory. For the next year's planting program -- the first project year --
it is envisaged that 2,000 ha would be planted compared with 1,500 ha in
the appraisal estimate. The Project Director, the SilviculturaList/Forest
Economist and Financial Controller have been recruited. The Roads/Mechanical
Engineer is still not recruited. The fire hazard in the area is particuLarly
serious this year as the dry period started two months earlier than normal.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: $9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12_ 1976; CLosing Date - December 31, 1981
So far, project implementation is satisfactory particularly the
components under the direct management of the Ministry of NaturaL Resources.
However, Tanzania Fisheries Corporation (TAFICO) is experiencing difficulty
in reaching agreements with the District Development Corporations for the
establishment of the commercial fishing centers. The DDCs appear to be
reluctant to enter into joint ventures as minority shareholders with
TAFICO. As a result of the delay in project approval, there has been some
delay in project implementation. The project Coordinating Committee
therefore proposed a new implementation schedule to the November/December
1976 supervision mission which was endorsed by all parties involved.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: $8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31 , 1981.
This project was just declared effective.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 million
Credit of February 5, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - May 10,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
The CLosing Date for this project has been extended 12 months
to December 31, 1977 to provide ample time for its completion. ALL
civiL works,furniture and equipment contracts have been awarded. Civil
works are about 80% complete and are expected to be completed before
the current Closina Date. Ineffective project unit management, currently
under-staffed because of budgetary problems and shortage of qualified
personnel, has limited follow-up activities and delayed correction of
deficiencies. A number of changes in programs and management of the
institutions involved in this project have been discussed with the
Government.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3 million
Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - July 2,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
Estimates of project cost overruns are now reduced to about
25% over appraisal estimates as a result of curtailments of the project
(deletion of three secondary schools) and more favorable than anticipated
bids on civil works. Out of 18 project institutions, construction works
have started on 10 sites. Disbursements are onLy 15% of appraisal
estimates. Time lost in design and tenderina is being made up, but
project completion is likely to be about 12 months behind schedule. A
medical health consultant has given impetus to the lagging medical
health components of the project. The experimental self-help construction
project item (eight Community Education Centers) requires special attention
in future to help overcome problems of supply, distribution and control of
building materials and supervision of construction standards. Disbursements
are not a good criterion of the progress of implementation, which is now
satisfactory.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: $11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
A good start has been made with respect to the Village Management
Technicians (VMT) Training Program. All five Rural Training Centers have
been rehabilitated and instructional staff trained. VMT courses commenced



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
at three of the five Centers. Budgetary constraints are likely to impose
a reduction in the leveL of training activity in the coming year. The
Project Executive is adequately staffed. Also, the program has been
handicapped by slow procurement of vehicles and equipment and delays in the
construction of housing. Planning and tendering for schools in the secondary
schools component is progressing well.
IANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project:-       $6.5 million
Credit of August 6, 1971,. Date of Effectiveness - October 12,
1971; Closirng Date - December 31l 1973
Project implementation has been slow and the Closing Date of the
project has been postponed twice.    The new construction work on the 'ikindani-
Mingoyo section of the Mtwara-Mingoyo road was virtually completed in
December 1976. However, apart from preliminary material investigations and
testing, no work has commenced on the repair, improvement and resealing of
the road from Mtwara to Mikindani; it is anticipated that the work will
be undertaken in the tirst half of 1977. The progress of the Geita and
Mara Betterment and Maintenance Units is still below expectations as both
Units continue to be hampered by breakdowns of equipment, delays in getting
spare parts and shortages of cement. We have received one of the two Dre-
investment studies financed under the project. Project completion is now
estimated by the end of 1978.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
Project components are behind schedule but progress is now picking
up. A contract has been signed with ORT of Geneva for 21 technical experts
but this was far later than originally planned. Progress on the construction
of workshops, offices and road camps has been slow. The first Lot of equip-
ment procured under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures has
1/ The Second Highway Project included Loan 586-TA which was for US$7.0
million. When the project was completed, surplus funds of US$1.9
million were allocated to the Third Highway Project in 1975.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
begun arriving in Tanzania. The problem of ensuring adequate Local resources
for project implementation has been focused on and discussed with the Govern-
ment by the recent supervision mission. The consultant's report on the road
transport industry was taken into consideration in the recent appraisal of
a proposed project to assist the trucking industry in Tanzania.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0
million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 31, 1974; Closinq Date - December 31 1978
The project is proceeding well. The construction work on all
seven sites are expected to be completed on schedule. Other components
of the project are progressing satisfactorily. Because of the inconsisten-
cy of the Credit documents with the Land Rent and Services Act, some
modification of the documents are necessary. Proposed changes have been
forwarded by the Government to the Association for review.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: $15.0 million
Loan of January 29, 1977; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This loan is not yet effective.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit has been fully committed.
Loan No. 1172-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: $15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Commitments under this Loan are proceeding quickly. Sub-projects
totalling $9.5 million have been approved for disbursements.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Loan 1128-1A - Mwanza Textile Project: $15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1979
The project. is progressing extremely well and project execution
is on schedule. Tenclers for the bulk of the plant and machinery have
been evaluated and ccntracts placed with suppliers. Contracts for civil
works have been concluded. The cost of the project is currently well within
appraisal estimates. A study by consultants to examine the feasibility
of establishing a textile plant to prodt'ce cotton-polyester blend material
is underway.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: $6.0 million
Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - September 14,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
After some delays, the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) selected
TATA Consultina Engineers to provide personnel to implement the project.
The contract was signed in the middle of October and the personnel arrived
in late 1976. TIB has taken preliminary steps to market the facilities
under the project to parastatals and Government agencies. Considering
the limited publicity given, the response is encouragino. However, many
potential users have not responded yet and a more intensive and extensive
effort is necessary. The studies for improving efficiency or existing
investments and the implementation of the training program had not
commenced at the time of the last supervision mission.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
$30 million Loan of August 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31,
1981
This loan is expected to be declared effective shortly. Contractor's
offers for all major works have been received and the main civil engineering
bids indicate there may be significant ccst overruns.



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currentLy 6 projects under execution in the EAC.
Loan 674-EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1977
The physical execution of the original project has been seriously
delayed due to administrative and political problems within the Community
and the East African Railways Corporation's unsatisfactory procedures for
procurement, investment planning and coordination. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments in
track material. Agreement was reached in July 1975 for the hiring of
consultants to assist EARC with outstanding organizational and financial
issues. Coopers and Lybrand (financial consultants hired by ODM) completed
their asset studies in early 1976 and CANAC (technical consultants) have
submitted a report on decentralization of the railways.
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: $35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: $26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973- Closin2 Date - June 30L 1977
Considerable delays have occurred in implementing the project
financed partly by Loan 638-EA. However, construction is now more than
95% complete. The Closing Date has been postponed from December 31, 1976
to December 31, 1977. The major civil works financed partly by Loan 865-EA
were completed in September 1975, six months behind schedule. All Loan
funds are committed under contract, which have been awarded. Some
smaller project elements intended to be financed under Loan 865-EA will
have to be deleted. Cost overruns for cargo handling equipment, tugs
and lighters financed by CIDA have occurred, and the credit has been
increased accordingly from Can. $26.0 million to Can. $33.5 million. Port
labor productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo through-
put has declined considerably. General cargo through-put has increased
above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, where the three berths
financed under Loan 865-EA have been completed and are being used. Cargo
handling productivity here has improved with increasing through-put.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
Loan No. 843-EA - East African Development Bank Project:
$8.0 million Loan of June 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness -
SePtembert 281972j Closing Date - June 30_ 1977
The entire loan has been fully committed by EADB.
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: $15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
June 7, 1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
This LQan was declared effective on June 7, 1976. No funds
have so far been committed under this Loan.
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September l9' 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
All major works other than microwave and UHF/VHF system cons-
truction have now been completed despite initial delays caused by
staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of the
headquarters. Because? of the long time lead required for the micro-
wave equipment, the project is expected to be fully completed by mid-
1979. The Closing Dal:e has accordingly been postponed to December 31,
1979.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA PROGRAM CREDIT
Credit Summary
BORROWER:             United Republic of Tanzania
AMOUNT:                US$15.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                 Standard IDA terms
PROJECT:               The proposed project would provide (a) foreign
DESCRIPTION:           exchange for imports of essential capital,
intermediate goods and raw materials for the
public and private sectors and (b) the use
of the counterpart funds stemming from such
import financing for expenditures on certain
votes of the Government's 1976/77 and 1977/78
development budgets which are not otherwise
financed from foreign sources.
PROCUREMENT            Imports by the private and parastatal
ARRANGEMENTS:          sectors would be subject to normal
commercial practices. In respect of
imports by governmental agencies, the
Government's tender procedures would
apply. For overseas procurement, these
require advertisement in the Government
Gazette and in the local press and notice
to local embassies. Practically all the
countries from which prospective suppliers
are likely to be interested are represented
by missions in Tanzania. The procedures
normally require at least six weeks notice
for submission of bids.
DISBURSEMENT
AR1ANGEMENTS:
Imports:         The borrower would be reimbursed for the
foreign exchange expenditure on eligible
imports on the basis of evidence to be
submitted to the Bank periodically. No
disbursements would be made for food, fuel,
fertilizers and consumer goods or for imports
for which other sources of foreign financing
have been secured. Individual import
expenditures of less than $1,000 would not
be eligible for reimbursement.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Counterpart
Funds:             The Bank of Tanzania would open a special
project account in the name of the Government,
to which the Tanzania shilling equivalent of
imports financed under the loan would be
credited. The Government would withdraw funds
from the project account to cover development
expenditures under specified votes in its
1976/77 and 1977/78 development budgets. The
use of the counterpart funds in financing such
expenditures would be limited to those expen-
ditures which are not otherwise financed by
external agencies.



ANNEX IV
TANZANIA
PROGRAM CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Initial discussion with Bank:       May 1975
(b)  First Bank mission:                 November 1975
(c)  Appraisal mission departure:        November 6, 1975
(d)  Negotiations:                       April 1976
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:      April 1977
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(1) The proceeds cf the credit would be withdrawn only to
finance imports listed in specified BTN categories; and
(2) The Borrower has agreed to set up a project account for
counterpart funds. Amounts credited to that account
will be used to finance expenditures included under
specified votes of the Borrowers 1976/77 and 1977/78
Development Budgets.



ANNEX V
ECONOMIC UPDATING REPORT ON TANZANIA
Table of Contents
Page
I.  Introduction .............................................       1
II. Macro-Economic Developments                    ..                 2
A.  Background to the 1974/75 Economic Crisis.                   2
Investmeniz and Resource Mobilization.                       2
Trends in Aggregate Output.                                  5
The External Sector.                                         8
Income Distribution and Employment .10
B.  Economic Crisis and Response ......................... 12
Dimensions of the Economic Crisis .................... 13
The Government's Policy Response ..................... 15
Some Destabilizing Policies .......................... 17
III. Performance in Key Sectors                    ..                  22
A.  Agriculture and Rural Development .................... 22
B.  Industry .............................................. 25
C.  Education ............................................. 27



ANNEX V
Page 1 of 29
I. Introduction
1.        Recent economic developments in Tanzania have been dominated by
two sets of forces: a continuing history of institutional change in pursuit
of social and economic objectives, and a severe economic crisis precipitated
by the simultaneous deterioration of the terms of international trade and
two successive years of drought.
2.        The propensity towards institutional innovations has not been the
product of political instability; on the contrary, Tanzania has had a degree
of continuity and stability in political structure and leadership which is
virtually unrivalled in Africa. It is this continuity which has permitted
the evolution of a deeply held set of goals and has facilitated experiments
in social transformation in pursuit of the goals. In 1967 the Tanzanian
leadership carried out a searching assessment of the country's previous
development experience and potential and emerged with a comprehensive articu-
lation of social and economic objectives. These objectives, which were seen
as mutually inter-dependent, include transition to a participatory socialist
economy, self-reliance at local and national levels, and a more equitable
distribution of income. The objective of egalitarian socialism was to be
achieved through a strategy which emphasized rural development, social owner-
ship of the major means of production, a fundamental reform of the education
system, and the creation of economic institutions and structures conducive
to participatory decision-making. This strategy has spawned a series of
institutional initiatives, chief among which have been the nationalizations
of large-scale industry, commerce and finance in the late 1960s, the creation
of numerous parastatal bodies, the movement to create ujaama villages
characterized by communal ownership and production, the 1972 decentralization
of Government, and the more recent mass campaign of villagization.
3.         It is important to stress this record of institutional change
because it severely constrains any attempt at assessing Tanzania's economic
performance in terms of the traditional categories of GDP growth, income
distribution and macro-economic stability. This is partly because of the
difficulty of assessing institutional changes themselves, since these are
typically imbued with a high dose of non-economic objectives, and are charac-
terized by a long-term perspective. At least as important, however, is the
difficulty of factoring out the effects of more traditional economic policy
instruments like public investment, tax/expenditure policy, wage/price policy
and foreign exchange management in a period of rapid institutional change.
Nevertheless, it would be unwise to go to the extreme of arguing that the
traditional categories for assessing economic performance are irrelevant.
For one thing the goals of growth, greater income equality and macro-stability
are all explicit or implicit in the Tanzanian pantheon of objectives. For
another, however important the non-economic components of Tanzanian goals,
their successful attainment is, to a large degree, predicated on good performance
with respect to more narrowly defined economic objectives.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 29
II. Macro-Economic Developments
A. Background to the 1974/75 Economic Crisis
Investment and Resource Mobilization
4.        A sustained effort at increasing investment expenditure has been
one of the most impreSsive elements of Tanzania's development performance
in recent years. As Table 1 indicates, gross domestic investment as a
proportion of GDP increased from less than 15 percent in 1965 to over 20
percent in the early :L970s, where it has held steady since. There has been
a corresponding increase in fixed capital formation, which has risen from
13 percent of GDP in :L965 to around 20 percent in the early 1970s. Within
the category of fixed capital formation it seems legitimate to draw a
further distinction between the monetary and the non-monetary sectors, on
the grounds that the :Latter is largely beyond the influence of policy. 1/
The increase in the ratio of monetary fixed capital formation to monetary GDP
is, if anything, even more impressive than the aggregate record, having risen
from 15 percent in 1965 to around 25 percent in the early 1970s.
5.        This increase in investment effort occured during a period when the
relative importance oi- different categories of investing agents was changing
markedly. (See Table 2.) In 1965 the private sector accounted for 60 percent
of all monetary fixed capital formation. By 1970 its share had fallen to
under 30 percent, and by 1973 the public sector was responsible for almost
four-fifths of monetized fixed capital formation. Quite clearly, the increase
in aggregate investment effort during this period was spearheaded by a massive
public sector investment program. Within the public sector the relative
importance of parastal:al enterprises increased sharply. 2/
6.       Until 1971 t:his impressive investment effort was matched by a
strong savings performiance; between 1965 and 1970 the ratio of gross domestic
savings to GDP rose from 15.5% to 18.1%. However, after 1971 the savings
performance clearly faltered. The underlying data do not permit a precise
identification of where the shortfall in savings has been concentrated, but
three trends seem to have been operating. First, private monetary savings, 3/
which accounted for two-thirds of gross savings in 1970 declined steadily from
12 percent of GDP in that year to 8 percent,in 1973. In part this was due to
increased taxation, but an additional reason has probably been the uncertain
climate for investment opportunities; as the share of private investment has
fallen so has the share of private savings. Second, despite a remarkable effort
gj  The current policy emphasis on self-help investment would run counter
to this assertion, but the national accounts system is yet to gear up
to measure such investments.
2/  While there certainly was an immediate increase in the investment
responsibility of parastatals following the 1967 nationalizations,
subsequent increases can be wholly explained by the classification of
the TAZARA project under parastatal investments. Excluding this
single lumpy investment there has been no significant change in the
relative importance of different public sector agencies in investment
activity since 1970.
3/  In the national accounts estimates, "private monetary savings" is a
residual item which includes savings attributable to cooperatives and
East African Community Corporations.



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 29
Table 1: Investment and Savings Ratios 1/
Average                                           2/      2/
1965    1967-69     1970     1971    1972    1973     1974    1975
GDCF (current
GDP     price)             14.6      17.0      22.5     26.4    21.7     21.7    22.4     22.4
CDCF (constant
GDP   1966 prices)         13.3      16.3      21.5     24.4    18.9     19.0    20.4     20.4
GDFCF (current
GDP     price)             12.9      16.0      20.5     24.2    21.1     20.5    19.4     20.8
!Monetary GDFCF (current
Mtonetary GDP    price)     14.7     19.2       25.1    30.3    26.1     25.0    23.5     26.7
CDS   (current
GDP    price)              15.5      16.4       18.1    17.6    16.6     14.9     8.3      9.2
INS* (current
'MP    price) 3/           14.5      15.8      17.9     17.2    16.3     14.5     8.1      8.9
GNS   (current
GNP    price) 3/           15.1      16.7       18.9    17.6    16.0     14.8    10.2     12.4
1/  The following standard abbreviations are used:
GDCF = Gross Domestic Capital Formation
GDFCF = Gross Doumestic Fixed Capital Formation
GNS = Gross National Savings
GDS = Gross Domestic Savings
2/  Prov-ional
3/  Tanzanian accounting practice classifies all transfers as current transfers even
though there has been a growing proportion of capital transfers in recent years.
Thus we have defined GNS* to exclude all transfers, while GNS includes them. The
correct definition would include only current transfers and fall between our two
concepts.



ANNEX V
Page 4 of 29
Table 2: Shares in Monetary Fixed Capital Formation (current prices)
(percent)
1965       1967      1970       1973
Private                                      60        37         28        22
Public                                       40        63         72        78
Central Government                       23         20        25         20
Parastatals                               1         27        39         47
of which:   TAZARA                    (-)        (-)        (16)      (26)
Other Parastatals           (1)      (27)       (23)      (21)
Other 1/                                 16         16          8        11
Total                                      100        100        100       100
1/ Includes Local Authorities and East African Community entities.
Source:  Table 7, Statistical Appendix.



ANNEX V
Page 5 of 29
at raising Government revenue (the Central Government recurrent revenue/
GDP ratio rose from 15% in 1967 to 20% in 1973), the ratio of Government
savings to GDP fell to 0.4% in the period 1971-73 from a level of 1.5% in
1966-68. Finally, though the parastatal sector has grown rapidly in recent
years, through acquisitions and fresh investment, its contribution to
savings has not grown commensurately. In sum, while the public sector has
been successful in increasing its share of disposable income in the economy,
it has not shown a high marginal propensity to save. On the contrary the
process of income transfer seems to have been from a high-saving segment
of the private sector to a lower-saving public sector.
Trends in Aggregate Output
7.         Between 1967 and 1973 GDP at constant factor cost grew at an annual
rate of 4.5 percent. With population growing at 2.7 percent, this meant that
per capita product grew at only 1.8 percent per year on average. For an
economy investing over 20 percent of its income this was not an impressive
record. Nor was there any noticeable acceleration in the rate of growth (see
Table 3) in response to the increased rate of capital formation, indicating that
the ex-post incremental capital-output ratio for the economy had increased
over time. There were three reasons for this modest yield on aggregate invest-
ment. First, the composition of investment during the entire period 1966-73
was tilted heavily in favor of high ICOR, long-gestating, infrastructure sectors
(Table 4). Transport and communications together received 43 percent of all
fixed capital formation, reflecting the major projects (road, pipeline and
railway) undertaken to cement the trunk routes to Zambia. When investments
in power and water supply are included the share of infrastructure rises to
more than half of all fixed capital formation. The directly productive sectors
of agriculture, manufacturing and mining received less than a quarter of fixed
investments.
8.         The second reason underlying the modest trend growth in aggregate
output was the sluggish performance in the key sector of agriculture. Despite
the importance attached to rural development in the country's development
strategy since 1967, agricultural output increased at only 2.7 percent per
year between 1967 and 1973, barely keeping pace with the rate of growth of population.
With 40 percent of GDP originating in this sector the implications for the rate
of overall GDP growth were obvious. Part of the explanation for a slow growing
agriculture lay with the meager allocations of capital received by this sector
(Table 4), but perhaps more important was the fact that this sector bore the
burden of the major institutional changes which characterized this period of
Tanzanian development. While in many respects these changes, especially the
1972 decentralization of Government, increased the potential for broad-based
rural development, it is difficult to escape the conclusion that during the
period of transition, the upheavals and uncertainties in framework, organization
and management of the supporting services for agriculture and rural development



ANNEX V
Page 6 of 29
Table 3: Growth Rates in GDP and Selected Sectors
1/     1/
1967-73    1967-70     1970-73    1974    1975
GDP (factor cost)          4.5        4.3         4.7       2.2     4.6
Agriculture                2.7        2.7         2.6      -3.3     6.6
'lanufacturing             7.6        7.8         7.4       1.4     0.3
Transport and
Communications          8.8       10.8        6.8        6.2     1.3
Construction               6.5        4.1         6.7      -0.9    -8.6
Public Administration
and Services            7.7        5.3       10.2       13.1    15.3
1/ Provisional'
Source: Table 4, Statistical Appendix.



ANNEX V
Page 7 of 29
Table 4: Fixed Capital Formation by Industry
(percent shares)
1966-69     1970-73      1966-73
Agriculture                     9.6         5.8          7.1
Manufacturing and Mining       16.4        15.7        15.9
Electricity and Water
Supply                      6.6         8.2         7.6
Transport and
Communications             35.9        46.9        43.2
All Other                      31.5        23.4         26.2
Total                    100.0       100.0       100.0
Source: Table 9, Statistical Appendix.



ANNEX V
Page 8 of 29
took their toll in terms of foregone potential output. Finally, GDP
growth during this period would have been greater if the efficiency of
resource use had improved in the monetized, non-agricultural sectors. In
fact, by 1973 there were both micro and macro signals that factor
productivity in sectors like manufacturing was declining.
The External Sector
9.        Despite the sluggish performance of domestic output, the balance
of payments did not present major problems up to 1973. Between 1967 and
1973 there was a gradual increase in net foreign exchange reserves. While
this was an indicator of' prudent foreign exchange management, it was not
a true guide to the growth of Tanzania's foreign exchange earning capacity.
In 1967 Tanzania had a small deficit on its trade account (equivalent to
3 percent of its merchanidse export earnings) which was more than compensated
for by net earnings on non-factor services (Table 5), indicating a positive
resource balance. By 19,72 the trade deficit had grown to 40 percent of
merchandise export earnings, and the current price resource gap (deficit on
goods and non-factor services) stood at 5.2 percent of GDP.   By itself an
increasing resource gap is not a source for anxiety for it is a necessary
concommitant of rising levels of resource transfer from abroad, and since
1970 Tanzania had been enjoying a sharply increased net capital inflow, much
of it associated with financing of the TanZam Railway (TAZARA). What is more
disturbing for the long-run viability of the external sector, however, is the
disappointing record on commodity exports. The increasing reliance on foreign
capital was associated with a declining share of domestic resources devoted
to producing exports.
10.       Between 1967 and 1972 the volume of merchandise exports increased
by a little less than 3 percent a year, though this trend disguises sharp
year to year fluctuations that might be expected in an agricultural economy.
The growth in volume of the six principal unprocessed agricultural exports
(coffee, cotton, sisal, cashewnuts, tea and tobacco), which together accounted
for 50-60 percent of total commodity exports during this period, was even
slower, barely 2 percent a year. The slow growth in agricultural production,
noted earlier, was clearly reflected in these export trends. That the current
price ratio of exports of goods and non-factor services to GDP declined only
2 percentage points between 1967 and 1972 (Table 5) is attributable to two
developments: the beginnings of the commodity price boom which was already
affecting export earnings by 1972, and increases in non-factor service earnings.l/
In 1973, as the world coimmodity price boom gathered steam and the pace of
general world inflation accelerated, Tanzanian merchandise export volumes
declined almost to 1967 Levels. While there was some decline in the volume of
principal agricultural exports, the shortfall was concentrated in other export
categories indicating weaknesses in export performance unrelated to weather.
Despite the shortfall in export volumes, price increases in excess of 20
percent increased merchandise export value by 11 percent in 1973, and kept the
trade deficit from widen:Lng. At the same time increases in net capital inflow
allowed an addition to net foreign exchange reserves of 215 million shillings.
1/ Much of these increases reflected earnings from freight and insurance
of goods being transported between the port of Dar-es-Salaam and Zambia
and Burundi.



ANNEX V
Page 9 of 29
Table 5: Balance of Payments (Mainland)
(millions of shillings)
1967       1972      1973       1974      1975
Exports f.o.b.                       1,654      2,086     2,302      2,719     2,434
Imports c.i.f.                       1,706      2,925     3,410      5,137     5,423
Trade Balance                          -52       -839    -12018     -2,417     2,990
Services (Net)                         -66        256       130        152       451
Transfers (Net)                         52        -30        35        323       6
Balance on Current Account             -66       -613      -942     -1,942    -l 850
Capital (Net)                           76        868       909      1,309     1,437
of which:   Exceptional Financing      -          -         -         383       475
Net Errors and Omissions                41        134       248         28        345
Overall Balance                         51        389       215       -605       -68
Net Change in Reserves
(+ = decrease)                      -51      -389       -215       605         68
As Percent of GDP (current market prices)
1. Exports of Goods and Non
Factor Services                 26.5      24.4       22.3       20.9      18.4
Goods                      22.5      18.1       17.7      17.1       13.1
Non Factor Services         4.0       6.3        4.6       3.8        5.3
2. Imports of Goods and Non
Factor Services                 26.2      29.6       29.2       35.1      31.7
Goods                      23.2      25.6       26.0      32.4       29.4
Non Factor Services         3.0       4.0        3.2       2.7        2.3
3. Current Price Resource
Balance (= 1-2)                  0.3      -5.1       -6.8     -14.2      -13.3
Sources: Tables 10 and 14, Statistical Appendix.



ANNEX V
Page 10 of 29
Although the balance of payments thus presented no real financing problem
in 1973, the decline in export volume at the time of a gathering export
price boom meant that the economy paid a severe penalty in terms of fore-
gone earnings, even before the onset of the economic crisis of 1974.
11.       Two other trends in the export sector may be noted.    First, there
was a small increase in the share of Tanzanian exports going to the East
African market (mainly Kenya) from an average of 5 percent of total exports
in 1966-68 to 8 percent in 1971-73. Though this increase was sizeable in
relative terms, it was still quite small in absolute terms, which meant that
Tanzania's export fortunes continued to be determined overwhelmingly outside
East Africa. Secondly, the share of processed goods in total exports did
not change markedly; it was 30 percent in 1966-68 and 28 percent in 1971-73.
Thus, during a period when unprocessed agricultural exports suffered from a
weak production record in agriculture, no real success was achieved in building
up processed exports as a viable alternative.
12.       On the import side the most striking trend was the doubling in
merchandise import value between 1967 and 1973. In the earlier years nearly
all the increase reflected volume growth, while in 1972 and 1973 it also
captured significant import price inflation. The economy's increased depen-
dence on imports is not only indicated by the ratio of imports to GDP, which
increased sharply (Table 5), but also by the changes in composition in favor
of intermediate and capital goods. The share of consumer goods fell from 41
percent in 1966-68 to 28 percent in 1971-73, while the share of capital goods
increased from 22 percent to 27 percent, and that of intermediate goods from
37 percent to 45 percent over the same period. In part this change in
composition of imports reflected import substitution in consumer goods, but
it also underlined the increasing dependence of production on the importation
of capital and intermediate goods from abroad.
13.       Finally, the increases in net capital inflow during this period were
overwhelmingly from official sources and on easy terms. The main donors were
the People's Republic of China, IBRD/IDA, the Nordic countries, United States,
Canada and Federal Republic of Germany. Most of the flows took the form of
interest-free long-maturity loans. As a consequence, in 1973 the debt service
on public medium and long-term debt claimed only 5.4 percent of earnings from
exports of goods and non-factor services, and 80 percent of the public debt
held at the end of 1973 had a maturity of over 20 years.
Income Distribution and Employment
14.        Improving the distribution of income has been a major focus of
development policy since 1967. It is useful to distinguish three different
dimensions of distribution: intra-urban, intra-rural and urban-rural. All
three have witnessed important policy initiatives which have had varying
degrees of success.



ANNEX V
Page 11 of 29
15.       The nationalizations of 1967 and subsequent years were central
to a strategy of preempting the evolution of an indigenous urban class
reaping high incomes from commercial and industrial capital. At the same
time the "Leadership Code" contained in the Arusha Declaration banned Party,
Government and parastatal leaders from any kind of involvement with private
business. In this way the possibilities of "topping up" Government salaries
with private consultancies and directorships were sharply reduced. The
danger of the growing parastatal sector becoming a source for high urban
incomes was also perceived. In 1968 parastatal salary and fringe benefit
policies were brought roughly into line with Government pay scales. These
measures were largely preemptive in nature, they prevented or moderated the
emergence of a high income, urban citizen elite, rather than actually reducing
existing upper-level incomes. The task of reducing intra-urban income dis-
parities amongst citizen wage and salary earners centered on two sets of
measures: tax and wage policy. Taxation, especially indirect taxation, became
increasingly progressive, while public sector wage and salary adjustments
between 1967 and 1973 were always tapered and usually left the top brackets
unchanged. Though taxation and compression of salary scales were powerful
influences on the distribution of intra-urban citizen, wage/salary incomes,
the actual change in the distribution of income during this period was much
less owing to the operation of two counter-balancing forces. At the highest
levels of the income spectrum individuals benefited from rapid promotion as
new posts were created and old posts were "citizenized". In the middle orders,
incumbents benefited from a marked upward shift in the skill-composition of
wage/salary earners. Even if the net effect on the distribution of urban
citizen incomes was small, it is quite clear that without the tax and salary scale
adjustments the distribution would have worsened markedly.
16.        In rural areas much of the disparity in household incomes reflected
factors innate in the soil, ecology and weather, which differ markedly across
Tanzania's agronomic zones. However, in some areas a history of cash crop
development had created income differences which were regarded as potentially
inimical to the underlying equity objectives of the Tanzanian leadership.
As a consequence, two kinds of policy thrusts can be discerned in the period
1967 to 1973. The first, a negative one, was a reluctance to use producer
price policies to increase smallholder incomes in the belief that the benefits
would accrue chiefly to the already well-to-do. More positively, 1968 saw
the launching of the ujaama program as an effort at broad-based rural develop-
ment centered on communally organized villages. It is difficult to estimate
the overall effect of these policies on the distribution of rural incomes.
To the extent that these policies entailed some loss of potential agricultural
output, it is likely that the shortfalls in output and income were concentrated
on the better-off farmers, who were more likely to have reaped the benefits
of higher producer prices. On the other hand the increase in agricultural
wages (decreed by Government policy) combined with the fall in agricultural
employment worked in the opposite direction to worsen the intra-rural distribution
of income.



ANNEX V
Page 12 of 29
17.       Perhaps the most. important area of distribution policy has been
that of urban-rural incomE differentials. Though over 90 percent of
Tanzanians reside in rural. areas, with the overwhelming majority engaged
in smallholder farming, the real income increases prior to 1967 had been
skewed heavily in favor of the urban sector, dominated by wage/salary earners.
Average small farmer real incomes were between a quarter and a third of
average wage/salary incomes. This gap in urban-rural living standards has
been a prime target for policy since 1967. In rural areas the effort focussed
on raising output, incomes and public consumption, though achievements by
1973 were limited. Amongst wage-salary earners an incomes policy introduced
in 1967 aimed at restricting nominal wage increases to 5 percent a year.
While in the initial years the policy had a powerful effect on moderating
increases in wage and salary scales, the marked upward shift in the skill-
composition of the wage-salariat, which had occurred by the end of 1973, raised
average wage/salaries at a rate nearer to 8-10 percent a year. Indeed there
is strong evidence that the change in skill-composition reflected a widely
prevalent practice of in-service promotion and job reclassifications, which
weakened the influence of the incomes policy. In any case, by 1972 the incomes
policy had been largely abandoned. Although these nominal increases in average
urban citizen wages and salaries, noted above, translated into smaller real
income increases owing to the effects of taxation and inflation, the available
evidence nevertheless indicates that between 1967 and 1973 there was no
significant change in urbani-rural real income differentials. While this was
a vast improvement on the previous record of sharply diverging living standards,
it remained a cause for serious concern.
18.       In one important respect the continuing gap in urban-rural living
standards exacted a significant cost in terms of Tanzania's objectives of
equity and growth. After 1968 urban formal sector employment increased rapidly
(between 1969 and 1974 the rate of increase of regular employment was 5 percent
a year). Much of this increase reflected increasing degrees of overmanning,
especially, but not exclus:Lvely, in the growing parastatal sector, where the
profitability checks on such overmanning were, at best, weak. The increase in
formal sector employment, coupled to the rural-urban real income gap, created
substantial incentives for rural-urban migration at rates well above those
which could be accomodated in formal sector employment. The result was an
increase in open urban unemployment (the rate of urban unemployment is estimated
to have gone up from about 8 percent in 1969 to 16 percent in 1974) and rapid
growth of the low-income irLformal sector. The equity costs of this process are
obvious. Further, since irt most areas of Tanzania in this period agricultural
output was labor-constrainetd, there is likely to have been some loss of potential
agricultural output associated with this "excess migration".
B. Economic Crisis and Response
19.       In 1974 the Tanzanian economy was buffetted by an economic crisis of unpre-
cedented proportions. The proximate causes of the crisis were outside Tanzania's
control and took the form of a severe drought and the most dramatic increase in import



ANNEX V
Page 13 of 29
prices that Tanzania had experienced, but because of its severity and
suddenness the crisis drew attention to some of the longer term weaknesses
in savings, production and export performance outlined earlier. By doing
so it triggered or accelerated a set of policy changes which were necessary
for longer-term viability of the economy. However, the economic crisis did
not slow the pace of social transformation. While the tenacity with which
these changes were pursued attested to the Government ts commitment to
fundamental social change, it also heightened the risk of failure from over-
commitment of human and material resources at a time when the availability
of real resources had been significantly reduced by external shocks.
Dimensions of the Economic Crisis
20.       Late in 1973 the rains failed in several regions.    By 1974 the
drought had intensified and spread to other parts of the country. Between 1972
and 1974 the production of maize, the basic staple, declined by over 20 percent. 1/
Paddy and wheat suffered even sharper output declines. The effect on marketed
surpluses of foodgrains, reflected in the domestic purchases by the National
Milling Corporation (NMC), the parastatal charged with purchase and distribution
of foodgrains, was even more dramatic.   In the 1974/75 buying season NMC purchases
of maize and wheat fell to less than one-fourth of their 1972/73 levels, while
rice declined to less than half. At the same time that the domestic supplies into
the public food distribution system were drying up, the demands on it were
soaring. To bridge the yawning foodgrain deficit the Government was compelled
to import 440,000 tons of foodgrains in 1974, much of it at the high commercial
prices than prevailing in the world markets. Maize imports alone amounted to
291,000 tons, compared to an average of 36,500 tons in 1970-73. The total food
import bill rose from 274 million shillings in 1973 to over a billion shillings
in 1974.
21.       Food was not the only addition to the import bill.    The increase in
petroleum prices and the general world inflation in manufactured and capital
goods raised average import prices to Tanzania by nearly 60 percent. Despite
a drop in volume the value of net petroleum imports increased by about 200
million shillings. Overall, import volume registered a small decline, but the
net effect of the price increases was to raise the value of merchandise imports
by over 50 percent from 3,410 million shillings in 1973 to 5,137 million
shillings in 1974.
22.       The drought also took its toll of Tanzania's exports.    Export volumes
of coffee, cotton and sisal declined by 32, 20 and 18 percent, respectively,
and overall export volume declined by more than 20 percent. This decline
coincided with the sharpest increase (about 50 percent) in export prices in
Tanzania's history, an increase resulting from the massive surge in world
commodity prices in 1974. For the second year in succession, but with more
dramatic effect, a decline in export volumes sharply curtailed Tanzania's
benefits from the world commodity boom. The outcome was that despite the huge
increase in export prices export receipts grew by only 18 percent between 1973
and 1974.
1/ These are orders of magnitude only, since the production figures for
all subsistence crops in Tanzania are only estimates.



ANNEX V
Page 14 of 29
23.       The effect of these movements in foreign trade prices and volumes
was to widen the trade deficit from 1,108 million shillings in 1973 to
2,417 million shillings in 1974 (Table 5). A favorable balance on services
and a much improved position of net transfers (due to food aid and an increase
in bilateral grant aid) kept the increase in the current account deficit to
a billion shillings. With net public capital inflow from traditional sources
at roughly the same level as in the previous year, the additional current
account deficit was financed by a massive depletion of foreign exchange reserves
and recourse to IMF drawings (gold tranche, first credit tranche and 1974 oil
facility). By the end of 1974 net foreign exchange reserves were equivalent
to only one month's imports.
24.       Continuing drought in the 1974/75 growing season further depressed
export volumes in 1975; the effect was compounded for certain crops (notably
cotton) by the disruptions caused by the massive villagization program
initiated in the latter half of 1974. While average export prices continued
to hold up (prices for some crops like sisal and cotton declined from their
1974 peaks), the lower export volume led to a ten percent decline in export
value. Food imports continued heavy (415,000 tons) in the first two-thirds
of the year, tailing off in the latter third as the improved weather in 1975
together with the Government's exhortative campaign to "grow food as a matter
of life or death" began to show results in the form of a better harvest.
Despite extremely tight controls on all other categories of imports, which
reduced overall import volumes below the 1974 level, the total import bill
increased by almost six 'percent, due to continuing import price inflation in
the range of 10 to 15 percent. As a result of these trends the trade deficit
widened in 1975 to almost three billion shillings. However a heavy inflow
of grant assistance and food aid and a much improved outturn on services
account (partly due to the opening of the TAZARA line) kept the current account
deficit from widening. The deficit was met through increased disbursements
on project-related aid and a massive infusion of program assistance, including
a $30 million World Bank program loan, further IMF drawings and multilateral
assistance from the Arab Fund for Africa. Including multilateral and bilateral
grants (classified in the balance of payments under transfers), total net
capital inflow in 1975 WELs about $300 million or over $20 per capita.
25.       While the worsened balance of payments situation was the most glaring
symptom of the macroeconomic adjustment problems created by the economic crisis,
domestic savings also suffered. The current price ratio of gross domestic
savings to market price GDP declined from 14.9 percent in 1973 to 8.3 percent
in 1974. It is difficult to gauge the extent to which this decline was simply
a mirror image of balance of payments developments and to what extent it
reflected independent behavioral trends. Some elements of the latter were
clearly at work, although the absence of up to date information on the composition
of savings makes diagnosis difficult. Savings by the Central Government turned



ANNEX V
Page 15 of 29
negative, perhaps in the order of 250 million shillings (1.5 percent of GDP), as
a result of the increase in public sector wages and salaries associated with the
May 1974 wage award (see below) and a rapid increase in some categories of
recurrent expenditures. Recorded parastatal savings held up in absolute amounts,
but only because of an inadequate treatment of the massive Government subsidy
to the National Milling Corporation occasioned by the food relief effort. While
some of the fall in private sector savings is attributable to the real income
losses entailed by the economic crisis (in some quarters the alternative of
reducing consumption would have risked starvation), some of it may have also
reflected a trend decline in private savings.
The Government's Policy Response
26.        Two objectives dominated the Government policy response to the
economic crisis: first, in the short-run to protect the weaker sections of
the society from bearing the brunt of the crisis; and second, looking ahead,
to maintain the pace of the development program - despite the reduced
availability of real resources it chose a strategy of "growing out of the
crisis".
27.        In effect, the first objective meant importing as much food as was
necessary to relieve the hardships inflicted by the drought. It also led to
a massive wage increase in May 1974 which had double-edged consequences. To
mitigate the effects of the rising food import bill, the Government sharply
tightened controls on non-food consumer imports in mid-1974. Automobile
imports were cut back drastically and liquor and tobacco imports banned. In
addition overseas travel allowances for business and tourism were reduced,
certain dividend remittances suspended and remittances to relatives abroad
reduced. To reduce domestic consumption of petroleum, prices of gasoline and
related products were raised to fully reflect cost increases and a ban was
imposed on Sunday afternoon driving.
28.        As the crisis unfolded it became clear that with a reduced avail-
ability of real resources, the goals of maintaining the rate of real investment
and shoring up the consumption of those suffering income losses from the
drought required curbs on other elements of private and public consumption.
Indirect taxes on textiles, beer and cigarettes were increased. Retail prices
of key foodstuffs were raised in November 1974 (maize flour by 60 percent,
sugar by 100 percent and rice by 150 percent), although food for famine relief
continued to be free. A one-year wage freeze was declared after the May 1974
award, and wage adjustments of 12 percent in May 1975 were confined to the
lower end of the wage-salary scales. No further general wage increases have
been legislated since then despite increases in the National Consumer Price
Index of 20 percent in 1974, 26 percent in 1975 and around 15 percent in 1976. 1/
1/ The index covers 18 towns in Tanzania and is the most representative
available price index. Other price indices relating to Dar-es-Salaam
low-income wage earners and middle grade civil servants indicate
sharper price increases.



ANNEX V
Page 16 of 29
In a further effort to control the growth of public consumption the
Government attempted to curb overall growth of recurrent expenditures,
which had been accelerating since 1972/73. Between 1968/69 and 1972/73
net recurrent expenditures had growl at 16 percent per year.   Between
1972/73 and 1974/75 the per annum rate of growth increased to 45 percent
owing to the continued expansion of Government responsibilities, the wage
awards of 1972 and 1974 and the expanded need to purchase food in world
markets. The 1975/76 budget constituted a determined effort to reverse
the trend and cut back recurrent expenditures (net of debt repayments) to
a level 14 percent below the revised 1974/75 estimate, implying a very
substantial real reduction in recurrent expenditure.
29.       To facilitate the longer-term adjustment to both the short-run
crisis and the longer-t:erm legacy of worsened terms of trade, the Govern-
ment realized the importance of increasing the economy's productive
capacity, especially the production of tradeable commodities which could
help bridge the massive balance of payments deficits. Government action
stressed two instruments of policy: agricultural producer prices and the
composition of public investment. In May and November 1974 the Government
announced substantial Increases in agricultural producer prices (127 percent
for maize, 75 percent for wheat and 35 percent for paddy). At the same
time the process of review and decision making on agricultural pricing was
strengthened and institutionalized through the staff work for the annual
Agricultural Price Review by the Ministry of Agriculture's Marketing Develop-
ment Bureau. This regular review focussed attention on both the level and
structure of producer prices. Further price increases were announced in
September 1975 (for details see below) for the 1975/76 growing season, and
again in October and December 1976 for the 1976/77 season. The latter
increases were facilitated by the 14 percent devaluation of the Tanzanian
shilling in October 1975.
30.       Even more important for the rate and structure of long-term
growth was the restructuring of public development expenditure carried out
in the budgets of 1974/75 and 1975/76. The 1974/75 Government Development
Budget allocated 36 percent of expenditures to directly productive sectors
of agriculture, industry and mining, compared to a realized average of 23
percent in the preceding four years (Table 6). For total public investment
(as defined in the Annual Plans) 45 percent was allocated to directly
productive activities. Despite implementation'problems the realized shares --
28 percent for Government Development expenditures and 41 percent for total
public investment -- were higher than corresponding averages for preceding
years. For 1975/76 the allocations to directly productive sectors in the
Government Development Budget and the Annual Plan were even higher than the
shares originally budgeted in 1974/75. What was particularly impressive about
the new directions in public investment was that for projects started in 1975/76
fully four-fifths of public investment funds were allocated to the directly
productive sectors. As the allocation for new projects is a more genuine



ANNEX V
Page 17 of 29
indicator of current priorities than is the full investment flow, this
percentage makes apparent the change in investment strategy. The 1976/77
budget and Annual Plan maintain high shares for directly productive
sectors, at 42 and 48 percent, respectively.
Table 6 : Sectoral Shares in Government Development Expenditure and Plan Investment
(Percentages)
Annual Plan Investment
1975/76
Government Development Expenditure                                 Planned
1970/71-    1974/75         1975/76        1974/75       All         New
1973/74   Prov. Actual    Budget Est.   Prov. Actual    Projects   Projects
Directly
Productive         22.9        28.2            38.5           41.3          47.7       78.8
Economic
Infrastructure     47.8        44.5            36.4           36.5          32.0       12.1
Social
Infrastructure      8.0         8.7             9.6            7.1           8.2        8.6
Other              21.3        18.6            15.5           15.1          12.1        0.5
Total             100.0       100.0           100.0          100.0         100.0      100.0
Source:  Statistical Apperdix Tables   21  and 22.
Some Destabilizing Policies
31.       The economic crisis was aggravated by two steps taken before its
full extent was realized. First the wage award of May 1974, which increased minimum
wages by more than 40 percent and incorporated tapered increases for higher incomes,
increased unit labor costs by 30-35 percent. The aim was to compensate low-paid
wage earners for past cost-of-living increases and to anticipate future increases:
the effect was to worsen inflation and hasten the decline in saving. The second
step was the initiation of the villagization program which quickly escalated
into a far more comprehensive effort than had been foreseen, involving the move-
ment, in 1974, of several million peasants into new or old settlements from their
previously scattered homesteads. This massive movement of persons inevitably
had an adverse impact on agricultural production in 1975. As the newly settled
peasants, understandably, concentrated their efforts on growing subsistence food
crops, and were encouraged to do so by the Government, the marketed surplus of
export crops in affected areas bore a disproportionate burden of adjustment
(cotton is the prime example).



ANNEX V
Page 18 of 29
32.       Even after the full extent of the economic crisis should have
become apparent, the implied scarcity of resources was not fully appreciated
in all quarters. Late in 1974 and early 1975, the TANU Party leadership
advanced the target dates for universal primary education (UPE) and universal
rural water supply (URWS) from 1989 to 1977 and from 1991 to 1980, respectively.
In large part the pressure for rapid expansion of social services arose from
the accelerated villagization program: the newly settled villagers expected
the benefits of improved social services. To some extent the declaration of
these new targets for social services should be seen as exhortative attempts
to mobilize self-help efforts to provide services. Certainly, the Government
continued to hold the line on budgetary allocations to reflect the priority
for directly productive sectors. Compared to 1974/75 the regional development
budget allocation for primary education in 1975/76 was 28 percent higher
and that for rural water supply 22 percent higher, increases which were not
out of line with the 20 percent increase in the overall development budget.
And the 1975/76 recurrent budget allocation for primary education was only
9 percent higher than expenditures in the previous year. Instead of greatly
stepped up budget allocations the Government has concentrated efforts (especially
in primary education), on generating local self-help efforts to construct low-
cost facilities and has experimented with various alternatives for reducing
the cost of teacher's services. Although these have been successful in
holding down budgetary expenditures in the short-run, a careful analysis indicates
that recurrent costs implications of UPE are likely to be quite severe in the
medium and long-run.
33.       The wage awards of 1972 and 1974, the determination to push ahead
with development spending, and the growing tendency towards over-commitment
of Government efforts (exemplified by the growth of administrative respon-
sibilities associated with the decentralization of Government) found
reflection in the rapid increase in Central Government expenditures (Table 7).
Between 1972/73 and 1974/75 net recurrent expenditure nearly doubled, rising
from 2,066 million shi:Llings to 3,991 million. Development expenditures
rose even faster and in 1974/75 were two and a half times what they had been
in 1972/73. With revenues growing slower than recurrent expenditures, the
surplus on recurrent ac:count disappeared and the overall deficit on Central
Government operations grew fourfold in nominal terms. That inflation was only
a part of the story behind these large increases in nominal values can be
seen by examining the trends as shares in GDP (Table 8). Between 1972 and
1974 the share of Central Government expenditure increased from 24 percent to
33 percent of GDP, that: of recurrent revenue grew from 18 to 22 percent, and
the overall deficit grew from 6 percent to 11 percent. By any standards, this
was a dramatic increase in the scale of Central Government operations in the
economy, and an expansion which was mainly funded by drawing on resources
outside the recurrent revenue system.
34.        Even though net foreign finance to the Government in the form of
loans and grants was increasing rapidly in absolute amounts during this
period, it failed to keep pace with the widening of the overall budget deficit.
Its share in the financing of the overall deficit fell from 73 percent in



Table 7: Summary of Central Government Operations
(millions of shillings)
1/         2/        3/
1970/71    1971/72   1972/73    1973/74   1974/75    1975/76   1976/77
4/
Adjusted Recurrent Revenue          1,682      1,803     2,284      3,022     3,900      3,994      4,731
Net Recurrent Expenditure           1,555      1,643     2,066      2,695     3,991      3,630      4,033
Recurrent Surplus                     127        160        218       327        -91       364        698
Development Expenditure               889        884        956     1,642     2,352      2,309      3,220
Other "Expenditure" 5/                 38        -35      -124       -232        -22       502         -8
Overall Deficit (- = deficit)        -800       -689      -614     -1,083    -2,421     -2,447     -2,514
Financed by (percent shares)        100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0
Net Foreign Finance                  32.4       50.1      72.8       57.6      56.9       40.6       67.2
(Net Loans)                      (31.9)    (43.0)     (61.2)     (37.9)    (33.0)     (16.6)    (33.9)
(Grants)                          (0.5)      (7.1)    (11.6)     (19.7)    (23.9)     (24.0)    (33.3)
Net Domestic Finance                 67.6       49.9      27.2       42.4      43.1       59.4       32.8
(Banking System)                 (39.6)    (41.2)     (-0.2)     (25.9)    (28.1)     (47.6)    (20.0)
(Non-bank Sources)               (28.0)      (8.7)    (27.0)     (16.5)    (15.0)     (11.8)    (12.8)
1/  Provisional Actuals.
2/  Approved Estimates for Revenue; Revised Estimates for Expenditure and Financing.                              a 
3/  Budget Estimates.
4/  The main adjustment is exclusion of foreign grants which are treated as a financing item.                       c
5/  Reconciliation item between fiscal and monetary accounts which in recent years has grown                      o
rapidly to include expenditures not fully accounted for in the revised expenditure estimates.
Source: Table 20, Statistical Appendix.



ANNEX V
Page 20 of 29
Table 8: Fiscal Trends: Ratios to GDP (market prices)
1/
1971     1972      1973     1974     1975      1976
Adjusted Recurrent
Revenues              17.8     18.1     20.2      21.8     21.2     20.4
Total Expenditure        25.4     24.0     26.7      32.9     34.3     32.0
Net Recurrent          16.3     16.5     18.1      21.1     20.5     17.9
Development             9.1      8.2     10.0      12.6     12.5     12.9
Other                   0.0     -0.7     -1.4      -0.8      1.3      1.2
Overall Deficit          -7.6     -5.8     -6.5     -11.1    -13.1    -11.6
1/  Assumes 1976 growth of 15 percent in nominal value
of market price GDP over 1975.



ANNEX V
Page 21 of 29
1972/73 to 57 percent in 1974/75, with the residual being taken up by a
very rapid increase in Government borrowing from the domestic banking
system. In 1974/75 the Government borrowed 856 million shillings from the
banking system or nearly three times the recourse to banks in any previous
year. One consequence was a 27 percent increase in the supply of money and
quasi-money in 1974/75. In a regime of direct controls on prices and
imports, no short-run links can be drawn between movements in money supply
on the one hand and inflation and balance of payments on the other. Never-
theless it is quite clear that monetary growth of this magnitude contributed
to the environment of excess demand.
35.       Though the 1975/76 budget incorporated a serious attempt to cut
back net recurrent expenditures, success was limited. The revised estimates
do not tell the whole story for they have not yet been reconciled with the
banking system accounts. Every indication suggests that the recent growth
in spillover of expenditures authorized in one fiscal year into the next (a
major reason for discrepancies between the fiscal and monetary accounts) has
been associated with attempts by spending units (often successful) to evade
the stringent expenditure limits imposed by the Treasury. Total expenditures
in 1975/76 were clearly well above budgeted amounts and Central Government
recourse to the banking system increased from the 1974/75 level to 1,089 million
shillings, compared to the 150 million shillings estimated in the annual
Finance and Credit Plan. Quite clearly, it was proving difficult to reverse
the pattern of rapid expenditure growth in an environment characterized by
continuing inflation and an underlying tendency to extend human and financial
resources in pursuit of ambitious social and economic objectives. The 1976/77
budget underlines this point with its increased allocations for recurrent
and development expenditures (the latter is 40 percent above the revised
estimate for 1975/76). To avoid excessive recourse to the banking system the
1976/77 budget calls for a 20 percent increase in net recurrent revenues.
But, given the problems of budget control, and the uncertainties associated
with year-to-year spillovers of expenditures, it is not clear whether recourse
to the banking system can be held to the planned amount of 700 million shillings.



ANNEX V
Page 22 of 29
III. Performance in Key Sectors
A. Agriculture and Rural Development
36.       Agriculture dominates the Tanzanian economy, contributing 40
percent to GDP, 80 percent of exports (in terms of both unprocessed
and processed agricultural products) and employing around 90 percent of
the labor force. Between 1967 and 1973 agricultural value added grew at
only 2.7 percent per year, slightly less than the rate of population
growth. Behind this average trend lay sharp year-to-year fluctuations
in output of both subsistence and monetized agricultural output, a record
of instability which underlines the dependence of Tanzanian agriculture
on natural factors li'ke weather. The slow rate of growth has been a
characteristic of both cash crops and foodgrains. As a result export
volumes rose little, while an emerging food deficit led to repeated
recourse to foodgrain imports since 1971. Most of the growth which did
occur came from expansion of the area under cultivation. Though population
pressures have begun io be felt in areas like Bukoba, Sukumaland and
Kilimanjaro, potentiaLly good quality land remains unutilized in many
districts and considerable growth potential exists from further extensions
of cultivated area. In the long-run even more can be expected from inten-
sification of agricultural practices, which until 1973 had shown little
progress.
37.       The causes underlying the weak agricultural performance are varied
and include inadequate farmer incentives, insufficient research on appropriate
technical packages (especially for foodcrops), a poor infrastructure base,
an inefficient extens:ion service and serious defects in supply and marketing
systems. One common thread has been the absence of a stable environment for
peasant producers which offers remunerative returns to farmer effort combined
with adequate and reli:able support in the form of marketing, inputs and
extension services. Though rural development has been at the center of the
Government's development objectives since 1967, the Government strategy has
stressed the creation of institutions appropriate for broad-based, long-term
equitable development rather than quicker income/output gains from provision
of incentives and supporting infrastructure and services to progressive
farmers. At least since 1967, the Government has viewed the latter strategy
as fraught with the danger of increasing skewness in the distribution of
rural incomes and assEts. Thus, until recently, producer price policy had been
neglected. Instead the Government has concentrated its energies on undertaking
a series of institutional reforms aimed at moving the rural sector towards
the long-term vision of communal production in small, self-reliant villages.
Amongst the institutional changes which have had far-reaching impact on the
rural environment have been the ujaama village movement (launched in 1968),
the decentralization of Government in 1972, the accelerated villagization program
of 1974-76 and the 1976 overhaul of the structure of cooperatives, which abolished



ANNEX V
Page 23 of 29
regional cooperative unions and ushered in multipurpose village cooperatives.
Over the same period the specialized marketing boards have been transformed
into parastatal crop authorities with much wider functions and responsibilities.
38.       The implementation of these institutional changes has frequently
embodied deviations from their original conception. For example, the ujaama
program conceived an almost spontaneous coming together of scattered homesteads
in mutually supportive, participatory and self-reliant village communities.
In fact most of the ujaama villages formed prior to 1974 were created under
the aegis of massive exhortative campaigns by the Government and Party and
depended heavily on the central bureaucracies for their impetus, design and
services. The most recent spate of villagization was accomplished through a
combination of persuasion and compulsion, though the latter ran contrary to the
principles outlining the evolution of ujaama villages. Even though the means
adopted have sometimes gone against initial principles, however, there has been
a consistent attempt to create a situation which, at least physically, is closer
to the long-range vision of village communities. And institutional changes like
the decentralization of Government have brought day-to-day decision making
closer to the rural masses and have laid the ground for the mounting of integrated
rural development programs. Still, this succession of institutional reforms
has repeatedly altered the framework and organization within which rural produc-
tive activity is carried out and has undoubtedly imposed considerable uncertainty
costs on the average peasant farmer.
P.         >nice 1974, on the other hand, the Government has shown increasing
pragmatism in the execution of policy in the rural sector. For example,
though the villagization program was carried out zealously (and often in an
unplanned and costly manner), the newly settled farmers were allowed to farm
on an individual basis. Physical grouping of scattered homesteads into
villages was justified on the basis of expected scale economies in the pro-
vision of productive inputs and social services and the anticipated speed in
adoption of innovations. While these "technocratic" elements were also
a part of the original ujaama vision, its communal organization aspect has
been shelved, at least for the present. Recent Government investment programs
like the National Maize Project attest to the concern for increasing production
and constitute a part of the strategy of reallocating resources into directly
productive activities. The Government has also taken steps to institutionalize
agricultural producer price policy and use it as a major policy instrument.
Table 9 records the recent pattern of producer price increases.
40.       It is difficult to gauge the effect that these producer price
increases have had on agricultural output and incomes, since their influence
to date has been swamped by the effect of the recent droughts and the program
of villagization. Moreover, recent changes in the marketing system have
compounded uncertainties associated with producing marketable surpluses and
may have vitiated some of the effects of producer price increases. In March
1976 the regional cooperative unions and primary marketing societies were



ANNEX V
Page 24 of 29
Table 9: Producer Prices for Selected Agricultural Crops by Marketing Year
(Shillings per kilogram)
1/        2/         3/  Percent Increase
1973/74   1974/75    1975/76   1976/77   1977/78    1973/74-1977/78
Cotton (seed)
AR                 1.13      1.50      2.00       2.00      2.30           104
BR                 0.60      0.65      1.00       1.00      1.15          109
Cashewnuts
Standard Grade       0.95      1.05      1.05       1.10      1.15            21
Under Grade          0.75      0.95      0.95       0.95      1.10            33
Tobacco
Flue-cured           5.35      5.85      7.00       7.40      7.40            28
Fire-cured           2.40      2.55      3.00       4.50      4.50            91
Maize                  0.33      0.50 4/   0.75       0.80      0.85 5/        157
Wheat                  0.57      0.77 4/   1.00       1.20      1.25 5/        105
Rice (paddy)           O.59      0.65 4/   0.80       1.00      1.20           103
1/  Announced November 1974.
2/ Announced August 1975.
3/ Announced September 1976.
4/ Annournced April 1974.
5/ Announced December 1976.
Source:   Marketing Development Bureau, Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX V
Page 25 of 29
abolished, while villages became multipurpose cooperative societies under
the new Villages and Ujaama Villages Act. The marketing functions of the
old cooperative structure were taken over by the parastatals; whether
these abrupt changes will have significant disruptive effects remains to
be seen.
41.       As regards the pricing and distribution of inputs the picture is
more complicated. Prices of production inputs are established centrally
but because the various agricultural parastatals operate different input
subsidy and credit schemes, prices of selected inputs vary throughout the
country and for different uses. For cash crops the input subsidies are
recovered through the pricing structure for the outputs. Though this
implies allocative efficiency costs, it is generally considered superior
to full-pricing-cum-credit schemes owing to the long history of failures
with small farmer credit schemes in Tanzania. As with outputs, the
uncertainties relating to the distribution of inputs often makes availability
a more important determinant of farmer production decisions than price.
B. Industry
42.       Manufacturing activities contribute about 10 percent of Tanzania's
GDP. Between 1967 and 1974 the manufacturing sector was systematically
transformed from a large private and foreign-owned set of activities into
one where ownership and control was vested predominantly with parastatal
companies. By 1974 parastatal companies accounted for about one-half of
manufacturing value-added and 50 percent of new capital formation. The growth
of public ownership of manufacturing enterprises was accompanied by increasing
reliance on direct controls in allocation decisions and a reduced role for
the market and indirect interventions such as taxes, subsidies and the exchange
rate. Components of the control system include increasingly centralized
decision-making on investments, detailed allocations of foreign exchange
through import licensing, an even more detailed regime of price controls
and rules of procedure operated by the National Pricing Commission, credit
allocation according to the annual Finance and Credit Plan, wage-setting by
the Permanent Labour Tribunal and the Government, and the operation of various
kinds of confinement schedules which constrain the channels of trade open to
manufacturing enterprises. At the same time that the external environment for
manufacturing firms was becoming increasingly subject to controls, within the
firms material incentives for motivating workers and managers were being
deemphasized.
43.        The proliferation of control systems has not been matched by an
equivalent increase in the capacity to monitor and coordinate their operation.
Even the coordination of public investment decisions in manufacturing has



ANNEX V
Page 26 of 29
proven difficult. Parastatal enterprises often appear to initiate and
decide on major industrial investments without appropriate screening
(at an early stage) by central ministries responsible for planning
industrial development. Central control does not eliminate the need to
measure enterprise performance and calibrate investment and output decisions
accordingly. On the contrary, it places greater demands for the creation of
systematic performance criteria. Despite this clear need, performance
indicators consistenl: with the control system are still lacking. By default,
financial results continue to be relied on as a measure of performance, even
though they are frequently more dependent on decisions regarding prices,
wages and input supplies taken outside the enterprise, rather than decisions
and effort applied within the firm. At the micro-level, though material
incentives have certainly been weakened, adequate non-material substitutes
are still generally lacking. Nor is a readiness to use material incentives
within an enterprise easily implementable in the absence of an accepted
framework for enterprise performance. Thus the bonus system for parastatal
workers which has been in existence for some years (but little-used) has
continually foundered on the absence of an objective and unequivocal yardstick
for measuring parastatal performance. The Government has been well aware of
all these problems but has yet to devise effective solutions.
44.       The difficulties with devising an appropriate framework for
industrial activities has been reflected in the overall performance of the
manufacturing sector. Between 1967 and 1973 manufacturing value added
increased at 7.6 percent per year. But this growth was not commensurate
with the increase in productive factors allocated to this sector. A three
year moving average of the observed incremental capital-output ratio for
manufacturing (with output lagging investment by a year) shows a steady
upward trend, from 3.6 in 1968 to 4.9 in 1972 and to 6.6 in 1973, though
the latter figure is heavily influenced by the 1974 stagnation in industrial
output which is attributable to a number of short run factors and the sudden
tightening of foreign exchange licensing (Statistical Appendix, Table 8).
A recent estimate by the Ministry of Manpower Planning 1/ indicates that
aggregate labor productivity in manufacturing may have declined by over 3
percent per year betwaen 1969 and 1974. These aggregate trends are
consistent with numerous specific instances of overmanning which have
developed in enterprises. Recently the Government has become acutely conscious
of these trends, espe,ially the prediliction towards overmanning, and has taken
some measures to reduce the dimensions of the problem. In March 1976 the
Central Government sei: an example by firing nearly 10,000 of its employees
(about 6 percent of the Government work force). Specific actions have been
initiated against ind:Lvidual parastatals, including retrenchments in the head
office of the Tanzanin Tea Authority and at Texco (the textile holding
company) and recent reductions in work force at the cement and packing
plants. Despite these ad hoc positive moves the problem of low factor pro-
ductivity remains crii:ical in the manufacturing sector and is linked to the
continuing absence of a workable system of performance indicators and
incentives (whether material or non-material) for enterprises and their staffs.
1/ In the Annual Manpower Report to the President, 1974.



ANNEX V
Page 27 of 29
45.       Until the early 1970s the Government did not have a well-articulated
long-term industrial strategy. Most industrial investment went into consumer-
good import substitution. Since 1974 a basic industrial strategy (BIS) has been
adopted after serious consideration of other alternatives. In essence, the
strategy aims at a gradual structural transformation of the economy by giving
priority to industries that process domestic raw materials for consumption
in the home market (such as textiles and sugar). The strategy tends to view
the subsequent development of manufactured exports as a logical extension
of production for the home market. However, given the stringency of the
present and foreseeable foreign exchange situation it is not at all clear whether
the strategy's implicit dependence on intermediate and capital good imports can
be sustained without more emphasis on accelerated expansion of manufactured
exports. In fact, despite this long-term strategy, Government investment policy
in recent years has favored direct investment in export-oriented public sector
industries, notably, cashew-processing, sisal-spinning, meat-processing and
leather processing, and has been actively exploring prospects in mineral-based
exports such as soda-ash. While most of the recent export-oriented investments
will bear fruit late in the decade, there is scope for generating more exports
from existing manufacturing industries. But that would require improvements
in underlying factor productivity and favorable changes in the institutional
and price policy framework for manufacturing exports, which have tended to be
neglected thus far.
46.       The importance of tailoring industrial investments to the long-term
outlook on foreign exchange availabilities has been underlined by the recent
incidence of excess capacity in industrial activities caused by the scarcity
of foreign exchange for spare parts and materials. In 1975 eight of the
sixteen major industries for which figures are available were producing at
rates at least 10 percent below their level of production in 1973 or 1974.
C. Education
47.       Since Independence the development of the Tanzanian education and
training system has been structured around detailed manpower forecasting and
planning, with the primary goal of achieving full local skill-sufficiency (in
effect, self-sufficiency in higher level skills) by 1980. As a consequence
initial resource flows and Government attention focussed on expanding the
capacity of secondary schools and higher education institutions. The volume,
composition and content of education was initially built around producing a
few thousand graduates to fill high/middle level manpower imbalances. A
thorough revaluation of the education system in 1967 by the Tanzanian leadership
found it elitist in character, inadequate for preparing students for productive
work, excessively oriented towards book-learning, and divorced from real-world
experience. A subsequent reformulation of objectives stressed education which



ANNEX V
Page 28 of 29
would benefit the masses (instead of the few), would be restructured in
content to match educetion with the pupil's anticipated role in society,
would stress experience and practical work in the curriculum, and would
encourage the development of schools and colleges which were self-supporting
financially, true examples of the national goal of self-reliance.
48.       Until 1974 progress towards these new priorities was mixed.
Perhaps the most successful implementation of mass-oriented education policy
occured in the field of adult education. In 1972, following successful
development of a pilot project, the Government launched a national literacy
program aimed at eliminating illiteracy by the end of 1975. Though the program
has fallen considerably short of the target, it has nevertheless recorded
impressive gains. Enrollment in literacy classed grew from 370,000 at the end
of 1970 to about 3.6 million by the end of 1974, or about 70 percent of the
original estimate of adult illiterates in the population. Of course, enrollment
does not necessarily imply regular attendance and the original figure of 5
million illiterates is believed to have been an underestimate. Nevertheless
progress has been remarkable. A particularly encouraging aspect of the literacy
program has been its suaccess in mobilizing people to act as instructors and in
making use of existing facilities. In that sense it has been the most cost-
effective component of the Tanzanian education system. While instructors came
from many sources (school teachers, secondary school pupils, TANU, etc.) the
largest proportion - over half until 1973 and fully three-quarters in 1974 -
were volunteers, usualLy primary school graduates, who were paid a small
honorarium of 30 shill:ings a month. Classes have been held in primary schools,
factories and government offices: no new construction of facilities has been
required.
49.        In other respects progress towards the educational goals articulated
in 1967 was slow. Though enrollments in the first year of primary school
increased faster than the rate of population growth in the relevant age category,
more than 40 percent of this group were still being missed by the education
system in the early 1970s. The emphasis in primary schooling was on improving
the continuation rate within the primary system more than on rapid expansion
of the base. Throughout the education system examinations continued to play
an over-whelmingly important role. There was some progress in improving
curriculum in favor of more practical subjects, but by and large book-learning
continued to dominate. The growth of self-help activities in constructing
and operating schools was slow. It was against this background that the TANU
Party's National Executive Committee adopted the "Musoma Resolution" in late
1974. The major recommendations were advancement of the target date for UPE
to November 1977, the diversification of secondary school curricula, the
requirement of practical work experience (at least two years) before a candidate
could enter university and a call for downgrading the role of examinations.



ANNEX V
Page 29 of 29
50.       The most far-reaching recommendation was the new target of
UPE by 1977. It immediately raised issues of physical and financial
feasibility and had wide-ranging implications for the viability of
existing educational programs such as the adult literacy campaign and
ongoing curriculum reform within the primary school system. While the
sudden announcement of the UPE target can be readily criticized as an
example of ad hoc and uncoordinated decision-making, it had some
positive aspects. First, it decisively shifted priorities in education
expansion in favor of primary mass-oriented education. This is reflected
in the dramatic increases in Standard I enrollments from under 250,000 in
1974 to 665,000 in 1976. Second, by placing seemingly impossible demands
on the delivery system, it jolted the planners and implementers into
seriously experimenting with lower standard physical school plant and much
higher proportions of self-help than had been entertained before. This
was as true for teaching staff as for school plant. Since the existing
stock of trained teachers was quite inadequate for the new loads implied
by the accelerated UPE program, innovations had to be tried in creating
teaching staff, including the use of various categories of untrained
teachers, such as primary school leavers, secondary school leavers doing
National Service and adult literacy instructors. Basically UPE may be seen
as a way of mobilizing people at all levels towards a relatively easily
defined objective.
51.        The potential dangers implicit in such a crash program hardly
need emphasis. First, by placing excessive demands at the grassroots level
the program could disrupt existing efforts such as the literacy campaign.
Second, with the target expressed in quantitative terms, the emphasis on
boosting enrollments is likely to occur at the expense of all other dimensions
of educational outputs. Third the changed delivery system for the massive
expansion in intakes could create new inequities within the primary school
system   between "UPE schools" and "regular schools" with the output from the
latter getting preferential treatment. Above all, the greatest concern
with the UPE program is the additional resource requirements associated
with its implementation. A detailed analysis indicates that while the capital
costs might be quite manageable through maximum self-help construction of
classrooms and teacher houses, massive future claims on the recurrent budget
will be difficult to evade on present policies. The 1976/77 budget provides
support for this view. Despite the rapid increase in enrollments, noted
above, the regional development budget allocation for primary education is
18 percent lower than in 1975/76, indicating major successes in mobilizing
self-help labor for construction of classroom and teacher houses. But the
recurrent budget allocation for primary education is 26 percent higher than
expenditures in the previous year, despite the heavy reliance on "untrained"
teachers. To achieve serious economies in the longer-run recurrent budgetary
costs the Government needs to consider structural changes including reducing
the number of years of primary education (at present seven), resorting to
"double-shifting", where one teacher instructs two standards, one in the
morning and one in the afternoon, reduction of the real level of teacher
salaries, and cost-recovery from villages as they become the productive income
earning units they are intended to be.



ANNEX V - STATISTICAL APPENDIX
List of Tables
1. Population (Mainland), 1967-1975
2. Distribution of Population by Sex and Broad Age Groups
in 1967 and 1975
3.  Gross Domestic Product by Industrial Origin in current prices,
1961, 1964-1975
4.  Gross Domestic Product by Industrial Origin in 1966 prices,
1964-1975
5.  Resources and Use of Resources in current prices, 1964-1975
6. Capital Formation by Public and Private Sectors, 1964-1975
7.  Components of Monetary Fixed Capital Formation, 1965-1975
8. Trend in Manufacturing Sector ICOR
9. Capital Formaticn by Industry, 1966-1975
10. Summary of Balance of Payments (Mainland), 1965-1975
11. Value of Principal Merchandise Exports, 1965-1975
12. Value, Volume and Price Trends of Six Major Agricultural
Exports of Tanzania (Mainland), 1965-1975
13. Indices of Value, Volume and Prices of Six Major Agricultural
Exports of Tanzania (Mainland), 1965-1975
14. Exports and Imports as Ratios to GDP (market prices), 1964-1975
15. End-Use Classification of Imports, 1965-1975
16. Total Imports by SITC Classification, 1965-1975
17. External Public Debt Outstanding as of December 31, 1967, 1970
1973, 1975
18. Disbursements of External Public and Publicly Guaranteed Debt,
1967-1975
19. Commitments of External Public Loans and Grants by Sources,
1967-1975
20. Summary of Central Government Budgetary Operations, 1965/66-1976/77
21. Government Development Expenditure
22. Public Investment Expenditure
23. Monetary Survey
24.  Domestic Price Indices



ANNEX V
Table 1: POPULATION (MAINLAND). 1967-75
(thousands)
1967             11,946
1968             12,242
1969             12,576
1970             12,916
1971             13,265
1972             13,623
1973             13,991
1974             14,368
1975             14,838
Source: Bureau of Statistics.



ANNEX V
Table 2: DISTRIBUTION OF POPULATION BY SEX AND BROAD AGE GROUPS
IN 1967 AND 1975
(Percent unless otherwise specified)
1967                           1975
Age Group    Male     Female    Total       Male     Female    Total
Below- 5     18.2      17.7      17.9        18.6     18.3      18.5
5 - 14       27.2      24.8      26.0       27.0      26.6      26.8
15 - 44      37.8      42.3      40.1       42.1      41.8      41.9
45 and over  16.3      14.8      15.5       12.3      13.3      12.8
Not Stated     0.5      0.4       0.5          -        -         _
Total       100.0     100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0
Population
('000)    5,835    6,111     11,946      7,389     7,449    14,838
Source: Bureau of Statistics.



Table 3:   GRoSs DOtESTIC PRODWCT BY INDUSTRIAL ORIGIN. 1961, 1964-1975
(Zhs. million at currenit prices)
I/                                                                                                                   Provisional    Provisional
1961      1964     1965        1966       1967       1968       1969        1970       1971       1972       1973           1974           1975
oanetarv sector
Agriculture, hunting,
forestry & fishing               2,282     1,448    1,235      1,406       1.295      1,345      1,449      1,648       1,587      1,817      2,129          2,593          2,866
Mining                               110       134      139        186         198        134        139         105        115        111        122            132             97
Manufacturing 6 handicrafts          139       371      429        525         571        648        742         828        937      1,159      1,332          1,510          1,751
Electricity & water supply            27       42        46          62         64         69         74         84          91         95        110            110            139
Construction                         117       125      137        173         245        266        260         341        429        459        509            601            610
Transport, storage 6
coummication                       171      349       386        482         536        621        668         713        793        878      1,002          1,251          1,318
Wholesale and retail trade &     )
restaurants and hotels         )            661       704        825         825        932        911      1,046       1,109      1,261      1,517          1,801          2,111
)   612
Finance, insurance, real estate )
& business services            )            131       168         165        252        248        274        285         329        369        425            571            681
Public administration &
other services                     412      592       647        688         746        789        814        920       1,016      1,172      1,335          1,697          2,062
Less imputed bank service charges     -        29        46         49         101         85         92         110        134        144        185            228            254
Monetary GDP at factor cost      3.870    3.824     3.845      4.463       4.631      4.966      5,239      5.860       6,272      7.176      8.,296        10.038         11,381
Subsistence Production
Agriculture, hunting,
forestry & fishIng                ..      1,342     1.361      1,547       1,574      1,647      1,632      1,733       1,905      2,201      2,410          2,866          4,067
Construction                        ..         43        47         51          53         57         59          63         67         75         82             93            108
nuner-occupied dwellings            ..        385       418        453         477        511        530        559         601        678        743            839            978
total Subsistence Production      .      1.770     1,826      2.051       2,104      2.215      2.221      2,355       2.573      2.954      3.235          3,798          5.153
GDP at factor cost               3,870    5 594     5.671      6.514       6,735      7.182      7.460      8.215      8.845      10,130     11,531         13.836         16,534
(Annual rate ot growth,  )       (4.6) (,.)         (1.4)     (14.9)       (3.4)      (6.6)      (3.9)     (10.1)      (7.7)      (14.5)     (13.8)        (20.0)          (19.9)
Indirect taxes not of subsidies   ..       436        469        528        608         692        811        958        952       1,140      1,613         2,021           2,049
GDP at current market prices             6.030      6.140      7.042       7.343      7,874      8.271      9.173       9.797     11,270     13,144         15,851         18.583
1/  Sectors not classified into monetary and non-monetary; in 1970 the national income accounts vere completely
revised anid a new series starting with 1964 were constructed.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Planning, National Accounts of Tantania, 1964-1972 and The Economic Surveys.



Table 4: GROSS DOMESTIC PROD)UCT BY INDUSTRIAL ORIGIN. 1964-1975
(Shs. million at 1966 prices)
Provisional    Provisional
1964     1965        1966       1967        1968        1969       1970        1971       1972         1973          1974           1975
Monetary Sector
Agriculture, hunting,
forestry & fishing                        1,246    1,194       1,406       1,350      1,417       1,499      1,589       1,504       1,600       1,611         1,537          1,567
Mining and quarrying                           141      163         186        192         136        135          97         134         97           74            70            60
Manufacturing and handicrafts                  394      446         525        572         611        672         716        7R7                                                  9u2
tiectricity and water supply                    51       53         62          66          72         82          92         96          98          114          123            133
Constructton                                   142      148         173        238         256        236         270        322         329          363           357           320
Transport, storage &
coeaunication                                381      400        482         536         618        644         729        814         852          889          944            956
Wholesale and retail trade &
restaurants and hotels                       670      710        825         816        912         914         984        996         990        1,068        1,096          1,110
Finance, insurance, real estate
& business services                          146      177         165        241         230        253         257         279        292          316           361           325
Public administration &
other service                                620      658         688        741         764        772         866         952      1,071        1,158         1,310         1,510
less imputed bank service charges               32       48          49         98          80         85          99         115        115          136           140            122
Monetary CDP at factor cost                3.765    3.901       4 463      4.654       4.936      5.122       5,501       5,764      6.060        6.344         6,557          6.761
subsistence Production
Agriculture, hunting,
forestry & fishing                         1,377    1.381       1,547      1,605       1,660      1,590       1,616      1,662       1,825        1,847         1,807          1,997
Construction                                    48       50          51         52          53          55         57          58         60           61            63             64
Owner-occupied dwellings                       429      441         453        466         479        492         506         521        536          551           568            585      X4
Total subsistence producetion              1.854    1,872       2.051      2.123       2.192      2.137       2.          2.241      2.421        2.459         2.438          2.646      c
m'g- at factor cost (1966 prices          569        57         6.,514     6.777       7.128   7,259      7,680           8.005      8.481     8,803            8,995          9,407
(Alinlal rate of growth, 1)                (..)     (2.7)      (12.8)      (4.0)       (5.2)      (1.8)       (5.8)       (4.2)      (5.9)        (3.8)         (2.2)          (4.6)
Sorrce:   National Accounts of Tanzania, 1964-72 and Tie Economic Sturveys.



Table 5:    KESOUJRCES AND USE OF RESOURCES, 1964-915
(shs. million at current prices)
Provisional    Provisional
2964       1965        1966       1967        1968        1969        1970        1971       1972            1973          1974           1975
supply of Resources
_tgg~ at market prices               6.030     6 140       702         7.343       7.874       8.7        9.73        979          .7            11,3141383                   16.534
CDP at factor cost                5.594      5,671       6,514      6,735       7,182       7,460       8,215       8,845     1130             11,531       13,836         16,534
Plus:  Net indirect taxes           436        469         528         608        692         811         958         952      1,140           1,613         2,021          2,049
Imports of goods and services       1,398   1   ,544      _1,903       1,927                  2,016       2607        3,233      3,329            3.839         5565,883
1-0 t 'I 3                        7.428     71684        8           9.270      9.976      10,287      11,780      13,030     14,599           16,983       21,422         24 466
Use of Resotirces
Colisunipttoll                      4,983      5 188       5,840       6,010      6,674       6,96l       7,512       8 077       9,403          1l,189        14,541         16,881
Public                              588        642         725         803        884         995       1,208       1,365      1,494            1,983
Private 1/                        4.395      4,546       5,115      5,207       5,790       5,966       6,304      6,712       7,909            9,206
Gross capital formatluIi              767        896       1.092       1312                   1,3285      2,068       2,5         2.451           2.856         3,553    4,170
rPublIc                             234        253         389         665        645         622       1,236       1,674       1,713           1,946         2,018          2,283
PrivaCe                             533        643         703         647         751        663         832         913         738             910         1,535          1,887
Exports of goods and services       1,678      1 600       2,013       1948       1,906       2,041       2 200      ijt6         2.745           2,938         3.328          3,415
rotal                                        7,684       8      945  9.270    9.976        10,287      11,780      13,(30     14.599           16,983        21,422        24,466
T7  Inclcudes  statlsttcal discrepancy"
Souirce:  Data provided by the 8ureau of Statistics, Miuistry of Finanlce and Planninig, and missioin estimates.



Table 6:   CAPITAL PORMATION BY PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SECTORS. 1964-1975
(Shis. million at current prices)
Provisional    Provisional
1964       1965       1966       1967        1968       1969        1970       1971        1972           1973          1974          1975
Central Governmeut                    118       148         182        215        276         356        426         408        335             481          737            990
Local Authorities &
East African Comnunity              39         43          38         48         50          39         36          46         59              55           69             70
E.A. Community gnterprises             36        28          78        119          78         62        115         136        152             242          181            181
Parastatal Enterprises                41         34          91        283        241         165        659       1,084      1,167           1,168        1,031          1,042
(1) Total public sector fixed
capital formation                234        253         389        665        645         622      1.236       1.674      1.713           1.946        2.018          2,283
(2) Total private sector fixed
capital formation                439        537         593        567        657         591        642         694        663             750        1.057          1.579
- Monetary sector              292        383        443         393        486        431         472        517         WI             530           817         1,303
- Non-monetary sector          147        154         150        174        171         160        170         177        202            220           240            276
(3)  Total fixed capital
formation                       673        790        982       1.232      1,302       1.213      1.878      2,368       2,376          2.696         3.075          3.862
(4)  Increase in stocks               94        107        110          80         94          72        189        219          75            160           478            308
(5)  Total capital formation         767        896      1.092       1,312      1.396       1.285      2.067      2.587       2.451          2.856         3.553         4,170
(1) as % of (3)               34.8       32.0       39.6       54.0        49.5       51.3        65.8       70.7       72.1            72.2          65.6          59.1
Source: Ministry of Finance and Planning, The Economic Survey 1975/76.
z
t4I
p
<C



ANNEX V
Table 7:   COMPONENTS OF MONETARY FIXED CAPITAL FORMATION. 1965-1975
(as a percencage of Monetary GDP at current market price)
1/        1/
1965     1966      1967      1968     1969      1970     1971      1972      1973     1974      1975
Monetary Fixed Capital
Formation                 14.7     16.7     20.2      20.0      17.4     25.1      30.3     26.1      25.0      23.5     26.7
Private Sector               8.3      8.9       7.5      8.6       7.1      7.0       7.1      5.5       5.4       6.8      9.7
Public Sector                5.9      7.8      12.7     11.4      10.3     18.1      23.2     20.6      19.6     16.7      17.0
of which:
Central Government          (3.4)    (3.6)     (4.1)    (4.9)     (5.9)    (6.2)     (5.6)     (4.0)    (4.9)     (6.1)    (7.4)
Local Authorities and
Z.A. Co=unity
General Fund                (1.0)    (0.8)     (0.9)    (0.9)     (0.6)     (0.5)    (0.6)     (0.7)    (0.6)     (0.6)    (0.5)
E.A. Co=runity
Enterprises                 (0.6)    (1.6)     (2.3)    (1.4)     (1.0)    (1.7)     (1.9)     (1.8)    (2.4)     (1.5)    (1.3)
Tazara 2/                   ( - )    ( - )     ( - )    ( - )     ( - )     (4.0)    (8.5)     (8.0)    (6.5)     (3.6)    (3.7)
Other Parastatals           (0.8)    (1.8)     (5.4)    (4.3)     (2.7)     (5.7)    (6.5)     (6.0)    (5.3)     (4.9)    (4.1)
1/ Provisional.
2/  Derived as the difference between parastatal fixed capital formation as reported in
the National Accounts and in the Analysis of Accounts of Parastatals.
Totals may not be exact owing to rounding.
Sources: Table 6 and mission estimates.



ANNEX V
Table 8: TREND IN MANUFACTURING SECTOR ICOR
Fixed Investment in Manufacturing Incremental Value-Added
(shillings million)             in Manufacturing
Current Price     1966 Prices      (1966 shillings million)      ICOR
(1)               (2)                   (3)                  (4)
1966         153              153                     79
1967         183              174                    47
1968         211              207                     39                 3.6
1969         160              151                    61                  3.7
1970         319              282                    44                  3.7
1971         374              312                    66                  4.3
1972         329              238                    64                  4.9
1973         334              223                    41                  6.6
1974                                                 12
Sources:
Col. (1) from Table 9.
Col. (2) = Col. (1) deflated by national accounts investment deflator.
Col. (3) from Table 4.
Col. (4) obtained by relating 3-year moving averages of Col. (2) and (3),
with output lagged by one year.



Tahle 9: CAPITAI. FORMATION BY INDUSTRY. 1966-1975
(Shs. million at current prices)
Provisional      Provisional
1966        1967       1968        1969        1970       1971        1972        1973          1974             1975
Agriculture                           ill         122         114        109         117         119        142         160
Mining                                 15          17          10         22          31          31         23          22
Manufacturing                         153         183         211        160         319         374        329         334
Construction                           28          37          22         31          77          90         97         111
Electricity and water supply           55          76          91         89         119         168        191         285
Wholesale and retail trade             17          21          30         33          54          38         22          37
Transport and communications          322         468         502        407         756       1,151      1,180       1,285
Government administration              55          70          86         84          83          70         54          90
Service (incl. real estate)           108         114         103        141         176        171         162         182
own-account rural construction        118         124         133        137         146        156         176         190
Total fixed capital formation       982                  1.302       1,213       1.878      2,368       2.376       2.696
Increase in stocks                  110          80         94          72         189        219          75         160          478              308
Total capital formation           1 092       1312       1396        1285        2,067        587       2451        2856         36553            4.170
Total capital formation
(X966 prices)                1,092       1,252       1,352       1,216      1,821      _2160       1.788       1.908         2.104            2,156
(Annual rate of growth, %)       (16.8)      (14.7)      (8.0)     (-10.1)      (49.8)     (18.6)     (-17.2)       (6.7)       (10.3)            (2.5)
Sources:   Ministry of Finance and Planning,    National Accounts of Tanzania. 1964-1972. and
data provided by the Bureau of Statistics.



ANNEX V
Table 10: SUIMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (TANZANLA MAINLAID) . 1965-1975
(Millions of Shillings at Current Prices)
1965       196E.      1967       1968      1969       1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975
A. Goods
Exports f.o.b.              1,420.0   1,775.0    1,654.0    1,590.0    1,566.0    1,626.0    1,680.0    2,086.0   2,302.1    2,719.4     2,433.7
Imports c.i.f.              1,386.0   1,721.01   1,706.0    1,835.0    1,739.0    2,284.0    2,779.0   2,925.0    3,409.6    5,136.8     5,423.5
Trade Balance                  34.0      54J.      -52.0     -245.0     -173.0     -658.0   -1.099.0     -839.0  -1.107.5   -2.417.4   -2.989.8
B. Services (Net)                 -71.4     -72.       -.4 2       21.1       64.7      225.9      208.8     256.0      130.3      151.7      450.9
Freight and Insurance           6.4      35.i       75.7      107.4      119.9      216.4      256.9     221.7      202.7      190.0      281.7
Travel                          8.6       33.6      -2.9      -47.3      -36.0        0.9      -49.2      -90.6     -73.3      -30.0      119.4
Investment Income            -102.9    -137.5     -120.0      -27.5      -20.6      -24.9      -22.6      -11.9     -51.7      -28.7      -54.3
Other Services                 16.4      -4.'.     -19.3      -11.5        1.4       33.5       23.7      136.8      52.6       20.4      104.1
C. Transfers (Net)                 32.9       -.J 52.1             76.6       79.3       91.6       41.'      -30.0      34.9      323.4      689.4
Private and Parastatal          -         7.1       29.3       58.4       58.2       79.4       24.6     -104.3    -101.1      -81.2       85.5
Government                     32.9      -16.4      22.9       18.2       21.1       12.2       16.8       74.3      136.0     404.6      603.9
Balance on Current Account     -4.5     -28,2      -66 .     -147.3      -29.0     -340.5     -848.8     -613.0    -942.3   -1,942.3   -1,949.5
D. Capital (Ner)                   61.4     175.        756        40.0      138.1      511.6    1,089.8     868,3      909.1    1,308,5     ,436.5
,I) Government M&LT Loas
(a) Tazara Project                                        -          -        291.6     820.7      675.9      762.4      437.4      370.6
(b) otner Projects      133.6      54.3      166.4       87.0      148.0      221.8      342.5     254.4      321.2      339.2      518.7
Amortization              -9.3       -2.9      -4.3      -17.9       -9.8      -11.2      -43.7     -109.8     -73.4      -47.6      -52.5
Compensation payments      ..        ..        -7.9      -21.2      -61.7      -44.6      -48.7      -40.8 g    55.4      -31.4-     -31.6
,i:)  Private 6 Parastatal
M&LT (Net)             -62.9      123.6     -78.6       -7.9       61.6       54.0      119.7       37.1      79.8      174.9      208.0
(Ui ) Other Capital Movements
(Net)                   ..         ..         ..         ..         ..        ..       -100.7      51.5     -125.5       53.0      -52.1
*'V!  Exceptional Financing 1/                                                                   -                             383.0      475.4
.,et Errors and 0Cissions 2/  -68.4      64.3       41.2      159.2      -68.5     -285.5     -275.4      134.3     248.1       28.0      344.
Overall Balance               -11.5     211.1       50.5       51.9       40.6     -114.4      -34.4     389.6      214.9     -605.8      -68.3
.   Net Chance :n Reserves         11.5    -211.1      -505       -51.9      -40.6      114.4       34.4    -389.6      214.9      605.8       68.3
a- ecrease,
Includes cravings on IMF Oil Facility and Credit Tranches, World Bank Progras Loan and other
soec.ial ultilateral balance of payments support.
2/ Resioual item includes valuation gains and losses from currency adjustments.
Sources: Bank of Tanzania. Ministry of Finance and Planning and mission estimates. For Mainland estimates
of goods accounts  1965-72 data from NatLonal Accounts of Tanzania, have been used.



l/
Table 11: VALUE OF PRINCIPAL MERUIANDISE EXPORTS, 1965-1975
(Milliofns of Sh illings)
1965        1966      1967      1968       1969      1970       1971      1972       1973      1974       1975
Unprocessed Agricultural Products    960.4      1,217.9   1,025.6    1.032.4   1,091.4    1,129.2   1,112.9    1,455.3   1.648.9    1,880.6   1,787.7
Cotton                           244.2        349.9     251.4      282.9     234.7      247.2     244.8      336.4     333.1      472.6     296.7
Coffee                           171.8        301.0     237.0      265.0     257.0      312.0     223.0      383.0     495.3      375.1     423.0
Sisal                            285.6        234.7     200.9      158.7     159.7      178.8     133.8      144.8     221.6      463.4     302.2
Cashewnuts (raw)                  82.5        100.0      92.2      101.6      118.9     115.2     119.6      150.3     141.2      196.2     176.9
Tea                                30.2        45.1      43.2       44.9      48.3       42.2      48.9       53.8      54.2       69.1      81.2
Tobacco, unmanufactured           22.6         23.4      39.2       40.2      38.7       59.5      60.3       64.8      67.7      133.6     117.6
Oilseeds and nuts                 47.2         46.9      42.7       47.6      46.6       38.0      77.2       40.3      55.9       36.9      25.3
Ihides and skins                  30.3         42.9      29.0       31.5      35.5       27.3      22.3       41.6      46.6       45.3      43.9
Cloves                            46.0         74.0      90.0       60.0      152.0     109.0     179.0      240.3     233.3       88.4     320.9
Manufactured and Mineral Products     208.2        291.7     470.4      394.0     397.6      365.3     479.9      469.7     405.5      530.3     485.1
Cashew kernels                     0.3          4.3       9.4        9.8       17.4      21.5      28.5       22.4      32.7       46.6      44.1
Sisal products                     6.1         13.3      23.7       24.2      26.1       26.2      44.1       39.0      72.0      151.8      90.0
Tinned meat                       29.6         44.9      39.3       33.9      41.4       26.6      29.0       32.8      16.4       34.1       9.4
Wattle extract                     9.1          9.6       9.6        9.4       9.0        7.5       7.6       15.0      15.7       31.4      20.9
Pyrethrum extract                 20.8         28.8      29.2       17.7      20.7       11.0      18.4       21.7      16.6       11.7      19.8
Petroleum products                 -            4.8     136.2      164.0     105.0      111.5     143.3      215.5      87.6      132.4     122.9
Diamonds                         142.3        186.0     223.0      135.0     178.0      161.0     209.0      123.3     164.5      122.3     178.0
All Other Exports                     265.4        256.4     232.0      249.6     282.0     341.5      339.2      236.0     348.6     359.1      451.2
Total                               1.434.0      1,766.0   1,728.0    1,676.0   1,771.0    1,836.0   1,932.0    2,161.0   2,403.0    2,770.0   2,724.0
of which:
Exports to Kenya and Uganda      121.0         98.0      83.0       90.9     103.9      147.5     196.6      133.1     170.2      217.7-    174.6
1/ Includes Zanzibar; excludes re-exports.
Souarce:  East African Customs and Excise Department, Annual Trade Reports of Tanzania, Uganda and Kenya.



Table 12:  VALUE. VOLUME ANI) PRICE TRENDS OF SIX MAJOR
AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS OF TANZANIA (MAINLAND), 1965-1975
1965         1966          1967         1968          1969         1970          1971         1972,         1973         1974          1975
Value (Millions of Shillinigs)
Cotton                     244.2        349.9         251.4        282.9         234.7        247.2        244.8         336.4        333.1         472.6        296.7
Coffee                     171.8        301.0         237.0        265.0         257.0        312.0        227.0         383.0        495.3         375.1         483.0
Sisal                      285.6        234.7         200.9        158.7         159.7        178.R        131.R         1A. R        221.6         463-4        3e2.7
Cashewnuts (raw)            82.5        100.0          92.2        101.6         118.9        115.2         119.6        150.3        141.2         196.2         176.9
Tea                         30.2         45.1          43.2         44.9         48.3          42.2         48.9          53.8         54.2          69.1         81.2
Tobacco, unmanufactured     22.6         23.4          39.2         40.2          38.7         59.5         60.3          64.8         67.7         133.6        117.6
Total                      836.9      1,054.1         863.9        893.3        857.3         954.9        834.4       1.133.1      1.313.1       1.710.0       1,457.6
Percent Share of Mainland
Exports                 59.0         59.4          52.2         56.2         54.7          58.7         50.0          54.3         57.0          63.0         59.9
Volume (Tlousanids of Metric Tons)
Cotton                      56.2         86.2          60.8         62.9          56.7         60.7         54.8          64.5         60.0          49.1          38.0
Coffee                      28.2         50.6          44.4         49.2         49.5          44.8         35.5          54.7         60.3          41.0          54.4
Sisal                      213.6        198.9         204.4        189.1         171.9        217.2        160.8         153.1        113.4          93.4         101.6
Cashewnuts (raw)            64.6         72.2          70.9         79.7         82.2          77.4         95.9         112.9         109.9        114.0          97.3
Tea                          4.3          6.3           6.1          6.7           7.6          6.9          8.3           9.2          9.5           9.6          10.4
Tobacco, unmanufactured      3.3           3.4          4.9          5.2           5.0          7.7           6.6          7.1          7.2          12.1           8.6
Unit Prices (Shillings per Ton)
Cotton                   4,345.2      4,059.2      4,134.9       4,497.6      4,139.3       4,072.5      4,467.2       5,215.5      5,551.7       9,625.2      7,807.9
Coffee                   6,092.2      5,948.6       5,337.8      5,386.2      5,191.9       6,964.3      6,394.4       7,001.8      8,213.9       9,148.8      8,878.7
Sisal                    1,337.1      1,180.0         982.9        839.2        929.0         823.2        832.1         945.8      1,954.1       4,961.5      2,974.4
Cashewnuts (raw)         1,277.1      1,385.0       1,300.4      1,274.8      1,446.5       1,488.4      1,247.1       1,331.3      1,284.8       1,721.1      1,818.1
Tea                      7,023.3      7,158.7      7,082.0       6,701.5      6,355.3       6,115.9      5,891.6       5,847.8      5,705.3       7,197.9      7,807.7
Tobacco, unmanufactured 6,848.5       6,882.3      8,000.0       7,730.8      7,740.0       7,727.3      9,136.4       9,126.8      9,402.8      11,041.3     13,674.4
Source:   East African Customa and Excise Department, Annial Trade Reports of Tanzania. Uganda and Kenya, and the Economic Surveys, various issues.



Table 13:   INDICES OF VALUE. VOLUME AND PRICES OF SIX MAJOR
AGRICIJIITRA, EXPORTS OF TANZANIA (MAINLAND), 1965-1975
1965       1966       1967       1968       1969      1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975
Value (1966 = 100)
Cotton                            70        100         72         81         67        71         70         96         95        135         85
Coffee                            57        100         79         88         85       104         75        127        164        125        160
Sisal                            122        100         86         68         68        76         57         62         94        197        129
Cashewnuts (raw)                  83        100         92        102        119       115        120        150        141        196        177
Tea                               67        100         96        100        107        93        108        119        120        153        180
Tobacco, unmanufactured           97        100        167        172        165       254        258        277        289        571        503
Total                             79        100         82         85         81        91         79        107        125        162        138
Volume (1966    100)
Cotton                            65        100         71         73         66        70         64         75         70         57         44
Coffee                            56        100         88         97         98        89         70        108        119         81        108
Sisal                            107        100        103         95         86       109         81         77         57         47         51
Cashewnuts (raw)                  89        100         98        110        114       107        133        156        152        158        135
Tea                               68        100         97        106        121       110        132        146        151        152        165
Tobacco, unmanufactured           97        100        144        153        147       226        194        209        209        356        253
Total                             75        100         88         92         88        93         82         99         95         82         82
Unit Export Price (1966 = 100)
Cotton                           107        100        102        111        102       100        110        128        137        237        192
Coffee                           102        100         90         91         87       117        107        118        138        154        149
Sisal                            113        100         83         71         79        70         71         80        166        420        252
Cashewnuts (raw)                  92        100         94         92        104       107         90         96         93        124        131
Tea                               98        100         99         94         89        85         82         82         80        101        109    >
Tobacco, unmanufactured          100        100        116        112        112       112        133        133        137        160        199
Total                            105        100         93         92         92        98         96        108        132        198        168
Source:     Table 12.



Table 14: EXPORTS AND IMPORTS AS RATIOS TO GDP (Market Prices)
(at current prices)
1964       1965       1966       1967        1968       1969       1970       1971        1972       1973       1974       1975
1.  Exports of Goo4s and NFS      27.8       26.0       28.6       26.5       24.2        24.7       24.0       24.2       24.4        22.3       20.9       18.4
Goods                                           25.2       22.5       20.2       18.9        17.7       17.1       18.1       17.7        17.1       13.1
Non-factor services        2.6        2.9        3.4        4.0        4.0         5.7        6.3        7.0        6.3        4.6         3.8        5.3
2.  Imports of Goods and NFS      23.2       25.1       27.0       26.2       26.7        24.4       28.4       33.0       29.6        29.2       35.1       31.7
Goods                     20.8       25.5       24.4       23.2       23.3       21.0        24.9       28.4       25.6       26.0        32.4       29.4
Non-factor services        2.4        2.6        2.6        3.0        3.4         3.3        3.5        4.6        4.0        3.2         2.7        2.3
3. Current Price Resource
Balance (= 1 - 2)           4.6        0.9        1.6        0.3       -2.5         0.3       -4.4       -8.8       -5.2       -6.9        14.2      -13.3
Sources: Bureau of Statistics and mission estimates.



1/
Table 15:   END-tlSE CLASSIFICATION OF IMPORTS. 1965-1975
1965      1966         1967        1968         1969        1970        1971         1972        1973         1974        1975
(Shs. million at current prices)
599       800          578         731          642         682         690          828        1057         1944        1786
Food  z5                                     127       159         150          164                      176         183         332          274        1066         1011
Other 3/                                    472        641         428          567         494          506         507         496          783         878          775
Intermediate goods:                           344        567         662          682         695         919         1199        1320         1501        2222         2356
Petroleum Products                           85        108         142          167         174          193         256         298          3045/       524          616
Buiilding and construction materials        213        103         224          142         141         210          318         366          393         453          399
other   4/                                    46       356         296          373         380          516         625          656         804         1245        1281
Capital goods:                                462        324         385          421         ju          673          836         730          830        1092         1552
Tranisport equipmnent                       432        125         135          151         116          185         245          194         253         348          470
Other equipment                               30       199         250          270         257         488          591         536          577         744         1082
rotal                                         1405      1691        1625         1834        1710         2274        2725        2878         3387        5258         5694
-  -          -                ~~~~~~~(In peircentage)  -_ 
Consumer Roods                               42.6       47.3        35.6         39.8        3           30.0         25.3         28.8        31.2        37.0         31.4
Fo)od  2/                                   9.0        9.4         9.2          8.9         g7T         7.7          6.7        11.5                     20.3         17.8
other   3/                                 33.6       37.9        26.3         30.9        28.9        22.3         18.6         17.2        23.1        15.7         13.6
Intermediate goods:                          24.5       33.5        40.7         37.2        40.6        40.4         44.0        45.9         44.3        42.3         41.4
Petroleum Products                          6.0        6.4         8.7          9.1        10.2         8.5          9.4        10.4          9.0        10.0         11.9
Building and construction materials        15.2        6.1        13.8          7.7         8.2         9.2         11.7        12.7         11.6         8.6          7.0
other   4/                                   3.3      21.1         18.2        20.3        22.2         22.7        22.9         22.8        23./         23.7        22.5
Capital goods:                                32.9      19.2        23.7         23.0        21.8         29.6        30.7         25.4        24.5         20.8        27.3
Transport equipment                        30.7        7.4         8.3          8.2        -B-8.1                   9.0         6.7          7.5         6.6          8.3
Other equipmenit                            2.1       11.8        15.4         14.7        15.0        21.5         21.7         18.6        17.0         14.1        19.0
Total                                       1oo.o      100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0       100.0        100.0
1/  Includes Zanzibar.
2/ SITC Section 0.
3/ includes a portion of passenger cars.
4/   Includes spare parts.
5/  91.1 million shiltlnxgs of crude oil re-exports have been excluded, to bring 1973 in
conformity with the practice adopted in thd officLal statistics in all other years.
Souirce:  East African Customs and Excise Department anid Ministry of Finance anid Planninig, The Economic Surveys.



Table 16; TOTAL IMPORTS BY SITC CLASSIFICATION, 1965-1975
(Shs. million at current prices)
SITC                                                         1965      1966     1967     1968      1969     1970     1971      1972     1973     1974       1975
Code
0   Food and live animals                                    153      196      177       164      148      176      183       312      274     1066      1011
I   Beverages and tobacco                                    39        33       33       14        15       20       10        !2       22      1.          5
2   Cr'.de meteria-                                          16        18       17       29        27       31       39        39       591t    138        89
3   Mineral oils and lubricants                              85       114      142      167       174      193      256       298      304-     524      676
4   Vegetable oils and fats                                   11       16       13        17       23       28       30        46       46       69        95
5   Chemicals and fertilizers                               116       135      110      119       165      225      271       309      387      567      673
6   Manufactured goods                                      492       574      325      565       501      629      764       800     1001     1304      1190
i)  Leather and rubber                                 28       28       45       41        43       64       63        63       39       55        66
ii)  Wood and paper                                    34        46       44       64        57       75       74        73      100      148       190
iii)  Cloth and yarn                                   199       302      157      182       166      133      110       141      254      311       198
iv)  Cement                                            18        18       11        19       16       27       39        41       21       19        22
v)  Non-metallic mineral manufactures                  15       18       14        12       24       72        49       41       52        64       62
vi)  Iron and steel                                     62       59      139       117       86      135      228       284      332      401       335
vii)  Other non metallic manufactures                    18       21       10        17       22       25       39        34       40        70       51
viii)  Metallic manufactures                             107       82      105       113       87       98       162      123      163       237      266
7   Machinery and transport equipment                       327       424      474      538       479      800      994       894     1022     1304      1753
i)  Cars                                              24        36       28       32        35       33       26         9       26       28        15
ii)  Other transport                                   105      166      183      211       161      255      345       303      372     1105       609
iii)  Other machinery                                  187       222      263      295       283      512      623       582      624      171      1129
8   Miscellaneous   nanufactures                            131       133      102      164       154      153      169       161      262      262       195
9   Miscellaneous transactions                               35        48       32       57        24       19        9         8       11        7         7
Total                                                1405     1691     1625     1834      1710     2274     2725      2873     3388!'   5258      5694
1/ Excludes 91.1 million shillings of crude oil re-exports.
Source: East African Customs and Excise Department.
1x



rabl, 17:   EXTElNAI. PUBLIC m.wB'wr OUTSTrANDING AS OF DECEMBER 31, 1967, 1970, 1973, 1975
('housands of U. S. dollars)
1967                            1970                    1973                        1975
Includill:                      Incltding                Including                  IncludinR
Disbursed Udsed                            Uidisbursed   Disbursed  Uiidisbursed    Disbursed  undfsbursed
Type of Creditor
Suppliers' Credits                                         1125         1125             18945       29225          27921       33009        23806       29051
Private Baiik Credits                                    20111         24464             21969       21969          20400       20400        12303       12303
publicly Tssued Bonds                                    21897         21897             19080       19080           5799        5799         4183        4183
other Private Debt                                        10340        10340             28482       28482          16956       16956         9439        9439
Loans from Ilternational Organizations:                  13658        28800              38337       99600         93761       156468       180157      335290
African Development Baik                                -             -                 -           -             3260        5429         4766        4766
Arab Fund for Econ. &   Social Dev.                     -             -                 -           -             -            -          14200       14200
IBRD                                                    -           5200               3719       42200         32859       41720         80402      136285
IIDA                                                  13658        23600              34618       57400         57642      109319         80789      180039
Loans from Goveriunent                                   72675       134295             109545      402320        295355       596351       557595      798911
litilgaria                                              -            -                  -           -             -           6000         1057        3000
C;anada                                                 387         2266               2703        6131         10541        73628        53329       76467
ChIina, People's Republic of                           7359        42600              29894      250243        139136       284318       268394      362369
Czechoslovakia                                                 -               -              -            -             -           -                 5344
Denmark                                                             5333               2802        5333          8223        12718        30393       44161
Finland                                                 -            -                  -           -            1367         5722         9104       15584
Germany, Dem. Rep. of                                   648         3830                725        3379            -           -            -           -
Germany, Federal Rep. of                               8227         8227               5469        5469         11718        24575        28140       48516
India                                                   -            -                  -           -             -          6150           -          5595
Israel                                                  809          818                286         286           -            -            -           -
Italy                                                   -            -                 5600       10000          9694       20113          7577       16844
Japanr                                                  -            -                 1911        5600          4914         7074         5794        6105
Kuwa it                                                 -            -                  -           -             -           -             -         15298
Netherlanids                                            -            -                  -           -            5426        11192        20672       33328
Sweden                                                  979         8235              12837       37732         43262       49920         53506       56777
United Kingdom                                        39732        40846              16649       16649         14060        14060        10347       10347
United States                                         13150        16878              26555       38918         39626        52442        61003       71058
USSR                                                     64         3942               1518       19984          2721       23772          3053       22892
YLigos 1avIa                                           120           120                -           -
Zasinbia                                              1200          1200              2596         2596          2481        2481         2094         2094
Muiltiple l.enders                                     -            -                   -           -            2186        2186          3132        3132
Grand l'otal                                        139806        220921             236358      600676        460192       828983       787483      1189177
Souirce:  IBRD, External Debt Division.



'able 18: DISBtUKSlIJENTS Ol EXTERNAL PIJBLIC AND PUIBILICL.Y GIIARANTEED DEII, 1967-1975
(Tliousands of IIS dollars)
Disbs1)1  rements
12.L        1968         1969         1970        1971         1972        1973         1974         1975
'Type of Creditor
Suppliers Credits                                       -           667        13971        3784         6676         -            -            -           -
Private Banik Credits                                 19804        6753         1202         171          -          2993         1207
Other Plrivate Debt                                    6228        8505        16860        5194          833         -            -            -
Loans troin linternfltionai Organizations:               6545        53i6         8702       i066i        i3323       io559         M5OU        22740       6;22.
African Development Bank                                                  -                  -                       2474          505         1487         681
Arab Fund for Econ   & Social Dev.                                  -            -           -            -           -            -           7100        7100
IBRD                                                   -            792        1685         1242        7245        13354         9021        8263        39715
IDA                                                   6545         4524        7017         9419        8078         2731         3054        5898        17730
Loans from Governments:                                 10122        8845        15261       30043        32554       80401        84877       115269      164210
Bulgaria                                                -           -            -           -            -           -            -           -           1057
Canlada                                                 387         -           1503         681          704        1450         5596       25032        18902
Chlina, 'leople's Republic of                          3140         972         2914        9681         6192       58453        53727       60414        74236
Czechoslovakia
Denaark                                                 -           -            577        2225         1985        1373         1067        9356        14178
Finland                                                                          -           -            -           481          853         869         7212
Germany, Dem. Rep. of                                   -           -             77                      -          2767
Germany, Fed. Rep. of                                   688          18           20         -           2407        1186         1729        2959        15426
India                                                  -                                                 -            -            -           -
Israel                                                 -            -            67          -           -
tLaly                                                  -            -           -           5600        4441          -            -           -            -
Japan                                                   -           625         942          344          217         484         1833        1731           17
Kuwait                                                  -           -            -           -            -           -            -           -            -
Netherlands                                             -           -            -           -            629         905         3673        5023        10606
Sweden                                                 715          358        5534         5585         8666        7628        11620        5520         2829
United Klngdom                                          898         -            -           -            -           751          -           -            -
UnlLed States                                         4077         6838        2292         4689         6999        4554         2023        2767        19277
USSR                                                   217           34         139         1238          314         369          453         439          470
zamb6a                                                  -           -          1196          -            -           -            -           -            -
MiulLiple lenders                                       _           _            _           _-                       -           2303        1159
Grand Total                                            42699        30086        55996       49853        55386      101953        98664       138017      229436
Source.    IBRD, Externial Dcbt Divislon.
I>



ANNEX V
.able 19- C OITIDENTs CF EXTERNiAL F7LC            OAS AND GRANTS BY SOURCES, 1967-75
(Tosnaor US dollars)
CCH9ITTh!NTS
1967           1968          1969           1970          1971           1972          1973           1974          1975
7Not of Creditor
Supplters' Credits                                                         14894          10140           3086           -              -             -              -             -
Priv-te   Bank Credits                                       15.451         2400           1384            -             -4200-- 
!Nublic Iss-.d Bonds 
Dtn.r Plrivate Debt                                           6228           2973         16860           5194           833                   -                     -
Loans fron Inte-national (lrga-sati.na-                       5200          4300          27500         39000           9800q        14057          239          133300            10
African De-elpment Bank                                      -             -                     -             -                    3257          1.789           - 
Arab Fund for Icon. & Social Den                                           -              -             -                            -              -            7100           7100
IBRD                                                       5200                          7000         30000            -                    -                   65000         30000
IDA                                                         ..            4300         20500           9000          9800          10800         22600          61200         10000
Loans fron, G-ver,     .ets                                  17794         204.04         48762        232530          25393         47117          82757        1271.36         91269
8.lgaria -,                                                                                                                         3000           3000                  - 
Canada                                                       416           -              925          2673           2079          7419         57606            -4327
73,ina. ?..pie's Rap.bli. of                                 -             799           1999        200811            -            1476            -            65-
C.choslo-axis                                                      -              -                     -                    -              -                     -            5.428
Denmark                                                    5677            -                                           398           -              -15612                    1 74-42
Finland                                                      -             --                                                       5285            -            2662          7611
DA.rmany ~.d     Repo.f                                      -38                          -                           3731           -            14534         17091           8148
..di&                                                                                                                  -            6595            -             -             -
lsras 1                                                                     67            -                            ---
Italy                                                        --                        10000            -10860--
Japan                                                                     5600                   -                                   -                                    -
Koait                                                        -                            ---                                        -              -             -15              7
Rec-erland.                                                  -             -              -             -             1028          5296           3953         14154           7927
Swedvn                                                     6572                        17977          18941           6.457                         -              -            4829
United Kingdom                                               196           -              -             -              -             751            -                            -
United Staces                                               1600         13900                        10100           6700          4900           2600            -20040
USSR                                                        3333           -            16665           -              -             -              -              --
Lamba                                                               -                    1196            ---                                        -              - 
4ultiple Lenders                                                           -                     -              -                   1135           1062          1159            -
L.oans - Total                                               '-4673        41.971        104646        279810          36026          65374        107146        260436         138369
Source of G,rants
Multilateral Aczencies                                        2990           2990          3050           4480          3300           4490          5110           6600         10130
U.N. Devalop-cn Progr-                                                             -             -              -                    -              -            2980           5740
U.N. Ragular Programn                                      2990           2990          3050            -              -200                        3030           520            410
1U.N. Chil1dre.'s Fund                                       -             -              -             140            180           320            400           470            790
U N. FAO ',iorld Food                                        -                            -450                         280           410            190            340          1460
U.N. Rign Comeission on Rafugaase                                                                      3400           2210          2780           1360          2290           3480
Other United 7daci.sn                                                      --                           490            630           780            100                          250
Euorpean Deyelopsesnt Fund                                   -                                          -              -             -               30           -              -
Co,ernmeents                                                 28180          17770         18010          19820         23560          25200         37350          55010         89870
Australia                                                    1090                         10010                         80             80            80            130           790
Austria                                                       20             30            10             20            10             30            20           - 
Ralgi..                                                      -               10            20             10            10             20           -               10            in)
Canada                                                      1430          1790           1670          1460           2340          3480           3910          3490           6130
1e...rk                                                      730           760            850          1280           1480          2680           4080          5520           8840
Finland                                                      -             -              -             -              -             -              --                          5800
Germsany.  Federal Republic of                              5150          3220           3620          3540           4180          3620           5620          7790          10550
Italy                                                         30            30             30            30            450           -              1GO           370             60
Japan                                                         20            180           250            330           670           710            730          1020           1880
Netherlands                                                  -             -              -             -             11.30          900           2560          3360           5120
Sw    alnd----                                                                                                                                                                    30
Norway                                                       410           410            440            750          1390          2910           3480          6890          10760
Sweden                                                      1630          1760           1560          2990           2110          3180           9110         17540         29500
Svitzerland                                                   20            nO0           220           180            410           170            210           470            310
United Kingdo                                               7620          2430           4240          4130           4300          3420           3450          3400           3060
United states                                              11000          7000           5000          5000           5000          4000           4000          5000           7000
Grants - Total                                            31170          20760          21060         24300          26860         29690         42460          61610        100000
siomsre:    IBRD, Mzterna1    Debt Division.



Table 20: SUMMARY OF CENTRAL GOVERNMENT BUDCETARY OPERATIONS. 1965/16-197b/77
1965/66      1966/67     196'1/68     1968/69      1969/'70    1970/71      1971/72      1972/73     19713/74     1974/75       19'15/76     1976/17
Adluated' Central Govern-
ment Reveniue !/                   937       1031          1152         1258        1522          1682        1803        2284         3022         3900          3994          4731
Net Current Exi>endlture 2/             859         939          975         1067        1410          1555        16143       20G6         2695         3991          3630          4033
Cur rent Suirplus                        78          92           177         191           91          127         160          218         327          -91           364           698
Development Expenditure                 230         2914         344          461         631           889         8814         956        16142        2352          2309          3220
Overall Deficit t_    deficit)         _lS2        - P          --19 I2                                            -72"1        _7R -131                -21.11        -I1C'-5
Financing of DevelopmDent
Expenditure fj                      230        294           344         46i          631           889         884         956         16h2         2352          2309         3220
Current Surplus                          78          92           177         191           91          127         160          218         327          -91           364           698
Net Foreign Finawice                     61         ]16           29           28         101           259         3145         4I4         6214        1378           994         1689
Net loans                             53       8105                                                                                                                   8 278 2  2543  J24  0  00
-~~~ ~I~                         (9)         f711          l            800          1406185
G~rants                               5          115            7           28)         97          (25w        (2 i         3761         (1578                       8
tlet D)mestic Borrowtrig                 64          44          192          136         359           502         344          161         484         1218          1378           825
Baiaing 8ystem                     (n.a.)      ( 19)        (39)         ( 86)       (190)         (278)       (234)        ( -5)       (305)        (856)        (1089)         (500)
Nonbank Sources                     (n.a.)      ( 25)        (153)        ( 50)       (169)         (2214)      ( (0)       (lff)        (179)        (362)         (289)         (325)
Chanige in roveniment Deposits         */ _33        22          -314          53           -2           39          -             6          --5 7
(- = inicrease)
O'her (Hesidual)                         60          20          -20           5361 638                              35          124        -2a     ?'                  502             8
(4   uit ?':rfinbiuced)
I/  Provisional Actuals.
2/  Approved Estimates for Revenue; Revised Estimates fur eaxpenditure and financing.
3/  Budget Estimates.
4/  Adjusted for:   revenue items in Development Revenie and various loen and grant procceds.      Includes revenkues eani,srked for Production Developmenit Funds.
5/  Excludes transfer to Development Revenue. and amortization of debt.
6/   Includes transfer to Parastatals from Production Development Funids.
7/  For the period 1965/66 - 1971/72 Includes only isovemenits of masiiland governtnent deposits at the Bank of Tanzania.    From 1972/73 - 1975/76 also includes deposits of
Treasury, Ministries and Regions at the Natibital Bank of Coemierce.   Excludes deposits owned by tile Zanzib,ir Goverunent throughout.
Sourceb. The Appropriation Accounts, 1965(66 - 1973/74
Financial Statement and Revenue Estimates, various years; Economic and Operations Report, Banik of lanzanla, variotiu years; information provided by the Tanzanian auti,orities.
a::



Table 21:  GOVERNMENI DlEV1E,(.)l'MN'l' IEXI'END)ITURE
1970/71-1973/74                          1974/75                           1975/76                 1976/77
Average Aniual            Illudget            Provisional Actuals         Budget                  Budget
Sb. Million      7.     Sb. Million     %       S . Million     %      Sh. Million      'L     Sh. Milliun     7
Dlrectly Productive                         210        22.9        688         35.7        527        28.2       1.098        38.5       1.317        43.3
Agriculture                            145         15.8        499         25.9        334        17.8          778       27.3          710       23.3
Coiiuserce, Industry & Mining            65         7.1        189          9.8        193        10.3          320       11.2         607        19.9
Economic Infrastructure                    438         47.8        719         37.3        833        44.5        1,038       36.-4         900       29.6
Water                                   85          9.3        215         11.1        215        11.5          387       13.5         296         9.7
Power                                   97         10.6        216         11.2        216        11.6          162        5.7         117         3.8
Commnunication                          183        19.9        214         11.1        303        16.2          328       11.5         348        11.4
Other 1/                                 74         8.1         73          3.8         99         5.3          162        5.7         139         4.6
Sucial Infrastructure                        73         8.0        195         10.1        164         8.7          276        9.6         370        12.2
E.ducation                              49          5.3        112          5.8         95         5.1          198        6.9         264         8.7
Hlealth                                  21         2.3         80          4.2         66         3.5           75        2.6           95        3.1
Other                                     3         0.3          3          0.1          3         0.2            2        0.1           11        0.4
Other 2/                                    196        21.4        326         16.9        347        18.6          443       15.5          458       15.0
Total                                      917        100.0      1.928        100.0      1,872       100.0        2,855      100.0        3,045      100.0
1t hlousing and Urban Development; Natural Resources and Tourism; Dodoma Capital Development; and other Regional Infrastructure.
2/  Regional and Central Admiiinistration and Planning; Information and Broadcastinig, and Security.
Sources:   Auditor-General's Reports, Annual Plauis 1974/75-1975/76 and estJimates made available by the MJnistry of Finance and Planning.
I2



Table 22:   PUBLIC INVESTMENT EXPENDIIURE
1974/75                               1975/76 - Planned                         1976/77
Planned       Provisional         All Projects             New Projects                Planned
Sh. Million      Actuals         Sh. Million      %       Sh. Million      %7       Sb. Million      %
Directly Productive                         1,282.8           949.5          1,736.047.7                 962.4       78.8          1,923       48.4
Agriculture                               983.3           701.8          1,208.2       33.2          308.0       25.2            996       25.1
Commerce. Industry & Mining               299.5           247.7            527.8       14.5          654.4       53.6           927        23.3
Economic Infrastructure                       857.6           840.6          1,164.8       32.0          147.5       12.1         1,124        28.3
Water                                     214.8           214.6            387.0       10.6           51.2        4.2           296         7.5
Power                                     258.7           218.4            192.1        5.3            -          -             136         3.4
Conmnunication                            224.5           303.9            344.1        9.4           75.3        6.2            360        9.1
Other 1/                                  159.6           103.7            241.6        6.6           21.0        1.7            332        8.4
Social Infrastructure                         197.9           163.7            297.4        8.2          104.4        8.6           424        10.7
Education                                 114.6           94.6             219.8        6.0           78.0        6.4            314        7.9
Nlealtth                                   80.5            66.0             75.0        2.1           26.4        2.2             99        2.5
other                                       2.8             3.1              2.6        0.1            -          -               11        0.3
Other  2/                                      342.5          347.4            443.3        12.2           6.3        0.5            500       12.6
Total                                       2,680.8         2,301.2          3,641.5      100.0        1,220.6      100.0         3.971       100.0
1/ lhousing and Urban Development, Natural Resources and Tourism; Dodoma Capital Development: and other Regional Infrastructure.
2/  Regional and Central Administration and Planning; Information and Broadcasting, aud Security.
Sources:   Aniual Plans 1974/75-1976/77 and estimates made available by the Ministry of Finance and Planning.



Table 23: MONETARY SURVEY I/
(Millions of Siillings)
1970         1971                 1972                       1973                      1974                       1975               1976
Dec.         Dec.          June         Dec.         June          Dec.         June         Dec.          June         Dec.         June
2/
Net Foreign Assets of Banking System      763.4        902.0       1.136.9      1,377.5      1.705.1       1.613.0      1.201.5        913.4         956.7        963.0       1,353.0
of which:
Bank of Tanzania (net) 2/           451.2        418.8        618.5         785.9        969.5      1,021.1         603.3        235.7        321.1         327.4         748.7
Domestic Credit                         1,629.4      1,993.8       1,796.3      2,069.1      1 810.2      2.431.8       3,170.8      4.315.7      4,663.6       5,559.7       64024.7
Net Claims on Government                282.3        489.3        516.7         520.2        412.8        611.0         828.7      1,416.9      1.581.5       2,208.8       2,639.5
of which:
Mainland Government                  ..           ..          921.0         911.1        922.0      1,010.9       1,175.0      1,730.8      1,856.0       2,554.0       2,945.0
Other 3/                                                      -404.3       -390.8       -509.2       -399.9        -346.3       -313.9       -274.5        -345.2        -305.5
Credit to Other Domestic Sectors    1,347.1      1,504.5      1,279.6       1.548.9      1.397.4      1,820.8       2,342.1      2,898.8      3,082.1       3.350.9       3,385.2
other Items (net)                         227.1        277.8         191.9        222.8        212.8         156.6        -29.4       -215.3        -190.8       -256.1        -526.1
Money and Quasi-Monev                   2 6199       3,173.6       3.125.1      3,669.4      3,728.1      4.201.4       4,342.9      5.013.8      5,429.5       6,266.6       6,851.6
Money Supply                          1,798.8      2,178.5       2,052.9      2,458.7      2,423.6      2.860.6       3.079.3      3,756.3      4.134.0       4,628.0       5,151.7
of which:
Currency Outside Banks              818.4        986.4        924.3       1,201.1      1,078.2      1,198.6       1,233.0      1,517.3      1,423.0       1,755.8       1,760.3
Demand Deposits                     980.4      1,192.1      1,128.6       1,257.6      1,345.4      1,662.0      1,846.3       2,239.0      2,711.0       2,872.2       3,391.4
Time Deposits                           615.9        779.4        828.0         941.0        993.7      1.008.5         892.6        852.0        850.7       1,158.9       1,169.6
Savings Deposits                        205.2        215.7        244.2         269.7        310.8        332.3         371.0        405.5        444.8         479.7         530.3
1/ Inicludes Zanzibar.
2/  Inicludes SDRs and INF gold tranche position but excludes liabilities arising from drawings on other IMF facilities.
3/  Includes net claims on the Zanzibar Government, tibe University, selools, hospitals and certain other official entities.
Sources: Economic Bulletin, March 1976 and data from the Batik of Tsnzania.
1



ANNEX V
Table 24:  Domestic Price Indices
(1969 = 100)
Dar-es-Salaam
National Consumer     Dar-es-Salaam          Middle Grade
Price Index      Minimum Wage-Earners     Civil Servants         GDP
(18 towns)        Retail Price Index    Cost-of-Living Index   Deflator
1965                                   89                      89               96
1966                                   93                      92               97
1967                                   95                      96               97
1968                                   99                     100               98
1969               100                100                     100              100
1970              104                 104                     102              104
1971              108                 107                     103              108
1972              117                 119                     106              116
1973               129                129                     122              128
1974               154                169                     152              150
1975              194                 249                     204              171
1973 Quarter 1          126                124                     119
Quarter 2          129                124                     118
Quarter 3          129                126                     121
Quarter 4          131                138                     125
'-'4 Quarter 1          133                139                     12S
Quarter 2          148                161                     145
Quarter 3          150                164                     149
Quarter 4          185                211                     181
1975 Quarter 1          191                241                     194
Quarter 2         196                 233                    197
Quarter 3          192                252                     206
Quarter 4          198                281                     212
1976 Quarter 1          200                311                     210
Quarter 2          207                285
Quarter 3         211                 305
Quarter 4          *-                 321
1/  Sources:  Btureau of '.atis3tics and Bank of Tanzania.



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
AIDE MEMOIRE ON POLICY UNDERSTANDINGS
1.        The GDP growth rate in 1975/76 has been about 5% as compared
to the 3% growth rate in 1974/75. The Government's objective is to
sustain and even improve this growth rate in GDP. The growth rate in
agriculture is planned at more than the 2% achieved during the difficult
period of 1974/75. The Government's effort is also directed at the
moderation of inflation, improving the balance of payments position,
containing Government recurrent expenditure and raising the productive
capacity of industry and agriculture. The size of the balance of payments
deficits in 1974, 1975 and the projected trend of these deficits over
1976-80 indicate clearly that major remedial measures are required. The
objective of the Government's program, therefore, is to resolve the balance
of payments constraint through a judicious blend of demand management,
restructuring of investment in favor of directly productive sectors,
measures to improve output performance in agriculture, improvements in the
structure of incentives in the parastatal sector, an increased export orien-
tation in the manufacturing sector, and restraints on private/public
consumption demand.
Public Investment Policy
2.        Over the past four fiscal years, the Government has increased
substantially the allocation of public investment resources to the
directly productive sectors of agriculture, industry and mining. Thus
these sectors were allocated 36% in 1974/75 and 38.5% in 1975/76 and 42%
in 1976/77 of the development budget resource, compared with an average of
23% in each of the preceeding four years. Government reaffirms the
priority which has been given to directly productive investments over
the past two financial years, and this will continue without overlooking
strategic infrastructure and social services which vitally augment our
rural/urban development.
Agricultural Policy
3.        Agriculture is the foundation of Tanzania's economy.    It contributes
the most to our foreign exchange and to the welfare of our people. More
than 85% of the population relies on agriculture for their livelihood. At
the same time more than 85% of our exports come from agriculture. It is also
recognized by the Government that the most serious problem confronting the
economy is the inadequate rate of growth of the agricultural sector, and
that first priority must be given to solving this problem. We have already
given sufficient emphasis in the past to rural infrastructure namely water,
transport and communication, and health. We have also made and we are still
making vigorous efforts to supply inputs to agriculture like fertilizers and
improved seeds.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
4.        One additional but important aspect is to provide adequate
incentives to producers through adjustments in producer prices. The
Government believes that the successive increases in producer prices of
May 1973, November 1974, September 1975 and September 1976 have given
reasonable incentives to producers of most agricultural products. The
objective of the Government now is to raise the agricultural production
growth rate from 2% in 1974/75 to 5% in 1977. To achieve this, we shall
need to maintain adequate levels of producer prices. To this end an
Agricultural Price Review Coimmittee has been established to carry out annual
review of all basic commodity prices. In the periodic reviews of producer
prices, specific attention will be given to the relative profitability of
cash crops, in comparison with food crops, in order to achieve a desired
balance between cash crops and food grains. In order to prevent rising
marketing costs from eroding producer prices, especially for export crops
which face externally determined world market prices, special studies
are being undertaken of the cost and efficiency problems of our marketing
system.
5.        Another important step is to improve the implementation of
agricultural projects included in our development program. In addition
to steps already taken, it is recognized that it is essential to assign
competent Tanzanian managerial staff to this task and to ensure that
they have sufficient long tenure to enable them to become effective on
the job. Future public investments and scarce manpower resources will be
concentrated in areas of high production potential. In this context,
special efforts are being devoted to the national food production program,
and within this program a special project to increase maize production
has been undertaken.
Industrial Policy
6.        Another fact:or which has contributed to the present economic
difficulties in Tanzania has been lagging production and productivity in
manufacturing and commerce. The Government places a high priority on
increasing productivity in the industrial sector, in improving the
organization and efficiency of industrial enterprises, and improving the
price control system to ensure that prices reflect as much as possible
the social cost of producing industrial goods.
7.        A problem which has been highlighted by the current economic
difficulties is the slow growth of exports and in particular the lack
of development of manufactured exports, based on local raw materials.
In order to stimulate manufactured exports, an Export Promotion Bureau
has been set up in the Ministry of Trade to study the export potential
of various subsectors of manufacturing. Similarly an Export Department
has been established in the Bank of Tanzania to facilitate financing of
exports. In a further measure to stimulate exports the Government,



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
acting in conjunction with the Government of Kenya and Uganda, devalued
the shilling by approximately 14 percent in October 1975. The principal
motivation of this action was to afford greater incentive to exporters
by permitting increases in the shilling prices of their products.
Private Consumption
8.        Measures have been taken to slow the rate of increase of private
consumption. In this regard controlled retail prices for food and other
consumer goods have been increased substantially since 1974, in order to
constrain consumption and eliminate retail subsidies. Indirect taxes on
textiles, beer and cigarettes were raised in November 1974. A further
tax increase on these and other items, as well as income tax increases on
individuals, were incorporated in the 1975/76 and 1976/77 budgets, in
order to absorb excess consumer demand. User charges for water and electricity
in urban areas have also been raised. Non-food consumer goods imports, which
were already subject to controls, have been reduced to the minimum essential
level since 1974. The Government has also taken several steps to restrain
private consumption of petroleum and petroleum products.
9.        In line with our policy of restraining the growth of private
consumption, Government will continue to maintain a judicious balance
between wage, price and tax policy designed to constrain private consumption
while maintaining a reasonable standard of living for all income groups.
Government Consumption
10.       The Government is making serious efforts to slow the rate of
growth of public recurrent expenditures. A decline in the rate of increase
of investments which generate high levels of recurrent expenditure, such as
social services, will automatically have a favorable effect on Government
consumption. The proportion of directly productive investment in the develo-
ment budget has been increased from 38% in 1974/75 to 42% in 1976/77. In
addition, in 1976 the Government laid off about 10,000, or 6%, of her
employees in an effort to reduce the growth in Government recurrent expenditure.
11.       We feel that the above program of policy measures will enable
us to attain a higher rate of economic growth than has been experienced
in the recent past and to bring the balance of payments under control over
the medium term. Furthermore, the weather conditions of 1975 and 1976 have
helped in bringing about some recovery of food production, following the
severe drought conditions of 1973 and 1974. We look forward to restoring
full self-sufficiency in food production within the coming five years and
also to a marked improvement in agricultural export volumes.
Ministry of Finance and Planning
P.O.Box 9111
Dar es Salaam,
Tanzania
27th January, 1977.



