Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                 FILE   CgPv
Report No. P-3166-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
December 1, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



HONDURAS
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
L2.00 = US$1.00
Ll.OO = US$0.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANADESA        National Agricultural Development Bank
(Banco Nacional de Desarrollo Agricola)
BCH             Central Bank of Honduras
(Banco Central de Honduras)
CAAFIID         Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives to
Industrial Development
(Convenio Centroamericano de Incentivos Fiscales para el
Desarrollo Industrial y su Protocolo)
CABEI           Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(Banco Centroamericano de Integracion Economica)
CACM            Central American Common Market
(Mercado Comun Centroamericano)
CDI             Industrial Development Center
(Centro de Desarrollo Industrial)
CET             Common External Tariff
COHDEFOR        Honduran Forestry Development Corporation
(Corporacion de Desarrollo Forestal)
CONADI          National Industrial Development Corporation
(Corporacion Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial)
EFF             Extended Fund Facility
FONDEI          National Industrial Development Fund
(Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial)
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IMF             International Monetary Fund
INFOP           National Institute for Vocational Training
(Instituto de Fomento Productivo)
PI              Participating Intermediary
SMI             Small and Medium Industry



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS (Continued)
SSE             Small Scale Enterprise
SSI              Small Scale Industry
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
UNIDO            United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID           U.S. Agency for International Development
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






HONDURAS
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Honduras
Executing Agency:   National Industrial Development Fund (FONDEI), established
and administered by the Central Bank of Honduras (BCH).
Amount:              Loan   - US$30.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Loan   - 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at 11.6 percent interest per annum.
Relending Terms:    The proceeds of the proposed loan (to be relent to
Participating Intermediaries (PIs))would be onlent by
BCH (acting as a fiscal agency of the Government) to
FONDEI on the same term and grace period as above but
with an interest rate of 12.6 percent 1/ per annum.
The proceeds of the proposed loan for technical assistance
would be passed on to FONDEI, the Industrial Development
Center (CDI) and the National Industrial Development
Corporation (CONADI) through BCH on a grant basis.
Project
Description:         The proposed project would support the Government's
industrial strategy to promote rapid efficient growth of
industrial output, exports and employment by: (i) provid-
ing much needed medium- and long-term credit for finan-
cially and economically sound industrial investment
projects of small and medium sized enterprises; (ii) help-
ing to develop a system for the generation of sound
industrial investment projects; (iii) upgrading the
project appraisal and supervision capabilities of PIs,
as well as FONDEI's administration; (iv) strengthening
CDI's lending capabilities and technical assistance
services to smaller industrial enterprises. US$28.7
million of the proposed loan would be allocated for
onlending to industrial enterprises and US$1.3 million
to technical assistance. A total of about 4,200 new
jobs are expected to be generated at an average invest-
ment cost per job of about US$11,300. The proposed
1/   This includes 1.0 percent premium for the exchange risk assumed by BCH.



- ii -
project does not involve any special risks, although
increased lending to smaller enterprises (calling for
additional financial resources) and new responsibilities
of PIs for appraisal and supervision may cause some
subloan processing delays, and the generally unsettled
situation in Central America may postpone some invest-
ment decisions. However, the project's technical
assistance and training, BCH's guarantee fund for
lending to smaller enterprises, the emphasis given to
strengthening supervision procedures by PIs, and the
focus on small and medium firms, which are less susceptible
than larger firms to political events, would all reduce
these risks, including the risk of domestic resources being
substituted by external funds.
Estimated Cost:                                         -     US$ million ----
Local       Foreign       Total
Credit Program                 18.7         28.7         47.4
Technical Assistance            0.7          2.1          2.8
Total                     19.4         30.8         50.2
ProJect
Financing Plan:                                     -------- US$ million --------
Local       Foreign       Total
IBRD                            -           30.0         30.0
BCH                            2.5             -           2.5
Government                     0.2             -           0.2
UNDP                           0.5            0.8          1.3
FONDEI                         1.5            -            1.5
PIs                            4.9                         4.9
Subloan Beneficiaries          9.8            -           9.8
Total                     19.4          30.8         50.2
FONDEI's
Financing Plan:                                     -------- US$ million --------
Local       Foreign       Total
IBRD                            -           29.1         29.1
BCH                            2.5             -           2.5
UNDP                           0.1            0.3          0.4
FONDEI's Internally
Generated Funds              1.5            -            1.5
Total                      4.1          29.4         33.5



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                              ----------US$ million------------
IBRD/IDA          FY:  1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Annual                  1.5      7.0     9.0      7.5      5.0
Cumulative              1.5      8.5    17.5    25.0    30.0
Economic Rate of
Return:              Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   3596-HO dated November 23, 1981






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.         I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Honduras for the equivalent of US$30.0 million for the Second
Industrial Credit Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum. The proceeds of
the Bank loan would be on-lent to the Central Bank of Honduras (BCH) at the
same interest rate, term and grace period as to the Republic of Honduras,
except for US$1.3 million equivalent for technical assistance which would be
passed on as a grant. BCH would onlend the loan proceeds to the National
Industrial Development Fund (FONDEI) on the same term and grace period as
above, but with an interest rate of 12.6 percent 1/ per annum. FONDEI, in turn,
would onlend to PIs at interest rates of 12, 13, and 14 percent per annum for
enterprises with fixed assets of less than US$50,000, between US$50,000 and
US$150,000, and over US$150,000, respectively. PIs would charge enterprises
an interest rate of 17 percent per annum. The repayment terms for enterprises
would be up to 15 years, including up to 3 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         A report entitled "Current Economic Memorandum on Honduras"
(3312-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 29, 1981.  Bank
missions visited Honduras during May and July 1981, to discuss the report
and review recent economic performance. The main findings of these missions
are summarized below. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.         Honduras is a poor country, mostly a land of small farmers.  Per
capita GNP was about US$560 in 1980, one of the lowest in the Western
Hemisphere. Although population density is 32 per square kilometer, only
one-fourth of the country's area is arable, and the population is growing now
rapidly at about 3.3 percent a year. A large number of Hondurans live in
poverty. Malnutrition is severe; infant mortality is over 10 percent of
live births; and the literacy rate is only 60 percent. One-half of the
population is without safe water and three-quarters of the households are
without access to sanitary waste disposal and electricity.
4.         The Government is showing some awareness of the population problem.
Family planning information and services are provided at Government health
clinics to anyone requesting them. In addition, a local, private affiliate of
the International Planned Parenthood Association supports two urban clinics
covering about 3 percent of the fertile female population. External assistance
to these and other smaller programs comes from the United Nations, private
organizations, and USAID.
1/   This includes 1.0 percent premium for the exchange risk assumed by BCH.



5.        During 1950-75, the real growth rate of the Honduran economy was
3.7 percent per year; per capita income grew by only about one percent per
year. A number of factors contributed to this poor performance. A major
reason was the continued dependence on banana exports, and deteriorating terms
of trade.
6.        The risk of dependence on one a two export crops was illustrated
dramatically during 1974-75 when extensive destruction of the banana planta-
tions by one of the worst hurricanes in Honduras' history resulted in a sharp
reduction in exports and GDP; the latter of about 7 percent. Furthermore, the
terms of trade deteriorated by about one-fifth owing to large increases in
petroleum prices and rising prices for imported goods. As a result, the
resource gap grew from about one percent of GDP during 1972-73 to an average 5
percent during 1974-75, and the rate of inflation accelerated from 2.7 percent
a year during 1966-73 to 11 percent a year in 1974-75.
7.        Subsequently, real GDP recovered remarkably during 1976-79, as it
grew by 7.7 percent per annum. Real investment--public and private--and
exports were the most significant growth factors. The quantum and value
of exports grew rapidly at 11 and 25 percent yearly, respectively, as a result
of a one-third expansion of coffee production, partial recovery of banana
production, and higher coffee prices. However, the terms of trade deteriorated
significantly after 1977 owing to rapidly rising import prices coupled with a
decline of coffee prices. Rising import prices prevented a return to the
traditional price stability of the economy and adversely affected real
wages. Prices increased at 7 percent a year during 1976-79, mostly because of
imported inflation.
8.        The favorable growth performance of the economy during 1976-79
was partly a result of more aggressive Government development policies in
the 1970s. Serious infrastructure deficiencies in transport and power were
eased when a basic network of trunk highways and ports was built. As a
result, private activities expanded rapidly taking advantage of the externali-
ties provided by the public sector. Improved Government planning and executing
capacity was behind the infrastructure expansion; public fixed investment
increased from 3.3 percent of GDP in 1972 to 6.6 percent in 1974 and to 8-9
percent in 1978-79. In another major development, the Government nationalized
timber rights to deter wasteful exploitation practices leading to a depletion
of the large pine reserves and also undertook large public investments
in sawmills in the Olancho area, which will increase lumber exports in the
1980s.
9.        In response to rural unrest in late 1972, land reform measures were
introduced in 1972 and 1975. These aimed at improved land utilization through
the transfer of unused or poorly used land from large landowners to landless
rural families. About 210,000 hectares had been transferred by 1980 of which
about 80 percent was cultivable (8 percent of the total farmland). Although
land had been distributed to over 48,000 families, only about 36,000 remained
on the land at the end of 1980.
10.       To finance these expanded activities, the Government made efforts to
strengthen public finances through tax reforms in 1975, 1979, and more recently
in April 1981. Nevertheless, public finances weakened in 1980 and 1981 as
noted below.



-3-
Recent Developments
11.       In 1980-81, economic growth slowed down as exports and investment
lost their dynamism. Private investment was adversely affected by political
events in Central America and tight credit. Furthermore, the country's
financial position deteriorated. In 1980, the current account deficit of
the balance of payments was over US$300 million (12.7 percent of GDP), and
net official foreign exchange reserves declined by about US$60 million to
US$59 million (less than one month of imports), in spite of significant
inflows of foreign official capital. Public finances also deteriorated;
Central Government current expenditures increased rapidly, reflecting salary
adjustments and large increases in the areas of education and health.
Revenues from a 1979 tax reform were insufficient to cover these increases.
Weak public finances brought about a larger than usual increase in the use of
domestic credit by the public sector and a tightening of credit to the private
sector. Agreed targets of an EFF arrangement, negotiated with the Fund in
mid-1979, were not met in late 1980. To remedy the situation, the Government,
in April 1981, doubled some sales taxes and raised import taxes by 10 percent
for consumer goods and by 5 percent for most of the rest. In addition, the
Government raised telephone and port rates, and is expected to increase water
rates. As part of a renewed EFF agreement, the Government also plans to
restrict current expenditure growth to less than 14 percent in 1981 and 1982;
reduce the size of the overall public sector deficit from about 9 percent of
GDP in 1980 to 7.5 percent in 1981 and less than 7 percent in 1982; and
restrict external and domestic borrowings of the public sector. Furthermore,
to increase private savings and resource mobilization by private banks,
interest rates were freed on savings deposits and on loans financed with
foreign credits.
Prospects and Development Programs
12.       Economic growth during the 1980s is uncertain.  The large Govern-
ment investment effort together with the good prospects for increasing export
volumes of lumber and other traditional exports, as well as possible diversi-
fication efforts by the private sector could result in significant growth in
the mid to late 1980s. Nevertheless, the outlook for 1981-82 is less optimis-
tic because of the political climate and low coffee prices. As a result, real
GDP growth may be only about 4-5 percent a year during 1981-85. Maintenance of
domestic demand levels, proper policies and investment climate could help
revitalize the private sector so that it can contribute to further growth of
the economy and take advantage of the new opportunities opened by the Government
investment effort. However, private investment prospects are now negatively
affected by the unsettled situation in Central America.
13.       The current account balance of payments will likely show moderately
high deficits because of the large public investment program's import require-
ments and higher prices for capital imports. The quantum of exports, would
likely expand at 8 percent a year during 1981-85, but lower export prices will
affect foreign exchange earnings from exports. This growth rate would be lower



- 4 -
than in the recent past because banana production has almost recovered to pre-
hurricane levels, and coffee production will most likely not expand as rapidly
as in 1976-80, when it grew 40 percent. The most dynamic exports will likely
be lumber--which is expected to double in volume once two new sawmills become
fully operational in 1982 and 1984--and beef, sugar, minerals, and seafood
products.
14.       The public investment program for the next few years shows a
continued large expenditure on infrastructure projects, particularly for
on-going power and transport projects, which are still crucial given the
country's development stage; and heavy investments for export diversification,
mainly through forestry development. Also likely are major expenditures for
agricultural and rural development as well as for primary education and
health, particularly water supply and urban and rural medical facilities.
Parallel increments in current expenditures will be needed to staff and equip
the education and health centers. Full implementation of this program is not
likely because of limitations in administrative capacity to prepare and imple-
ment projects, particularly in the rural and social sectors. Nevertheless,
the public sector's administrative capacity to prepare and execute projects has
shown a marked improvement in the past few years. This is reflected in the
increased share of public investment in GDP and has made it reasonable to
expect that the major components of the program, some of which have been under
preparation for a number of years, will be implemented in a relatively timely
manner.
15.       Power investments will be the largest of the proposed program,
averaging about 40 percent of public fixed investment, mostly because of the
large, lumpy investment required for the El Cajon hydroelectric project. This
high share seems justified, since imported oil costs reached US$171 million
(16.8 percent of merchandise imports) in 1980 compared to only US$14.7 million
(6.6 percent of merchandise imports) in 1970. Higher prices and the expanded
domestic demand would bring about a much larger bill for imported oil in the
future. The El Cajon project will reduce significantly the country's dependence
on foreign energy sources. Moreover through a project financed by a recently
approved Bank loan (Loan 1861-HO, signed on June 23, 1980), the Government
will step up efforts to promote oil exploration by private companies. The
Government is also examining areas which appear to have potential for geother-
mal development, is studying the use of woodwaste for small steam power plants
and is investigating gasohol possibilities.
16.       Forestry investments include two relatively large sawmills with
completion expected in 1982 and 1984. The large transport investments
include roads for the sawmills, further rural roads, a modest expansion of the
trunk highway system and a new port for wood product exports. Agricultural
investments will be focused on rural development projects for three major
valleys: Aguan, Guayape and Comayagua. Health investments will be concen-
trated on water supply and medical facilities for Tegucigalpa, San Pedro Sula
and provincial towns, as well as for expanded health services in rural areas.



Special efforts are underway to train nurses and other auxiliary health
personnel, which will facilitate stepped up health and family planning activi-
ties in the future. Educational investments are mostly for primary schools,
the university and agricultural and vocational training institutions. A
nutritional planning unit has been established to provide for widened food
distribution and vaccine coverage for school children and expectant mothers.
17.       The Government's investment and financial program, the latter
supported by the IMF through a three-year extended fund facility (EFF) arrange-
ment, should strengthen the balance of payments in the mid-1980s by reducing
significantly the fuel import requirements of the economy, generating in-
creased exports, particularly lumber and wood products, and by containing
excess domestic demand. Honduras' adherance to a prudent financial program,
its relatively careful demand management so far, and still low debt service
make it creditworthy for a relatively hard blend of Bank Group lending. How-
ever, given the present and foreseeable poverty of the country, even with these
measures, the Government will need external assistance -- and much of it as
concessionary as possible -- in excess of the foreign exchange component of
development projects suitable for international finance. The large size
of its public investment program, the uncertainty which now prevails in the
Central American region and affects also Honduras, and past volatility in
Honduras' export receipts, have led the authorities to agree with the Bank on
annual reviews of the investment program and its financing prospects. We plan
to continue monitoring closely Honduras' progress.
External Financing
18.       As the import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports
related to the public investment program, the current account deficit is
expected to remain at the high levels of 1980-81. The 1985 current account
deficit is projected at US$310 million (about 7 percent of nominal GDP) and,
as a result, large capital inflows will be required. The bulk of the external
financing requirements is expected to be met through public borrowing. Honduras
will require an estimated gross capital inflow of US$1.5 billion during 1981-85,
of which about half will be disbursed from commitments made through the end of
1980.
19.       Honduras' disbursed public external debt repayable in foreign currency
amounted to US$892 million at the end of 1980 or 35 percent of GDP; US$1.6 billion
if undisbursed commitments are included. In the past, Honduras has managed to
keep its external debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were
almost all on concessionary terms. Although the debt service ratio in 1980
was less than 11 percent, it is important that the country continue to borrow
on reasonably soft average terms in view of its poverty, its dependence on a
few export commodities with volatile price prospects, and because, historically,
natural disasters have sharply reduced the volume of exports every few years.
Even if Honduras is successful in obtaining about two-thirds of the financing
it needs for its investment program on terms similar to those offered by the
international lending agencies, the debt service ratio is likely to rise to about
14 percent in 1985. Continued maintenance of Honduras' creditworthiness will
depend on the efficiency with which it chooses and implements its major public
investment projects; on careful, continued demand management, including
cautious use of non-concessionary borrowing; and on export promotion policies.



- 6 -
20.       The Bank Group holds about 24.2 percent of the disbursed public debt
outstanding and repayable in foreign currency; excluding IDA, the Bank's share
is about 17.0 percent. These shares are expected to increase significantly
in the next few years. About half of the Inter-American Development Bank's
(IDB) total loans disbursed and outstanding are repayable in local currency,
so that IDB's share of the disbursed public debt repayable in foreign currency
is only 13.6 percent. The Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(CABEI) accounts for 10.9 percent of the total, the US Government for 11.5
percent, Venezuela for 12.2 percent, privately held debt for about 20.9
percent and other debt for 6.7 percent.
21.       During 1970-80, the principal official lending agencies committed
some US$1.4 billion at FY80 prices, of which the Bank Group provided 36
percent, IDB 34 percent, CABEI 21 percent, and U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) 9 percent. IDB has concentrated on manufacturing, agri-
culture, power, transport, and water and sewerage, CABEI on transport and
power, and USAID on agriculture and education.
22.       Mexico and Venezuela are financing 30 percent of the value of petroleum
imports for the next five years, or over US$45 million yearly. The agreements
provide for initial five year loans to the Central Bank at an interest rate of
4 percent. These loans can be converted to a 20-year maturity and 2 percent
interest if the counterpart generated is used to finance development projects,
particularly energy projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received 27 Bank loans totalling US$408.5 million and 12 IDA
credits totalling US$85.1 million, both net of cancellations. The most recent
operation, a US$28.0 million loan for the Eighth Highway Project, was approved
on August 26, 1980. Bank Group lending to Honduras was unusually large during
1979 and 1980, both because of the Government's stepped-up investment program
and because of the major investment in the El Cajon Power Project, for
which a US$105.0 million loan and US$20.0 million credit were approved on
March 11, 1980 (Loan 1805-HO signed on March 27, 1980, and Credit 989-HO signed
on April 10, 1980). While we hope to continue to support actively Honduras'
development efforts, the annual Bank Group lending level will be lower now
that El Cajon operation has been approved. An important factor which will be
taken into account in determining the pace and size of future lending will be
the Government's capacity to implement its large ongoing program and to absorb
further operations (para. 14). As of September 30, 1981, a total of US$212.1
million remained to be disbursed on 14 operations for electricity, roads,
education, agricultural credit, ports, regional development, industrial
credit, tourism and petroleum exploration. Execution of projects financed
by the Bank Group has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II contains
a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1981, as well as notes on the execution of on-going projects.
24.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in transport
and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of the country.
The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, however, marked a



first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since then, while
lending for power and transport has continued, diversification of our lending
has increased through operations for a Second Livestock Project; a First
Education Project, which included as major components primary and secondary
teacher training schools, and support for vocational training centers and the
national agricultural secondary school; a First Agricultural Credit Project to
finance livestock and crop development with emphasis on assisting agrarian
reform settlements through investment credits and a substantial technical
assistance program; a Second Education Project to help finance rural primary
schools and agricultural vocational education; a Regional Development Project
to assist small farmers and agrarian reform settlements in the Guayape Valley;
an Industrial Credit Project to provide funds primarily to small and medium
manufacturing firms and firms proposing priority projects in the wood industry;
a Tourism Development Project to contribute to the diversification of the
sources of Honduras' foreign exchange earnings; a Second Agricultural Credit
Project to continue financing livestock and crop development, with increasing
attention to small-scale and agrarian reform farmers, and to initiate a pilot
reforestation program; and a Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project to help
attract more private investment in offshore petroleum exploration.
25.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the Government's
objectives to increase production, employment and exports, and to raise living
standards of the poor by emphasizing projects in the productive and social
sectors. On the productive side, in addition to the proposed project, we
would continue to provide credit to the agricultural sector, with special
attention to diversification efforts, and also help finance a major pulp and
paper project in the Olancho area. On the social side, we would attempt to
complement the active programs of other agencies, such as USAID and IDB, by
lending for water supply/sewerage and housing projects aimed at improving
living conditions for the urban poor, and would also continue to emphasize
rural development to support the Government's agrarian reform efforts. While
new lending for infrastructure is not immediately contemplated, it would be
included in later years where necessary to overcome bottlenecks, for example
through the financing of a new hydropower project to reduce the fuel import
dependence of the economy.
26.       It is expected that the Bank's share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will remain at about 18 percent during the
mid-1980s. The IBRD share of public external debt service has dropped substan-
tially since the early 1970s because of increasing lending by other external
agencies and a slight increase in commercial borrowing. The Bank's share is
now about 14 percent and is projected to increase to about 20 percent by the
mid-1980s.
27.       IFC's activities in Honduras include a 1964 loan and equity invest-
ment, of US$295,000 and US$55,000, respectively, in a tannery, Empresa de
Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. In 1966 an additional equity investment of
US$27,500 was made in this company. In 1969 and 1970 equity investments
totalling US$75,000 were made in a pilot company, Compania Pino Celulosa de
Centro America, S.A., which was established to develop an industrial project
based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve. Although this company is



- 8 -
no longer involved in this project, IFC has assisted the Government of Honduras
in creating an organizational structure and selecting a technical partner for
the project. In 1978 IFC approved a loan of US$9.0 million and an equity
investment of US$1.0 million in Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A. de C.V., a locally
owned textile company, to help finance an expansion and diversification
project.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Growth and Structure
28.       Honduras' industrial sector is less well developed than in the rest
of Central America; it grew in real terms only about 3 percent per year be-
tween 1960-75. Nevertheless, it expanded rapidly during the second half of
the 1970s, averaging 9.6 percent per annum growth between 1975-79. During the
1970s, employment in industry increased by 5.6 percent on average annually,
significantly above the country population growth rate of 3.3 percent a year.
In 1979, manufacturing accounted for about 17 percent of GDP at factor cost,
12 percent of employment and 36 percent of total merchandise exports, including
processed agricultural and livestock products. More recently, the growth of
private industrial fixed investment has been somewhat depressed due to the lack
of investor confidence and the tight credit situation of the banking system;
the industrial sector's growth rate dropped to about 6 percent in 1980.
29.       The Honduran industrial base has been relatively small.  Production
of heavy intermediate and capital goods is minimal; processing of local raw
agricultural and forest products into consumer goods represents about two-
thirds of industrial value added; and intermediate goods production consti-
tutes about one-third of value added. Industrial enterprises in Honduras
are relatively small. Most firms employ fewer than 50 workers, producing
consumer goods.
30.       Various factors have contributed to the structure of industry:
the domestic market is small; transport and power infrastructure have been
inadequate; there is a shortage of qualified managers, technicians and
semi-skilled workers; illiteracy is widespread and there are only limited
training facilities. The relative backwardness of Honduran industry also kept
it from taking greater advantage of the opportunities offered by the creation
of the Central American Common Market (CACM) in 1961. While intra-regional
trade, the bulk of which was in manufactured products, increased rapidly from
US$30.0 million in 1960 to US$252.0 million in 1968, Honduran exports to its
CACM partners rose only from US$8.0 million to US$30.0 million in the same
period. Its share of intraregional trade thus fell from 27 percent to
12 percent, and this trade was largely in basic grains.
31.       Honduras withdrew from the CACM following its conflict with
vl Salvador in 1969, and in 1973 Honduras signed bilateral agreements with each
CACM country except El Salvador. 1/ These agreements, while providing for
1/   A peace treaty was signed with El Salvador in late 1980, which resulted
in the resumption of diplomatic relations and some trade. A bilateral
trade agreement is currently being prepared.



- 9 -
partial restoration of free trade along CACM lines, offered certain advantages
to Honduras, which was permitted to charge tariffs on some manufactured goods
from CACM countries. Signing of these agreements was followed by the renewed
granting of industrial incentives, originally established under the Central
American Agreement of Fiscal Incentives to Industrial Development (CAAFIID),
which triggered a process of modernization and expansion of industrial capacity.
Other factors during the 1970s also contributed to faster industrial growth:
significant investments in infrastructure; industrial promotion by the
National Industrial Development Corporation (CONADI); and the elimination of
Salvadorian competition with the cessation of trade after 1969. In addition,
Honduras has been taking measures to improve labor force training through the
National Institute for Vocational Training (INFOP). Under the Bank's First
Education Project (Loan 954-HO/Credit 452-HO of January 9, 1974), vocational
training centers were built one each in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula.
32.       Investment in industrial fixed assets accelerated to an average
growth rate of 14 percent per annum in real terms during 1976-79, in contrast
with the 7 percent annual growth during 1965-70.  There have been corresponding
increases in labor productivity and capacity utilization.  Larger and more
efficient factories have been established, and Honduran manufactured exports -
over 20 percent of which go to CACM countries - increased substantially to
38 percent of industrial output in 1975-79. In addition, a major structural
transformation has taken place. Once a major supplier of agricultural products
to the rest of the region, Honduras slowly became an exporter of manufactured
products, which by 1979 represented over 80 percent of Honduran exports to the
CACM.
Prospects
33.       In 1980, economic conditions, including industrial investment and
exports, deteriorated. Industrial value added increased by only 6 percent
compared to an average of almost 10 percent annually during 1975-79. Credit
available to the private sector was reduced, which in part can be explained
by high interest rates abroad and uncertainties in the area. Honduras
now faces difficulties in exporting to CACM countries because of the
generally unsettled situation in the area. However, despite this less
optimistic outlook, the demand and capacity creation effects of the large
Government investment effort currently underway, along with increased credit
availability for the private sector provided under the Government's 1981-82
program could increase private sector confidence and provide an improved
environment for private sector growth. This, together with the improved
prospects for increasing exports, particularly food, wood and paper products,
is expected to lead to higher manufacturing growth rates (about 7-8 percent
per annum) by the mid-1980s. Demand for manufactured goods should improve in
line with the country's development. Honduras' relatively low wages, stable
investment climate and good labor-management relations in comparison to its
neighboring and trading partner countries, should keep Honduras reasonably
competitive. Nevertheless, it must be recognized that the industrial outlook
will continue to be influenced for the next few years by the overall situa-
tion in Central America, and private investors are likely to remain relatively
cautious in the entire region.



- 10 -
Government Policies
34.        The Government took two institutional measures in 1974 to facilitate
productive investment in industry. First, it created CONADI to fill a gap in
industrial equity and term financing, supply technical and managerial assis-
tance to new industrial projects and facilitate joint public/private participa-
tion in large-scale enterprises. CONADI's operations grew rapidly, but by the
end of 1980, it faced a difficult financial situation (para. 41). Second, it
established the Honduran Forestry Development Corporation (COHDEFOR) to manage
all forest lands, develop Honduras' extensive forest resources and finance
forest industry. COHDEFOR has grown into an organization whose exports are
now established in European and US markets. However, frequent managerial
changes have hindered its development.
35.        More recently, Government policies have focused in the stimulation
of small- and medium-size industrial firms. These enterprises have been the
target group of the National Industrial Development Fund (FONDEI), created to
channel funds under the Bank-financed First Industrial Credit Project (Loan
1659-HO of March 8, 1979). To provide further support, the Government is
upgrading the Industrial Development Center (CDI), which had been assisting
individual artisans, to provide broader technical assistance services and
financing to small-scale enterprises (SSEs). CDI's budget has been substan-
tially expanded, and it started lending to SSEs under the First Industrial
Credit Project in late 1980. The Government agreed that CDI would continue to
be provided with adequate human and financial resources to enable CDI to carry
out its responsibilities under the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01). In
addition, in 1978 the Government enacted a law to promote the development of
SSEs, including the extension to SSEs of the incentives (tax and duty exemp-
tions) available to larger firms under the bilateral trade agreements with
other Central American countries.
36.        Honduras' tariff structure has been closely related to the CACM's
Common External Tariff (CET) and in general has not encouraged uneconomic
manufacturing.  Nominal protection rate is low by Central American standards.
While the effect of tariffs and other incentives, particularly that of a
liberal system of tax exemptions, has encouraged industrial investment overall,
it has been costly in terms of revenues foregone, and it is likely that much
investment would have taken place with lesser incentives. While the Government
is aware of some of the limitations of its incentive policy, it has been
reluctant to alter it before a revision of the regional system (CAAFIID)
because of the competition within Central America for new investments.
37.        In order to increase exports, the Honduran Government is also estab-
lishing a more systematic approach to export promotion. In view of Honduras'
declining balance of payments situation and the apparent inability of the
CACM countries, at this time, to formulate a common regional export incentive
policy, the implementation of an effective national strategy has become
increasingly important. The Government is preparing an export promotion law,
and the Bank has commented on its first draft. The Government has agreed
that, before taking any action concerning incentives for the promotion of
exports, it will give the Bank all reasonable opportunity for exchanging views
on such incentives (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08).



- 1 1 -
Government Development Plan
38.       Under the 1979-83 Economic Development Plan, the Government's
targets for industry are: (i) an average real growth of 9 percent per annum,
increasing industry's contribution to GDP from 17 percent in 1979 to 19 percent
in 1983; (ii) growth of manufactured exports by 15 percent per annum in current
terms, with the proportion of domestic value added in exports progressively in-
creasing; and (iii) more rapid development of labor-intensive small- and medium-
sized enterprises. To achieve these targets, the Plan envisages: (i) a more
selective import substitution strategy focusing on efficient industries;
(ii) increased promotion of exports outside the CACM; (iii) identification of
new industries in which Honduras might have a comparative advantage; and (iv)
provision of increased credit and technical assistance to small and medium-
sized industrial firms. While the industrial growth rates envisioned in the
plan appear optimistic at this time (para 33), the rapid development of labor-
intensive small- and medium-sized enterprises is taking place through the First
Industrial Credit Project, and would continue under the proposed project.
Industrial Finance
39.       Institutions providing finance to industry in Honduras include the
Banco Central de Honduras (BCH), the aforementioned CONADI and COHDEFOR,
15 commercial banks including one financiera and, until recently, the
Government-owned National Agricultural Development Bank (BANADESA).
40.       BCH, established in 1950, is a well-managed and adequately staffed
organization. It has been active, apart from its normal responsibilities
as a central bank, in economic development. BCH has established rediscounting
facilities, available to a variety of financial intermediaries, which have
helped to finance inventories of export commodities and to meet short-term
liquidity requirements for agriculture and, to a lesser extent, industry. BCH
also operates a guarantee fund for small-scale enterprises and a rediscount
facility for financing non-traditional exports, and has administered effectively
four Bank Group supported agricultural credit projects, the First Industrial
Credit Project, and the credit component of a tourism development project.
The last two are responsibility of FONDEI, through which the industrial credit
resources of the proposed project would be channelled (para. 50).
41.       In recent years, reflecting BCH's efforts to increase competition
in commercial banking, important changes have occurred which have given
the banking system a broader base, an enlarged clientele, and an improved
geographic spread. As a result, the number of commercial banks has increased,
and the system is channeling an increasing amount of resources into agriculture
and industry. Honduras' 15 commercial banks have provided about 59 percent
(US$96.0 million) of new industrial credits during 1980. These credits, on
average, account for 20 percent of the commercial system's total new loans.
While commercial banks are engaged mainly in short-terms lending the situation
is changing appreciably. In 1970, loans for less than 18 months accounted for
67 percent of resources loaned and by 1980 only 48 percent. This has been
mainly as a result of the increased availability of longer term financing, such
as under the First Industrial Credit Project. CONADI has become the most
important industrial financing source, accounting for 41 percent of industrial



- 12 -
lending, but currently CONADI is in financial difficulties and its lending
level for the next one to two years is expected to be modest. In the recent
past CONADI has been promoting through long-term loans and equity invest-
ments large-scale projects which have involved it in the management of
individual enterprises and which take years to achieve profitability.
Moreover, these projects have been financed through commercial foreign
borrowing with short- and medium-term maturities, thus creating serious
liquidity problems for CONADI. In addition, CONADI has extended substantial
guarantees to firms some of which are defaulting on the secured loans, and
CONADI may need to cover them. Through the on-going UNDP-financed project,
and the technical assistance under the proposed loan, CONADI would be assisted
in resolving its immediate and longer-term problems (para. 64).
42.       Internally generated resources have traditionally been relied on
for the financing of industry. Until 1971, equity, undistributed profits,
and depreciation reserves provided over two-thirds of industrial resources,
while loans and credits accounted for less than one-third of financing. Since
then, however, debt financing has grown in importance and now accounts for
about 50-60 percent of industrial financing. Over the long run, Honduras will
have to mobilize a larger supply of domestic capital to finance industrial
development than it has so far. The new regulations on interest rates should
allow the commercial banks to charge rates attractive enough to provide an
incentive for a shift to term financing.
Monetary Policies
43.       Monetary policy in Honduras has traditionally focused on three
principal objectives: (i) maintaining the stability of the Lempira within a
system of free currency convertibility; (ii) seeking to achieve equilibrium in
the balance of payments; and (iii) keeping the domestic inflation rate at or
below the level of the US--Honduras' principal trading partner. These
objectives have been pursued by modifying legal reserve requirements on
deposits, regulating the percentage of commercial bank lending for a
particular purpose, limiting discount and rediscount facilities mainly to
agricultural crop and export financing, and levying surcharges on imports
of non-essential items. Partly as a result of these Goverment policies, the
historical rate of inflation in Honduras, as measured by the consumer price
index, has been low compared to many other Latin American countries, and the
Lempira-US Dollar exchange rate has remained at 2:1 for the past two decades.
The annual average increase of the consumer price index rose from 3.4 percent
in 1970-1973 to 7.7 percent in 1976-1979. In 1980, inflation rose to 19 per-
cent as a result of increasingly higher prices of imported goods, the new round
of oil price increases, and the failure of basic grains production to keep
pace with growing demand.
44.       While in the 1960s interest rates were modified infrequently, in
the 1970s interest rates have played a more important role in monetary policy.
The maximum interest rates on productive loans, which were constant between 1967
and 1971, were changed in 1972 and 1974 and again in 1980 and 1981. Interest
rates on loans for consumption or commerce, however, have been restricted since
1974 when the free market rate was replaced by a 13 percent ceiling interest
rate. In the face of a 66 percent increase in banking liquidity between 1975
and mid-1977, BCH raised legal reserve requirements on all bank deposits, from



- 13 -
25 percent to 30 percent thereby increasing the cost of resource mobilization
by the banking system, and reducing incentives to raise long-term funds.
Ceiling of 11 and 14 percent established in 1978 and in 1979, respectively on
deposit.interest rates, hampered the mobilization of domestic resources. In
addition, a lending rate ceiling (16 percent prior to March 1980 and 19 percent
thereafter) limited the profitability of foreign commercial borrowings. As
part of a financial program developed with the IMF in May 1981, which included
measures to tighten the government's expenditures, improve tax administration,
raise rates for services of public enterprises and reduce BCH credit to the
Central Government, interest rates were freed on deposits, and a maximum
spread of 3.5 percent was allowed on loans of commercial banks which were
financed with foreign credit.
Industrial Investment and Credit Demand
45.       Taking into account the fluctuations in investment amounts which can
be expected due to the "lumpiness" of some projects, the GDP and industrial
investment growth rates during the last six years, and the GDP growth rate
projected for 1981-85, 1/ it is estimated that industrial investment in fixed
assets during the next four years would increase in real terms by about
4 percent per annum. Assuming an annual inflation rate of 12 percent for
the next 2-3 years, this would correspond to an average annual investment
level of about US$80.0 million, in current terms.
46.       Based upon the recent trends in industrial financing (para. 42) on
average about 50 percent of incremental industrial investment would be financed
by lenders; thus, about US$40.0 million equivalent would be required each
year. This figure is comparable with the results of a recent survey conducted
by FONDEI to determine the potential demand for its financing. The survey,
which covered seven of the major financial intermediaries, showed a pipeline
of about 250 small- and medium-sized industrial subprojects requiring a total
investment of about US$60.0 million over the next two years. The proposed
Bank loan of US$30.0 million over the 1982-1984 commitment period of the loan
would finance about 25 percent of the credit required. The remainder of
the investment requirements would be met by short- and medium-term direct
foreign loans, by new, and renewal of short- and medium-term loans made by
commercial banks, and by other cofinancing resources, including export credit
lines arranged by the BCH (para. 67).
1/   GDP growth for 1981-85 is projected at about 4.5 percent annually
(July 1981, Economic Memorandum on Honduras).



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Second Industrial Credit Project,"
No. 3596a-HO dated November 23, 1981, is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Annex III contains a Timetable of events in processing
the proposed project and a description of the special conditions of the
proposed loan and credit. The project was appraised in March-May 1981.
"'egotiations were held in Washington from November 12 to November 16, 1981.
The principal representative for the Government was Mr. Roberto Pacheco (Legal
Counsel, Ministry of Finance) and for BCH, Mr. Gonzalo Carias (Assistant to
the President of BCH).
Objectives and Project Description
48.       The First Industrial Credit Project (Loan 1659-HO for US$15.0 million,
approved on February 6, 1979) was designed to assist the government in meeting
its objectives for developing the industrial sector, by establishing an effec-
tive system to provide term financing to sound investment projects of small-
and medium-sized firms. The loan was made to the Government of Honduras for
onlending through FONDEI which has been established and administered by BCH.
FONDEI operates as a second-tier financial institution, providing part of the
financing for term loans made by the financial intermediaries (commercial banks
and financieras, including CDI and COHDEFOR) for industrial investment sub-
projects. As of September 30, 1981, US$14.2 million of the loan was committed
and US$7.5 million disbursed by the Bank. The project's institution building
objectives for FONDEI and the banking system are being achieved. Overall, this
two-tier credit system through FONDEI has proved itself to be a very viable
mechanism in Honduras for financing efficient industrial projects and assisting
the government in reaching its development goals in the industrial sector.
49.       The proposed project would be a follow up to the First Industrial
Credit Project; it would continue supporting the government industrial
strategy and help in promoting and maintaining rapid and efficient growth
of industrial output, exports and employment. The project would strengthen
the institutional capability created under the first project to select,
prepare, and finance sound industrial investment projects, particularly of
small- and medium-size manufacturing firms. It would increase the amount
of medium- and long-term credit to industry, thus providing more appropriate
financing for industrial expansion than is presently available.
50.       The project would be carried out by FONDEI, which would review and
approve medium-and long-term loans for industrial subprojects submitted by
financial intermediaries. Commercial banks, CDI and COHDEFOR are expected to
participate in the project as financial intermediaries.
51.       Under the project FONDEI would finance the purchase of fixed assets,
associated permanent working capital, installation of equipment, preinvest-
ment studies and technical assistance services. Projects eligible for
financing would entail the creation, expansion or modernization of the
productive capacity of enterprises involved in manufacturing, agro-industry,
forestry and wood processing, fishing and fish product industries, and
industry related services.



- 15 -
52.       The maximum financing for any single investment or enterprise would
be US$1.25 million (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b)(iii)). This limit would be
cumulative, taking into account any other outstanding amounts from previous
FONDEI loans. This is intended to avoid concentration of project financing in
a few firms. The project significantly benefits small industries, which would
be defined as firms with fixed assets of less than US$150,000 equivalent,
excluding land and buildings, but including new investments under a proposed
subproject. This definition corresponds approximately to firms with up to
25 employees, and includes most firms which have had limited access to credit
from the banking system. In addition, FONDEI would: (i) allocate at least
US$4.0 million of the proposed loan for small-scale industries (Loan Agreement,
Section 2.02(c)(i)); (ii) provide a differentiated spread to cover the higher
costs of small-scale lending (Project Agreement, Section 2.04); and (iii) coor-
dinate with CDI to ensure that small-scale projects are well prepared for
submission to the participating financial intermediaries.
53.       FONDEI would finance up to 65 percent of the cost of new industrial
subprojects and up to 80 percent for expansion and modernization subprojects.
Financial intermediaries would finance at least 10 percent of subproject
costs and each sub-borrower the balance. FONDEI's financing would be for
up to 15 years with up to 3 years grace. In the case of subprojects for
to exports outside Central America, FONDEI would be entitled to provide an
extended subloan grace period and repayment terms up to 2 additional years
within the above limits.
54.       Subloans financed by FONDEI would be denominated in Lempiras.
Interest rates charged by financial intermediaries on the portion of loans
with their own resources are subject to the regulations established by BCH.
BCH has agreed on the initial onlending interest rate of 17 percent charged
by financial intermediaries with FONDEI resources and on the specific criteria
to be used for its periodic review and revision throughout the commitment
period of the proposed loan. Such review and revision would be made ever- six
months, based on the inflation rate, market rates and adequate spreads to
FONDEI and financial intermediaries (Project Agreement, Section 2.04(d)).
Currently, taking into account the abovementioned criteria, a 17 percent
interest rate appears adequate as an initial rate. 1/
55.       FONDEI would onlend to participating intermediaries at initial
interest rates of 12, 13, and 14 percent per annum for enterprises with fixed
assets of less than US$50,000, between US$50,000 and US$150,000, and over
US$150,000, respectively; since the initial interest rate to be charged by
1/   This rate is in line with existing lending rates for term lending in
Honduras and is expected to be positive in real terms. The inflation
rate in Honduras was about 7.3 percent average per annum during 1974-79.
It accelerated during 1980 to about 19 percent but dropped to an equiv-
alent annual rate of about 10 percent during the first four months
of 1981, and is estimated to be 12 percent for 1981 and projected to
remain at about 12 percent for 1982.



- 16 -
intermediaries to all enterprises would be set at 17 percent per annum
(para 54), intermediaries would receive higher differential spreads for
subloans to smaller enterprises. These higher spreads, which proved to be
adequate under the first project, are intended to encourage intermediaries to lend
to SSI, which have relatively higher loan processing and supervision costs
and associated risks. BCH has agreed to the abovementioned interest rates and
spreads (Project Agreement, Section 2.04).
56.       FONDEI's new statement of policies and industrial regulations as
presently drafted would form a satisfactory basis for FONDEI's channelling of
Bank funds for industrial lending under the proposed project. BCH has agreed
on these policies and regulations, and their approval by FONDEI's Executive
Committee would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(b)).
57.       FONDEI is headed by a qualified director responsible for managing its
day-to-day operations who reports to an Executive Committee established by BCH
and consisting of the President of the BCH, a representative of the Minister of
Economy, and a representative of the national banking system. The committee
has overall responsibility for FONDEI's operations, and BCH provides technical
staff and logistic facilities to FONDEI. Detailed organization and staffing
arrangements have been discussed with the Bank and appear adequate to enable
FONDEI successfully to carry out the project.
FONDEI's Operations
58.       FONDEI's operations have grown rapidly since its establishment in
December 1978, particularly during 1980. As of March 31, 1981, FONDEI's
total approved financing amounted to US$17.8 million of which 77 percent
was under the First Industrial Credit Project. At that time, total investment
cost of industrial subprojects amounted to US$24.0 million, of which FONDEI
had committed US$13.8 million (US$11.2 with Bank loan resources). 1/ The
majority of banks and financieras operating in Honduras have participated as
financial intermediaries under the First Industrial Project. FONDEI lending
is concentrated in relatively small enterprises, which have on average
US$183,000 in fixed assets after the FONDEI financing, excluding land and
buildings, as of March 31, 1981. At that time, FONDEI had financed a total of
127 industrial subprojects with an average subloan size of US$108,000, of
which 46 subprojects are for SSIs with an average subloan size of US$28,000.
FONDEI, in addition, has supported a large number of new firms which accounted
for about 30 percent of the enterprises financed and 51 percent of total
subloan amounts. Overall, the above-mentioned figures show the positive
results of the FONDEI's operations in reaching relatively small enterprises
and achieving a wide distribution of its resources among banks and indus-
trialists.
1/   A balance of US$4.0 million had been committed out of the US$16.0
million credit component under loan 1673-HO (US$19.5 million), for
tourism development in Honduras.



- 17 -
59.       FONDEI's disbursed and outstanding portfolio has grown rapidly,
amounting to US$ 7.5 million as of December 1980. The portfolio has minimal
possibilities of arrears, due to FONDEI's policy of requiring subloans repay-
ments by, financial intermediaries, regardless of whether payments by the
sub-borrowers have been received, through the intermediaries' clearing accounts
with BCH. For 1981-1984 FONDEI's profits are projected to average about
US$0.5 million p.a. Operating income from loan portfolio would cover the
financial expenses as well as administrative costs. FONDEI's projected net
operating profit for 1981-1984 is estimated to average 6 percent of paid-in
capital and retained earnings. Thus, provided inflation rates in Honduras
return to their traditional low levels, FONDEI should be able to meet its
policy objective of maintaining at least the real value of its capital,
particularly beyond 1983, when operating profits are expected to increase
rapidly.
Participating Institutions
60.       Participation in the project would be limited to financial institu-
tions which meet FONDEI's eligibility criteria, to be defined in participation
agreements (Project Agreement, Section 2.03(b)). 1/ To qualify, an institution
would have to employ staff capable in FONDEI's judgment of performing project
appraisals and of supervising projects to ensure that resources had been used
for the purpose intended and that projects progress on schedule. It would be
required also to adhere to specified lending and repayment terms, and procure-
ment and disbursement procedures. The signing of participation agreements
satisfactory to the Bank with at least three intermediaries would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(c)). The
intermediaries would assume the full credit risk on subloans. They would also
provide short-term financing and working capital for sub-borrowers. The most
any one intermediary would be permitted to commit of Bank loan funds would be
US$7.5 million except that loans to SSIs would be exempted from this limita-
tion (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(b) (ii).
61.       The intermediaries would have primary responsibility for preparing
subproject appraisals and for subloan supervision. BCH has agreed on revised
appraisal and supervision guidelines to be followed by both FONDEI and
financial intermediaries, as well as on the corresponding terms of
the draft participation agreements specifying the intermediaries' appraisal
and supervision responsibilities. Approval of appraisal and supervision
guidelines by FONDEI's Executive Committee would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)). Prior Bank approval would be
required for all subloans above US$400,000 (Loan Agreement, Section 2.02(d)).
On this basis, the Bank should review 30-35 subprojects covering 40-50 percent
of the loan amount. For FONDEI subloans above US$250,000 the economic rate of
return (ERR) would be calculated by FONDEI, using standard Bank guidelines for
DFCs. Subloans to SSIs would be subject to simpler and more rapid appraisals,
focusing on the market and technical aspects, repayment capacity and on the
1/   CONADI, which currently has a very difficult financial situation, would
be eligible to participate as financial intermediary under the proposed
project, only when and if its situation does improve.



- 18 -
financial rate of return (FRR), which has been used adequately by FONDEI and
financial intermediaries under the first project. All appraisals would
include an analysis of certain key economic variables (e.g., employment, value
added, exports) to assist in project monitoring, and also a discussion of the
procurement procedures applied (Loan Agreement, Section 2.03(a)(b)).
Costs and Financing
62.       Based on estimates of the likely demand for industrial financing,
the resources available to the participating institutions and their capacity
to expand operations, the total cost of direct investment and technical
assistance financed under the project is estimated at US$50.2 million. The
proposed loan of US$30.0 million equivalent together with about US$0.8 million
of the UNDP's contribution of US$1.3 million for technical assistance would
meet all foreign costs which amount to 61 percent of the total project cost.
The balance of the financing will be provided by BCH-FONDEI (about 8 percent
of total costs), the sub-borrowers (about 20 percent), and the intermediaries
(about 10 percent) and the Government (about 1 percent). BCH would make
US$2.5 million equivalent available to FONDEI as paid-in capital prior to
December 31, 1983.  The Government and BCH have agreed on making this amount avail-
able to FONDEI by this date (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05). The proceeds
of the Bank loan would be on-lent by the Government to BCH at the same
interest rate, term and grace period as for the proposed Bank loan, except
for US$1.3 million which would be passed on to CONADI, FONDEI and CDI on a
grant basis for technical assistance.
63.       In view of the likelihood of many small subloans, the Bank loan
would be repaid on a fixed amortization schedule (equal installments over
a 20-year term, including 5 years of grace). BCH would assume the foreign
exchange risk on FONDEI's operations, for which it would levy a fee of
1.0 percent per annum on the outstanding balance of subloans with Bank
resources (Project Agreement, Section 2.05(a)(b)).
Technical Assistance
64.       The technical assistance component would be financed by the Govern-
ment using US$1.3 million of the loan and US$0.2 million of its own resources.
In addition, an expected UNDP grant of about US$1.3 million would be provided. 1/
The technical assistance is designed to strengthen the capabilities of par-
ticipating institutions. The technical assistance program would include a
training component, and would focus on (i) upgrading the FONDEI and financial
intermediaries, including CDI, capacities on subproject preparation, appraisal
and supervision, providing training through special seminars and on the job;
(ii) upgrading FONDEI and CDI financial planning, information systems and loan
administration; and (iii) designing and implementing an efficient system to
provide technical assistance through CDI to small firms. The Government and
BCH have agreed on the timing and the nature of the technical assistance and
training for CDI, FONDEI and financial intermediaries. The program would also
make available resources to assist CONADI to implement a plan of action that
would be agreed with the Bank, based on recommendations of the study of its
1/ It is expected that the technical assistance program would require about
273 man-months of consultant services with an estimated average man-month
cost of about US$7,000.



- 19 -
financial situation being carried out by UNDP-financed consultants (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.01(a) Part II. This assistance would be contingent on
CONADI making no new investments, lending or guarantee operations until a
decision is reached and agreed with the Bank on a program to restore the finan-
cial soundness of the institution and on the arrangements for executing this
component (Loan Agreement, Sections 2.02(e)(iii) and 3.06). UNIDO and the
Bank would be the executing agencies for the CDI and the FONDEI components of
the technical assistance, respectively.
Procurement
65.       The proceeds of the Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange
costs of imported and locally procured equipment, materials, civil works
and services. Consulting services for subprojects or technical assistance
services for the project would be open to international recruitment. Par-
ticipating intermediaries would satisfy themselves that procurement items
were suitable for the respective investment projects and reasonably priced,
and that the beneficiaries had canvassed the main sources of supply and
were purchasing from the most advantageous source. Whenever justified,
items would be procured on the basis of at least three different quotations.
Since it may be difficult or relatively costly to obtain quotations from
several suppliers in the case of small orders, the solicitation of at least
three offers would be mandatory only for items estimated to cost US$50,000
equivalent or more (Project Agreement, Section 2.07(a)(ii)). All subproject
appraisals would include a discussion of procurement procedures used, responses
received, prices quoted and criteria for selection of suppliers.
Commitment and Disbursement
66.       The final date for submission of subloan proposals would be
December 31, 1984 and the closing date for disbursements June 30, 1986. For
subloans to small industrial enterprises with fixed assets of US$150,000 and
under (excluding land and buildings but including the new investments under a
proposed subproject), the Bank would reimburse FONDEI for 75 percent of
FONDEI's total financing of individual subprojects representing their average
foreign exchange content. Disbursement for small industry subprojects would
be on the basis of a certificate of expenditure submitted by FONDEI, which
would retain the supporting documentation in Honduras for inspection during
Bank supervision missions. For medium-sized industry subprojects full documen-
tation would be required and the Bank would disburse for (i) 100 percent of
documented foreign expenditures for imported machinery, equipment, raw material
inventories and services; (ii) 70 percent the c.i.f. cost of local expenditures
for imported goods purchased off-the-shelf where the c.i.f. price cannot be
ascertained; (iii) 50 percent of the ex-factory price of locally manufactured
machinery and equipment representing the average of foreign exchange content;
and (iv) 35 percent of investments in industrial buildings and related civil
works representing the average foreign exchange content. For the technical
assistance component of the project, the Bank would disburse for 100 percent
of the Government's cost-sharing contribution for foreign expenditures.
Retroactive financing up to US$1.5 million would be permitted for financing
expenditures incurred between September 1, 1981, and the date of signing of
the loan agreement. This is to ensure continuity of lending for medium-sized
enterprises, since FONDEI had virtually fully committed its resources under



- 20 -
Loan 1659-HO for these enterprises during the third quarter of 1981. Since
the two-tier system involving FONDEI and the financial intermediaries (includ-
ing CDI for SSE lending) requires a longer time for processing of subprojects
than is usual for IDF-type loans, disbursements would be made for expenditures
incurred up to 180 days prior to the receipt by the Bank of the subloan
requests, in lieu of the normal 90-day limit.
Cofinancing I/
67.       BCH is currently negotiating export credit agreements with several
countries. The first such agreement which has recently been formalized with
Argentina, will provide a line of credit for US$15.0 million equivalent for
multi-sector use. BCH is expecting to conclude similar agreements with Brazil
and Mexico and has initiated discussions with Eximbank of Japan. About US$5.0
million equivalent from these export credit lines would be utilized to finance
industrial projects. These credit lines would be administered by the Central
Bank's Credit Department and would be available to the Honduran commercial
banks. Because these credit lines call for tied procurement, FONDEI would
ensure that industrialists would only use these resources if the prices for
goods and services procured through them are competitive. The Bank would
review the operational guidelines to be developed under the cofinancing
arrangements.
Project Benefits and Risks
68.       The proposed project would help fill a gap in the financing of
efficient industrial projects in Honduras at a time when the financial system
lacks long-term resources to cover industrial investment needs. The proposed
project is expected to finance some 200-225 investment subprojects involving
total investment costs of about US$47.4 million, focussing on a wide range of
small- and medium-sized enterprises. The ERRs of subprojects are expected to
exceed 25 percent on the average based on the experience under the first
project. The subprojects to be financed are expected to have a substantial
employment impact, generating a total of about 4,200 new jobs, at an average
investment cost per job of about US$11,300 in 1981 prices. Indirect employment
impact is also expected to be significant.
69.       In addition to supporting the Government's development policies,
the proposed project would strengthen the country's productive capacity and
thus help sustain the financial burden of physical infrastructure and social
development projects in the country. Based on results under the first project,
total output of the subprojects is estimated at about US$45.0-50.0 million a
year, of which about one-third would be for export. The impact of the project
would be geographically dispersed, with agro-industrial subprojects focused
mainly along the north coast and southwest region of the country and other
manufacturing subprojects located mainly in the cities of San Pedro Sula and
Tegucigalpa. Based on results of the first project and on FONDEI's subproject
pipeline, the bulk of the financing is expected to go to the food, chemicals,
apparel, metal mechanics, and wood subsectors.
1/   The term cofinancing is used in this report in its broad sense, to
include supplementary financing provided by other external sources to BCH
and/or commercial banks for industrial financing.



- 21 -
70.       The project is expected to continue the positive institution
development impact initiated under the first project. It would focus on the
strengthening of the overall FONDEI system, by widening financial intermedia-
tion and supporting FONDEI's efforts to build up subproject appraisal and
supervision capabilities of participating intermediaries. The technical
assistance services and lending to SSIs are expected to be strengthened
considerably.
71.       The proposed project, as conceived, does not involve any unusual
risks. However, because uncertainty does exist about the degree to which
financial intermediaries would increase their lending to the smaller firms and
because some of the institutional arrangements established under the project
would be new, especially the increased responsibilities of intermediaries on
project appraisal and supervision, some delays in subloan processing may
occur. The unsettled situation in Central America may also cause some
firms to postpone investment decisions. The project's technical assistance
and training component, the strengthening of the BCH's guarantee fund, the
emphasis given to strengthening supervision procedures by participating
intermediaries, as well as the focus of the project on small- and medium-sized
industries, that overall are less likely to be susceptible to political events
than larger firms in Honduras, would contribute to reducing project risks,
including the risk of domestic resources being substituted by external funds.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Central Bank of Honduras and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft agreements conform to the normal
pattern of loans for industrial credit projects, and their more important
features and special conditions have been included in Part IV of the text and
summarized in Section III of Annex III of this report. There are two special
conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement: (i) that FONDEI's Executive
Committee approve FONDEI's Statement of Policies and Industrial Regulations
and revised guidelines for subproject appraisal and supervision; and (ii) that
at least three financial intermediaries have signed participation agreements
with FONDEI. It would be a condition of disbursement for the proposed tech-
nical assistance component for CONADI that agreement be reached between the
Government and the Bank on the actions to be taken to improve the financial
position of the institution (based on the recommendation of an ongoing study),
on the arrangements for the execution of the proposed technical assistance,
and on CONADI making no new investments, lending or guarantee operations
pending agreement on the actions to be taken by the institution.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
December 1, 1981



-23 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HONDURAS                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE GES
LAND AREA (THUUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)Lr
TUTAL             112.1                                 MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCKOE            HIDDLE INCOME
AGRlCULTURAL       29.2              1960   b    1970 /b ESTIMATE a       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   180.0       260.0     me                       1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(RIL(iRANS OP CWAL EQUIVALENT)      156.5        257.5     248.2                   1324.1                     2368.4
PUPULATIUN AND VITAL STATISTICS
PUPULAIION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1942.0        2640.0    3563.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.8          28.7       34.8                     64.2                      53.2
PUPULATIUN PROJECTIONS
PUPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (NILLIONS)                         6.7
STATIUNARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          16.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        17.3         23.6      31.8                     34.3                       80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      7U.6         92.5     117.7                      94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6         47.4      47.9                     40.7                       30.1
15-64 YRS.                          52.3         50.1      49.5                     55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.1          2.5       2.6                      4.0                        8.3
POPULATIUN GRUWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.3          3.1       3.3                      2.4                        1.5
URBAN                               5.8          5.4       5.5                       3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THUUSAND)      51.0         49.2       45.6                     31.4                      22.9
CRiUOE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      18.5        14.5       11.2                      8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.6         3.6        3.3                      2.3                       1.6
FAMIlLY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        12.7      23.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       9.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           83.0         97.0      78.0                    108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
LALURIES (PERCENT OF
REqUIREMENTS)                    92.0        101.0      89.0                    107.6                      125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           56.0         61.0      53.0                     65.8                       92.5
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.0         25.0      23.0                     34.0                       39.7
CHILL  (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     31.7         20.4       13.7                      7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.5          52.9      58.1                      64.1                      68.9
lNFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           130.0        117.0      118.0                     70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              12.1         34.0      46.0                      65.7
URBAN                              42.9           ..      82.0                      79.7
RURAL                               2.7           ..      27.0                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
IOTAL                                ..         24.0         ..                    59.9
URBAN                                ..         64.0         ..                    75.7
RURAL                                            9.0                               30.4
POPULATIUN PER PHYSICIAN          12610.4       3793.1/c  3293.9                    1728.2                     973.3
PUPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       1132.6    1242.3                   1288.2                      896.6
POPULATIUN PER HOSPITAL BED
TUTAL                             622.8        581.0     712.9                     471.2                     262.3
URBAN                                ..           ..         ..                   558.0                      191.8
RURAL                                ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         19.8      29.1                        ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.7           ..
URBAN                               5.5           ..
RURAL                               5.7           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUTAL                               2.4           ..
URBAN                               1.8           ..
RURAL                               2.7           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              14.6           ..       25.0
URBAN                              56.7           ..    ,67.1
RURAL                                1.9          ..        5.5



- 214 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HONDURAS                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)   a
MOST RECENT              MIDD E INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  67.0         87.0      85.0                     101.7                      105.9
MALE                  68.0         87.0       85.0                    103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                67.0         88.0       84.0                    101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         12.0      13.0                      35.3                       66.3
MALE                   8.0         12.0       13.0                     34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                 7.0         11.0       13.0                     35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY) 24.0            18.0       25.0/f                   30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             32.0         35.0       35.0                     29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                           10.0           ..      17.0/f                    15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         45.0         57.0/d    60.0/f                    80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0          4.8        6.4                     42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          64.4         55.7      49.1                     215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.7          8.3      14.5                      89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   21.0           ..      43.7                      62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..                      3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        616.9        793.3    1037.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    12.3         12.7      13.7                      22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               70.2         66.5       63.2                     35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  10.6         12.5      14.4                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.8         30.0       29.1                     31.8                       42.3
MALE                                  55.3         52.3       50.0                     49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                 7.9          7.7        8.0                      14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.7                       1.4                        0.9
NCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           67.8/e
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          2. 3T       .
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          7.3          .      
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     255.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      180.0                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ,.     251.0                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       80.0                    362.2                      385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       14.0
RURAL                                 ..           .,       54.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  Id 1974; /e 1967; If 1975.
may, 1981



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                                                 Page 3 of 6
DEFINITtIONS OF SOCIALt INDIOOiAS
Not..:  Aitboogh the dat  art draw   ito. sorcs4otri    odo  oh. mast a.thbitoti-a cad reibl,i  ebhod alc  ha noted obht they Nay tat be itar-
ataiooallycoapera.bls b . of ct la of             stodeaited dfioitit  te.   d ctoap.4t  .     by dtff            ...attootia  it colcin       .b data.  Th. data atl.ta
thI..., oseful to descr.ibe oraaofegtod, Indicate orsoda, cad  hb..autarise certafo eajor ditffsraao. !bstvs.oc                           tt
Tb.ofh     oc  snoop  ar    h1    . sees  ootty grou.p of tbo sobjeot outry aed (2) a country grop ait h, cia   ibraaasltoete   h   tar   r
of te tojeotuooory  (toet fohCptliogh.i.apns.   ropae.'ids  ooatrb    rt     d  tdl   ae   is                                                    tb tbee  b o  s_tronger
sotocltoe    fiios.ltoh   e  tt.gopdatba                              a ofte are pulttio weighted Irlitbee tomas for nob  indicator ted abat  oaly wha
eaodrIty of the  oore   iii A grouP hot 'datafor obt iodoat_.  Stoa  tba co-a-g  of  -otocrir  e                            i.tetdicators depteds - ot    -.1aalabiliay af data
oa   aiao    t toA  sol  b  cilltyt .0  oaf ereoctt Boonus.h.
LAND0 A00  (cthoo...d sq.ke.)                                                                         pplto    .   oprltd-ttl   ta,tdrrl-Ppleo    ti
Totl -Toaeofreta.   c ,apritc   leod ae  to ,ild wate.,obe,odraldtitbyherepciv tmerf hosital hads.
hAvioultur..  -E. itomta of arcloslae_ sdtaprri  o   amaolysslb_                                                   opbi ad piirActgert    n  eula-biasd baspita1 bd.at
- rros.peut, earht cod kitchoc gdteo  to tIel fallot; 1978 tdeyte.                        bbltto    otee             opo  aI.rescheetpm acy stffd
by st Isaac oea physiia...    . aebiiaba-c   p-tidiag pcioctpa.ily cost-
ISP 7t0d CbIA(5)-tf   o   apt   etet   tctet e"that priose,  al1-                                      dial _.rrar  to  itolodd.  tota  bcepitole, bolne,   iolods health
coI tdbytmeororeo   machod at. Octld Sackt ki1lo  (1977-79hels; 1960, n.n  clcaaettprottysafSb      bece    htb 
If 71. aud jgyp data.                                                      tad~~~~~~~ical.. aeittat  noI, midwif aI---o) ahib  offsr ce-pacitto   Or
tmeRGY CONSUMPTION Pit Cd ITI, - A._tul cuapocof c__cial s_agy (coal                                    dtca  purpotte urhot. boeitale-g toodadi.  f, Jwo   itaopalgatrl bai
end lig`oita, pstroleoa  oaorl1 gat tod bydro-, oociaa  sod  totbaryl aln-                            tod rura  hoepitt   lclwroa  hopt leotamdiaadmtaiy
orciy)t  hiogaa-flol   oo teo   per ctPita; 1960, 17, tod199                                          ottr.Seiali-d hospitele  -o  italded ool1oda  totl.
data.                                                                  Adaistiote~~~~~~~~~~~~P,P re  Oac~ia tad - Tota . tobar of admiati.e.t. o  diecharste
'IT   TIP  AND VIT~~~~~~~ IIATI."'CS ~~~foot hotPito1e dIVidad by the aube- of bade.
Tatl Proucic.Kidter (hoasoe) - As  f JolY i; 1960, 1970, cod 1979                   0HOUS0IN
ljhoPoPu1etiot (rPrceot of cocci  - Rtict  of urba  to trial papltioo;                            A  ouohldcne.ee  f   group oinvIdoldh   br  lve                              tt
t ettdrfiuiftioo   of orb. anar       Y o    ffect -ooP.-baility of data                      and thei  noeas              oedro   ogrm   or ma  tt ha i.oldAd to
atoog coocrios;I960. iO7, atd 1979 date,                                                         th        hloeod tof-    tttolpopea
FooatoPotocr.-                                                                             AvIliolrofrroo   e  tore- tota. orhet. aod towl1 - Averge .
Porolatoo to yar 200  -. Cu ..o ....ulotioc proeic  ar  hated oa 1980                        her of persona Pr coo  to all urbe, sod ro.rIa .. ocPte  -coaetica.l
totalpopotcioc  y agesod ea au4their motltlot        ftrt_t tcytss.d-tllioga, r-P-ctlaly.  D-1iit5aeaclods oo-p=roet eorrAcad
Prrjtocto   p-re .ter  fur  -ontaity  ae  cooia   f tirr  level. tes                              OOOttdprs
tog lift t-p-ctocy at birth incre..alag rich  rcor'apr. tpica tao. AIte  t                                       ife tritctn(eon   fdtlaa      aa,uha   n   oa
lana, ad fealtliftam eceacy   otbiitis at77.  ynaa.   hs              ~           ionroocaea  dwellings          Iith etottioc     ~it   ..viog qo.enr  As pa 'ttec
tocr  for ferciliyrac  alto hove three lane1. tatoig dectioe So                                  of toe, urban,  and rural deali1agSrapciep
f-clicyacc_odiaa to to-e  la-a  tod Pace faily plo...tig p-anrorace.
Techf-ootrY ie thee aseip-d ott of t,hese tics  -obiootOooe of curtalioy                    0DUCATIOS9
_ttferily treo.de fry projccoo    orpet.                                                   Adfueid Enrolat..t Utaios
1ttcaionrr rocultoio-I  e. I Itatiroory ppltr  thna tet  groach si.t.                              Prilorn school - total, male end tamal  - Grace total   al a1t l
th. birth  _tac  ia IqoaI to  ah, doeth ros  IAn  tier the ag  e--c-t  w-                          solerto   lle             a  th   rmrylvlt               pect_e  of reaparcv
ottitoond  otcbs bealt o  cbs troitrAd  ftr      Y triocer    apouato                   eoita,t  I   soa  poila ar  haPloi..; or hev th  oficiat aheol  aga
in     -      -yer000   a  the ret. of dapdotiof f-tilit hrat  ccrpaei_cdr   col-ttl   ae  n ata-Caoe   saoe   eodr
taci lent.    tdcooreoranIntfo  yaao                                                                                                                dp.I riaySesrttn
Poroleciao Otmatty                                                                            so i 111  1  t..tlodedI
Ppetio th. y    nooot  errnl -00   .   b   ..o Cdildao  (0f-tb yecns . oukSgos-(5                     pomr  ta    rioayeecdia  byCatihara td eanher  ta dthe
lecco t!Zl9hi 1970.        - and      h"  1979.ata.                                                  dult icfon  e..      fe.    l   -X Lisataol          "(blet   fcsdoe          Miice
Porolctri Grwth taa  pfacrant)     prha  - droukilgrothtns  of0 urban poo-                        . CO5titItT0tof...S_P                              V.t_li
-atoo   forI 19100-6. V7l-ld  tod t1970L-79.Pacattn Cre  ra   thuad.at utaIon). -b. prsecger oats ctpw.. .itmater
Crud - Sitc   tote fre   ttosad) - Cotoad lin   hitc.  par  1boendo   mi-tsroa.  ecig                              -tt tte   sih  personad       ctdo.moaoa.hareyn
poplacc; 16.19k,170,o 17 adit79 dat....t.c.rbt..
Cnuds Death tot  (oar thooeaod) -  Cotil d-th   per1 tho-).d -kofmid.(1-sa               Saiotesvta (nhtosadtrlnte                          11tpsa             rc iv   tontec
lopaiou; 1960, 1970.  n 1970 data,                                                                 brodcast  to        1 genra  po ti par -toad.1of popoletino  eaidas -i.
her t oota     t eprdoc tn peio  if. a - aopent -aa  prseat           f ag-aetflicd t-               tpspetlf at-dt   orrratya. my art be l aemarl  star
t-ipicy   lta ...efaly  ft9ne-yar av6a0o70s aodtgo 190-960   Vt  o    99                             enoonrc    biihdicmi
of hrib-oatrl daiceeunde  sopceo-          ainlftydccigpoon                                  orlpbi   a 197o0ad 9oplat iot;  Pa.d.*   otliencd T  raivts
ladra of toad yroductioo      ...oICea tta  ( Ik-Onll) thodadrof ptcptata                 Cit..  .o..ktcRdnc  Ott... Can1t. pe  Ta-   at    a t           h. E .. I...e at  l4
.pcrducionof 90    90 all dfond oo dtcle. yooto   aldtsa   n   ee   c                                ikc   oddo            h pblin, itolda ...dmlfeiae1to  ro" to   i
tar Ott ealupdd(tiv . Aggregate prodootitoff.of;edtc                                                                            f coon_ryy-it      IIaedoatb 1.0101bPOOC
otiialnrttn  prtouc  pric-   --ighte   -igh  i-           196,170. so d 1979 dc.                Tota taboo Force botihooedcl  -tcnmialyacio    aton    ei
Pe   atoarl  ofol-ie  rron  o   enioa s  -Illpote f-o I                                      arme fR nc-  sod htmooyd   bu  eooda t          hegatw1ve.. fatoosd.te eeco
"rYnqinlteo  fs  foodl  -oPpi...eve.io..lI fin aoy pwri. bept                                      rtigppla'tio  at al"logt   Deinition. id   various coo  ltrie tO
necde.    celais  cuplescoptin  omstc   rodccro  tpoca  ee                         tt  t~tOhP;190,190 gdf97fdta
quatctieeusd  i  foudprorttIog_c osst   itniutg. f eqirt-                               Aeioutotto-oot)i.  .   LY- laorfoc  itg fetiag, faety.  boio  cad
att-lic der        eIaa.d  hy PAD herd.p 00pyaoogctisd  too                    ol                  fisingesc lctga oftota  -sotfoce  160  197  and 190 p-data.
niyadhelhcoadtientraoaltmAocM.bdyvihs NUgRITIdNcto b (rerolyot) -t labor fots  ntto,cttoaic    aaatr
cod.   eta .diorio IifppoC Ioo               7 en loig1   eco   o    e.atadeecoiy   ao   n   a P"                                    Ce pareoas do t talho  farce  1960
hoP   htdlnl;16-6,170dn 17   ao"17,ad199dt .
LIr cat.      uayo ...   ocobto. Cgoame ra  da)-  ProtIn goocda  of.g  pert.. pica                      -btctailn Sas(acc) .oa.ml. oi-l       eeiiaht
quicmt-   Totd all Aoc9 eris.l   aecdbiead         .  by .t.ltlponidab f.. ndioi .             A         FRtCEnaa   fttl   aamdtsi   opltr   fsle                        opoiay
alti t_c   of,.60 Pca.-of cocal protith.  par day, 19od   loftra  n97  dr l cod                    190  1970. and 1979 ,data   T se-r ae nIt-' patt irip diarte
_oimo  protie a.  t   cag 0d or ohs nr td prpc.             bty PAl  t   iho  mind             tcootc   anndoc   Scof -1 Santo o.fpooieto.-  L.a  15i sa  65. and over
Worldy ford ilrvty  190pp-i, 197ltt  97 do-te,io                                                      Ohs. p.t  I.    tota.lblabo  forc 170ad. 99
Childt(etsby-c) oote        ..t Sas   -e  phoueold)-gd.nol  Adet.  per t..-Io ..it         Porceoco-etwg of Pnce ost.thn1 libo cash. en 0knd  -    atno   by7 dichc
0ig.:gno   h-u  reta to ...ildrn   tchtig.tor fpl.or mee bdeveloinh            g cot-b.nnac.rfino20pecec  poo.t 20pren.adpors   0  er
ccttdet dninad btins life p...ishlo     10.d .191  et  00  at,of dhuuganh-o1d
t .. hitch    1960,  1970 ant  19790ot,                                                            oaf97    ...17 shud  ha7 d.taree    itloedssi  coit
of agn pat thouecdplint births.AEcluci                                                             oet       o     ao   ste  incom-leve  beo   htiob atiaSma
herofpoplyo  ftotal Porhaoy. Ngodirural) rich ttaerouhltIscoeeea tottaft                        affordable.
eaaau      teta  foo  prot bce   hohdls   'pIDgAp.. tod seteynil)a-oa  releci-ne. :  poverty iticoma lw                                      saetidofsrneptcpt
p11cao-ne  o   0    -oftheirP-nepeccdvs  pouaioe     oon   a      _ha f ern1eapub960 1e970oe   incod of7  dthaoo hnr.  Itlan ..ys  is darn ed from  the_ twl
proucato ct ecndoo  locacad,  oct  oon h.tld   100 mecira pface. aThouse mayd itlenelticgju                                -t-fo   hhof  cost pf ltiving in  lohg tree..a
coetrdad       htgnti h..        iol   oca  a   t   house    23cro  tttt                        tafarcd Proltio  Sa- f           slcaPvrnboe   aa  (col-   rba
reaionbI lseceanldi.i         7chtihfpua              . cc meber Fof is thooTahld                  toO Druna    d.- Peo  ti.o  pRpairi (urbante              .ir d) wh   ens debs lo
dW tot hoot to-cptod19spt6prti1o70          pert19 o7 dthe dayto                                        h.citth
tot. _Pt   lto ocac    isacel, (raRceo   of  doaulacuc-              pla rbr  en  rural :-
Mother of. pspl  (toal  urh, E         .And - coal  seod by9 toa6t  dipo7ee17ed-eCMDITIBTO
thaciltoiot  nd dapothildotc ior thitoot tosaatp c lof hduteteoret...                                                               FoonoetoV S,%6 aDI  Soia  O ,ad rtiata
lao  tOtallatOos.                                                                                                                            Ky 190
aeod.t qa1fid-  trot a  lificel sblol ec1o60       asify7 local
Poruleotc ret taclot Pneco- Ppulatto  divide  by toner ot phot1din
B taittcf0cueeaRaTuYTs.   ratoGEToea._datRtacrites



-26 -
ANNEX I
HONDURAS -  ECONOMIC INDICATORS                         Page 4 of  6
Population: 3.7 (mid-1980, millions)
GNP per Capita: US$ 560(1980)
Amount
(million USs           Share of GDP at Market Prices (2)                       Average Annual Increase (X)
Indicator                          at current prices)              (at current prices) (a)                               (at constant prices)
1979                                                                                     _-9_-  -        _ -  _
1960   1970   1975   1980                             1960-70   1970-75   1975-80
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product (a)                2164              100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                                 5.3         2.1        6.8
Agriculture                             599                33.8   29.4   25.8   24.4                                 5.7       -1.3         5.7
Industry                                488                17.1   20.2   23.1   23.3                                 5.4        3.9         7.2
Services                                813                39.5   40.8   41.1   38.9                                 4.9        3.3         5.7
Consumption                               1651               87;7   85.7   90.4   76.2                                 4.9         2.7        3.8
Cross investment                           614               13.9   20.9   18.8   28.2                                10.2         5.6       18.4
Exports of GNFS                            827               21.5   27.2   31.2   37.5                                10.9       -0.6        10.4
Imports of CNFS                           928                23.1   33.8   40.3   41.9                                12.2        3.3         9.6
Cross national savings                     406               14.8   11.5    7.4   15.0                                 0.4       -1.2         3.3
1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
PRICES
GDP deflator                                                100.0   107.4   118.5   130.4   145.3   167.5
Exchange rate                                                 2.0      2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0     2.0
Export price index                                          100.0   117-4   152.8    147.8    148.6  162.8
Import price index                                         100.0   107.9   119.4   128.9    142.8  176.6
Terms of trade index                                        100.0   108.8   128.0   114.7    104.1    92.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (1)            Average Annual Increase (1)
(at current prices)                   (at constant 1975 prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980               1960-70    1970-75    1975-80
Exports                                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 12.5        -0.5          11.6
Primary                                               94.6    71.1    72.7    72.3                  8.6        -1.1         11.3
Manufactures                                           5.4    28.9    27.3    27.7                34.2          1.9         12.4
Imports                                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                 16.2        -3.1           8.5
Food                                                  21.9      9.2    11.0    10.2               -9.0          8.5          6.9
Petroleum                                              8.2    22.4    16.7    10.2                31.5        -11.4         -0.9
Machinery and equipment                               19.6    25.9    27.0    30.5                19.2         -0.6         10.5
Others                                                50.3    42.5      45.3    49.1              16.5         -2.6         10.3
As Z of CDP
1960      1970      1975      1979        1980
PUBLIC FINANCE   (b)
Current revenues                                          10.9      13.1      13.7      14.6        14.9
Current expenditures                                       9.5      10.9      13.0      13.3        14.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                 1.4       2.2       0.7       1.3         0.4
Capital expenditure                                        2.5       4.5       6.1       5.8         7.9
Foreign financing  (net)                                   1.1       0.9       3.9       3.1         4.8
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GN.P growth rate (2)                                         4.7        3.1        5.9         5.1        6.5
GNP per capita growth rate (5)                               1.5       -0.1         2.5        1.7        3.3
Electricity consumption growth rate (Z)                    14.9       13.8        11.7       11.8         9.5
ICOR                                                         3.6        9.9        3.8         5.1        3.7
Import elasticity                                           2.3         1.6        1.4        0.8         1.1
(a) At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies
(b) Central Government onlv
October 15, 1981



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                         Page 5 of 6
HONDURAS  -   BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
Population: 3.7 (mid-1980. millions)
GNP per Capita: us$ 560 (189
____________________ Aer-1 ---------------- -..                      --------q-tQ___----
Indicator                                      1970   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979    1980 (p)              1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                       199    351    463    594    706    850    932                   1053   1178   1400   1619   1842
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                     178    310    412    530    626    750    839                    944   1054   1254   1446   1639
Imports of goods and services                      269    481      581     737     881    1067   1263               1390   1547   1723   1930   2185
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                     203    372    432    550    654    779   1029                   1128   1259   1399   1574   1793
Net transfers                                         7      17      13      14      17      18     22                24      26      28      30      32
Current account balance                            -64   -113   -105   -129   -157   -199   -310                   -314   -343   -295   -282   -310
Private direct investment                             8       7       5       9      13      10     15                20      25      30      35      50
MLT loans (net )                                    26      93       80    114    138       148    180               164    271    299    302    298
Official                                          27      88      57      71    109       71    119               161     204    266      250    266
Private                                           -1       5      23      42      28      76      61                 3     67      33      52      32
Other capital                                       21      67       50     26       16      66     55                90      71      70      70      70
Change in reserves (- * increases)                    9     54    -31    -20       -10    -25       60                40    -24   -104   -125   -108
International reserves                              20       33     64      *84     94    119       59                19      43    147    272    380
Reserves as months imports                            1       1       1       1       1       2       1                0       0       1       2       2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements
Official grants                                    -       -       -       -       -       -      -
Concessional loans                                17      17      22      34      67      47      76
DAC                                              7      12      10      10      17      14      28
OPEC                                             -       -       5       -                       5
IDA                                              2       2       2       3       8       6       5
Other                                            8       3       5      22      42      27      39
Non-concessional loans                            12      82      72    100       99    164    145
Official exports credits                         -      22      13      16      21       7      16
IBRD                                            10      13      13      22      25      26      36
Other multilateral                               2      39      19      14      13       9      12
Private                                          0       8      27      48      39    122       81
External Debt
Debt outstanding and
. disbursed                                         90    264    344    458    595    746    892
Official                                        86    244    301       372    481      552    672
Private                                          4      20      43      86     114    193    220
Undisbursed debt                                  54     185    243    350    330    440    710
Debt service
Total service payments                             6      17      29      42      60    108    101
Interest                                         3      10      15      22      31      45      60
Payments as X exports                            2.8    4.7    6.2       7.0    8.4   12.7   10.8
Average interest rate on new loaps (X)             4.1    5.9    5.7    4.2    7..7    8.1    6.3
Official                                         4.1     5.8    4.9      3.5     6.5    4.4
Private                                           -      8.5     8.2     8.3   10.8   13.7
Average maturity of new loans (years)             29.6   19.4   22.4   28.7   16.9   21.7   23.7
Official                                        29.6   19.8   27.5   33.1   20.9   30.2           -
Private                                           -      7.0    7.2      5.4     7.2    8.8       -
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1979)
___________________
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                23.9
Principal due within 10 years                                              48.0
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                               4.5
October 15, 1981
(p)  Preliminary



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
HONDURAS -OFFICIAL LENDING BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1970-80
(in million of constant FY81 US dollars a/)
IBRD/IDA         IDB       CABEI       AID    TOTAL
Transport                    150.5            73.7     142.8        8.6    375.6
Power                        274.5            89.1      113.0      12.3    488.9
Education                     15.7            24.0        -        18.1      57.8
Health                          -              8.5        -         3.2      11.7
Housing                         -             16.3        6.5       1.5      24.3
Agriculture                   64.1            94.3       14.8      39.1    212.3
Manufacturing                 17.4           133.4       14.8       4.8    170.4
Water and Sewerage              -             65.9        7.5      10.8      84.2
'Others                        25.8            2.9       25.8      42.7      97.2
Total          548.0          508.1      325.2    141.1  1,522.4
a!   IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
Source: World Bank Debt Tables, 1970-79
World Bank, IDB, USAID, and CABEI Tables, 1980
October 15, 1981



ANNEX II
- 29-                             Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS 1/ (Net of Cancellations)
As of September 30, 1981
Loan or
Credit                                                       US$ Million Amount
No.    Year        Borrower            Purpose          Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Twenty one loans and credits fully disbursed.        82.7    41.1
841      1972   Emp. Nacional de        Generation and   12.3       -         0.7
Energia Electrica      Transmission
1081     1975   Emp. Nacional de        Generation and   35.0       -         0.1
Energia Electrica      Transmission
628      1976   Honduras                Agricultural        -     14.0        3.2
Credit
1341/2   1976   Honduras                Highways          35.0      -         6.5
1395/6   1977   Honduras/Emp.           Ports             12.0      -         1.7
Nacional Portuaria
777      1978   Honduras                Education           -      5.0        4.3
1576     1978   Honduras                Regional          10.5      -         7.3
Development
1629     1978   Emp. Nacional de        Power             30.5      -        10.1
Energia Electrica
1659     1979   Honduras                Industrial Cr.   15.0       -         7.5
1673     1979   Honduras                Tourism           19.5      -        17.2
1805/
989     1980   Emp. Nacional de        Power            105.0    20.0       99.8
Energia Electrica
1833/
1005    1980   Honduras                Agricultural      20.0     5.0       22.7
Credit
1861     1980   Honduras                Petroleum          3.0      -         3.0
Exploration
Promotion
1901     1980   Honduras                Eighth Highway   28.0        -       28.0
Total                                           408.5    85.1
of which has been repaid                      36.5      1.4
Total now outstanding                           372.0    83.7
Amount sold                         4.5
of which has been repaid          4.5           -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/               372.0    83.7
Total undisbursed                               201.7    10.4      212.1
1/ Including exchange adjustment.



- 30 -                    ~~~~~ANNEX II
30                             Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September30, 1981
Amount in US$ Millions
Year                Obligor               Type of Business   Loan   Equity   Total
1964/66   Emp. de Curtidos Centroamer-
icana S.A. (ECCASA)                 Tannery        0.30    0.08      0.38
1969/70   Cia. Pina Celulosa de
Centroamerica (COPINO)         Pulp and Paper       -      0.08      0.08
1978      Textiles Rio Lindo,
S.A. de C.V.                        Textiles       9.00    1.00    10.00
Total gross commitments less cancellations,
termination, repayments and sales                  6.75    0.16      6.91
Total commitments now held by IFC                    2.55    1.00      3.55
Total undisbursed



- 31 -                     ANNEX II
Page 3
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _/
As of September 30, 1981
Loan/Credit No.
Ln.  841    Fifth Power Project:  US$ 12.3 million Loan of June 28,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
About 90 percent of the project, which included 26 MW
of diesels, an interconnection line to Nicaragua, a
load dispatch system, studies and training, has been
completed. At present, only the load dispatch center
remains; contracts for the center are being negotiated
and full disbursement is expected by the end of
calendar 1981. Project costs have increased by 14.3
percent (about US$ 2.3 million), to be financed by a
loan from the OPEC Special Fund and internal cash
generation of the Borrower.
Ln. 1081    Sixth Power Project:  US$ 35.0 million Loan of January
27, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981.
This project includes the 46 MW extension of the Rio
Lindo hydroelectric plant, distribution system improve-
ments, rural electrification works, studies and train-
ing. The plant extension went into operation ahead of
schedule. The only remaining project item is installa-
tion of distribution transformers. Some US$ 1.1
million of the savings under the loan, realized from
lower than expected steel prices and other cost
reductions, were used, with Bank approval, to finance
part of the extension of 35 kV lines to serve rural
areas in western Honduras from the Nispero power
plant. Full disbursement is expected by the end of
calendar 1981.
Cr. 628      First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$ 14.0 million
Credit of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
November 30, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
This credit, which includes funds for agrarian reform
settlements as well as for individual farmers, is
proceeding satisfactorily. All credit funds were
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular
to report any problems which are being encountered, and the action
being taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and
with the understanding   that they do not purport to present a
balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-32 -                     ANNEX  II
Page 4
committed ahead of schedule by the end of 1979 and are now
fully disbursed. Difficulties in recruiting suitable
internationally experienced technicians, who have now all
been hired, have resulted in slower disbursements than
forecast for technical assistance operations and will
necessitate an extension of the Closing Date.
Ln. 1341/ Seventh Highway Project: US$ 35.0 million Loan (including
1342  US$ 7.0 million on Third Window Terms) of December 16, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: March 16, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily with construction
works of good quality. Due to heavy rainfall, additional
protection works are planned for a portion of the Talanga-
Juticalpa-Catacamas road. Some excess funds will be used for
financing access roads. Procurement of maintenance equipment
is completed; consultants in maintenance operations have been
retained and their technical assistance is progressing well.
Preparation of the Highway Master Plan is complete. A study
in the area of influence of the Talanga-Juticalpa-Catacamas
road in the Guayape Valley, with a view to the integrated
rural development of the area has been contracted. Because of
delays in contracting this study and in view of the additional
works required as noted above, an extension of the Closing
Date, probably of 18 months, will be required.
Ln. 1395/ Third Port Project: US$ 12.0 million Loan (including US$ 5.0
1396  million on Third Window Terms) of April 22, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: December 22, 1977; Closing Date: Under Review
This project (which was financed also by a US$ 5.0 million IDA
credit which has been fully disbursed) includes the construction
of Puerto Castilla on the north coast and the expansion of San
Lorenzo in the south. The new facilities at San Lorenzo have been
put into operation. Works have been held'up at Puerto Castilla
since March 1980 when the contractor stopped work. The Port
Authority has examined various possibilities for reinitiating
the works, and now hopes to restart a first phase (one berth
needed urgently for export purposes) by the start of 1982.
A new implementation plan has been submitted yo the Bank. If
found acceptable, an appropriate extension of the Closing Date
of this loan will be made.



- 33 -                  ANNEX  II
Page 5
Cr.  777   Second Education Project:  US$ 5.0 million Credit of April 6,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Progress on this project has been slow and it is now about two
years behind schedule. The primary school component has been
delayed by frequent staff turnover, procurement difficulties
in obtaining building materials and slowness in replenishment
of the revolving fund. Due to delays and inflation, the cost
overrun will be considerable. In addition, the Closing Date
will have to be extended probably by two years. Although
there were also delays in initiating construction works at the
National Forestry and Agriculture Schools, construction is now
underway. Training of teachers and administrators, curriculum
review, school mapping, technical assistance, fellowships and
equipment purchase are all proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. 1576   Guayape Regional Development Project:  US$ 10.5 million Loan of
June 16, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 18, 1978;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
Progress on the credit component of this project has been slow
due to changes of management, difficulties in recruiting and
contracting extension workers, procurement difficulties and
inadequate budgeting procedures. Despite these problems, through
the excellent performance of the consulting firm, an efficient
mechanism for credit has been established.  Practical
training courses have been carried out for extension agents,
and road construction has been completed; however, greater
attention is needed to maintenance of these roads.
Ln. 1629   Nispero Power Project:  US$ 30.5 million Loan of December 15,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Delays in execution have been caused by required redesign of the
foundation for the diesel works and poorer than expected
geologic conditions for the hydro works. As a consequence, its
completion is 11 months behind schedule, with initial operation
expected in March 1982. There will also be an 80 percent cost
overrun for the hydro plant component, to be covered by
internal cash generation. No extension of the Closing Date is
currently anticipated.
Ln. 1659   Industrial Credit Project:  US$ 15.0 million Loan of March 8,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Disbursements under this loan are ahead of appraisal estimates,
and all loan resources have been substantially committed. The



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
project's institution building objectives for FONDEI and
the banking system are being achieved (see paras. 49, 59
and 60).
Ln. 1673      Tourism Development Project:  US$19.5 million Loan of June 25,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: November 8, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Approximately US$4 million of the US$16 million line of credit
has been committed, and other projects are under preparation
or analysis which are in excess of the remaining funds. All
the other components, airport works at San Pedro Sula and Roatan,
Copan archeological works, hotel training, marketing and
preparation of an environmental control plan and an airport
cost accounting study, have been contracted. However, delays
have been experienced in getting the environmental control
plan underway.
Ln. 1805      El Cajon Power Project:  US$105.0 million Loan of March 27,
Cr.  989      1980, and US$20.0 million Credit of April 10, 1980; Date
of Effectiveness: September 25, 1980; Closing Date:
February 28, 1987.
Project execution is on schedule and, based on progress so
far obtained, no extraordinary problems are expected. With
respect to the transmission system, ENEE has recently signed a
control contract for substation equipment, and expects to have
bidding documents ready by January 1982 for the transmission
line,
Ln. 1833      Second Agricultural Credit Project:  US$20.0 million Loan and
Cr. 1005      US$5.0 million Credit of April 18, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
September 11, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The agricultural credit portion of this operation is moving
well. The other two components--reforestation in the western
region under COHDEFOR and banana rehabilitation--suffered
initial delays but are now getting underway.
Ln 1861       Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project:  US$3.0 million Loan
of June 23, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
This project has suffered considerable delays, mainly due to
frequent personnel changes. Although consultants acceptable
to the Bank were selected for exploration, legal and accounting
assistance, contracts have not yet been signed. However,



- 35 -                    ANNEX II
Page 7
signature is now expected shortly. We have recently received
a proposal for the survey on ongoing studies of alternate
energy sources to be done by CONSUPLANE. With regard to the
study of petroleum pricing to be done by the Minister of
Economy, consideration is being given to obtaining grant funds
from other sources, but we are awaiting a formal proposal in
this regard.
Ln. 1901   Eighth Highway Project:  US$ 28.0 million Loan of September
29, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: March 25, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The Feeder Roads Coordinating Office and regional offices
have been established and road construction started in the
Jamestran and Guayape Valleys. Contracts have been awarded
for reconstruction works on two secondary roads. Bids have
been received and are being analyzed for maintenance equipment
and spare parts. A contract is expected to be signed shortly
for maintenance,technical assistance and training.
September 30, 1981



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
HONDURAS
SECOND INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable and Key Events
(a) Project Preparation: October 1980, through February 1981
(b) Project Prepared by: Banco Central de Honduras (BCH)
(c) Pre-appraisal Mission Departure: February, 1981
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure: March 1981
(e) Negotiations Completed: November 16, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: March, 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) BCH would provide US$2.5 million equivalent to FONDEI as
paid-in capital by December 31, 1983 (para. 62);
(b) before taking any action concerning incentives for the
promotion of exports, the Government would consult with the
Bank on such incentives (para 37);
(c) retroactive financing up to US$1.5 million would be permitted
for financing expenditures incurred between September 1, 1981
and the date of signing of the loan agreement (para. 66);
(d) conditions of effectiveness for the loan would be: (i) that
FONDEI's Statement of Policies and Industrial Regulations and
revised guidelines for subproject appraisal are approved by
FONDEI's Executive Committee (para. 56); and (ii) that at least
three financial intermediaries have signed participation agree-
ments with FONDEI (para. 60);
(e) it would be a condition of disbursement for the proposed technical
assistance component for CONADI, that agreement be reached between
the Government and the Bank on the actions to be taken to improve
the financial position of the institution, on the arrangements
for the execution of the proposed technical assistance, and on
CONADI making no new investments, lending or guarantee operations
pending agreement on the actions to be taken by the institution
(para. 64).



IBRD 15577
-MARC1T 159/
B   E    L  I Z  E        /                                                                                                              - ff  -ooei I/sd                                                                                                                   0
ic,  r , / b   o  e a n                                                                Sc, a                                                                                                                  F ONDURASr-
0:7l                                                                                                                                                                  lU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ARASSA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
:_   -. >t ,x     f H   .-A- :=X-0 ,X
PI,cCOTS   Moo                      -         4                                                                 507/ILL _A'                                  Ioooo I4 'C.A' CO                                     S /                        CUSTA
30   -J,                                           I~~~~~~~~A CE/8A  N-9                                                                    -PI 
|   \S      R         gt:v  .  F             E        mLA   'CCJV W   D         A 0o'                                                            ,IoIo"'   JA'S                                                                                                       9I
~~ D_  9<  i-  f, 3A~~~'=X\XFo  <                                                                              5  <_                              jo                                        HONDURASu,          S
G   U   A    rE  M          A   L~Io             MW                                                      00                             06,0           00 
Aodo                               V                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El C-1oo,6~
AT.d.  Ch~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo  000d oo~                                                                                                                                                                                 60D
5-                                                    LA               44         50          UIbA-RM
J(p ,                         R/O                                                5\U
Mgm sg      ~\ *_,   S     bS arat \nopg/JoL9rntlp ioo  A"5oc, L ,  POWER  SYSTEM                TRANSPORTATION QETWORK
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \CIO  STAOSA  N/S   r,                                                    I u n9ooo,  el      ,-r              Sc                                                                               A c I _
(E  S.,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C.AS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PB, , 
-  ANU4 fE /0M                         /MgiW                                                                                                             Hct)r35 K      DU   R       MAINPS   T
4q h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OW7qhSSEJ 9_r SYTEMA                                                                                                                                                      r  S ETRATINSPORI TERATIONA NETOUDRKE
p ,  3we p q1t~,   -2L  a    1 \>                          '5/9              xb-  /  *  so   eo oo       CpC   de                                                                            UNUTR
!JeP!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TRAN5O9CON                                                                                                                                                                                                                GRAVEL / EAT  SUFAE  ROADStc  L   C>.   nbnc/a.c   v  KLMIR
X                             X                 rv      \         2      w  -  * t                                                 8b                                               83-                                               83                                           13- mw-,G-1
deoooo  600   TOS ,,  I-.-.                                                           .-..-.         .-.--.SR RV                -         UIADERCONSTRCTION   ELECTE  ROADS
EL   STALV              DRRIDS6VRILOD
ACIAS       J. ~       ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                         -          -.--.-35R                                    j       AI   OT 
14-                                                                           4f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                            HYDO      N D U RA-- RES
0  \'   4MW                                                                               A            A                   DIE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RNSEL N  DRAEP ARTMEN   BOURFCDA ROAES
E          M~oo0oL  S  o A,   LNIV  A-Doo0oRAg                                                                                                                                                                                     138 USTTIN                   INTERNATONALRUCTOUNDARIESETDRAS
To 00009 00 001000 000000000/ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~         ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~69K                                                                                RIROD
5*00000090 0000Eo9V.,oT ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                                                                                     - - - -  o.3oKV                                    MAIILOMETES
0000000000000900000000000,00                  V                       Th0oocoooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo 00900POERPLATSMAN0ARPRT
50/                  ME                                           *....*,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                             H6YDRO                                                                                    RIVEIS



