DOM       S      LOAN NUMBER 2075 HO
Loan Agreement
(Second Industrial Credit Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                   /           , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2075 HO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    , 1982, between REPUBLIC
OF HONDURAS (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Banco Central de Honduras (hereinafter
called BanLo Central) byiesoluci6n 356-12/78, dated Decem-
ber 28, 1978 has established the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
Industrial (hereinafter called FONDEI), a National Industrial
Development Fund established to help meet the medium- and long-
term financing requirements of the industrial and tourism sectors
of Honduras;
(B) by a loan agreement between the Borrower and the
Bank, dated March 8, 1979 (hereinafter called the Prior Loan
Agreement) the Bank has made a loan to the Borrower for the
purpose of providing financial assistance for an industrial credit
project carried out by FONDEI;
(C) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of a second industrial credit project to be carried out
by FONDEI;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) a grant (herein-
after called the UNDP Grant) in an amount of about $1,300,000
equivalent to assist in financing part of Part II of the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(E) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and Banco Central, the Borrower has under-
taken to relend to Banco Central part of the proceeds of the
Loan, on the condition that such proceeds will be part of the
resources that FONDEI will lend to industrial enterprises in
Honduras by means of participating intermediaries which meet
FONDEI's technical and financial requirements; and
(F) the Bank is willing to make the Loan to the Borrower
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-)
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitigns
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
su5ject2, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined, in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following adiLtional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CORDEFOR" means Corporaci6n Hondurefia de Desarrollo
Forestal of the Borrower, and such term includes any succ'ssor
thereto.
(b) "CONA)I" means Corporaci6n Nacional de Inversiones
of the Borrower, and such term includes any successor thereto.
(c) "CDI" means Centro de Desarrollo Industrial of the
Borrower, and such term includes any successor thereto.
(d) "Participating Intermediary" means COHDEFOR, CONADI,
CDI, or any commercial bank or financial institution in Honduras
which meets FONDEI's technical and financial requirements under
FONDEI's Statthient of Policies and Industrial Regulations and
the requirements of this Agreement, and which has signed a
Participation Agreement with FONDEI acceptable to the Bank.
(e) "FONDEI's Loan" means any loan made or proposed to be
made to a Participating Intermediary out of FONDEI's resources in
accordance with Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement.
(f) "Participation Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between FONDEI and each Participating Intermediary
as provided for in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(g) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
under a Sub-load Contract by a Participating Intermediary partly
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enter-
prise f9r an Investment Project, and "free-limit sub-loan" means a
Sub-loafi, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement.
(h) "Sub-loan Contract" means a contract providing for a
Sub-loan.
(i) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which a
Participating Intermediary proposes to make or has made a Sub-
loan.
(j) "Small Investment Enterprise" means an Investment
Enterprise whose fixed assets as of the date of the presentation
to the Participating Intermediary of a proposed Investment Project
are less than $150,000 equivalent, excluding land and buildings
but including the fixed assets to be financed under such proposed
Investment Project.
(k)  "'Investment Project" means a specific induistrial devel-
opment project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise,
which complies with the requirements set forth in FONDEI's State-
ment of Policies and Industrial Regulations.
(1) "Lempira", "L" and "local currency" mean the currency
of the Borrower.
(m) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Borrower.
(n) "'Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement referred
to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Banco Central, as such Agreement may be
amended from time to time.
(o) "Comitfi Ejecutivo" means 'the committee in charge of
managing FONDEI as provided for in Section 3.01 (c) (ii) of
this Agreement.
(p) "FONDEI's Statement of Policies and Industrial Regula-
tions" means the policies and procedures for the operation of


﻿-4-
FONDEI, approved by Comite Ejecutivo, as amended to the Effec-
tive Date, and such term includes the regulations in respect of
such Statement of Policies and Industrial Regulations.
(q) "Guarantee Fund" means the fund established by Banco
Central, under Resoluci6n No. 322-9/81, dated September 10,
1981, for the promotion of the small scale industry in Honduras.
(r) "Appraisal Guidelines and Supervision Procedures" means
the guidelines and procedures approved by Comitf Ejecutivo, as
amended to the Effective Date, and to be used by FONDEI and Par-
ticipating Intermediaries in the appraisal aiid supervision of
Investment Projects.
(s)  "FONDEI" includes the technical, financial and adminis-
trative organization, resources, staff and facilities used or to
be used by Banco Central to operte FONDEI. Whenever reference in
this Agreement shall be made to action by FONDEI, it shall be
deemed to mean action by Banco Central by means of FONDEI.
(t) "Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement of
even date herewith entered into between the Bank and Banco
Central.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall
so agree for amounts to be paid) by FONDEI:
(i) on account of withdrawals made by a Small Invest-
ment Enterprise under a Sub-loan to finance 75% of
expenditures in respect of goods and services for
the Investment Project for which such withdrawal
from the Loan Account is requested; or


﻿-5-
(ii) on account of withdrawals made by an Investment
Enterprise, other than a Small Investment Enter-
prise, under a Sub-loan to finance 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported goods and services or 70%
of local expendituies for imported goods locally
procuted, 50% of the ex-factory price of locally
manufactured goods, and 35% of expenditures for
civil works required for the Investment Project in
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan
Account is requested; or
(iii) on account of withdrawals made for the pu6nses of
financing 100% of foreign expenditures       do in
respect of the reasonable cost of consultaaVs and
other services required for the carrying out of the
technical assithce programs specified in Part II
of the Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement.
(b) (i) no withdrawal shall be made from the Loan Account
in respect of any Sub-loan unless (1) the Sub-loan shall have been
approved by the Bank; or (2) the Sub-loan shall be a free-limit
sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized withdrawals from
the Loan Account; (ii) no Participating Intermediary shall commit
more than the equivalent of $7,500,000 in Bank resources as
Sub-loans to Investment Enterprises; provided, however, that this
limitation shall not be applicable to Sub-loans made to Small
Investment Enterprises; and (iii) no Participating Intermediary
shall present to the Bank for commitment from the proceeds of the
Loan any request in an amount which if, when added to outstatiding
Sub-loans made to an Investment Enterprise under this Agreement
or the Prior Loan Agreement, the aggregate shall exdeed the
equivalent of one million, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
($1,250,000).
(c) The amount of the Loan shall be allocated as follows:
(i) no less than the equivalent of $4,000,000 shall
be used for sublending to Small Investment Enter-
prises;
(ii) the equivalent of $350,000, $700,000 and $250,000
shall be used for the purpose of financing the
technical assistance programs referred to in
paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of Part II of the


﻿-6-
Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement, respectively; and
(iii) the foregoing allocation of the amount of the Loan
shall be subject to review and revision by the
Bank, in consultation with the Borrower and Banco
Central, within 18 months from the date of this
Agreement.
(d) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $400,000 equivalent,
when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed-,
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such Investment'
Project.
(e) Except as the Bank shall otherwise,agree, no with-
drawals shall be made on account of (i) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of $1,500,000 may be made on account of payment made for such
expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1981; (ii)
expenditures by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan
subject to the Bank's approval, if such expenditures shall have"
been made more than one hundred and eighty days prior to the date
on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such Sub-loan
the application and information required by Section 2.03 (a) of
this Agreement or, in respect of a free-limit sub-loan, more than
one hundred and eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank
shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the
request and informatio  required by Section 2.03 (b) of this
Agreement; or (iii) expenditures made by CONADI for the purpose of
carrying out the technical assistance program referred to in Part
II (iii) of the Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of this
Agreement (hereinafter called the CONADI's Program), until: (A)
the Bank has been furnished with a plan of action, satisfactory to
the Bank, for purposes of the carrying out of the CONADI's Pro-
gram, taking into account the UNDP's study on CONADI's operational
and financial condition and its recommendations; and (B) an
executing agency acceptable to the Bank has been appointed for the
carrying out of the CONADI's Program.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, FONDEI shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the


﻿-7-
Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Investment Enter-
prise and an appraisal of the Investment Project to be financed
thereunder, including a description of the expenditures for such
Investment Project proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and, its financial and economic internal rates of return;
(ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan including
its schedule of amortization and the procurement procedures to be
used by the Investment Enterprise; and (iii) such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by FONDEI for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan
shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and its financial and economic internal rates of return;
(ii) the terms and conditions of the free-limit sub-loan, includ-
ing the procedures for the procurement of goods and services
to be used by the Investment Enterprise; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonebly request; provided,
however, that the economic internal rates of return shall be only
calculated for those Investment Projects which have more than the
equivalent of $250,000 financed by FONDEI.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and
(b) of this Section shall be presented to the Bank on or before
December 31, 1984.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and Banco Central of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.


﻿-8-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule l to this Agreement.
(b) The amortiza,ion schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for a period opf grace of not more than three (3)
years, and shall not extendWn4       fifteen (15) years from the
date of approval by the Bank of :;fch Sub-loan, or in the case of a
free-limit sub-loan, fr6m re date of the authorization by the
Bank to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof.
Section 2.09. Banco Central is designated as representative
of the Borrower for purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.,
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities in Honduras
as will contribute to the economic and social development of the
country. The Project consists of the fdilowing parts:
Part I:   Financing specific investment projects through loans to
industrial enterprises in Honduras, in furtherance of
the purposes set forth in FONDEI's Statement of Policies
and Industrial Regulations.
Part II:  Consultants  services and training programs as follows:
(i) to assist FONDEI in: (A) elaborating material on
the preparation, appraisal and supervision of
Investment Projects; (B) carrying out a training
program for the staff of FONDEI and Participating
Intermediaries; (C) strengthening the financial
planning, information and control systems, loan
administration and operating and disbursement
procedures of FONDEI; (D) analyzing technical and


﻿-9-
marketing aspects related to the appraisal of
Investment Projects; (E) carrying out market and
subsectoral studies related to the appraisal of
Investment Projects; and (F) strengthening of the
services offered by the industrial department of
Banco Central, through its Laboratorio de
Anlisis Qufmico;
(ii) to assist CDI in: (A), strengthening the finaicial
planning, information system, loan administration
and control and operating procedures of CDI;
(B) designing and establishing a system to provide
technical assistance to Small Investment Enter-
prises; (C) providing administrative, technical and
marketing assistance to approved subsectors
and to groups of Small Investment Enterprises
and artisans; and (D) carrying out a training
program for the staff of CDI; and
(iii) to assist CONADI in the carrying out of a program
to strengthen CONADI's financial and operational
capabilities.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) make part of the proceeds of the
Loan available to Banco Central pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement containing terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
such proceeds to form part of FONDEI's resources and to be applied
exclusively to expenditures in respect of goods and services for
the Project; and (ii) not change, waive or terminate such
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provisions thereof without the
Bank's prior consent.
(c) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to: (i) carry out
Parts I and II (i) of the Project by means of FONDEI, and to
conduct the operations and affairs of FONDEI in accordance with
sound financial standards and practices and in accordance with the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and FONDEI's Statement of Policies and
Industrial Regulations; (ii) maintain at all times a Comit6
Elecutivo satisfactory to the Bank to be in charge of the overall
responsibility for revising FONDEI's Statement of Policies
and Industrial Regulations, approving FONDEI's budget and staffing
plans, approving FONDEI's loans and overseeing FONDEI's activi-
ties; and (iii) maintain a unit, with an adequate number of
qualified and experienced personnel, to administer FONDEI and tb
carry out its operations.


﻿- 10 -
(d) The Borrower and all its agencies shall take all action
which shall be necessary on their part to enable Banco Central
to perform all of its obligations under the Project Agreement, the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Participation Agreements and
shallc not take any action which might interfere with such
performance.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, through Banco Central,
enter into contractual arrangements with CDI and CONADI, respec-
tively, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that:
(a) CDI and CONADI are provided by the Borrower, through
Banco Central, promptly as needed, with sufficient funds to carry
out the technical assistance programs referred to-in paragraphs
(ii) and (iii) of Part II of the Project, respectively;
-(b) CDI employs the qualified staff required to assist
Small Investment Enterprises in preparing and carrying out
Investment Projects;
(c) CDI establishes appropriate mechanisms and procedures
to provide technical assistance to Small Investment Enterprises
in the preparation and carrying out of Investment Projects; and
(d) CDI charges a fee of not more than two per cent (2%) of
the total amount of each Sub-loan for the technical assistance
rendered under it.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause FONDEI and CONADI
to employ such consultants as shall be required for the carrying
out of the technical assistance program included under Part II
(i) and (iii) of the Project, the qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment of such consultants to be
satisfactory to the Bank and their selection to be-made in accor-
dance with principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central
to make, out of FONDEI resources, FONDEI Loans to Participating
Intermediaries in accordance with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, the Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
FONDEI's Statement of Policies and Industrial Regulations, and


﻿- 11 -
Participation Agreements between FONDEI and the Participating
Intermediaries.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to enter into
a Participation Agreement satisfactory to the Bank with each
Participating Intermediary, such Participating Agreement to
govern the terms and conditions of lending by the Participating
Intermediary to Investment Enterprises and to contain, inter
alia, procedures related to the withdrawal and repayment of FONDEI
Loans, the appraisal and supervision of Investment Projects and
the procurement of goods and services for Investment Projects.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of capitalizing FONDEI,
the Borrower shall cause Banco Central to make available to
FONDEI, not 1ater than December 31, 1983, capital contributions
in an amount equivalent to not less than $2,500,000.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that CONADI does not
make any loans or investments cnd does not guarantee any debt
until the plan referred to in Section 2.02 (e) (iii) (A) of this
Agreement has been furnished to, and accepted by, the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall provide CDI, promptly as
needed, with the funds necessary for the timely and efficient
carrying out by CDI of its operations under Part I of the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement and of its tech-
nical assistance operations.
Section 3.08. Before taking any action concerning incentives
for the promotion of exports, the Borrower shall give the Bank
all reasonable opportunity for exchanging views on the proposed
incentives.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public


﻿- 12 -
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to
ensure that FONDEI maintains procedures and records adequate to
record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project
(including its cost and the benefits derived from it) and to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound account-
ing practices the operations and financial condition of FONDEI.
Section 4.03. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of FONDEI, and the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request


﻿- 13 -
concerning the administration, operatiots and f-iancial condition
of FONDEI.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.02
of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a change shall have been made in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or in the Resolution that established FONDEI which would
materially and adversely affect the operations or the financial
condition of FONDEI;
(b) a change shall have been made in FONDEI's Statement
of Policies and Industrial Regulations or in the regulations for
the operation of the Guarantee Fund;
(c) a change shall have been made in the Participation
Agreement entered into by FONDEI and any Participating Inter-
mediary without the Bank's consent; provided, however, that
the remedies provided for in Section 6.02 of the General Condi-
tions shall only apply to an amount of the Loan which corres-
ponds to the total of FONDEI Loans made to such Participating
Intermediary;
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of FONDEI, or for the suspension of the operations of FONDEI;
and
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the UNDP
Grant shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreements providing
therefor.


﻿- 14 -
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply ift
(A) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other resources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any event specified in
paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that revised Appraisal Guidelines and Supervision
Procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, have been approved by
the Comitg Ejecutivo;
(b) that revised FONDEI's Statement of Policies and
Industrial Regulations, satisfactory to the Bank, have been
approved by the ComitS Ejecutivo, and that the Resoluci6n of
the Comitg Ejecutivo which approved such Regulations, dated
March 22, 1979, has been amended accordingly in a manner satis-
factory to the Bank; and
(c) that FONDEI has entered into Participation Agreements
with at least three Participating Intermediaries.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Banco


﻿- 15 -
Central and constitutes a legally binding obligation of Banco
Central in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the parties thereto and constitutes a legally binding obliga-
tion of the Borrower and Banco Central.
Section 6.03. The date/A1f4    t f//.2, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 2.04 of'the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Secretario de Estado en el Despacho de Hacienda 7
Cr6dito PGblico of the Borrower i, designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purp6ses of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretarlia de Estado en el Despacho
de Hacienda y Credito Piblico
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:
HACIENDA
Tegucigalpa, Honduras
With copies to:
Banco Central de Honduras
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:                   Telex:
BANTRAL                        1121-HTBANTRAL
Tegucigalpa


﻿-16-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                     24423 (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Lati America and the Caribbean


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (expressed in dollars)*
On each January I and July 1
a2ginning July 1, 1987
through   January 1, 2002                        1,9o,ooo
*    To the eltent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.08 of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                         1.75%
before maturity
More than three years but not                     3.50%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                       6.40%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                    9.30%
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                  10.45%
more than eighteen years
before maturity
More than eighteen years                         11.60%
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
~3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.05."
(2) The words "and Investment Projects" are added after
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by
the date specified in paragraph (c) of S6ction 2.03 of the
Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have
been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Borrower pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank
may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT,
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of lA     198    .
FOR SECRETARY


