go3 LOAN NUMBER 2075 HO
Project Agreement
(Second Industrial Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO CENTRAL DE HONDURAS
Dated                /              ,1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2075 HO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              /9              , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank), and BANCO CENTRAL DE HONDURAS (hereinafter
called Banco Central).
WHEREAS (A) the Banco Central de Honduras (hereinafter
called Banco Central) by Resoluci6n 356-12/78, dated Decem-
ber 28, 1978 has established the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo
Industrial (hereinafter called FONDEI), a National Industrial
Development Fund established to help meet the medium- and long-
term financing requirements of the industrial and tourism sectors
of Honduras;
(B) by a loan agreement between,' the Republic of Honduras
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, dated March 8,
1979, the Bank has made a loan to the Borrower for the purpose of
providing financial assistance for an industrial credit project
carried out by FONDEI;
(C) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of a second industrial credit project to be carried
out by FONDEI;
(D) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) a grant (herein-
after called the UNDP Grant) in an amount of about $1,300,000
equivalent to assist in financing part of Part II of the Project
described in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement;
(E) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
Banco Central agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as are hereinafter set forth;
(F) by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and Banco Central the Borrower has undertaken
to relend to Banco Central part of the proceeds of the Loan, on
the condition that such proceeds will be part of the resources
that FONDEI will channel to industrial enterprises in Honduras


﻿-2-
by means of participating intermediaries which meet FONDEI's
technical and financial requirements; and
WHEREAS Banco Central, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of FONDEI
Section 2.01. Banco Central shall carry out Part I of the
Project ,escribed in Section 3.01 (a) of the Loan Agreement, and
conduct .FONDEI's operations and affairs, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate economic, finan-
cial and investment standards and practices, with qualified and
experienced management and in accordance with the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and FONDEI's Statement of Policies and Industrial
Regulations.
Section 2.02. In accordance with and subject to the provi-
sions of the Loan Agreement, Banco Central shall submit Investment
Projects to the Bank for approval or for authorization for with-
drawals to be made from the Loan Account, as provided in Section
2.03 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Banco Central shall:
(a) make loans out of FONDEI's resources, to Participating
Intermediaries for Investment Projects, all in accordance with the


﻿-3-
provisions of this Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and FONDEI's Statement of Policies and Industrial
Regulations.
(b) enter into a Participation Agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank, with each Participating Intermediary, such Participation
Agreement to govern the terms and conditions of lending by the
Participating Intermediary to Investment Enterprises and to
contain, inter alia, procedures related to the withdrawal and
repayment of FONDEI Loans, the appraisal and supervision of
Investment Projects and the procurement of goods and services for
Investment Projects.
Section 2.04. (a) Banco Central shall charge the following
annual interest rates on the amounts of FONDEI Loans outstanding
from time to time:
(i) twelve per cent (12%) in the case of Investment
Projects to be carried out by Small Investment
Enterprises with fixed assets, as of the date of
the presentation to the Participating Intermediary
of a proposed Investment Project, excluding land
and buildings, but including the fixed assets to be
financed under such proposed Investment Project, of
not more than the equivalent of $50,000;
(ii) thirteen per cent (13%) in the case of Investment
Projects to be carried out by other Small Invest-
ment Enterprises; and
(iii) fourteen per cent (14%) in the case of Investment
Projects to be carried out by Investment Enter-
prises other than Small Investment Enterprises.
(b) Banco Central shall cause the Participating Inter-
mediaries to charge an interest rate of no more than seventeen
per cent (17%) per annum on the outstanding amounts of Sub-loans.
(c) Banco Central shall provide, in each Participating
Agreement, that if a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Participating Intermediary in advance of maturity, or, if a
Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned
or otherwise disposed of for value by the Participating Inter-
mediary, the Participating Intermediary shall promptly repay to
FONDEI the amount of the FONDEI Loan corresponding to the Sub-


﻿-4-
loan or parts thereof so repaid in advance or disposed of for
value.
(d) Every July 1 and January 1, until the Project has been
completed, starting not later than July 1, 1982, the Bank and
Banco Central shall review the adequacy of, and, if necessary
Banco Central shall revise, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
the interest rates set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) above;
provided, however, that the interest rates to be charged under
paragraphs (a) (i), (ii) and (iii) above shall be, respectively,
5, 4 and 3 percentage points below the interest rate to be charged
under paragraph (b) above.
Section 2.05. (a) Banco Central shall hold FONDEI harmless
for any loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between currencies (including Lempiras) used in the operations of
FONDEI.
(b) For such service, Banco Central shall charge and pay
itself, out of FONDEI's funds, a fee of one per cent (1.0%) per
annum on the aggregate of the principal amount of FONDEI's Loan
with the resources of the Loan outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. For each Investment Project to be financed by
a Participating Intermediary, Banco Central shall cause such
Participating Intermediary to make loans out of its own resources
for: (i) at least ten per cent (10%) of the total cost of such
Investment Project, and (ii) the working capital requirements for
such Investment Project.
Section 2.07. (a) Banco Central undertakes that, unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, it will cause all Sub-loans to
be made on terms whereby the Participating Intermediary shall
obtain, by means of a Sub-loan Contract with the Investment
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequtte
to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, Banco Central
and the Participating Intermediary including the right of the
Participating Intermediary to: (i) require the Investment
Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate
records; (ii) require that (A) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of


﻿-5-
the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their quality and
the competence of the parties rendering them; provided, however,
that in the case of contracts for any good estimated to cost
$50,000 equivalent or more, at least three quotations must be
obtained, and (B) such goods and services shall be used exclu-
sively in the carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank and
Banco Central if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents; (iv) require that the Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and that such insurance cover marine, transit
and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity
thereunder be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v)
obtain all such information as Banco Central or the Participating
Intermediary shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing
and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from
the Investment Project; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of
the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform any
of its obligations under its contract with the Participating
Intermediary.
(b) Banco Central shall, and shall cause each Participating
Intermediary to, exercise its rights in relation to each Invest-
ment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of
the Bank, and Banco Central; (ii) comply with its obligations in
respect of the FONDEI Loan made to it; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.08. Banco Central shall:
(a) furnish, or cause to be furnished to the Bank, at
regular intervals, all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Project, the Participating Intermediaries, the
FONDEI Loans, the Sub-loans, the Investment Enterprises, and the


﻿-6-
Investment Projects, and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from the foregoing;
(b) cause Participating Intermediaries to maintain records
and procedures adequate to: (i) record and monitor the progress of
the Investment Projects; (ii) identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and to disclose their use
in the Investment Projects; and (iii) reflect, in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the operations
and the financial condition of the Investment Enterprise; and
(c) within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account in respect of the Sub-loans or by such later
date as the Bank shall request, prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, their costs and the benefits derived and to be derived
from them, the performance by the Borrower, Banco Central, and the
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan.
Section 2.09. (a) Banco Central shall enter into the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Borrower referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement; and
(b) except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Banco Central
shall not amend, waive or terminate such Subsidiary Loan Agreement
or any provisions thereof without the prior consent of the
Bank.
Section 2.10. Banco Central shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project and the Investment Projects, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Banco Central shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to record the progress of the Project and of
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits


﻿-7-
derived from it) and to reflect, in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices, the operations and finan-
cial condition of FONDEI, including, without limitation to the
foregoing separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account
of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) Banco Central shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records, (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account
on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall enable the
Bank's representatives to examine such records.
Section 3.02. Banco Central shall: (i) have FONDEI's accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
FONDEI's financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, includ-
ing, without limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by
said auditors: (I) on the separate accounts referred to in Section
3.01 (a) of this Agreement; and (II) in respect of expenditures
and records referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as to whether the proceeds of the Loan made available to it and
withdrawn from the Loan Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of FONDEI and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 3.03. Bancc Central shall take all action necessary
to prevent reductions in the amount of FONDEI's resources includ-
ing reductions resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies, including Lempiras, used in FONDEI's
operations.
Section 3.04. The Bank and Banco Central shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and
financial condition of FONDEI; and Banco Central shall furnish to


﻿-8-
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably
request concerning the administration, operations and financial
condition of FONDEI.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall enable the representatives
of the Bank to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.02 of
the Loan Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 3.06. Banco Central shall promptly inform the Bank of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, the mainte-
nance of the service thereof or the performance by Banco Central
of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Banco Central thereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall


﻿-9-
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The address so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   24423 (RCA) or
89658 (WUI)
For Banco Central:
Banco Central de Honduras
Tegucigalpa, D.C.
Honduras
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANTRAL                            1121 HTBANTRAL
Tegucigalpa
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement, under Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement on
behalf of or by Banco Central may be taken or executed by its
President, or by such other person or persons as Banco Central
shall designate in writing, and Banco Central shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused


﻿- 10 -
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
12e     Regional Vice President
Lati America and the Caribbean
BANCO CENTRAL DE HONDURAS
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this I.d      day of   4   , 198 aZ...
FOR SECRETARY


