 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14903

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




      1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/03/2016

              Country: Ukraine
            Project ID: P095203                                                    Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Second Export                Project Costs (US$M):
                        Develoment Project                                                  154.50                    304.5


  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                   154.50
                                                                                                                      304.5

     Sector Board:        Financial and Private      Cofinancing (US$M):
                          Sector Development
          Cofinanciers:                              Board Approval Date :                                    07/27/2006
                                                            Closing Date:               12/31/2011            12/31/2014
         Sector(s):       Banking (100%)
         Theme(s):        Export development and competitiveness (50%); International financial standards and
                          systems (25%); Other Private Sector Development (25%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Clay Wescott              George T. K. Pitman     Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project development objectives of the Second Export Development Project (EDP 2) described in the Project
    Appraisal Document (p. iv) were:

        i) Serve as a catalyst to support export and real sector growth in Ukraine during the EDP 2 implementation
        period (2006-2011) and beyond, by providing medium and long -term working capital and investment
        finance to Ukrainian private exporting enterprises .
        ii) Further improve the ability of the Ukrainian banking sector to provide financial resources to the
        enterprise sector, through further development of intermediation , by expanding its depth and breadth
        through more and better lending products .

    The Loan Agreement (Schedule 2, p. 14) statement of project development objectives was:

        To (a) provide medium and long term working capital and investment finance to private exporting
        enterprises to assist the Guarantor’s private exporting sector ; and (b) further improve the ability of the
        banking sector to provide financial resources to the enterprise sector through development of
        intermediation by expanding private financial institutions’ lending products .

    The objective statement in the Loan Agreement is used in this Review.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No
c. Components:

   There were three components:

   1) A Wholesale Line of Credit (US$ 150.0 million estimated at appraisal plus US$ 150.4 million additional
   financing; actual cost was US$ 300.4 million). A wholesale line of credit was to be extended to Ukreximbank
   (UEB), which was to on-lend to other eligible private banks known as participating financial intermediaries (PFIs).
   These PFIs were to be selected according to financial and export orientation eligibility criteria. The PFIs were
   expected, in turn, to make medium-term working capital or long-term investment loans to eligible private
   exporters to increase their export potential.

   2) UEB institutional development (US$ 3.0 million estimated at appraisal plus US$ 0.4 million additional
   financing; actual cost was US$ 3.4 million). This was to cover for procurement of Information Technology (IT)
   equipment and included US$1.0 million that could be allocated for any technical assistance (TA) needs identified
   in during implementation.

   3) Unallocated. (US$ 3.0 million estimated at appraisal; actual cost was US$ 0.0 million).

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: Total project cost of US$304.5 million was nearly double the appraisal estimate of US$154.5
   million. The wholesale line of credit to UEB doubled, support for UEB institutional development increased by
   12%, the front end fee increased, and there was no unallocated amount.

   Financing: Total IBRD financing was US$154.5 million at appraisal, and an additional $150 million at
   restructuring, all of which was fully disbursed. The financing covered the front-end fee of US$ 0.7 million,
   including both fees at the start of the project, and at restructuring.

   UEB also benefited from US$750 million in 2015 Eurobonds, including some held by state owned banks and
   companies. Creditors agreed to an extension in the maturity of these bonds for three months until July 27, 2015
   in order to restructure outstanding debt light of currency devaluation and the economic downturn..

   Borrower Contribution : Counterpart contributions to the project were neither planned nor given.

   Dates: EDP 2 was approved in July 2006, and became effective in March, 2007. The project was restructured
   twice. The first Level-2 restructuring in May 2009 allowed for direct lending by UEB, in response to the impact on
   Ukraine of the global economic and financial crisis. The second restructuring in October 2011 provided additional
   financing, and extended the closing date by 3 years from the original closing date of December 31, 2011, to
   December 31, 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   High

   The objective is aligned with the second pillar of the Country Partnership Strategy for FY12-FY16: Improving
   policy effectiveness and economic competitiveness: support to building relations with businesses. It also directly
   contributes to the outcome of increasing access to medium and long-term finance for export; and improving risk
   management in the financial sector. It is aligned with implementation of the Government’s program to facilitate
   export growth by improving access to medium and long finance for private exporting companies. This program is
   expected to improve enterprise and financial sector performance in the short and medium term. In the long term,
   improved export growth is expected to give a further boost to private sector growth, and in turn, poverty
   alleviation.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Substantial
   EDP 2 was designed to support wholesale lending by UEB to participating banks, to promote new lending
   instruments and capacity among participating banks, taking into account serious weaknesses. It was also
   intended to address the shortage of longer term foreign currency funds provided by the market, even though
   banks and other financial intermediaries would be willing to provide them to well-performing borrowers. It also
   supported institutional development of UEB and participating banks, helping them both to make complex
   procurements of information technology (IT) systems, and to use these systems and consulting services by UEB
   and participating banks. This support was all relevant to achieving the objectives. The causal chain between the
   support provided and the expected outcomes is clear, taking into account lessons learned from other bank lines
   of credit and EDP 1 such as the need for flexibility and incentives for quick disbursement. Two development
   policy loans also supported institutional development for UEB, and a non-lending technical assistance (TA)
   supported complementary banking and insurance regulation and supervision, and development of mortgage
   finance. TA was also provided by EDP 2 to help UEB and a few other banks in developing new products and risk
   management for export credit and guarantee activities.

   After the first restructuring, in response to the global financial crisis beginning in 2008, the operation began to
   allow direct as well as wholesale lending by UEB, and some intermediate outcome indicators were adjusted to
   better measure the impact of the project. Although the unchanged development objectives did not originally
   include creation and development of an export credit guarantee agency, it was anticipated that the project would
   provide an opportunity for dialog among the Bank, UEB and government to agree on an optimal strategy to
   develop such an agency.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To (a) provide medium and long term working capital and investment finance to private exporting enterprises to
   assist the Guarantor’s private exporting sector ; and (b) further improve the ability of the banking sector to
   provide financial resources to the enterprise sector through development of intermediation by expanding private
   financial institutions’ lending products .

   The two sub-objectives (a) and (b) are separately assessed below. As with many complex interventions of this
   nature, there are attribution issues for both sub-objectives, inter alia, in the areas of Bank lending, exports (many
   factors affect lending and exports in addition to those supported by project) and institutional development
   (multiple sources of support from Bank and other partners). However, it is plausible that the support from the
   operation was an important contributor to the results achieved. Finally, the global economic and financial crises,
   major political turmoil, territorial annexation and armed conflict could not have been foreseen, and they had a
   major impact on results. For example, overall export revenues went down by 37 percent in 2014.

   a) provide medium and long -term working capital and investment finance to private exporting enterprises to
   assist the Guarantor’s private exporting sector : Substantial

   Outputs:

   In a survey of beneficiary enterprises, 100% were satisfied or very satisfied with the EDP 2 credit, and 97% felt
   the credit provided good value or very high value compared to other available resources. Survey results showed
   that participating enterprises increased revenues and created more jobs than other exporting enterprises prior to
   the crisis, and sharply reduced losses during the crisis. 21 out of 29 borrowing firms that provided survey
   information claimed that they created jobs at a higher rate than the overall job market.

   Outcomes:

   The targets for volume of Bank lending and outstanding loan portfolio were fully achieved. The target for lending
   to at least 50 exporting enterprises was achieved as well; with 67 sub-loans to 50 exporting enterprises, with 39
   percent of female employees out of total workforce.

   The project generated annual export turnover nearly three times the borrowed amount in 2014, when Ukraine’s
   export revenues contracted by 37 percent. The annual volume of exports by beneficiary enterprises increased
   nearly seven-fold between 2006 – 2014, despite extraordinary unforeseen challenges in the external environment.


   Sales to the non-Russian market grew from less than 40 to 55 percent of export revenues, excluding the largest
   borrower which was a grain producer. The grain producer grew its revenues nearly eight-fold, with new markets
   in Japan, Middle East and Korea.
    (b) further improve the ability of the banking sector to provide financial resources to the enterprise sector
    through development of intermediation by expanding private financial institutions’ lending products : Substantial

    Outputs:

    There was effective institutional strengthening of UEB that contributed to this sub-objective, including
    implementation of a new IT platform and training. EDP2 also helped to increase institutional capacity and improve
    risk management in other participating banks, but there is limited evidence of long-term impact, given the
    extreme stresses on the banking system during the period. In light of these challenges, the Bank placed its
    emphasis on strengthening UEB, thus achieving timely disbursement and support to enterprises, exports, and job
    creation.
    UEB was better able to manage its wholesale and retail lending using its information technology platform.

    Following a restructuring of the project in 2009, UEB was allowed to channel the EDP2 loan proceeds to
    borrowing enterprises.

    Outcomes:

    The target for Borrower’s Return on Assets (ROA) of at least 1.0 was not achieved (UEB’s ROA was -10.38% in
    2014). However, this was during an overall banking crisis in 2014, and UEB's role was crucial to sustain jobs and
    firm revenues while other banks were cutting back. Beneficiary enterprises noted the longer maturity of EDP2
    financing as a key benefit (up to 10 years, compared to normal two to three year terms), along with flexibility of
    loan terms.

    UEB's institutional strength helped to attract $850 million in additional lines-of-credit from international financial
    institutions.

    The target on financial intermediaries' participation was fully achieved, with 6 intermediaries financing more than
    40% of the lending to firms. The target of 50 beneficiary enterprises was achieved.

    The target for zero portfolio-at-risk was also not met, but again results were much better than for the banking
    system as a whole. At closing, it was 2.0 percent according to International Financial Reporting Standards, while
    the official estimates of system-wide Non-performing Loans was 15 percent, and market estimates were closer
    to 30 percent. Intermediary banks indicated in the survey that their lending under EDP2 allowed for more
    competitively priced interest rates and longer maturity structures than the rest of their enterprise lending portfolios
    .


5. Efficiency:

    Economic and Financial Efficiency
    No formal measures (ERR, FIRR) were applied to the project at appraisal or in the ICR. The ICR uses other
    alternative measures to measure efficiency. For example, it states that the incremental average annual exports
    over the period 2012-14 of beneficiary firms was nearly three times the amount of the credit line disbursed. This
    could have been caused by many factors beyond the credit line, including overall changes in international
    markets. However, this is still an impressive result in light of the challenges faced by the country starting in 2014.
    The institutional development of UEB allowed it to nearly triple its intermediation of foreign donor resources over
    the project period. EDP 2 lending also opened opportunities to intermediary banks for additional finance from
    other sources. In addition, nearly 80 percent of beneficiary enterprises obtained access to additional credits from
    other lenders, going against the overall trend of a sharp drop in bank lending to enterprises starting in 2009. EDP
    2's economic impact was widely spread throughout the country, with lending in 18 out of 24 regions.

    Administrative and Financial Efficiency
    The three year extension was not a sign of inefficiency, but rather an opportunity for EDP 2 with additional
    financing to play a counter-cyclical role during the global financial crisis to provide credit to enterprises when
    other banks were unable to do so.

    Overall, efficiency is rated Substantial.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :
                              Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

   Appraisal                       No
   ICR estimate                    No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Relevance of objectives is high, with close alignment to Bank and Government strategy and program. Relevance
   of design was substantial, with a plausible link between the Bank's support and outcomes achieved, and good
   provision for flexible response to drastically changing conditions. Efficacy of achievement of both sub-objectives
   was substantial. Efficiency was also substantial, with the incremental average annual exports over the period
   2012-14 of beneficiary firms reaching nearly three times the amount of the credit line disbursed.

a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The risk is heightened by instability and conflict, Russia's import restrictions, loss of investor confidence,
   economic contraction, and large external financing gap being partly addressed in the IMF-led rescue package. In
   2014, industrial output fell by nearly 18 percent. Under these conditions, it will be hard for banks to find strong
   enterprise borrowers, and hard to attract more commercial funding of export credit lines, and longer term
   domestic savings instruments. Continuing support from the Bank and other partners to improve the investment
   climate, increase financial transparency, and modernize business regulation would help to mitigate this risk.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The objectives were relevant to the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy, and to the implementation of the
   Government’s program to facilitate export growth by improving access to medium- and long-term finance for
   private exporting companies. The Bank drew on analytical work that included policy notes on financial sector
   reform, a comparative study with other countries in the region on bank consolidation and a study on the
   challenges faced in developing and regulating non-bank financial institutions services, including insurance,
   pensions, finance and capital markets. It also built on active policy dialogue and a technical assistance
   program supporting Ukraine’s efforts to strengthen banking supervision, bank restructuring and financial
   market development. In addition to investment loans, there were a number of policy-based operations which
   supported, strengthening legislation and supervision of banks and non-bank financial institutions,
   restructuring of state-owned banks, development of deposit insurance, improving governance and
   strengthening property and creditor rights. The operation was designed to support a strong implementing
   partner, with necessary flexibility to adjust to changing conditions.


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The country-based team responded flexibly to drastic changes in conditions, including a timely restructuring in
   2009. The restructuring allowed UEB to lend directly to exporting enterprises when most banks were unable
   to lend to because of their own weakened balance sheets; The additional financing approved in 2011
   provided much needed credit that was available when initial EDP2 funding was used up in 2012. The
   agreement in 2013 to increase the proportion of direct lending to enterprises, and to exceed the US$10 million
   borrowing limit on a case-by-case basis, was another sign of flexibility in meeting critical financing needs.
   Likewise, the Bank provided waivers on eligibility criteria, taking advantage of UEB’s advanced approach to
   loan appraisal and risk scoring to augment its beneficial counter-cyclical impact. The team provided proactive
   support in resolving issues, as well as formal implementation support missions twice each year on average.
   Ratings in reports filed after these missions were accurate. The monitoring framework had some gaps, but
   these were in part addressed by a 2014 survey of participating banks and beneficiary enterprises.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Government actively contributed with UEB in portfolio reviews, and gave timely guidance during
   implementation. However there were weaknesses in the broader enabling environment, with lack of
   independence of the central bank, and weaknesses in prudential supervision, liquidity provision and problem
   bank identification. The authorities that came to power in 2014 have started to carry out necessary reforms,
   with support from the Bank’s Financial Sector Development Policy Loan. These reforms included stricter
   definition of problem and insolvent banks, but it has been difficult to make as much progress as desired by the
   new leadership at the Central Bank in the exceptionally difficult context.


  Government Performance Rating                               Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   UEB had strong capacity, building on experience from EDP 1. There was adequate staffing, internal controls,
   and financial reporting. Audits were on-time and satisfactory. Specialized training at the Project
   Implementation Unit (PIU) improved UEB’s business processes, helping them to mobilize almost US$850
   million from other international financial institutions.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The indicators were linked to the objectives, readily available and easy to monitor. All indicators but one had
   baselines. The only exception was the indicator "decreasing amount of non-performing sub-loans and leases, but
   this was redundant since the outcome indicator "Portfolio at risk" also measured the non-performing loan ratio.
   The monitoring framework could have added additional measures of enterprise growth and sustainability, such as
   revenue growth, export market expansion, and job creation, along with institutional development and lending
   product development at participating banks.

b. M&E Implementation:

   All indicators were measured during two supervision missions each year. After the restructuring, some
   intermediate outcome indicators were added or adjusted to better measure the impact of the project, including the
   new indicator to monitor the average share of female employees in beneficiary enterprises. The lack of some
   indicators in the design, as discussed above, was partly addressed through a survey administered in late 2014 to
   participating banks and beneficiary enterprises, which indicated that EDP 2 had a positive impact. Given the
   methodological limits of evaluating credit lines, as set out in the ICR, the monitoring framework and survey were
   reasonable efforts. 44 out of 50 participating enterprises responded to a short questionnaire, and 30 responded to
   a lengthy survey. Four of six participating banks also responded to the survey. The survey provides evidence that
    most participating enterprises and banks were effectively supported by EDP 2.

c. M&E Utilization:

    While there is no direct evidence in the ICR that M&E information was used, it is presumed that the active
    supervision of EDP 2 by the Bank and PIU drew on this information as they continuously adapted the project to
    the rapidly evolving context.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The project was classified as a category “F1” under OP/BP4.01 Environmental Assessment. The possibility that
    other World Bank safeguard policies might apply to sub-projects, along with other relevant environmental issues
    of sub-borrowers and their sub-projects was to be addressed through the sub-loan environmental eligibility
    assessment. It was not anticipated that the sub-projects under EDP 2 would trigger either OP 4.12 (Involuntary
    Resettlement) or OP 7.50 (International Waterways). The ICR (p.17) states that PIU staff ensured effective
    implementation of safeguards compliance, and the PIU's system for doing so was reviewed by the Bank at least
    twice a year and found to be satisfactory. The ICR provides no information of which safeguards were triggered by
    sub-projects, nor details on how they were addressed.

    UEB and participating banks benefited from experience and training with World Bank safeguards. For example,
    when the Bank team expanded provisions to prohibit financing of purchases of pesticides, the UEB and
    participating teams implemented the revised procedures smoothly.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Procurement. The monitoring of contract administration was done by local branches of UEB, including
    inspections, and supervised by the PIU. Adequate competition required for the applicable method of procurement
    (commercial practice) was ensured and there were no complaints. Filing of procurement and contract
    documentation was properly maintained and all documents were available for review.

    Financial management . Systems worked properly, with clean audit reports, and no substantial weaknesses in
    internal controls, although the ICR points out minor issues with one audit report, and compliance with
    International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) related party and large exposure ratios. UEB has not been in
    full compliance with two financial performance criteria calculated on an IFRS basis—single insider lending
    exposure and aggregate insider lending exposure. Non-compliance on IFRS basis is due to its role as a state
    bank lending to state-owned enterprises and investing in government debt securities. The Bank team
    continuously monitored UEB’s exposure to the state and state-related entities based on the data provided. The
    latest financial reports produced by qualified auditors show the declining trend for both exposures (ICR p. 15).

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    EDP 2 played an unexpected counter-cyclical role during the global financial crisis to provide credit to enterprises
    when other banks were unable to do so.


 d. Other:
none


12. Ratings:                             ICR                 IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                    Outcome: Satisfactory              Satisfactory
         Risk to Development Significant               Significant
                      Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    IEG supports all lessons cited in the ICR. The ICR drew 5 lessons, and the three most important are:
    (i) Working through a sound financial institution with a proven implementation track -record is important for
    achieving results. In this case, the resources and skills for implementing the project were effective because of
    the choice of an experienced financial intermediary as an implementing partner.
    (ii) In a rapidly evolving context , implementation flexibility is crucial , since it isn't possible to predict all
    possible scenarios. In this case, the decision to restructure, to change the proportion of direct and wholesale
    lending, and to scale up disbursement were all crucial in delivering intended results.
    (iii) Lines of credit can be leveraged by close coordination with other Bank operations and those of other
    .partners. In this case, support from the Bank's Financial Sector Development Policy Loan and non-lending
    technical assistance, along with financing to UEB from other international financial institutions, was all
    important in leading to the successful outcomes.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR provides good quality evidence and analysis to back up ratings and lessons, focusing on outcomes. It is
    internally consistent, and broadly aligned with guidelines. Lessons are based on detailed evidence and analysis
    in the ICR. The ICR has a results orientation, focusing on the outcomes achieved. However, the main report is 24
    pages, exceeding the 15 page limit.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
