                                                                     ICR00003501




                   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS R EPORT

                             (IBRD -4836-UA AND 8089-UA)

                                         ON

                                        LOANS


                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$304.5 M ILLION

                                       TO THE

         J OINT S TOCK COMPANY “THE S TATE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF UKRAINE”

                 WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE

                                        FOR A

                         SECOND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                      J UNE 2015




Finance and Markets Global Practice
Europe and Central Asia Region
                                              2


CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective May 18, 2015)

Currency Unit
UAH 1.00 = USD 0.0449
USD 1.00 = UAH 22.2472

FISCAL YEAR 2015


ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF           Additional Financing
CAR          Capital Adequacy Ratio
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CPS          Country Partnership Strategy
EDP2         Second Export Development Project
EU           European Union
FIL          Financial Intermediary Loan
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOU          Government of Ukraine
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion and Results Report
IFI          International Financial Institution
IFRS         International Financial Reporting Standards
ISR          Implementation Status Report
IT           Information Technology
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NPL          Non-performing Loan
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDO          Project Development Objectives
PBs          Participating Banks
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
ROA          Return on Assets
ROE          Return on Equity
UAH          Ukrainian Hryvnia
UAS          Ukrainian Accounting Standards
UEB          Joint Stock Company The State Export Import Bank of Ukraine
USD          United States Dollar


                                  Vice President: Laura Tuck
                                 Country Director: Qimiao Fan
                            Global Practice Manager: Aurora Ferrari
                      Project Team Leader (at closure): Alexander Pankov
                              ICR Team Leader: Colleen Mascenik
                                                 3


                                         Ukraine
                             Second Export Development Project

                                             Contents


Overview Tables                                                     4

Main Report
   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design            9
              1.1 Context at Appraisal                              9
              1.2 Original PDO and Key Indicators                   11
              1.3 Revised PDO                                       11
              1.4 Main Beneficiaries                                12
              1.5 Original Components                               12
              1.6 Revised Components                                13
              1.7 Other Significant Changes                         13

   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes             13
             2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry   13
             2.2 Implementation                                     15
             2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design,
                 Implementation and Utilization                     19
             2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance                 20
             2.5 Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase               21

   3. Assessment of Outcomes                                        21
             3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design
                 and Implementation                                 21
             3.2 Efficacy for Achievement of PDO                    22
             3.3 Efficacy of PDO                                    24
             3.4 Overall Performance Rating                         26
             3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts    27
             3.6 Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts              28
             3.7 Summary Findings of Beneficiary Survey             28

   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome                     28
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                   29
             5.1 Bank Performance                                   29
             5.2 Borrower Performance                               30
   6. Lessons Learned                                               31
   7. Comments on Issues Raise by Borrowers, IA                     32

   Annex 1. Additional Information                                  34
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                             38
   Annex 3. Outputs by Component                                    39
   Annex 4. Beneficiary Enterprise Survey Results                   40
   Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support                 44
   Annex 6. Summary of Borrower’s ICR                               46
                                           4




A.    Basic information
Country              Ukraine                   Project Name        Second Export
                                                                   Development Project
Project ID              P095203                L/C/TF Number(s)    IBRD-48360, IBRD-
                                                                   80890
ICR Date                April 29, 2015         ICR Type            Core ICR
Lending instrument      FIL                    Borrower            Joint Stock Company
                                                                   The State Export
                                                                   Import Bank of
                                                                   Ukraine
Original Total         USD 154.50 M           Disbursed Amount     USD 304.5 M
Commitment
Revised Amount         USD 304.5 M
Environmental Category: F, Financial Intermediary Assessment
Implementing Agencies: Joint Stock Company The State Export Import Bank of Ukraine
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B.      Key Dates
Process                    Date            Process                Date
Concept Review             7/14/2005       Appraisal              3/10/2006
Board Approval             7/27/2006       Effectiveness          3/20/2007
Project Restructuring      5/29/2009       Board Approval of      8/25/2011
                                           Additional Financing
Project Restructuring      10/24/2011
Original Closing           12/31/2011      Revised Closing        12/31/2014


C.      Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                    Substantial
Bank Performance                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
       Bank                 Ratings             Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry        Satisfactory           Government          Moderately
                                                                   Satisfactory
Quality of              Satisfactory           Implementing        Satisfactory
Supervision                                    Agency/Agencies
Overall Bank            Satisfactory           Overall Borrower    Satisfactory
Performance                                    Performance
                                                 5




 C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation            Indicators      QAG Assessments                    Rating
      Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem      No                  N/A
 Project at any time
 (Yes/No)
 Problem Project at     No                  N/A
 any time (Yes/No)
 DO rating before       Satisfactory
 Closing/Inactive
 status


 D.     Sector and Theme Codes
                                                     Original              Actual
 Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
 Banking                                             100                   100


 Theme Code (as % of Bank financing)                 Original              Actual
 Export development and competitiveness              50                    50
 International financial standards and systems       25                    25
 Other private sector development                    25                    25


 E.      Bank Staff
 Positions                       At ICR                          At Approval
 Vice President                  Laura Tuck                      Shigeo Katsu
 Country Director                Qimiao Fan                      Paul Bermingham
 Sector Manager                  Aurora Ferrari                  Gerardo Corrochano
 Project Team Leader             Alexander Pankov                Lalit Raina
 ICR Team Leader                 Colleen Mascenik

F.     Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objective (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project’s development objective was to serve as a catalyst to support export and real sector
growth in Ukraine during the EDP2 implementation period and beyond by a) providing medium-
and long-term working capital and investment finance to private exporting enterprises to assist
the Guarantor’s private exporting sector; and (b) further improving the ability of the banking
sector through development of intermediation by expanding private financial institutions’
lending products.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A
                                                        6




(a)    PDO Indicator(s) 1
 Indicator        Baseline Value           Original Target Formally             Actual Value
                                           Value (from         Revised Target Achieved at
                                           approval            Values           Completion or
                                           documents)                           Target Years
    Indicator 1. Volume of Bank lending cumulatively disbursed
    Value              0                   USD154.5 mln        USD304.5 mln     USD304.5mln 2
    Date achieved      3/20/2007           6/30/2011           12/31/2014       12/31/2014
    Comments (incl. Fully achieved: This project disbursed 100% of Bank financing by project
    % achievement) closing.
    Indicator 2. Outstanding loan portfolio
    Value              0                   USD150 mln          USD300 mln       USD278.78 mln 3
    Date achieved      3/20/2007           6/30/2011           12/31/2014       12/31/2014
    Comments (incl. Fully achieved: gross loan portfolio was USD300mln, fully disbursed less
    % achievement) front end fees. Due to repayments, the outstanding portfolio at project
                       closing is USD 278.78mln.
    Indicator 3. Portfolio-at-risk of the Borrower
    Value              0%                  0                                    2.00%
    Date achieved      12/31/2006          12/31/2014                           12/31/2014
    Comments (incl. Partially achieved: During most of the implementation period, EDP2
    % achievement) portfolio achieved target of zero non-performing loans 4. At end-2014 there
                       were 2% of EDP2 outstanding loans categorized as portfolio-at-risk
                       according to IFRS. Banks were taking more conservative approaches in
                       2H2014, although it is possible that repayment problems may become
                       evident in 1H2015.
    Indicator 4. Financial sustainability of the Borrower (ROA)
    Value              2.34                1.00                                 -10.38
    Date achieved      12/31/2006          12/31/2014                           12/31/2014
    Comments (incl. Not achieved: Due to prolonged financial and economic crisis in Ukraine,
    % achievement) banking system’s profitability has been under pressure. However, UEB’s
                       ROA that was slightly stronger than the system’s average during most of
                       implementation period, but finished 2014 worse than system average. 5




1
   Indicators for volume of lending disbursed, outstanding loan portfolio, and range of financial intermediaries’
participation were revised upon approval of Additional Financing on 8/25/2011.
2
  Last disbursement from the Loan account (in amount of USD3,887,024.10) was done within grace period, on January
6, 2015. Indicator 1 includes: financing to exporters, IBRD front-end fees & UEB institutional development.
3
  The outstanding loan portfolio is net of repayments by beneficiary enterprises.
4
  In 2011 and 2013, by volume there were 0% NPLs in all three categories (Sub-standard, doubtful and loss), in 2012
there were 0.8% sub-standard and zero in other categories.
5
  UEB’s ROA exceeded system average during most of recent years: Ukrexim’s ROA was 0.18, 0.17 and 0.22 percent
at year-end 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. By comparison, the average for the banking sector during the same
years was -0.76, 0.45, and 0.12. The system’s average ROA at end-2014 was -4.07.
                                               7


(b)     Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
 Indicator          Baseline Value      Original Target      Formally            Actual Value
                                        Value (from          Revised Target      Achieved at
                                        approval             Values              Completion or
                                        documents)                               Target Years
 Indicator 1. Export multiplier: Incremental average aggregate annual exports generated
 (measured over 3 years for all sub-borrowers) / total credit line disbursed
 Value              0                   1.7-2.0                                  2.78
 Date achieved      3/20/2007           12/31/2014                               12/31/2014
 Comments (incl. Fully achieved: Export multiplier exceeded target at end-2014 and during
 % achievement) most of the project implementation period, fell within target value range.
                    In 2011 it was 1.76, in 2012 it was 2.02, and in 2013 it was 2.69,
                    exceeding the target. It is important to consider these positive export
                    dynamics against the overall country background: due to economic
                    contraction in 2014, Russia’s restrictions on imports from Ukraine, and
                    impact of conflict, Ukraine’s overall export revenues contracted by 37% in
                    2014.
 Indicator 2. Range of financial intermediaries’ participation: Number of PBs participating
 in EDP2 and their individual and combined market shares (revised under Additional Financing
 as: Increasing share of number of subprojects and amounts disbursed through PBs
 participating in EDP2 / total number of sub projects and total credit line disbursed)
 Value              100% wholesale 70% wholesale             40% wholesale       PBs financed
                    lending initially lending through lending through 41.79% of
                    planned.            PBs / 30% retail PBs / 60% retail projects by
                                        lending by UEB lending by UEB number and
                                        was set as target was set as the         46.68% by
                                        at Additional        revised target      value.
                                        Financing.           ratio as of
                                                             11/15/2013.
 Date achieved      3/20/2007           6/30/2011                                12/31/2014
 Comments (incl. Fully achieved: Besides UEB, 6 financial institutions participated in EDP2.
 % achievement) The proportion of lending through PBs varied during project
                    implementation, and was as high as 67% in 2011, but declined by the
                    closing date in 2014 due to the worsening banking sector crisis.
 Indicator 3. Number of beneficiary enterprises
 Value              0                   25                   50                  50
 Date achieved      3/20/2007           6/30/2011            12/31/2014          12/31/2014
 Comments (incl. Fully achieved: The project provided 67 working capital and investment
 % achievement) sub-loans to 50 beneficiary enterprises.

 Indicator 4. Percentage of female employees (average) of beneficiary enterprises
 Value             0                  No target          No target         39
 Date achieved     3/20/2007                                               12/31/2014
 Comments (incl. At project’s closing, the percentage of female employees at active
 % achievement) beneficiary enterprises was 39%. This value varied throughout the project
                   lifetime between 35-45%.
                                                    8


 G.      Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 No.       Date ISR Archived               DO                            IP                   Actual
                                                                                          Disbursements
                                                                                          (USD millions)
 1      9/2/2007                         Satisfactory            Satisfactory            1.52
 2      10/2/2008                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory            29.97
 3      3/15/2009                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory            61.3
 4      12/5/2009                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory            78.10
 5      4/12/2010                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory            107.20
 6      1/1/2011                         Satisfactory            Satisfactory            124.79
 7      7/12/2011                        Satisfactory            Moderately              130.15
                                                                 Satisfactory
 8      1/22/2012                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory            145.93
 9      8/12/2012                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory            164.88
 10     2/5/2013                         Satisfactory            Satisfactory            173.66
 11     8/17/2013                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory            191.18
 12     2/11/2014                        Satisfactory            Moderately              218.82
                                                                 Satisfactory
 13     9/22/2014                        Satisfactory            Satisfactory            238.1
 14     12/22/2014                       Satisfactory            Satisfactory            290.6*
*Amount of disbursement as at 12/22/2014.
On 12/30/2014 USD10 million was disbursed. On 01/06/2015 USD3.9 million was disbursed.

H.      Restructuring (if any)
The project has been restructured twice and the project closing date was extended at the time of
the additional financing. The first project restructuring occurred in May 2009, with regional vice
president’s approval to allow for direct lending by the Borrower/Implementing Agency, UEB, as
a response to the impact of severe economic and financial crisis that hit Ukraine in 2008. In August
2011, additional financing of USD150 million was approved by the WB Board of Directors, and
the closing date extended to December 31, 2014. In October 2011, the project was restructured to
reallocate USD1.1 million of unallocated loan proceeds towards UEB’s credit line (USD 0.7
million) and institutional strengthening component (USD 0.4 million).

I.      Disbursement Profile
                                                 9


1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

The Second Export Development Project (EDP2) for which this implementation completion
report is prepared has been restructured and complemented with additional financing
during project implementation in response to market conditions. The original project was
approved by the World Bank Board in July 2006, and designed as a follow-up operation to the
previous Export Development Project (EDP1) which was approved ten years before. EDP2
consisted in a USD154.5 million credit line, backed by the Bank’s variable spread US Dollar loan
of 20 years of maturity, including a 5-year grace period, and guaranteed by the Ukrainian
government, to Export Import Bank of Ukraine (UEB), a state-owned foreign trade and
development bank, for further on-lending to eligible exporters, via participating financial
intermediaries. In May 2009, in response to the severe effect of 2008 financial crisis on the
Ukrainian banking system, the EDP2 project was restructured to allow UEB to lend directly to
exporters. In August 2011, the World Bank Board approved additional financing in the amount of
USD150 million to UEB for on-lending to eligible exporters, both directly and through eligible
financial intermediaries.

At project closing in December 2014, the project had fully disbursed the combined loan
amount of USD304.5 million. The project provided access to longer-term finance to 50 private
exporting enterprises under the original EDP2 loan and the additional financing. Over eight years,
EDP2 built up the project implementation and risk management capacity of the largest export
lender in Ukraine, UEB, and enhanced six participating banks’ capacity for enterprise lending,
such that some of the PBs became stronger and attracted additional foreign funding. Most of the
participating enterprises grew in revenues and employment, or out-performed the overall
enterprise sector during the two crisis periods.

1.1    Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background

The preparation of the Second Export Development Project took place against the
background of initially rapid, then slowing, export-led economic growth, as Ukraine
rebounded from the massive economic downturn of the 1990s. GDP growth that had accelerated
to 12.1 percent in 2004 had slowed down to 2.4 percent in 2005, but growth was nevertheless
robust over the 5-year period. Exports grew nearly 40 percent in 2004 and increased further in
2005, fueled mainly by metals and chemicals.

Despite rapid economic growth, Ukraine’s export base was too narrow and concentrated on
CIS markets. The metal sector, which generated most export revenues, had limited capacity for
further expansion, given the outdated capital assets and technologies and subsidized energy
supplies distorting the market and inhibiting innovation. Further, the Ukrainian steel sector, which
exported almost 80 percent of its production in 2004, was facing a decline in world steel prices, as
well as rising costs of raw materials and transportation. Around half of Ukraine’s trade at the time
of project appraisal was with CIS countries. Oil and gas imports from Russia represented 80
percent of total imports: energy inputs for Ukraine’s steel and chemical production capacity were
primarily sourced from one country. More generally, Russia represented the largest overall trading
partner (other less significant partners were Germany, Italy, and China).
                                                           10


Banking Sector

The banking sector, which dominated the financial system (then and now), was seen to play
an important potential role to catalyze investment and sustainable growth for exporting
enterprises; but the sector faced some serious structural challenges. The sector was
characterized by a large number of small, undercapitalized banks. There were 165 operating banks
in Ukraine at the end of 2005, with the average asset size of USD267.6 million. The share of
foreign banks had increased by 2005 to 19.5 percent and was expected to grow further. Only the
top 12 banks had balance sheet capital above USD100 million and accounted for more than 47.6
percent of total capital in the banking sector. In addition, the use of modern risk management
approaches, technology and skills for lending to new borrowers and market segments was fairly
limited, and governance in the sector was weak, due to the dominance of oligarchical business
groups. At the time of project design, it was seen that there were a few sound and strong financial
institutions, among them Ukreximbank, and the aim was to leverage that strength and try to make
some improvements in the funding and risk management approaches of a few others, albeit within
the limited frame of the relatively small line of credit. The importance of supporting Ukraine’s real
economy, strengthening exporters and creating jobs, was a critical priority worth taking this risk.

Rationale for Bank Assistance

Against this background, during the period of 1996-2005, the Bank played an active role in
policy dialogue and technical assistance to support the needs of the growing economy as well
as address weaknesses and constraints in the performance of the domestic financial sector.
In November 1996, the Bank Board approved the First Export Development Project (EDP1,
P044851) in the amount of USD84 million, which was implemented successfully until closing in
June 2004. The project aimed to develop Ukraine's emerging private sector export potential and
increase the capacity of the UEB through a comprehensive institutional development program. The
project included a line of credit and technical assistance components for exporters and UEB. The
project had a positive impact on promoting exporting enterprises’ growth and development, on
spurring more financial intermediation, and on building up implementation capacity in the form of
a professional PIU and initial IT infrastructure at UEB, and formed the building blocks for EDP2.

The Bank’s program also included other policy-based and investment operations supporting the
Government in strengthening the financial sector and addressing the financing needs of real sector
In particular, multi-sector Development Program Loan series (P079316, P096389) focused on a
range of policy issues including protection of property rights and improving investment climate;
and Access to Financial Services Project (P076553) aimed to provide long-term finance through
eligible commercial banks to rural small and medium-sized enterprises. 6 In this context, EDP2 was
designed to build on the successful track record of EDP1 and continue facilitating export growth
by improving access to medium- and long-term finance for private exporting companies. The Bank
could not resolve deep structural problems in the banking sector through its technical assistance,
however. Policy engagement with the central bank was only periodically strong, and the latter’s
lack of independence and resistance to dialogue and reform at many times limited the impact that
the Bank could aim to achieve through any one intervention.

The project design was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy for Ukraine during
FY06-FY09, the first pillar of which was sustaining economic growth and improving

6
    The design flaws and failure to disburse of the latter project described in Section 6—Lessons Learned.
                                                      11


competitiveness, including by providing access to long-term credit. The CAS’s key priorities for
the medium-term included completing the banking and financial sector reforms and filling the gap
in accessing credit facilities. At a higher-level, the project also aimed to catalyze faster private
sector growth and job creation, supported by a healthier and more developed financial system. The
cross-cutting governance theme was also incorporated into the project’s reporting, procurement,
and safeguards requirements.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The original project development objective (PDO) was to (a) provide medium- and long-term
working capital and investment finance to private exporting enterprises to assist the Guarantor’s
private exporting sector; and (b) further improve the ability of the banking sector through
development of intermediation by expanding private financial institutions’ lending products. The
following Results Indicators were selected to monitor the PDOs:
    • Volume of Bank lending cumulatively disbursed;
    • Outstanding loan portfolio;
    • Portfolio-at-risk of the Borrower;
    • Financial sustainability of the Borrower (ROA).

Other key indicators for measuring project outcomes were:
   • Export multiplier: Incremental average aggregate annual exports generated (measured over
       3 years for all sub-borrowers) / total credit line disbursed;
   • Range of financial intermediaries’ participation: Number of Participating Banks (PBs)
       participating in EDP2 and their individual and combined market shares
   • Sub-loan performance indicators: Decreasing amount of non-performing sub-loans and
       leases; Interest and/or principal defaults / total amount of sub-loans and leases disbursed.
   • At the beneficiary level, the number of project beneficiaries, and the share of female
       beneficiaries. 7

These indicators were intended to be monitored through regular reporting by the Borrower/
Implementing Agency, and through statutory project supervision missions. It was envisaged that
reporting under the EDP2 would be done through quarterly progress reports, with the reports
specifically distinguishing project transactions of the two types of financial intermediaries—UEB
and PBs.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no changes to the PDO, at the time of the project restructurings or the Additional
Financing (AF).

At the time of the AF, the results framework was revised to better capture the project’s outcomes.
The intermediate outcome indicator related to the Range of Financial Intermediaries’
Participation was revised to more effectively measure the contribution of financial intermediaries
to the project outcomes in terms of number of projects financed and amount disbursed 8. This

7
 This measures the percentage of female employees among all the beneficiary enterprises each year.
8
  The revised indicators were: number of subprojects financed by PBs/ total number of sub projects, and amounts
disbursed through PBs / total credit line disbursed.
                                                        12


revision shifted the focus from the number of PBs to the relative balance between UEB and PBs.
There was however no targeted proportion of wholesale/retail lending, given the importance of
being flexible in the design process to allow the project to adjust to changing market circumstances.
Also, the Bank introduced an intermediate outcome indicator to monitor the average share of
female employees in beneficiary enterprises to capture more information about the gender-related
impact of the project.

1.4       Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries for this project, as identified in the project appraisal document (PAD),
were private exporting enterprises. The Loan Agreement provided detailed eligibility criteria for
the beneficiary enterprises in terms of ownership, activities and financial health. 9

The secondary beneficiaries were UEB and the participating banks. While UEB was selected for
its strong management and implementation capacity, there was still room for the project to
positively affect further institutional strengthening. In particular, the institutional development
component provided for procurement of IT equipment to support UEB’s role in project
implementation and retail lending to private exporter market. The participating financial
institutions were expected to benefit as well from participation in the project and anticipated
outcomes were to be measured by intermediate results indicators. Participation in EDP2 was
expected to incentivize some banks to develop capacity for better risk management, procurement
and monitoring of safeguards required by loan covenants, help banks adopt sound business
practices, develop new products for exporters, and attract new lines of credit financed by other
international financial institutions (IFIs). These benefits might be expected in a few banks,
considering the serious weaknesses in the banking sector and the supervisor, and the limited size
of the line of credit compared to banks’ overall portfolios.

1.5       Original Components (as approved)

EDP2 was designed as a follow-up to EDP1, which was purely a retail export intermediation loan
directly from UEB to exporters. The EDP2 design as originally approved was centered around
UEB operating as a wholesale export finance institution, and a wholesale line of credit to other
PBs was the anchor component of the project. The project components were:
      •   Component A (original amount USD150 million) -- Wholesale line of credit to UEB, which
          UEB would onlend to eligible participating banks (PBs), to be selected according to
          financial and export orientation eligibility criteria. The PBs in turn were to make medium-
          term working capital or long-term investment loans to eligible private exporters.
      •   Component B (original amount USD 3 million) -- UEB institutional development-related
          procurement of IT equipment and consulting services.
      •   Component C-- Unallocated amount of USD1.1 million.
The amounts to be allocated among the above components were to remain flexible for possible
reallocation during implementation.

9
  Namely, the Loan Agreement stipulated that beneficiary enterprises should be privately-owned, exporter or
prospective exporter of goods and services originating from Ukraine (including tourism) and generating foreign
exchange proceeds in Ukraine; having a debt-to-equity ratio of 80:20; having a debt service ratio of 1.3:1 according
to anticipated cash flows over the life of the prospective sub-loan; and having satisfactory financial structure and
organization, management, staff and financial and other resources for carrying out its operations.
                                                   13


1.6     Revised Components

Following a restructuring of the project in 2009, UEB was allowed to channel the EDP2 loan
proceeds to exporters both indirectly (through PBs, as originally approved) and directly. When the
AF was approved in August 2011, the line of credit (component A) was divided into two sub-
components: (i) direct lending by UEB, and (ii) wholesale lending to PBs. The tentative allocation
between the sub-components was established as 30:70. Upon request from UEB in October 2013,
due to the shortage of eligible PBs and slower-than-anticipated disbursement in a context of
prolonged recession, the Bank agreed to increase the ratio of direct lending by UEB to wholesale
lending to PBs to 60:40. At project closing, the ratio of direct lending by UEB to wholesale lending
to PBs was 54:46 by sub-loan volume.

1.7     Other Significant Changes

Institutional, financial management, disbursement and procurement arrangements remained
largely the same throughout the project lifetime, as set in the EDP2 Operations Manual, subject to
updated procurement guidelines at the time of Additional Financing approval in August 2011 10.

UEB’s financial covenants were slightly revised for the AF. The requirements for FX and Liquidity
ratios were revised to meet the applicable NBU regulations.

Finally, the closing date for the Project was extended by 3 years from the original closing date of
December 31, 2011, to December 31, 2014, at the time of AF approval.


2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

At the time of appraisal, the Bank had almost ten years’ experience providing active support to the
Government’s priorities in the banking and export sectors. In addition to a number of development
policy loans with financial sector conditionality, the World Bank had just completed the
implementation of EDP1 in 2005 through UEB. As the official agent of the Government of Ukraine
(GoU) for the intermediation of IFIs’ credit lines, and having the benefit of EDP1 experience, UEB
was well-positioned to be the implementation agency under EDP2.

The project’s preparation, design, and quality at entry were based on the following:
   (i)     Consistency with Bank and Government Priorities. The Ukrainian Government had
           placed the growth of Ukrainian exports as a national priority. UEB had earlier written
           to the Bank asking for additional funding under a new EDP2 project, and the
           Government endorsed this proposal. EDP2 was also consistent with the FY06-09 CAS
           for Ukraine; as stated in the CAS, an important objective was the revitalization of the
           real sector by providing access to long-term credit. The CAS’s key priorities for the
           medium-term included: completing the banking and financial sector reforms and filling
           the current gap in accessing credit facilities.



10
  The commercial practice thresholds were raised from USD4 million to USD5 million, and the International
Competitive Bidding procurement method replaced with Open Competitive Bidding method.
                                                14


   (ii)    Incorporation of lessons learned from other bank lines of credit and EDP1.
           a. Flexibility. The main lesson learned during previous Bank credit line operations in
              ECA region was that project design should be kept as flexible as possible, with a
              minimum number of statutory requirements (e.g., avoiding constraints like
              minimum sub-loan size, maturity, currency denomination, sub-borrower co-
              financing requirements, sectoral lending focus, etc.), and sensible financial
              indicators should be used for the selection of both the PBs and the sub-
              borrowers/sub-projects in line with established market practices.
           b. Implementation arrangements. Another important lesson learned has been that the
              most successful formula for high quality and expeditious project implementation is
              to combine the Borrower and Implementing Agency functions in one and the same
              entity if possible.
           c. Incentives for quick disbursement. Pre-committing financial intermediaries to
              borrowing a certain part of a credit line (which involves paying a commitment fee
              on the pre-committed amount) provides a strong incentive to the intermediaries to
              be quick and effective in finding and financing eligible sub-projects, and leads to
              quicker disbursement of the Bank loan.
           d. Capacity-building. The Institutional Development Program for UEB, as the
              borrower and implementing agency, was instrumental for a successful
              implementation of EDP1 by providing developmental support and incentives for
              the project achieving the desired outcomes.
           e. Use of country systems. Procurement procedures in the initial stages of EDP1
              proved to be difficult to implement by UEB and the borrowing enterprises, and led
              to the Bank’s assessment at the ICR stage that country commercial practices should
              be used as the guiding procurement principles for all but large and complex sub-
              projects, especially in cases where the buyer is a private enterprise.

   (iii)   Catalyzing financial intermediation through wholesale lending. The project was
           designed to provide for wholesale lending by UEB to commercial banks, aiming to
           reach a more diversified group of exporters in terms of size, geography and industry.
           In response to the severe economic and financial crisis, a project restructuring was
           necessary in 2009 that allowed for a combination of direct and wholesale lending by
           UEB. The project still kept the wholesale lending subcomponent to maximize its
           impact, and did not set rigid targets between the two lending approaches. The flexible
           allocation between wholesale and retail lending enabled UEB to play an important
           counter-cyclical function that sustained credit to enterprises while other banks were
           financially weaker and shrinking their balance sheets..

   (iv)    Identification of risks and associated mitigation measures. Risks were adequately
           assessed at appraisal, in particular political uncertainty and implementation risk,
           macroeconomic policy risk and financial system risk. The team identified strong
           mitigating measures for the latter in terms of tight prudential eligibility criteria for
           selection of PBs, based on IFRS rather than domestic accounting standards.

Quality of participating financial institutions. UEB and PBs were selected on the basis of
assessment by WB experts and audited financial performance data. The banks were deemed to be
well-capitalized and profitable. UEB’s loan portfolio had performed well during implementation
of the original EDP, and the portfolios of the PBs were assessed at the time of approval of sub-
borrower agreements, at which time the banks appeared to be run in a sound manner. The Bank’s
                                                  15


assessments confirmed the management capacity of UEB and the PBs and their ability to
implement the line of credit.

Additionality and impact on lending conditions for private exporting enterprises generally.
The design at entry envisioned all financing through wholesale model that was intended to spur
development of lending instruments and capacity among a range of participating banks, albeit
taking account that the sector faced serious weaknesses. The design was modified in response to
the 2008-2009 financial crisis in a May 2009 restructuring that enabled UEB to directly lend a
portion of funds to eligible enterprises. See Section 2.2—Scaling-up during financial crisis.
Notably, the monitoring and evaluation design of the project was fairly shallow during
implementation, with indicators that poorly captured impacts of borrowing on firms’ revenue
growth, export market expansion, or job creation.

2.2       Implementation

Implementing arrangements: EDP2 was effective in March 2007 (within 8 months following
Board approval), complemented with additional financing in July 2011 and closed in line with the
original closing date of December 31, 2014, and with full disbursement. Implementation
arrangements were overall effective. A few issues addressed during implementation included:
      •   Pipeline of exporting enterprises: UEB and PBs developed a pipeline of eligible sub-
          borrowers consisting of private exporters (having more than 50 percent private ownership)
          with foreign exchange earnings, irrespective of their sector, and complying with debt-to-
          equity and debt-service ratios set out in the Loan Agreement.
      •   Loan appraisal system and loan approval procedures: UEB and PBs prepared sub-loan
          packages consisting of credit application and information about procurement and
          environmental rules established as World Bank loan conditions. PBs provided to UEB
          regular reporting about the beneficiary owners of sub-borrowers and compliance with sub-
          borrower eligibility criteria. During the course of project implementation, several of the
          PBs strengthened their loan appraisal and approval procedures, updating IT platforms and
          improving their internal models for measuring rating in order to better align with Basel II
          norms.
      •   Compliance with Financial Soundness Indicators: As Borrower and Implementing
          Agency, UEB provided bi-annual financial reporting, certification from management and
          from external auditors of IFRS-compliant financial reports to World Bank demonstrating
          its compliance with NBU regulatory requirements and IFRS-based financial covenants.
          UEB was required to demonstrate its compliance with capital adequacy ratio (of at least
          10%) and related party exposure, large exposure, forex exposure and non-performing loans
          ratios.
          The related party and large exposure ratios complied with UAS-based criteria, but
          exceeded IFRS-based thresholds during the implementation period, but this reflects the
          IFRS definitions rather than a lending exposure to insiders related to the bank’s
          management. IFRS considers that all state-owned entities are related parties, so that the
          state-owned bank’s credit to these was considered as related party lending. UEB’s
          proportion of single insider lending (which eligibility criteria required as maximum 5
          percent) increased over the 2006-2012 period from 12.75 to 21.11 percent with some
          reduction in 2013 to 17.70 percent, but rose sharply in 2014 to 41.1 percent at project
          closing. UEB’s proportion aggregate insider lending (which eligibility criteria required as
                                                         16


         maximum 30 percent) ranged between about 45 and 64 percent during implementation, and
         peaked at 83.9 percent at closing. Single exposure exceeded IFRS benchmark (of 25
         percent) in 2010 at 42.40 percent and at project closing at 43.8 percent, and was in
         compliance during other years of project implementation. It is noted that the increase of
         the single exposure ratio in 2014 is accounted for mainly by the UAH revaluation of FX-
         denominated loans to a private agricultural company, while there was no physical increase
         of the exposure limit in major foreign currencies. All ratios remained in compliance
         according to Ukrainian Accounting Standards throughout implementation. The Bank
         provided waivers in each period of implementation supervision, taking account of the
         unique role of UEB in lending to state-owned enterprises and its advanced approach to loan
         appraisal and risk scoring. The Bank’s decision to repeatedly grant waivers to UEB for
         non-compliance on these ratios seems to reflect that the Bank placed greater value on
         maintaining an effective implementation relationship with UEB and confidence in UEB’s
         overall strong financial position and possibly also on the beneficial counter-cyclical impact
         of UEB lending to SOEs, than on a strict interpretation of the eligibility criteria as
         established in the Loan Agreement.
     •    The financial soundness of the PBs 11 varied throughout the implementation period,
          owing in large part to the two financial crises (2008-09 and 2014) that resulted in
          widespread liquidity crunch and bank insolvencies, and the period of economic stagnation
          between the two crises. Two participating banks (Nadra and Ukrgasbank) were dropped
          from the program in 1H2009 due to failure to comply with performance criteria; they were
          placed under provisional administration and subsequently recapitalized. Nearly all
          borrowers serviced their EDP2 debt portfolios. 12 Credit Dnipro and Kreditprombank were
          temporarily suspended from EDP2 disbursement in 2H2009 due to non-compliance with
          financial soundness indicators which were rectified, and the former resumed lending
          under the program in 2010. Megabank and Alfa Bank remained fully compliant with
          financial soundness indicators throughout implementation, and provided regular reporting
          under IFRS and UAS and consultation with Bank supervision team. See Section 2.2—
          Impact of crises on banking system. The prudential supervisory environment for banking
          sector was a weak for much of the project supervision period. However following the
          political transition and new leadership at central bank, substantial reforms to banking
          sector were introduced and supported by the Bank’s Financial Sector Development Policy
          Loan Programme launched in spring 2014; the reforms included stricter definition of
          problem and insolvent banks that contributed to stronger prudential approach.
     •   Environmental assessment framework: The Bank team conducted regular assessments
         of sub-borrowers’ compliance with environmental safeguards in accordance with the
         agreed provisions of the legal agreement, agreed procedures outlined in Operation Manual
         (OP 4.01), and applicable WB Guidelines. The team found that UEB’s specialists dealing
         with project management benefitted from experience and training with the World Bank
         Safeguards Requirements; one staff has a dedicated environmental education. Overall, the

11
   According to the Loan Agreement, PBs’ eligibility criteria included: minimum asset size of hryvnia 500 million;
minimum paid-in statutory capital of EUR10 million, annual audit of financial statements according to IFRS for two
previous years, share of loans to exporters not less than 10 percent of the bank’s total loan portfolio, and previous
operational experience of at least 3 years.
12
   The only exceptions were the three sub-projects approved by Nadra representing less than 3% of total loan portfolio
disbursed under the Project. Nadra was not servicing fully its EDP2 subsidiary loan from UEB in 2013, but pursued
delinquent borrowers through the court system and arranged an extended repayment period with the borrowers and
UEB.
                                                  17


       Bank team was pleased with the effectiveness of the PIU’s supervision of implementation
       of environmental management practices. UEB and PBs were seen to monitor all safeguards
       procedures with due diligence and in accordance with the Loan Agreement and Project
       Operational Manual provisions. Early in the project, when prospective loans were
       considered for Agribusiness sub-projects, the Bank team expanded environmental
       safeguard provisions in the Operations Manual to prohibit the financing of purchases of
       pesticides. This change necessitated some training and capacity development of UEB and
       PB teams, which the Bank team provided and continued throughout the project
       implementation; as a result, the revised procedures were implemented smoothly, and the
       PIU has demonstrated capability to supervise compliance. Overall, UEB and PBs provided
       satisfactory monitoring of the implementation by Sub-borrowers of the Environmental
       Management Plans, signed as the part of each Sub-project package (for Sub-project
       categorized as 2 or 3 category).
   •   Procurement: As part of the regular implementation support for the project, targeted
       reviews were conducted to ensure that the project’s procurement and contracting processes
       were in line with the loan agreements and adhere to the procedures defined in the operations
       manuals. The reviews verified that the UEB was monitoring all procurement procedures
       with due diligence and in accordance with the Loan Agreement and Project Operational
       Manual provisions. All procurement procedures under the sub-projects were conducted in
       accordance to commercial practices and followed a competitive approach. UEB monitored
       the compliance of sub-borrowers to ensure that all contracted firms met the Bank’s
       eligibility criteria, and ensured the check of all firms against the Bank’s list of debarred
       firms prior to awarding a contract. The monitoring of contract administration was done by
       local branches of UEB, including inspections, and supervised by the PIU. The following
       positive observations were made: (i) adequate competition required for the applicable
       method of procurement (commercial practice) was ensured; (ii) there were no complaints;
       (iii) filing of procurement and contract documentation was properly maintained and all
       documents were available for review.
   •   Financial Management: The World Bank Financial Management team conducted regular
       monitoring of UEB’s Financial Management Systems for implementation of the Project,
       including accounting, reporting, budgeting, flow of funds and staffing, and found that
       systems were overall satisfactory. Staff of the PIU benefitted from participating in several
       seminars and workshops organized by the World Bank. Accounting and reporting functions
       were seen to be carried out properly in the automated accounting and reporting system, and
       a strong system of internal controls was in place. Audits and financial management reports
       were submitted on time. The auditors issued clean audit reports on the project- and entity-
       level financial statements, and did not identify substantial weaknesses in internal controls.

Impact of financial and security crises on EDP2 implementation. Project implementation was
significantly impacted by two severe financial crises: first financial crisis in 2008-09, then a period
of economic stagnation in between, and in late 2013-2014, major political turmoil, territorial
annexation, armed conflict, external financing crisis, and drastic contraction of industrial
production and exports. The project could not have foreseen or mitigated these impacts in its
design, and so project performance and financial institutions’ performance should be weighed
against the extreme stresses put on the country. Despite the improvement in price competitiveness
of Ukrainian producers (owing to huge exchange rate adjustment), Ukraine’s overall export
revenues contracted by 37 percent in 2014.
                                             18


•   The annexation of Crimea and the military conflict in the Donbass did not directly
    impact project beneficiaries of EDP2; there had been only one project beneficiary in
    Crimea which repaid its loan before the annexation, and in 2014 there was only one active
    borrowing enterprise near the conflict zone in Eastern Ukraine. However, the indirect
    impact was substantial as the conflict region had accounted for 25 percent of Ukraine’s
    total exports in 2013. The conflict has interrupted supply chains, disrupted production,
    destroyed plants and industrial capacity, and then escalated to claim more than 6000 lives
    and cause more than 1 million internally displaced people.
•   The contraction was exacerbated by import restrictions from Russia that previously
    accounted for 25-30 percent of Ukrainian exports. Further, declining global commodity
    prices (of steel, food products, chemicals) associated with a sluggish global economy and
    falling oil prices weakened exporters. Ukraine’s industrial output fell by more than nearly
    18 percent in 2014. Across the industries, machine building was hit the hardest (exports
    dropped by 29 percent in 2014) due to the deterioration of trade relations with Russia;
    export of chemical and metallurgical products decreased by 26 and 13 percent,
    respectively, in 2014. Food products suffered the least, declining by 2 percent in 2014
    export volume, benefitting from a bountiful harvest and improved access to the EU
    markets. At the project closure, the outlook for Ukraine’s export sector remains highly
    uncertain, given the military conflict, loss of investor confidence amidst deepening
    financial crisis, and large external financing gap that is being addressed through IMF-led
    rescue package.
•   Impact of the 2009-09 and 2014 crisis on the banking system. Just as the project design
    could not anticipate or counteract the overwhelming impact the two crises has had on
    exporters, nor could the damaging impact on banks be avoided. As Table 2 shows, the
    banking sector’s ROA fell to lows of -4.4% at end-2009 and -4.1% at end-2014. Similarly,
    ROE fell to lows of -32.5% at end-2009 and -30.5% at end-2014. The financial crisis which
    unfolded during 2008-2009 caused two of the PBs (Nadra and Ukrgasbank) to be put under
    temporary administration and dropped from EDP2 program in 1H2009. Ukrgasbank was
    then recapitalized by the Government of Ukraine, that took a 97% ownership share, and it
    has since become a relatively strong bank. The eligibility of Credit Dnipr Bank and
    Kreditprombank was also suspended in 2009 and resumed in 2010.
•   The crisis in 2014 was even more severe. From the beginning of the year bank deposits
    leaked from the system, and the trend accelerated as the conflict in Donbass deepened,
    reaching 5 percent month-on-month in the fall of 2014. Severe economic crisis, annexation
    of Crimea and military conflict triggered massive losses of the banks, and the total loss
    reached UAH 53 billion in 2014 (reversing from the marginal profit of UAH 1.3 bn in
    2013).The number of loss-making banks increased from 20 in 2013 to 52 in 2014. Build-
    up in loan loss provisions, coming from mounting NPLs as a result of severe economic
    recession and large-scale devaluation, and loan write-offs in Crimea and Donbass, was the
    main factors behind the banks’ acute financial deterioration. Loan loss provisions increased
    from UAH 26 billion in 2013 to UAH 94 billion in 2014, and ratio of provisions to total
    loans jumped from 3.2 to 9.8 percent in that period. Against the heavy deposit outflows,
    banks offered increasing interest rates, and lending activity slowed to a standstill, facing
    high economic and security risks. A few foreign banks that remained well capitalized
    through the crisis, held mostly cash and were not lending to local enterprises at all. Thirty-
    eight banks (from 181 at start of year) failed during 2014.
                                                19


EDP2 played a counter-cyclical role during the financial crisis and took risks to continue
intermediating to the real economy, because it was seen as vital to mitigate the contraction
and preserve exports and jobs. Against this dire background, the need for credit to revive the
real economy became more acute. The May 2009 project restructuring which enabled a portion of
EDP2 financing as direct lending by UEB enabled the program to continue supporting viable
exporting enterprises despite the surrounding credit crunch. The restructuring enabled UEB to step
in and fill a credit gap by lending to viable exporting enterprises which most banks avoided due to
risk aversion or their own weakened balance sheets. The August 2011 approval of additional
financing anticipated the further demand by exporters for access to credit; as EDP2 initial funding
was used up in 3Q2012, the project continued disbursing smoothly from AF. Also, the agreement
in November 2013 to adjust upward the target proportion of direct lending by UEB (from 30 to 60
percent) and the agreement in August 2014 that the Bank could provide waivers on case-by-case
basis for disbursements exceeding USD 10 million borrowing limit for certain enterprises,
provided flexibility that allowed for complete disbursement of EDP2 at a time when most banks
had stopped lending or were shrinking their balance sheets. The larger-than-anticipated role of
UEB in direct lending under EDP2 might raise some questions about the additionality of the
Bank’s funds (e.g., to spur more commercial banks’ lending and innovation). However, given the
extremely volatile and weak condition of the banking sector and Ukraine’s economy in general
between 2008 and 2014, it is highly doubtful that other commercial banks might have been better
placed to intermediate these funds.

2.3    Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project’s monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework was effectively monitored
throughout project implementation. Each supervision mission aide memoire presented a
summary of the project performance, including amounts disbursed, number of beneficiary
enterprises financed, and financial soundness indicators of UEB and PBs. Since the PDO (and
most intermediate) indicators related to the borrowers’ performance in disbursing the borrowed
funds, the outcome indicators were readily available and easy to monitor. All but one of the
performance indicators were tracked, and implementation supervision was carried out on a twice-
annual basis. In particular, the intermediate outcome indicator, Decreasing amount of non-
performing sub-loans and leases to be measured by non-performing loans as ratio of total lending
by participating financial institutions, was set out in the PAD for EDP2 in the Results Framework,
but it was not tracked as such in the ISRs. However, the indicator itself seems to have been
redundant given that PDO Indicator Portfolio-at-Risk also measured non-performing loan ratio
within the EDP2 portfolio.

In addition to the results framework, the team gathered additional data on the project’s
impact. The project did not systematically collect information on the project’s impact on
beneficiaries (exporting enterprises’ revenues, market penetration, employment data) and
participating banks (use of new lending technologies, expansion of lending, alteration of terms or
broadening of services). Nevertheless, in late 2014 the World Bank and UEB administered a
survey to participating banks and beneficiary enterprises, in an effort to gather additional
information about the impact of EDP2 on banks’ institutional/credit risk management capacity and
enterprises’ business performance/revenues/employment, respectively. Of the 50 beneficiary
enterprises, 30 responded in full to a lengthy survey, and 44 responded to a shorter questionnaire.
Also, four out of the six participating banks responded to the survey− these four were the most
                                                      20


active under the Project. 13 Acknowledging the methodological limitations of endogeneity in
program participation (the selection bias), crowding-out effects, and unobserved characteristics of
firms, the analysis of the survey data reveals that the EDP2 had a positive impact on most
beneficiary enterprises and participating banks. See Section 3.2 for elaboration of survey results.

There are inherent difficulties in evaluating credit lines. Ideally, an evaluation of the impact of
a credit line on the performance of beneficiaries would require a randomized experiment, including
a control group that is similar in all respects to the target group except for access to credit. This is
difficult to do since the commercial interest of the participating bank is to grant credit to all
creditworthy and qualified enterprises as long as funding is available. Likewise, the impact of a
line of credit on the development of financial access conditions for exporting enterprises more
generally, through improved lending practices by participating banks, and through increased
competition by providing firms access to greater variety of lending products, is difficult to measure
robustly. Given these methodological difficulties, the monitoring and evaluation framework was
kept simple, although the ex-post evaluation provided some additional information.

EDP2 was no exception, and care should be taken in assessing impact with simple, before-
and-after comparisons. Applying linear measures of project impact from appraisal to closing—
for example, comparing before and after data on employment, export revenues of enterprises, or
of banks’ return on assets, non-performing loan levels—is problematic when the project lifetime
of nearly 8 years includes two massive financial crises, including one towards the end of
implementation period. In this context, the size of the EDP2 line of credit is relatively small, and
its potential development impact must be considered within the frame of the country’s overall
instability, crisis and deepening conflict. The military conflict in Donbass alone is estimated to
cost Ukraine 4 to 5 percentage points of GDP decline in 2014 (the region accounted for 15 percent
of Ukraine’s GDP in 2013). See Section 2.2—Impact of the financial and security crisis.

2.4       Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Overall, safeguard and fiduciary compliance was satisfactory during the project period. The
well-developed operations manual and experienced PIU staff helped ensure the effective
implementation of safeguards and fiduciary compliance. At least twice a year, the Bank team
reviewed the systems established by the PIU to monitor the implementation of the project and
selected samples that would be verified at the branch level. In general, compliance was positive.

During implementation, some of the challenges that the Borrower had to overcome included
the following:
      •   Financial management: Although financial management system of UEB was generally
          found to be satisfactory throughout the lifetime of the project, on one occasion the entity
          audit report for UEB in 2012 was issued by Baker Tilly Ukraine, which had been previously
          on the list of the World Bank’s eligible auditors, but had recently been dropped, and UEB
          was not aware. The Bank team informed UEB and accepted the report was accepted by
          the Bank on an exceptional basis, with the condition that a separate report on compliance
          with financial covenants was to be prepared by the audit firm from the Bank’s list of
          eligible auditors.


13
  The two banks that did not submit survey responses, Nadra and Kreditprom, had a brief involvement in EDP2 and
represented fairly small portion of portfolio (see Table A3).
                                                  21


      •   Compliance with Financial Soundness Indicators: Although UEB complied with all
          NBU prudential requirements, Ukrainian Accounting Standards (UAS) and EDP2 AF
          eligibility criteria, the related party and large exposure ratios exceeded IFRS eligibility
          limitations during the implementation period, as UEB lends to a number of state-owned
          institutions that are considered as related parties under IFRS (as discussed in more detail
          in Section 2.2).
      •   Procurement: There were no issues identified.
      •   Environmental Safeguards: There were no issues identified.


2.5       Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

During its operations in Ukraine over the past 22 years, the World Bank has provided three
lines of credit to UEB: two supporting export development (totaling USD385 million), and a third,
still under implementation, supporting energy efficiency (USD200 million). These loans were
provided to UEB for retail and wholesale lending. In all of these projects, the main development
objective has been to provide medium- and long-term finance to enterprises in these sectors. This
objective remains relevant, given that the maturity structure of bank balance sheets has shifted
only gradually and enterprises continue to point to financing as a dominant constraint for their
expansion. This constraint is particularly acute during the current economic and political turmoil,
which all but cut off other possibilities for external financing. This affects most severely the
country’s nascent SME sector.

In reflection of the Government’s priority of stimulating new alternative sources of economic
growth, employment and exports, in early 2015, UEB and the Government requested the
World Bank’ support for an SME finance project. If the potential project crystalizes, it would
include a line of credit component for UEB’s lending to SMEs both directly and through other
qualified financial institutions, as well as a technical assistance component to improve the
creditworthiness of the SME sector by improving accounting practices, management capacity, and
international quality certification. The World Bank is currently in discussions with the authorities
whether this project could be included in the future lending pipeline.


3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project proved highly relevant to Ukraine’s development priorities. The Government’s
reform agenda for 2010-2014, “Prosperous Society, Competitive Economy, and Efficient State”,
included as core objectives sustainable economic development, and improving business climate
and attracting investments. Likewise, the project remains fully aligned with the Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for FY12-FY16, in which the second pillar is: Improving policy
effectiveness and economic competitiveness: support to building relations with businesses. The
project also directly contributes to the outcomes under the current CPS, particularly to increase
access to medium and long-term finance for export; and to improve risk management in the
financial sector. The project design reflected the identified financing constraints facing exporting
enterprises, and through direct and wholesale financing, was able to contribute to alleviation of
such constraints for beneficiary enterprises as attested in the survey of beneficiaries. Fifty-four
                                                        22


percent of surveyed enterprises rated the EDP2 loan as “very high value” (the highest), while 43
percent considered it a “good value” (second highest). The project also made some contribution to
the development of innovative lending products and approaches a number of participating banks.

The design of EDP2 built on several lessons learned in previous credit line operations, in
particular the importance of flexibility and of a strong implementing agency. As mentioned
above, the EDP2 project did not include restrictions for lending by sectors or currency; also the
Additional Financing did not establish a fixed allocation between retail and wholesale lending by
UEB, enabling a more flexible approach to lending in changing circumstances. Also, EDP2’s
focus on having a strong implementing agency is justified in the light of the negative experience
with the Ukraine Access to Financial Services Project (P076553), approved by the WB Board in
June 2006. That project, intended to boost financial inclusion for rural SMEs through a line of
credit (USD150 million), was to be implemented by the Ministry of Finance. Even with a project
component to finance the staffing and expenditures of the project management unit, the MOF was
ill-equipped to implement a financial intermediary loan, and the project had to be cancelled in
2009 due to very low disbursement. The importance of working directly through a financial
institution as intermediary, and of selecting an institution with demonstrated implementation
capacity, was highlighted by this experience.

The project design improved UEB’s implementation and risk management capacity, and
promoted sound lending practices and strong supervision capacity at PBs through the TA
component, financial covenants, and eligibility criteria. The second component of EDP2
provided for the upgrading of UEB’s management information system to a state-of-the-art
platform capable of managing its wholesale and direct lending activities. The platform, installed
in 2012, greatly enhanced UEB’s capability to manage information flows and reduced the costs of
extending smaller credits to medium-sized enterprises, as UEB stepped into direct lending. The
financial covenants for UEB also helped to promote sound banking practices; by requiring
compliance with criteria not only according to Ukrainian Accounting Standards, but also according
to IFRS, the EDP2 covenants created a strong incentive for UEB to improve its liquidity ratios,
and reduce single exposures during implementation, although related exposures exceeded limits
set in criteria. Finally, the eligibility criteria applied to PBs and loan covenants applied to exporting
enterprises, had a positive effect on most of the banks to improve their risk management capacity,
develop further the IT and management capacity for enterprise lending, and enhance their capacity
for supervising safeguards and compliance. By building these strengths, some of the banks became
much stronger during implementation, and out-performed the banking sector during the recent
financial crisis.

3.2     Efficacy for Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project effectively achieved its stated development objective, as measured by the
indicators. By the project’s closing, the project had achieved 100 percent disbursement, with
USD296.5 million 14 in project funds fully disbursed to beneficiary enterprises for both working-
capital and investment purposes. The target for lending to at least 50 exporting enterprises was
achieved as well; the project had provided 67 sub-loans to 50 exporting enterprises, with 39 percent
of female employees out of total workforce. In terms of export multiplier 15 the project was able to

14
   There is a grace period until end-April 2015 for the disbursement of an additional USD3.9 million which has been
already committed in the form of sub-loans.
15
   Export multiplier is defined as: Incremental average aggregate annual exports generated (measured over 3 years
for all sub-borrowers) / Total credit line disbursed.
                                                         23


generate annual export turnover more than two-times exceeding the borrowed amount, a
remarkable achievement in 2014, when Ukraine’s export revenues contracted by 37 percent.
Although the target for Borrower’s ROA of at least 1.0 was not achieved (UEB’s ROA was -
10.38% in 2014), the banking system as a whole showed very large losses in 2014, and the team
accepted the risk of weaker financial institution performance against the prerogative to provide
much-needed finance to the real sector and sustain jobs and firm revenues while other banks were
retrenching or collapsing. The target for zero portfolio-at-risk was not met, but results were much
better than for the banking system as a whole, given the 2014 crisis (at closing, it was 2.0 percent
according to IFRS while official estimates of system-wide NPLs were 15 percent, and market
estimates were closer to 30 percent). 16 , 17 The project was effective at providing access to finance,
in terms of cost and maturity structure of lending. A quarter of beneficiary enterprises cited the
longer maturity structure of EDP2 financing as the key benefit of participation, and nearly a quarter
of participating enterprises cited flexibility of loan terms as the most attractive aspect of EDP2
credit. Thirty-six percent of enterprises indicated that the interest rate was the most attractive
feature of the loan. This is consistent with the view of most of the PBs, which indicated that their
lending under EDP2 allowed for more competitively priced interest rates and longer maturity
structures than the rest of their enterprise lending portfolios. The project enabled longer-term
lending by participating banks; while banks on average were lending to enterprises on two-to-
three-year terms, their lending through EDP2 project was typically for longer terms, ranging to 10
years.

While EDP2 export dynamics generally reflect Ukraine’s overall trade structure, for most
beneficiaries, the project contributed to growth in exports and a successful export
diversification strategy. Ukrplastic, a plastic packaging producer, illustrates the impact that EDP2
has had to finance large investments in technology improvements to meet international quality
standards and enable export diversification (see Box 1). The aggregate annual volume of exports
generated by EDP2 beneficiary enterprises during 2006 to 2014 increased nearly seven-fold; even
in the difficult period of 2011 to 2014, the aggregate annual volume of exports by participating
enterprises increased by 75 percent. Figure 1, below, illustrates the shifting orientation of exports
of the EDP2 enterprises as percentage of the combined annual revenues of the borrowing firms in
each year. 18 Excluding the largest borrower by revenues (one of Ukraine’s grain producers), EDP2
exporters’ sales to non-Russian market grew from less than 40 to 55 percent of export revenues
over the project lifetime, and new markets were found in CIS countries (besides Russia), North
Africa and Asia. Zhytomyrski Lasoschi is a case in point; the confectionary was hit by import
restrictions from Russia in 2014, but through investments in updating production equipment to
international standards, managed a reorientation of its products to other markets (see Box 2). The
portion of EDP2 exports to the EU, excepting the largest exporter, grew from 4 to 16 percent of
total export revenues during 2012-2014 period, The largest exporter by revenues, an agricultural
producer with revenues of nearly UAH 7 billion in 2014, grew its revenues nearly eight-fold from
2006-2014 with expanding markets primarily in Japan, Middle East, and Korea.

16
   Portfolio-at-risk measures substandard, doubtful, and loss loans as percentage of EDP2 active lending according
to Ukrainian Accounting Standards at Project Closing.
17
   It should be noted that on April 27, 2015, the UEB bondholders agreed to extend the maturity date of 2015
Eurobonds worth USD750 million for three months, until July 27, 2015. UEB requested the extension in order to
restructure its outstanding debt due to the worsening economic situation and currency devaluation. Government of
Ukraine is currently working to reach an agreement on debt restructuring with the holders of its Eurobonds, including
those issued by a number of state-owned banks and companies.
18
   The composition of enterprise borrowers under EDP2 changed year by year, and the largest (by far) participating
enterprise by revenues is treated separately in Figure 2 due to its size at approximately 45% of total EDP2 firms’
revenues in 2014.
                                                          24



The project also effectively contributed to the institutional strengthening of UEB, by
improving skills and training, and investing in a state-of-the-art information technology
platform that enabled UEB’s improved management of direct and wholesale export lending, and
other operations. The training has improved UEB’s ability to implement fiduciary, social and
environmental safeguards that not only contributed to effective implementation of EDP2, but also
contributed to UEB attraction of nearly USD850 million in additional lines of credit from IFIs.
The greatly improved management information system enabled UEB’s lending in a broad range
of loan sizes directly and through commercial banks, while maintaining low overheads and strong
internal controls.

3.3      Efficiency for Achievement of Project Development Objective

The project was efficient at promoting exports through improving access to finance, as
shown by the multiplier of exports generated to enterprise lending. At project closing, the
incremental average aggregate annual exports generated measured over the last three years for all
sub-borrowers, divided by the total credit line disbursed was 2.78. In other words, the project funds
helped more than double the exports of borrowing firms.

An additional ex-post survey 19 of participating enterprises and financial institutions
supplements the project monitoring framework and provides evidence that EDP2 was
efficient by having a multiplier effect on some banks’ funding and causing longer-term
improvements in firms’ productivity and access to finance. The evidence from banks is that
EDP2 contributed to their lending capacity in most cases and access to additional external funding
in some cases. The Borrower increased its project implementation skills and IT capacity, by
engaging in extensive training (e.g., related to financial management, risk supervision, supervision
of financial covenants, environmental safeguards supervision, procurement good practices), UEB
established itself as the intermediary of choice for multiple IFI and external donor programs, and
nearly tripled its intermediation of foreign donor resources over the project lifetime. UEB also
substantially developed its capacity for direct lending to exporters, including small and medium-
sized exporters, and its ability to tailor products to smaller borrowers was supported by the loan
limits in the EDP2 design. One mid-size participating bank with domestic ownership attracted
three reputable foreign shareholders and numerous lines of credit after joining the EDP2 program,
and weathered well the recent financial crisis. The management indicated that participation in
EDP2 was instrumental in achieving these results. Three domestic banks expanded institutional
and lending capacity substantially in the beginning of the Project, but ran into difficulty during the
economy-wide crisis in 2008, and stopped their participation. Two more banks’ maintained sound
financial performance throughout project implementation, but showed little impact on institutional
capacity or lending approaches.

EDP2 was efficient in strengthening enterprises as well, as the survey findings show lending
led to longer-term impacts on growth and opened opportunities for additional finance from
other sources. The long-term development impact of credit lines for beneficiary exporting

19
  While the project monitoring framework provides insufficient basis to draw conclusions about banks’ enhanced
capacity for enterprise credit, or of longer-term benefits to firms, the survey provides useful information. The survey
was conducted by World Bank and UEB during December 2014 to January 2015, and the sample includes 44 of the
50 participating enterprises, and 4 of the 6 participating banks from the life of the project which provided responses.
The survey included both qualitative self-evaluation and quantitative comparative results that are elaborated in
Annex 3.
                                                        25


enterprises was positive and substantial, enabling revenue growth and access to additional finance,
and mitigating the revenues and employment impacts that hit hard on other Ukrainian exporters
during the two crises. Nearly eighty percent of beneficiary enterprises managed to access
additional credits after getting credit through EDP2. This compares favorably to the overall trend
of bank lending to the enterprise sector, see Table A1.1 (nominal values), which fell precipitously
in real terms in 2009, remained fairly weak during 2010-2013 period, and which fell in real terms
(despite showing nominal growth, due to sharp currency depreciation) in 2014. 20 More than three-
quarters of participating firms reported that they expanded sales into additional export countries
and introduced new products and services while participating in EDP2. Even as economy-wide
export revenues contracted by 37 percent in 2014, EDP2 participants saw mitigated impact of the
crisis on their revenues, which shrunk by 18 percent on average in 2014. Nearly half of
participating enterprises reported that loans under the program significantly reduced the impact of
the crisis for their operations.

Results of the beneficiary enterprise survey suggest that EDP2 not only helped to catalyze
export growth during relatively stable times, but also counter-balanced credit, firm revenue,
and jobs contraction during the financial crises. The varied responses are to be expected, given
the different industries, regions and sizes of enterprises that participated in the project, with
turnovers ranging from millions to billions of hryvnia. The year-on-year changes are presented in
disaggregated form in Annex 3, Tables A3.2 and A3.3; given the changing composition of firm
participation in EDP2 from year to year, aggregating responses is not meaningful. A few
observations can be noted. During the 2009 crisis, while the Ukrainian economy saw export
revenues decline by 37 percent, 15 out of 25 EDP2 enterprises (at that time) posted growth.
Similarly, while Ukrainian export revenues contracted by 37 percent in 2014, 26 of the 28
borrowing firms under EDP2 that provided information showed better results than the Ukrainian
export sector in general, and 13 firms actually grew. Firms achieved results that generally out-
performed the export sector between the crises, as well. In terms of employment, two-thirds of
firms in 2008, and more than 80 percent of firms in 2009, out-performed the overall job market,
while it was stagnating and then contracting. Eurogold Industries Ltd, a leading producer of ironing
boards, ladders and clothes driers, illustrates the impact of EDP2 for providing finance that enabled
sizeable expansion of employees and production capacity (see Box 3). Those firms that added jobs
at more than 20 percent for some time during the project lifetime, including an agricultural
production company, a dairy producer, a logistics company, and an oil seed company, came from
various regions and represented small and large firm sizes. Although a few firms had reduced
employment sharply in response to the 2014 crisis, 21 out of 29 borrowing firms that shared
information indicated that they out-performed the job market. Forty-six percent of participating
enterprises indicated that borrowing under EDP2 significantly reduced the impact of the crisis on
their operations; and thirty-two percent of enterprises indicated that participation in EDP2 partially
mitigated the crisis impact.

The project provided broadly distributed support across most of Ukraine’s territory that
bolstered a wide variety of economic sectors. Of the 24 oblasts (regions) and the Autonomous
Republic of Crimea, EDP2 provided lending in 18 oblasts plus Crimea (See Table A1.3). Lending
boosted export potential in oblasts with smaller relative share in export revenues, helping to build
up nascent capacity and catalyze growth in Cherkasy, Ivano-Frankivsk, Kharkov, Khmelnitsky,
Mykolaiv, Poltava, and Zhitomir. Lending supported a variety of industries, including grain

20
  Notably during 2014, the apparent growth in bank credit to enterprises is measured in nominal terms at 15%,
against a depreciation by nearly three times against the USD by project closing.
                                                26


producers, poultry farms, tool and machine-builders, metal and steel products, confectionaries,
breweries, and others. UEB and the PBs also tailored lending to different enterprise sizes. About
one-fifth of the loans disbursed were under USD1 million, and two-fifths between USD1-5 million
in size. The participating banks managed loans as small as USD53,000 and as large as USD10
million, while maintaining the same standard of risk management and compliance with safeguards,
procurement and other loan covenants. The practical experience gained from EDP2 strengthened
participating banks’ capacity to work effectively with the small and mid-size enterprise segment.

The imposition by Russia of import restrictions since mid-2013 has had a damaging effect on
the performance of certain exporting enterprises with strong orientation to that market (e.g.,
metals, machinery, transport and chemicals), and accounts for most of the slowdown in Ukrainian
exports in 2014. The country-wide export dynamics varied by destination and by industry; for
example in 2014, exports to CIS declined by 34 percent. Exports to EU declined by less than 1
percent, and some industries—ICT, agricultural products, wood, and chemicals—marked gains of
35, 7, 16, and 13 percent, respectively, in sales to EU. These industries seem to be managing the
transition to new markets more nimbly than, for example, metals, machinery and transport. Future
assistance to Ukraine’s export competitiveness may require substantial efforts to assist the
restructuring of some sectors less adept at re-orientation.

Other participating banks have had some indications of increased institutional capacity and
improved credit risk management approaches as a result of EDP2 participation, but with
limited evidence of long-term impact. During its participation in EDP2 in 2007-2008,
Ukrgasbank established a professional PIU team, organized training and implemented good
practices in environmental management supervision, procurement, and financial management.
Ukrgasbank management indicates that after signing as sub-borrowers of EDP2, they began to
consider new areas of potential risk to some extent, including related-party risk. UEB helped
Ukrgasbank to improve risk monitoring and risk management systems during EDP2
implementation prior to the 2008 financial crisis; at that time, Ukrgasbank was the most dynamic
participant in the EDP2 portfolio. Bank Credit Dnipro and Alfa Bank maintained strong
performance indicators during EDP2 participation, but the longer-term impact on their governance
or institutional capacity is not obvious. The EDP2 portfolios were a very small fraction of the
banks’ overall balance sheets, and the banks (owned by a wealthy Ukrainian individual and by
Russian financial-industrial group, respectively) did not unlock additional external financing as a
result of participation.

The limited institutional strengthening impact of EDP2 outside of UEB as PIU/Borrower and
a few PBs should be considered against the extreme stresses and serious structural
weaknesses of the Ukrainian banking system during the project lifetime. This is elaborated in
Section 2.2—Impact of Crises on Banking System. In this context, the twin objectives to boost the
export sector and promote diversification of banks’ services may have been unreasonable to
achieve together, and one objective would have to supersede the other given the challenges in
external environment during implementation. In agreeing with UEB to increase its proportion of
direct lending, the Bank team placed the first objective ahead of the second, and thus ensured
timely disbursement and completion of the project despite very difficult market conditions.

3.4 Overall Performance Rating: Satisfactory

The project met its development objectives. It provided much-needed working capital and
investment finance to private exporting enterprises with maturity structures and flexibility that
                                                 27


enterprises and banks saw as high value. As survey results showed, it enabled most participating
enterprises to grow more revenues and create more jobs than other exporting enterprises during
stable times, and substantially mitigated losses during crisis times. It had a multiplier effect: for
most of the project implementation, EDP2 enabled exporting enterprises to generate about double
the value of the credits, and most of the borrowing enterprises accessed more finance after
participating in the project. The capacity that UEB and some PBs developed for risk management
and project implementation enabled some of the banks to attract additional foreign funding in
multiples of the EDP2 credit. Some of the PDO indicators were not fully achieved, such as ROA
of minimum 1.0 or zero non-performing loans; but this should be viewed in light of the impact of
two major crises during project implementation, and EDP2 borrowers still out-performed the
Ukrainian banking system as a whole. Given the broadly positive results of this evaluation, the
overall satisfactory rating is justified.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

A gender indicator was added when Additional Financing was approved in 2011, measuring
the percentage of women employees represented at beneficiary enterprises. This indicator was
monitored during implementation, and female participation was seen in the range of 40 percent of
total enterprise participation, demonstrating that the project had positively impacted women in
particular. Specific poverty and social development indicators were not collected, although the
project was not designed specifically to deal with such issues.

(b)    Institutional Change and Strengthening

UEB achieved remarkable progress in skills upgrading and training its PIU and thereby
mobilizing additional foreign credit lines as a result of participation in EDP2. UEB PIU for
EDP2 consisted of 4 to 5 full-time specialists with additional 4 to 5 part-time ones, who work for
the same department but are also engaged into other IFI-related credit lines implementation. PIU
staff invested heavily in their training to align with World Bank standards for procurement, social
risk management, environment safeguards monitoring, and monitoring of other loan covenants.
This specialized training at the PIU improved UEB’s capacity and attractiveness to other IFIs and
foreign donors and multilateral projects. Since project appraisal, UEB has mobilized almost
USD850 million in additional foreign funding, including: EBRD Energy Efficiency Program line
of credit (USD510 million since 2007), EBRD subordinated debt (USD250 million) and
syndication (USD50 million) both in 2008; Nordic Investment Bank line of credit (USD50 million,
2008); Global Climate Partnership Fund line of credit (USD30 million); World Bank Energy
Efficiency line of credit (USD200 million, 2011); and European Investment Bank loan (EUR100
million, 2012).

Under Component B of the Project, UEB improved its information technology platform to
manage wholesale and retail lending better. The Borrower fully utilized the US$3.375 million
allocated to this Component for purchasing and installing hardware for an improved centralized
data warehouse. Some delays in implementation of this component were caused in 2010-2011 by
                                                 28


the need to complete the reconstruction of premises where the hardware were then installed to the
Bank’s satisfaction. The Centralized Data Warehouse System was successfully completed as an
integrated infrastructure for the collection, structuring, protected storage and processing of
corporate data. It provides information lifecycle management and ensures simple, secure and
efficient work of users. The new system has substantially improved the information capacity of
UEB by providing reliability and data integrity of application systems.

To varying degree, the PBs strengthened some aspects of their internal procedures as a result
of working with the World Bank on the project, but results are uneven as were the volumes
of banks’ participation in the line of credit. Certain banks, as elaborated above, achieved
significant improvements by boosting their IT capability, hiring additional staff and improving the
credit appraisal function, computerizing credit risk decision-making, and leveraging additional
donor and IFI resources. Other banks made certain early improvements in institutional capacity,
improving identification of risks and ramping up lending to exporters, but these changes were then
undermined by the impact from the financial crises. For banks that participated in amounts around
USD20 million or less, the line of credit represented a very small part of total portfolio, and so the
expectation of its transformative impact should be limited, especially in Ukraine’s context.

3.6     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None.

3.7     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A survey of beneficiary enterprises was conducted by World Bank and UEB in December 2014-
January 2015. The results of the survey are presented in Annex 3.


4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Substantial

Although the amounts disbursed under EDP2 are low compared to the balance sheets of the
participating banks and overall economy of Ukraine, the demonstration impact on enterprise
finance is significant, and its effects on some of the participating financial institutions are fairly
sustainable. This conclusion is based on the following factors:

Replicability: The core design of the credit lines in Ukraine has not changed substantially. In
subsequent credit lines (e.g., for SMEs) by the World Bank and other IFIs, some features might be
tweaked to enhance performance, but at its core the basic model has been tried, and all parties have
gained experience in ensuring its effectiveness.

Demand: There is continuing demand from firms for medium-term financing. UEB and PBs were
able to find new clients and provide additional credit to existing clients even during the financial
crisis in 2014.

However, potential demand for further credit would have to be considered against the worsening
conditions in Ukraine. In 2014, the economy contracted by approximately 7 percent, and export
revenues shrunk by 37 percent. As the crisis in Ukraine deepened in the final months of project
                                                29


implementation, firms’ demand for finance was shifting from investment needs to working capital
needs, and more firms were having difficulty meeting project targets. If conditions in Ukraine will
deteriorate further, the combined impacts of an expanding conflict destroying manufacturing
capability and transport capacity, Russia’s continuing import restrictions and weakening economy,
Ukraine’s macroeconomic instability and loss of investor confidence and economic contraction
may make it harder for surviving banks to find strong enterprise borrowers.

As the World Bank considers potential further line of credit operations, it will be important
to consider opportunities for further leveraging the development impact across the economy.
Over time, World Bank and IFIs may aim for: more commercial orientation in approach by
leveraging more commercial funding; and promoting longer-term domestic savings instruments so
that there is more term funding and reliance on external resources is reduced.

The World Bank Group offers value through its coordinated approach to policy engagement
and private sector development and investment. Continued parallel efforts to improve the
investment climate, increase financial transparency and streamline business regulation in Ukraine,
would contribute to the successful impact of such line of credit operations.


5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.

Design of EDP2 demonstrated strategic relevance at the time of project preparation in terms of
aligning with the CAS, responding to Government priorities, incorporating lessons from other lines
of credit and building on previous Bank work in Ukraine. The project also provided needed
flexibility and the subsequent restructuring to enable direct lending by UEB served well to increase
flexibility and provide for counter-cyclical response to contraction in bank lending.

While the monitoring and evaluation framework could have incorporated a greater array of
indicators of enterprises’ growth and sustainability, as well as institutional development and
lending product development at PBs, these deficiencies are in part compensated by efforts
undertaken in the last few months of the project to gather additional information. This is a
weakness in the design that should be addressed in future credit line operations.

(b)    Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Bank provided thorough and effective support for the implementation of the project, meriting
a satisfactory rating for the following reasons:
    • The field-presence of TTL and other key team members during most of the project
        implementation period provided the client real-time support and allowed for greater
        proactivity in resolving potential problems. Similarly, the PIU appreciated the local
        presence of the fiduciary staff.
                                                  30


      •   The team responded with flexibility to changing circumstances in economy and banking
          sector to restructure the project to allow for direct and wholesale lending by UEB, and
          restructured the project again in response to client needs to strengthen the institution-
          building component, providing timely and needed re-allocation of resources.
      •   The team conducted periodic (twice a year, on average) implementation support missions
          that included meetings with management of UEB and other banks involved in the project.
          In total, the mission conducted at least 15 formal implementation support missions over
          the project’s life.
      •   Implementation support missions often included field visits to beneficiaries in different
          regions; these visits included discussions with loan recipients on both the loan process and
          the effects of the financing on their business.
      •   Supervision missions were followed by aides-mémoire, which were thorough and candid.
      •   The Implementation Status and Results (ISR) Reports prepared for the project between
          July 2006 and December 2014, were filed regularly. The ratings for project components
          and project management were consistent with the performance of the project.

(c)       Justification of Rating for Overall World Bank Performance

Taking into account the ratings of design and supervision, the overall rating for Bank performance
is Satisfactory.

5.2       Borrower Performance

(a)       Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

Government performance is rated moderately satisfactory, because the Government of Ukraine
has shown ownership of the project and commitment to its objectives, but the Government’s ability
to implement meaningful reforms to improve the business environment and ensure banking sector
soundness has been uneven during project implementation period, and at times authorities took
counter-effective measures that undermined enterprise and banking sector development. To its
credit, the Government has actively participated with UEB in portfolio performance reviews, and
provided timely guidance and consultation regarding implementation.

However, the long-term sustainability of EDP2 and similar initiatives is affected by broader
reforms in the financial and enterprise sector. During much of the implementation period, there
were seen to be serious problems with the independence of the central bank, and related
weaknesses in prudential supervision, liquidity provision, and problem bank identification.
Banking discipline was eroded, while the playing field was skewed by an increasing number of
liquid but insolvent banks. The authorities that came into office following the political transition
in spring of 2014 have so far demonstrated commitment to undertake the difficult but necessary
reforms in business environment and banking sector. This has been seen in authorities closer
dialogue with international financial institutions following the political transition, and real
progress in cleaning the banking system of insolvent banks. However, the Government’s ability to
realize many tough reforms in a short time is limited by significant security risks, political and
economic uncertainty; at the same time, even the most ambitious reform program could not
immediately improve the investment climate, while violent conflict, insecurity, macroeconomic
and financial instability worsened during 2014.
                                                31


(b)    Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

Overall, the performance of UEB was satisfactory. Building on the experience from EDP1, UEB
developed strong institutional capacity, skilled staff (also benefitting from several World Bank
workshops and seminars), and appropriate financial management system. Routine monitoring by
the Bank team observed the PIU to demonstrate satisfactory implementation of the Project,
including internal controls, accounting, reporting, budgeting, flow of funds and staffing throughout
the project lifetime. Audits and financial management reports were submitted on time and to
satisfaction of the Bank team.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

Based on the ratings of the Government performance and of the implementation agency, the overall
rating for borrower performance is satisfactory.


6.     Lessons Learned

Key lessons for the World Bank are:

Enterprise finance is delivered most effectively through a sound financial institution with a
proven implementation track-record. As one of the largest financial institutions in Ukraine, with
external credit ratings and financial soundness indicators that have evidenced its relative strength
and stability compared to other local banks, as well as its leadership position in export finance,
UEB was well-positioned to be the borrower and implementing agency. In contrast to the Access
to Finance Project also approved in 2006, but later cancelled without much disbursement, EDP2’s
design centered on financing through a financial intermediary, rather than a line ministry, and
working with a proven implementation unit, rather than building one from scratch. The resources,
information technology, and professional skills for implementing the project were therefore far
superior.

Flexibility is key to effective design and implementation. At the design stage, it is not possible
to envision all potential scenarios. The flexibility to reallocate resources among components, and
to adjust the balance of wholesale/retail lending by UEB, for example, has been important to enable
the project team to respond to changing circumstances. The Bank decided to restructure project
design early on in the interest of providing countercyclical funding to the exporting enterprises
quickly, although this may have reduced the scope for the project impacting a broader number of
participating banks through the wholesale model. In retrospect, the choice to allow UEB to provide
both direct and wholesale lending was appropriate and enabled the scaling up and sustained
disbursement of the project even during the recent crisis.

At the design stage, it is important to elaborate outcome indicators for participating banks
and beneficiary enterprises that will enable assessment of the PDO. Although the Bank and
UEB conducted additional surveys of PBs and beneficiary enterprises in the last months of
                                                  32


implementation, a more robust M&E framework from the start of the project could have been
helpful to track the impact on an ongoing basis and adjust the project if needed.

Close interaction and on-the-ground support are vital to ensuring smooth implementation.
The implementation support missions often identified opportunities to improve the project,
including through discussions with the PIU, participating banks and beneficiary enterprises. The
financial management, procurement, and environmental safeguards team were close to the project
throughout implementation, and their regulator interaction helped to quickly identify and resolve
questions as they arose. The strong supervision performance could have been improved further by
the early incorporation of intermediate results indicators more specific to the intended outcomes
for PBs and beneficiary enterprises. Given the underlying premise that the credit line strengthened
the exporting enterprise sector, it would have been useful to monitor indicators of this impact
during the implementation period and take these into consideration in adjustments along the way.
Likewise, it would have been useful to include more indicators demonstrating the impact of
participation in EDP2 on PBs’ institutional capacity and lending instruments, to substantiate the
second development objective. However, efforts to gather this additional information in the last
months of the project implementation have been very helpful to illustrate these results.

Lines of credit should take advantage of opportunities for leveraging the impact of Bank
financing, and this was evident in the impact of the Ukraine Financial Sector Development
Policy Loan Programme initiated during the last year of EDP2 implementation. The FSDPL1
promoted stronger banking supervision through more stringent definition of problem and insolvent
banks, that improved discipline in the sector, for example. In addition, the WBG might consider
technical assistance that helps PBs develop the systems and skills to attract additional lines of
credit. During the implementation of EDP2, a few of the banks developed strong implementation
capacity, improved risk management, financial management, procurement and safeguards know-
how that contributed to their ability to attract additional financing from other international financial
institutions. Going forward, other approaches to increase leverage, such as partial credit risk
guarantees (PCGs) and co-financing requirements, should also be explored. Both instruments
increase the amount of funding available to borrowing enterprises for each IBRD dollar investment
in the project. PCGs enable banks to raise funds from the international markets with improved
terms than what would be possible by the bank on its own creditworthiness under market
conditions. The structures allow the borrower to secure the much-needed financing at reasonable
costs, while also minimizing transaction risk in a climate of volatility. In addition, the targeted
volume is matched against the bank’s ability to support project beneficiaries quickly and
efficiently. Co-financing arrangements ensure that the participating financial institution
complements borrowed funds with resources from its own balance sheet. In the face of limited
IBRD resources, leveraging funds through such instrument should be encouraged whenever
possible.


7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrowers, Implementing Agencies, and Partners

(a)    Borrower/Implementing Agency

Implementation of EDP2 assured reliable finance for Ukrainian exporters in spite of the
financial crisis 2008-2009, followed by the recession and economic downturn since mid-2013
and thereupon. Almost 50 success stories were originated by the Project, supporting export
                                                 33


growth and diversification through timely provisioning of the needed financing to the exporting
community (see Annex 5).

The flexibility of EDP2 design multiplied by professional and qualified teams from the both
sides, collaborating closely, allowed to timely react on the challenging environment as well
as proactively target either towards soothing of the imminent problems or reaching of the
available opportunities. Combination of wholesale lending to commercial banks and direct
lending to exporters, working capital and investment needs, absence of constrains related to
geographical, industry and company size preferences secured the efficiency of the Project by that.
However, that the statutory arrangements did not precluded the teams to stay in though throughout
the implementation of the Project, processing of the PBs and sub-borrowers requests with due
expediency and according to the best practices and in the interest of the Project’s DOs. The
introduction of the direct lending option, reallocation between the Project Categories and
wholesale vs. direct lending amounts, quasi-export eligibility, easing of SME application,
amendment to the safeguards (re. pest-management) have to be noted in this regard.

The Project provided for the extensive professional knowledge sharing platform within a
segment of the banking community related to the financial tools & risk management, proper
procurement procedures and environmental, social and other safeguards checks and
procedures. Participation in seminars and trainings held by IBRD and UEB, in-depth studying of
financial requirements, procurement and environmental procedures, ensured practical application
of Project tools and practices by PBs within their Project related activities as well as gradual
introduction of the certain experience obtained into current-type of activities. The exporter also
benefited from the Internationally recognized procurement and safeguards practices; adopting
them as a fair basis for efficient use of resources and counteraction to the reputational risks, with
special sentiments towards EU and other new market.

The lessons learned suggest that it is worth to fine-tune any future private sector project
design according to the existing market conditions, keeping maximum flexibility in reaching
PDOs, avoiding excessive paperwork and practices not relevant to the Objectives, as well as
countering for application of any redundant criterion or procedure. The successful Project
implementation and high resulting indicators – providing almost 3USD of export revenues per
1USD on-lent by the Closing Date and will continue to grow – were procured by the Project’s
design flexibility and close teams collaboration. Especially, reliable banking may require no tool,
additionally to the armory in practice, covenants and co-financing requirement inclusive, in order
to ensure good shape of the Project portfolio, while proper customer relations might procure for
wider information gathering opportunity, than contractually prescribed ones. The above suggested
that the originality of EDP2 deserves replication.

(b)    Other Partners and Stakeholders
                                                                         34


Annex 1. Additional Data

Table A1.1. Banking Sector Performance Indicators, 2008-2015
 Indicators                          12/31/2007    12/31/2008    12/31/2009     12/31/2010     12/31/2011   12/31/2012   12/31/2013   12/31/2014
 Number of licensed banks            175           184           182            176            176          176*         181*         143*
 Total Bank Enterprise Lending       276 184       472 584       474 991        508 288        580 907      609 202      698 777      802 582
 (UAH mln)
 Regulatory               capital    13.92         14.01         18.08          20.83          18.90        18.06        18.26        15.60
 adequacy(sufficiency) (Н2), %
 Financial results of the banks'     6 620         7 304         -38 450        -13 027        -7 708       4 899        1 436        -52 966
 activities (UAH mln)
 Return on assets, %       1.50       1.03       -4.38       -1.45      -0.76     0.45         0.12       -4.07
 Return on equity, %       12.67      8.51       -32.52      -10.19     -5.27     3.03         0.81       -30.46
Source: National Bank of Ukraine. * Of which one bank is licensed as a remedial bank that is a bad asset entity not
taking deposits.

Table A1.2. Annual Growth (Decline) in Enterprise Lending, Ukraine Banks 2007-2014
                              2007           2008         2009         2010        2011          2012        2013        2014
  Total           Bank
  Enterprise Lending
  (in UAH million)            276184         472584       474991       508288      580907        609202      698777      802582
  Growth in Enterprise
  Lending                                    71%          1%           7%          14%           5%          15%         15%
Source: National Bank of Ukraine




Figure A1.1. Export Orientation as % of EDP2 Enterprises' Revenues, by Year*
 100%
  90%
  80%
  70%
  60%
  50%
  40%
  30%
  20%
  10%
    0%
             2006        2007         2008         2009         2010        2011        2012       2013       2014

                                           Russia      EU        Other countries

Source: UEB. *Data excludes largest borrower by revenues. Other countries mainly CIS and North Africa.
                                                     35



                                            Box 1: UkrPlastic

Ukrplastic is a leading manufacturer of flexible plastic packaging both in Ukraine and Eastern Europe. The
enterprise employs highly-automated, state-of-the-art production facilities to produce innovative packaging
solutions, which are fully compliant with the EU quality standards. The company meets the following
international quality standards: ISO 9001:2008 (quality management system); ISO 22000:2005 (food safety
management system); ISO 14001:2004 (environmental management system); OHSAS 18001 (occupational
health and safety management system); BRC/IOP (packaging and packaging materials safety system).

Although the primary destination for UkrPlastic products is the domestic market (mainly local production
facilities of multinational food producers), the enterprise also has expanded its export sales via offices in
Poland and Russia. Additionally, the company explores expansion into new markets in the Middle East and
Africa. Ukrplastic seeks to be ranked among top-10 European manufacturers of flexible packaging, with a
complete production cycle and diversified range of products. The Central and Eastern European flexible
packaging market is a very competitive one, where in some countries domestic production exceeds
consumption; however, Ukrplastic has managed to outcompete its rivals with lower labor costs and
responsive innovation.

UkrPlastic benefitted greatly from its participation as a returning customer of EDP2. Over the course of
participation in EDP2, the company invested more than USD130 million in modernization of its production
facilities. The enterprise was able to implement a modernization project aimed at expanding its export
markets and diversifying its production. As a result, during the period of its participation in EDP2 from
2009 to 2014, Ukrplastic increased its revenues by 74 percent, and considerably diversified its export
markets. EDP financing is one of the lowest-cost resource in the debt profile of the company, while the
targeted use of funds was relatively flexible and reporting requirements were not complicated. The long-
term and relatively inexpensive nature of EDP financing helped Ukrplastic to manage through the economic
downturns caused by the 2008-09 and 2014 crises, even as many of its domestic clients were in arrears and
while most banks reduced credit limits for working capital.




                                      Box 2: Zhytomyrski Lasoschi

Zhytomyrski Lasoschi, or Zhytomyr Confectionary, is a successful turnaround story. A surviving
confectionary from Soviet era, ZhL managed through participation in EDP2 project, to implement a
comprehensive modernization project during 2006-2012. The project involved replacing production
machinery with modern, high-tech equipment that has substantially enhanced production capacity to more
than 80,000 tons per year. Modernization also has enabled ZhL to increase the quality and variety of
products, making them more competitive on international markets. Nowadays, the confectionary employs
28 production lines to produce boxed sweets, chocolate bars, glazed and non-glazed sweets, chocolate
snacks, chocolate wafer sweets, biscuits, wafers, fudge, cereal bars, cereal desserts in yoghurt, and sugar-
free products. ZhL is the fifth-largest confectionary in Ukraine, and one of the largest employers in
northnern Zhytomyr region. Most of ZhL’s employees are women.

ZhL suffered a substantial decline in exports to Russia in 2014 due to Russia-imposed import restrictions.
In late 2013, ZhL installed a new automated production line of glazed roasted nuts and English toffee,
sweets geared toward Central Asian markets. Thanks to modernized, more efficient and flexible production
                                                   36


lines, ZhL managed to quickly reorient away from Russian markets, and it currently exports 35 percent of
its output to Germany, Belarus, Moldova, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Israel, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan,
Georgia, Armenia, and Mongolia. The share of EU market in the structure of export grew from 1.5 percent
in end-2011 to 3 percent in end-2014, while revenues grew by 6 percent over the period. Currently the
company is exploring markets of the Far East, North America, and Pacific island countries.

ZhL management emphasizes the value that EDP2 provided in lending on competitive terms with very
clearly defined, understandable criteria. EDP2 resources required ZhL’s adherence to financial covenants
and export plan. During ZhL’s participation in EDP2, the enterprise reports that the confectionary market
became more competitive than ever, and two financial crises plus weaker consumer demand in Europe
made conditions ever more difficult. However, access to EDP2 financing helped ZhL to optimize debt
servicing costs, modernize production process, and expand product line at a critical time, enhancing the
confectionary to keep a competitive edge on external markets.



                                  Box 3: EuroGold Industries Ltd

EuroGold Industries Ltd in Zhytomyr oblast provides a vivid example how innovative investment
transformed an abandoned Soviet-era metal producer into a leading supplier of household products
selling to the largest European retail chains. The company’s Austrian owners brought to EuroGold
experience in the consumer goods market from previous investments in Italian manufacturers, and
in Ukraine they saw the opportunity to exploit existing metallurgy inputs, reasonable energy prices,
and highly skilled, yet affordable labor to develop their own production line of ironing boards,
metal ladders, and clothes-dryers. The firm’s cost-efficiencies and quality has enabled it to
outcompete other producers in Turkey and Germany.

EuroGold sells a smaller portion of its products within Ukraine, while its major market is the EU,
where it sells both under EuroGold brand and under the brands of several leading European
household products. EuroGold’s products are sold across leading European retail networks. The
recent profound devaluation of the Ukrainian local currency has substantially improved the firm’s
cost-profile and has strengthened its competitiveness in EU markets, while access to long-term
and relatively inexpensive EDP2 credit facilities has allowed EuroGold to invest in new
technologies and renovation of its production facility.

As a returning customer under both EDP2 and Additional Financing, EuroGold was able to use
both working capital for procuring inputs and raw materials, as well as investment loans for
acquiring new equipment and production premises. The result has been a considerable increase in
EuroGold’s export volumes and a growth to 840 employees. An especially attractive feature of
EDP2 funding was the ability to refinance already-incurred expenses. Compared to other loans in
the company’s debt profile, resources under EDP2 offered the most attractive interest rate, relative
long maturity and excellent support from the implementing bank in preparing related documents.
Despite the general slowdown in 2008-09 and 2014 crises EDP2 financing allowed EuroGold to
maintain liquidity and diversify its export markets.
                                                                   37


Table A1.3. Beneficiary Enterprises and Loan Disbursement by Region
 Region                  No. of Sub-    Value sub-loans       Region's contribution   Value of projects
                         projects       disbursed in region   to total Ukrainian      financed in region as
                                        (USD)                 good exports, 2014 21   % of total projects
                                                                                      financed in EDP2

 Kiev                            10           55372130                     21.3%                   18.4%
 Dnipropetrovsk                   4           24995000                     16.3%                    8.3%
 Donetsk t                        3           19931949                     15.6%                    6.6%
 Zaporozhye                       1           10000000                      6.9%                    3.3%
 Poltava                          5           25686811                      3.9%                    8.6%
 Kharkhov                         4           16808337                      3.4%                    5.6%
 Mykolaiv                         2           18746324                      3.4%                    6.2%
 Odessa                           2            2557557                      3.3%                    0.9%
 Lviv                             3            1300000                      2.4%                    0.4%
 Kirovograd                       6           12824833                      1.5%                    4.3%
 Sumy                             1            1500000                      1.4%                    0.5%
 Vinnytsya                        2            2044039                      1.4%                    0.7%
 Cherkasy                         4           25860361                      1.2%                    8.6%
 Zhitomir                         8           36249370                      1.2%                   12.1%
 Ivano-Frankivsk                  2           12600000                      0.9%                    4.2%
 Khmelnitsky                      3           21617643                      0.9%                    7.2%
 Kherson                          1            1721052                      0.7%                    0.6%
 Ternopol                         5            7023210                      0.7%                    2.3%
 Crimea*                          1            3525133                                              1.2%
 Other regions not included: Volyn, Zakarpattya, Luhansk,
 Rivne, Chernivtsi, Chernihiv
                                                                           13.6%                    0.0%
 Total                           67       300,363,749                      100%                     100%
*This loan was already repaid at time of Russia annexation of Crimea.
t
  There were no active loans in rebel-controlled area of Donetsk during 2014. There have been no loan beneficiaries
in Luhansk region.




21
  According to the State Statistics Service of Ukraine, data excludes Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as of end-
2014.
                                             38


Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table A2.1: Project Cost by Component

USD millions
    Components          Appraisal Estimate         Actual (including       Percentage of
                                                         AF)                Appraisal
 Wholesale line of      150                       300.4                 200%
 credit to UEB
 UEB institutional      3                         3.4                   112%
 development
 Unallocated amount     1.1                       0                     0%
 Front End Fee          0.4                       0.7                   175%
 Total Project Cost     154.5                     304.5                 197%



Table A2.2: Project Cost by Financing (USD millions)

    Source of           Type of         Appraisal              Actual          Percentage of
      Funds           Cofinancing       Estimate                                Appraisal
 Borrower
 World Bank       IBRD-4360         154.5                 154.5             100%
                  IBRD-80890        150                   150               100%
                                                        39


Annex 3. Outputs by Component

Table A3: Breakdown of Subloans by PBs, EDP2 and AF

                                                 Date of SLA
                                                 SLA     amount,              #        of Disbursed to
 # PB name                     Date of SLA start expiry                       Subproject subprojects,
                                                         US$                  s approved US$ million
                                                         million

                                                    February,
 1 OJS CB “Nadra”              March, 2007                       4.5          3               4.5
                                                    2009 22

 2 Kreditprombank              February, 2007       July 2009    17.1         2               17.1

                                                    March
 3 OJSC “Ukrgasbank”           July, 2007                        23.1         5               23.1
                                                    2009

                                                    July,
 4 OJSC “Megabank”             July, 2007                        24.5         9               24.5
                                                    2009

                                                    October,
 5 OJSC “Megabank”             March, 2013                       20.0         2               20.0
                                                    2014

                                                    August,
 6 Credit Dnipro Bank          August, 2008                      20.0         3               20.0
                                                    2010

                                                    Decembe
 7 Alfa-Bank                   December, 2013                    25.0         4               25.0
                                                    r, 2014

 8   Ukreximbank               May, 20091                        n/a          39              166.2

     Total                     -                                 300.4        67              300.4*

Source: UEB; data as of January 30, 2015, includes disbursements within grace period following project
closing.




22
   Sub-loan agreements for Nadra Bank, Kreditprombank and Ukrgasbank did not have built-in expirations, as the
later SLAs did. In the case of Nadra and Ukrgasbank, the SLAs became null when the banks’ financial conditions
deteriorated below eligibility thresholds for participation in EPP2 during early 2009. Kreditprom SLA was suspended
when its financial conditions deteriorated, and it did not resume lending in 2010.
                                                     40


Annex 4. Beneficiary Enterprise Survey Results 23

     Table A4.1: Qualitative Responses of Beneficiary Enterprises

     How satisfied was the firm with the EDP2 credit?

     Very satisfied                                                                          39%
     Satisfied                                                                               61%
     Moderately unsatisfied                                                                   0%
     Not satisfied                                                                            0%

     How does the firm compare the value of this credit to other available resources?

     Very high value                                                                         54%
     Good value                                                                              43%
     Same value as other available resources                                                  4%
     Less value than other available resources                                                0%
     Don’t know                                                                               0%
     No other available credit resources were available                                       0%

     Which of the following factors was the most attractive aspect of the EDP-2/AF
     credit for the firm?

     Value of the interest rate                                                              36%
     Client services provided by the bank                                                    16%
     Maturity structure of the loan                                                          25%
     Flexibility of the terms                                                                22%

     What has been the impact of crises of 2008-2009 and 2014 on the firm,
     and to what extent has credit through EDP-2/AF EDP-2 loan helped mitigate
     these impacts, if at all?

     Loans under the program significantly reduced the impact of
     the crisis                                                                              46%
     Participation in the program has partly mitigated the impact
     of the crisis                                                                           32%

23
  World Bank and UEB conducted an ex-post survey of participating enterprise during December 2014 to January
2015. This sample includes 44 of the 50 participating enterprises that responded to the survey.
                                                       41


Participation in the program didn't help to reduce the impact
of the crisis                                                                         11%
Loans under the program had a negative impact on the
activity of the company during the crisis                                              0%
Not occurred                                                                          11%

Suggestions for improving the design of potential future WB lines of credit?

Revision of the EDP2 financial covenants*                                             24%
Increase of the Sub-Loan limit per single borrower**                                  17%
Increase of the procurement threshold                                                 12%
Facilitation of project evaluation and monitoring procedures                          12%
Increase of the period (over 180 days) for refinancing of                             11%
eligible expenditures
No suggestions                                                                        6%
State support for beneficiaries enterprises ***                                       4%
To accept exports of all companies within business-group                              1%
Eligibility of procurement from affiliated (within a group)
                                                                                      1%
companies, under certain conditions
Grant co-financing of institutional development of the                                1%
enterprise
* - including reduction of benchmark value of the covenant, alignment to current
economic trends
** - inc. higher celing if lending to several group members (related beneficiaries)
*** - inc. exemption from the mandatory sale of foreign currency, facilitation of
customs procedures, sales promotion on European markets
Table A4.2. Year-on-year Change in Revenues, EDP2 Beneficiaries vs. All Ukraine exports
 Participating           2007        2008           2009         2010          2011         2012        2013       2014
 Enterprise 24

                    1     32%           243%            31%         13%           -15%         57%          12%     -14%
                    2
                          22%            19%            51%         19%            14%         14%           2%      10%
                    3
                                                        87%        167%            -1%         27%          64%     -12%
                    4                                                              -7%         62%          33%     -18%
                    5
                          23%            22%             2%         11%            12%          6%           5%      25%
                    6
                          38%            51%            36%          7%            26%         -1%           3%      30%
                    7     27%            52%            34%         46%             4%         21%           1%       9%
                    8
                          31%            12%           -17%         44%            66%         16%           9%      26%
                    9
                                         47%            -4%         77%            40%         12%          -1%     -41%
                  10      28%            97%            24%         30%            42%         -7%          13%      38%
                  11
                                         11%            -8%         63%            27%         23%          -4%      18%
                  12
                          86%            -2%           -80%         14%            23%        -10%          -47%
                  13                                                74%            76%         -4%          -12%    -27%
                  14
                          49%            -8%            26%         27%            25%         -2%          -12%    -24%
                  15
                                                                                                                     65%
                  16                     42%            17%         20%             1%          2%           2%       2%
                  17
                                                     2917%          31%            25%        -10%          13%     -18%
                  18
                          24%            83%            40%        -13%            28%         11%          -3%     -20%
                  19      50%            -9%           -37%         17%            43%         14%          -12%     14%
                  20
                          36%             7%           -38%         71%            41%        -13%          -21%    -26%
                  21
                          40%            36%           -64%        -26%          140%         224%          -24%    -19%
                  22                                             2360%           105%           7%          35%     -16%
                  23
                            5%           24%            -6%         28%            20%         -5%          -2%      22%
                  24
                                         43%            -2%         33%            31%         26%           4%      41%
                  25                                    50%         18%            23%         22%          -2%      13%
                  26
                                                        62%         24%            28%         77%
                  27
                                                                    34%            26%         -9%          -38%    -48%
                  28     -39%            59%          559%         -65%             4%         63%          -15%    -32%
                  29
                            2%            9%             3%          4%            24%         74%          -3%      -7%
                  30
                          37%            23%           -62%        -39%            80%          5%          21%       0%
 Median value,
 EDP2 borrowers           31%            24%            17%         25%            26%         12%           0%      -3%
 Avg y-o-y change,
 all Ukraine              27%            34%           -37%         28%            28%          1%          -5%     -37%
 exports
Source: Ukreximbank, Participating enterprises, and State Statistics Service of Ukraine.


24
     Of the 50 participating enterprises, 30 provided detailed information about change in firm revenues.
                                                           43


Table A4.3. Year-on-year Change in Employment, EDP2 Beneficiaries vs. Economy-wide
 Participating              2007      2008         2009          2010         2011         2012        2013    2014
 Enterprise 25

                        1    11%         34%           21%          28%           15%         14%         7%      4%
                        2
                               2%         3%              1%           5%           9%        -5%        -3%     -3%
                        3              100%         1475%          240%         150%          25%         1%      3%
                        4
                                                                                  13%          6%         8%      7%
                        5
                               4%        -4%              0%           5%         -1%         -2%         0%     -6%
                        6      5%         2%           12%             2%           4%         3%         0%     13%
                        7
                             14%         21%           22%          18%           24%         15%        31%     11%
                        8
                              -4%         1%          -13%             0%         18%          9%         1%      5%
                        9                14%              1%        14%           12%         11%         6%      7%
                       10
                             -12%         5%            -6%         15%             2%         2%        -2%     11%
                       11
                                         -1%              2%           9%           3%         5%         2%     -2%
                       12                                                                               -22%    -70%
                       13
                                                                                                         -1%    -15%
                       14
                             34%         19%           29%          23%           14%         -4%       -14%      8%
                       15                                                                                        60%
                       16
                                          0%            -5%            5%        -11%        -15%        -5%      4%
                       17
                                                                    26%           14%         -3%         3%    -10%
                       18      1%         4%              3%           1%           3%         1%         1%      0%
                       19
                               3%         8%              7%           6%           4%         2%         3%      3%
                       20
                               0%         0%              0%           0%           0%         0%         1%      1%
                       21      1%         1%              1%           1%           1%         1%         1%      2%
                       22
                                         42%          547%          28%             0%         1%         0%      1%
                       23
                             13%          0%              6%        11%             0%         0%         0%     -5%
                       24    10%        -10%            -4%            2%        -11%         15%        -2%     -1%
                       25
                                                          1%           2%           4%         8%        -6%      2%
                       26
                                                       16%           -1%          20%          3%
                       27                                              7%           6%        -2%       -15%    -23%
                       28
                               0%        -6%              3%           6%           6%         3%        -3%    -11%
                       29
                               3%         7%           18%          -1%          -4%          4%         -1%    -13%
                       30                                          -16%          -6%          2%         12%    -21%
      Median value, EDP2     3%        3%           3%            6%           4%           2%          0%     1%
          borrowers
       _______________
       Y-o-y growth avg      1%        0%           -5%           0%           0%           1%          1%     -3%
     employment, working-
        age adults, UA
Source: Ukreximbank, Participating enterprises, and State Statistics Service of Ukraine.

25
     Of the 50 participating enterprises, 30 provided detailed information about change in firm employment.
                                           44


Annex 5. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

Table A5.1: Task Team Members
 Names              Title                  Unit             Responsibility/Speciality
 Alexander Pankov   Lead Financial         GFMDR            TTL ( 9/2007 to 6/2010
                    Sector Specialist                       and 11/2012 to 12/2014)
 Marius Vismantas   Lead Financial         GFMDR            TTL ( 6/2010 to 11/2012)
                    Sector Specialist
 Lalit Raina        Advisor                GFMDR            TTL (until 9/2007)

 Angela Prigozhina   Senior Financial      GFMDR            Team member
                     Sector Specialist
 Colleen Mascenik    Financial Economist   GFMDR            ICR Team Leader
 Yevhen Hrebeniuk    Financial Analyst     GFMDR            Team member
 Natalia Lutsenko    Consultant            ECSFP            Team member
 Isfandyar Zaman     Program Leader        ECCU5            Team member
 Khan
 Irina Babich        Financial             GGODR            Financial Management
                     Management
                     Specialist
 Irina Shmeliova     Procurement           GGODR            Procurement
                     Specialist
 Anna Wielogorska    Lead Procurement      GGODR            Procurement
                     Specialist
 Knut J. Leipold     Lead Procurement      GGODR            Procurement
                     Specialist
 Dmytro Glazkov      Senior Energy         GEEDR            Environment
                     Specialist
 Alexei Slenzak      Senior                GENDR            Safeguards
                     Environmental
                     Specialist
 Ronald N. Hoffer    Consultant            GCCPT            Safeguards
 Bernard Baratz      Consultant            GENDR            Safeguards
 Johnson Appavoo     Operations Analyst    OPSOR            Safeguards
 Fatiha Amar         Program Assistant     GWADR            Team member
 Vitaliy Bigdai      Consultant            ECSFP            Team member
 Daria Gulei         Program Assistant     ECCU2            Team assistant
 Aida Japarova       Program Assistant     GFMDR            Team assistant
                                                             45


Table A5.2: Staff Time and Cost
 Stage of Project Cycle                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                     No. of staff weeks    USD (including travel and
                                                                           consultant costs
 Lending26
 FY05                                                3.98                 25,561.80
 FY06                                                55.96                254,274.24
 FY07                                                2.79                 17,263.38
 FY08
 FY09
 FY10 (Additional Finance P109649)                                        62,747.66
 FY11
 FY12
 FY13
 FY14
 FY15
 Total                                               62.73                359,847.08


 Supervision/ICR
 FY07                                                13.27                 59,828.11
 FY08                                                26.38                 83,739.06
 FY09                                                22.95                 97,380.41
 FY10                                                25.64                 101,114.99
 FY11                                                21.42                 75,611.83
 FY12                                                21.37                 84,956.41
 FY13                                                21.92                 103,009.00
 FY14                                                17.51                 81,739.90
 FY15                                                16.37                 78,019.68
 Total                                               186.83                765,399.39

 Total Lending and Supervision                                             1,125,246.47




26
     Includes budget for the additional financing.
                                               46


Annex 6. Summary of Borrower’s ICR

The final EDP2 Implementation Completion and Result Report is being prepared by UEB
in accordance with the requirements and methodology determined by the Procedure for Initiation,
Preparation and Implementation of Socioeconomic Projects of Ukraine Supported by the
International Financial Institutions approved by Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine
No.1027 dated November 26, 2008.

Sixty seven sub-loans in the total amount of USD 300.4 million were granted in total under
the EDP2. Fifty beneficiary enterprises from almost all regions of Ukraine operating in eighteen
sectors of the economy took part in the Project.
Figure 1.

                   Economic sector structure of EDP -2
                        participating enterprises
                                          Trade and
                                         advertising        Wine making
                                         equipment            1,17%
                     Household             0,04%
                    goods 4,21%                               Pharmaceuticals
                                                                  0,80%
                Wire and cable
                 pruduction                                 Telecommunica
                   3,33%                                      tions 0,69% Agriculture
                                                                           20,55%
               Brewage 6,66%                                                   Extractive
                                                                            industry 6,02%
                Rubber and                                                      Metal
               plastic goods                                                  processing
                  8,30%                                                         3,28%
                                                                                 Wood
            Food industry                                                     processing
              21,70%                                                            0,33%
                                                                                  Machine-
                                                                               building 11,19%
                           Storage
                       batteries 3,33%       Control               Printing and
                                           equipment,               publishing
                                              lamps,                  0,57%
                                            protective             Transport
                                           equipment            services 4,89%
                                              2,95%


               Source: Ukreximbank.
                                                                47


Figure 2. Annual sales revenue trend of EDP2 participating enterprises

            UAH million
              25 000                          23 246                                 23 628      23 211    23 163
                                                                          21 725
                                     19 243                      19 698
               20 000
                                                       15 815
               15 000
                            11 587

               10 000

                5 000

                    0
                           2006      2007     2008     2009      2010     2011       2012      2013       2014

Source: Ukreximbank.

Under the EDP2/AF EDP2 wholesale facilities UEB signed six Subsidiary Loan Agreements
with participating banks selected under eligibility criteria. From the proceeds of the Subsidiary
Loans twenty eight export development Sub-loans were granted to twenty five beneficiary
enterprises in total amount of USD134.2 million, incl. twenty two Sub-loans in the total amount
of USD 82.9 million financed from EDP2 funds and six Sub-loans in total amount of USD 45
million financed from AF EDP2 funds. Under the direct lending scheme UEB granted thirty nine
export development Sub-loans to twenty five beneficiary enterprises in the total amount of USD
166.2 million At EDP2 completion the allocation of the Project proceeds under the category Sub-
loans and Lease Finance was as following.


Figure 3.
                                     Allocation of the EDP2 funds to participating–banks

                                                          PJSC "Nadra"
                                                              1%       JSB “Ukrgasbank”
                                                                                             PJSC "BANK
                                                                             8%
                                                                                            CREDIT DNEPR"
                                                                                                 7%

                                                                                                  PJSC
                                                                                            "Kreditprombank"
                                                                                                   6%

                          JSC "Ukreximbank"
                                55%                                                      PLC Megabank
                                                                                             15%



                                                                                   PJSC "ALFA-
                                                                                      BANK"
                                                                                       8%


                             Source: Ukreximbank.
                                                        48


Participation in the Project enabled Ukrainian exporters to enter new export markets,
diversify geographical and product structure of export, renovate machinery and equipment,
modernize production facilities, and improve competitiveness of the goods.



Figure 4. Annual export trend of EDP2 participating enterprises

          USD million
            1 400
                                                                                             1 285
                                                                              1 172
            1 200

                                                                                                           955
            1 000
                                                         886
                                                  726                 741
              800

              600

              400

              200
                                      109
                          12
                0
                        2007         2008        2009   2010         2011     2012          2013          2014

         Source: Ukreximbank.

Figure 5. Export geographical structure of EDP2 participating enterprises

                         Other countries 34%                                Russia Federation 13%

                                                                                 Germany 2%


                                                                                      The Netherland 3%


                                                                                          Belgium 2%


                                                                                        Other UE countries 7%


                        Tunisia 5%
                                                                                       Belorussia 2%

                                                                                 Kazakhstan 2%

                                          Egypt 20%
                                                        Saudi Arabia 3%     Jordan 7%


              Source: Ukreximbank.


In 2007-2014 the implementation of EDP2 resulted in the total export of the project
beneficiaries of USD 5,885 million and the preliminary calculated aggregate export
multiplier of 2.78 meaning that one dollar of the EDP2 loan proceeds generated almost three
dollars of export revenues of the project beneficiaries. It is important to note that the multiplier
effect will continue upon sub-projects’ completion.
