The World Bank                                 1818 H Street N.W.      (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION          U.S.A.                  Cable Address: INDEVAS
December 13, 2013
Mr. Vitalii Bilous
Chairman of the Board
State Export-Import Bank of Ukraine
127 Gorky Street
Kyiv
03150 Ukraine
Dear Mr. Bilous,
Re: IBRD Loan 8089-UA (Additional Financing for the Second Export Development Project)
Additional Instructions: Disbursement - First Restatement
I refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the "Bank") and JOINT STOCK COMPANY 'THE STATE EXPORT-IMPORT
BANK OF UKRAINE" (UKREXIMBANK) (the "Borrower") for the above-referenced project,
dated October 4, 2011. The Agreement provides that the Bank may issue additional instructions
regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Loan 8089-UA ("Loan"). This letter
("Disbursement Letter"), as revised from time to time, constitutes the additional instructions.
This letter constitutes the first restatement of the Disbursement Letter dated October 4,
2011 for the Loan, in order to introduce new supporting documentation requirements and to
reflect the new electronic delivery option for withdrawal of loan proceeds, and will accordingly
replace the Disbursement Letter dated October 4, 2011 in its entirety.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter.
The manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Loan is
specified below. Sections and subsections in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and
subsections in the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the
capitalized terms used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Loan:
* Reimbursement
* Advances
* Direct Payment


﻿(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4
months after the Closing Date specified in the Loan Agreement. Any changes to this date will be
notified by the Bank.
II. Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1).
An authorized signatory letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should be furnished to the
Bank at the address indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the
official(s) authorized to sign Applications:
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W,
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Attention: Qimiao Fan, Country Director
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications
for withdrawal, together with supporting documents, and (b) applications for special
commitments, together with a copy of the commercial bank letter of credit, to the address
indicated below:
The World Bank
Radnicka cesta 80, 9th floor
Zagreb, HR - 10000,
Croatia.
Attention: Disbursement Management Group
(iii) Electronic Delivery (subsection 3.4) The Bank may permit the Borrower to electronically
deliver to the Bank Applications (with supporting documents) through the Bank's Client
Connection, web-based portal. The option to deliver Applications to the Bank by electronic
means may be effected if: (a) the Borrower has designated in writing, pursuant to the terms of
subparagraph (i) of this Section, its officials who are authorized to sign and deliver Applications
and to receive secure identification credentials ("SIDC") from the Bank for the purpose of
delivering such Applications by electronic means; and (b) all such officials designated by the
Borrower have registered as users of Client Connection. If the Bank agrees, the Bank will
provide the Borrower with SIDC for the designated officials. Following which, the designated
officials may deliver Applications electronically by completing Form 2380, which is accessible
through Client Connection (https://clientconnection.worldbank.ory). The Borrower may
continue to exercise the option of preparing and delivering Applications in paper form. The
Bank reserves the right and may, in its sole discretion, temporarily or permanently disallow the
electronic delivery of Applications by the Borrower.
(iv) Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC to Process Applications. By designating officials to
use SIDC and by choosing to deliver the Applications electronically, the Borrower confirms
through the authorized signatory letter its agreement to: (a) abide by the Terms and Conditions of


﻿Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process
Applications and Supporting Documentation ("Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure
Identification Credentials") provided in Attachment 3; and (b) to cause such official to abide by
those terms and conditions.
(v) Advances (sections 5 and 6).
*  Type of Designated Account (subsection 5.3): Segregated
*  Currency of Designated Account (subsection 5.4): United States dollars (US$)
* Financial Institution at which the Designated Account Will Be Opened (subsection
5.5): JOINT STOCK COMPANY "THE STATE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF
UKRAINE" (UKREXIMBANK)
* Ceiling (subsection 6.1): US$ 15,000,000
III. Reporting on Use of Loan Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each application for withdrawal as set out below:
* For requests for Reimbursement and for reporting eligible expenditures paid from
the Designated Account::
o  Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g. copy of the key signed pages of
the agreement of a sub-loan/lease financing showing the name of the sub-
loan/lease financing beneficiary/ies and the sub-loan amount, etc.) for payments
for sub-loan/lease financing valued at US$8,000,000 equivalent or more,
together with the Statement of Expenditures in the form attached (Attachment
4).
o Statement of Expenditures in the form attached (Attachment 4) for all other sub
loan/lease financing.
* For requests for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies
of receipts, supplier invoices, copy of the key signed pages of the agreement of a sub-
loan/lease financing showing the name of the sub-loan/lease financing beneficiary/ies
and the sub-loan amount, etc.
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Expenditures Paid from the Designated Account
(subsection 6.3): Replenishment applications should be submitted quarterly. The replenishment
application must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.


﻿IV. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement Handbook available on the Bank's public website at https://www.worldbank.org
and its secure website "Client Connection" at https://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print
copies are available upon request.
From the Client Connection website, you will be able to prepare and deliver
Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Loan, and retrieve related policy, financial,
and procurement information.
If you have not already done so, the Bank recommends that you register as a user of the
Client Connection website (https://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website you will
be able to prepare and deliver Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Loan, and
retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information. All Borrower officials
authorized to sign and deliver Applications by electronic means are required to register with
Client Connection before electronic delivery can be affected. For more information about the
website and registration arrangements, please contact the Bank by email at
<clientconnection@worldbank.org>.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact Maiada Kassem, Finance
Officer at Loaecakworldbank.org using the above reference.
Yours sincerely,
Maiada Kassem
Finance Officer
Loan Department
Attachments:
1. World Bank Disbursement Guidelines r Projects, dated May 1, 2006
2. Form of Authorized Signatories
3. Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in connection with Use o
Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation, dated March 1,
2013
4. Formn of "Statement of Expenditure" customized for sub-loans / lease financing


﻿Prepared by Marie Khoury / Jasna Mestnik - CTRLA
Cleared with and cc: Julie Rieger, Senior Counsel, Country Lawyer
Alexander Pankov, Country Sector Coordinator ECSPF, Task Team Leader
Cc with copies:   Ministry of Finance
Hrushevskogo, 12/2
Kiev, 01008
Ukraine


﻿Attachment 121
Form of Authorized Signatory Letter
[Letterhead]
Ministry of Finance
[Street address]
[City] [Country]
[DATE]
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Attention: [Country Director]
Re: Loan No.       -    (              Project)
I refer to the Loan Agreement ("Agreement") between the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") and [name of borrower] (the "Borrower"), dated
providing the above Loan. For the purposes of Section 2.03 of the General Conditions
as defined in the Agreement, any 1[one] of the persons whose authenticated specimen
signatures appear below is authorized on behalf of the Borrower to sign applications for
withdrawal [and applications for a special commitment] under this Loan.
For the purpose of delivering Applications to the Bank, 2[eachl of the persons whose
authenticated specimen signatures appears below is authorized on behalf of the Borrower,
acting 3[individually] 4[jointly], to deliver Applications, and evidence in support thereof on the
terms and conditions specified by the Bank.
5[This confirms that the Borrower is authorizing such persons to accept Secure
Identification Credentials (SIDC) and to deliver the Applications and supporting documents to
' Instruction to the Borrower: Stipulate if more than one person needs to sign Applications, and how many or which
positions, and if any thresholds apply. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank
2 Instruction to the Borrower: Stipulate if more than one person needs to jointly sign Applications, if so, please
indicate the actual number. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.
3 Instruction to the Borrower: Use this bracket if any one of the authorized persons may sign; if this is not
applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.
4 Instruction to the Borrower: Use this bracket only if several individuals must jointly sign each Application; if this
is not applicable, please delete. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank.
Instruction to the Borrower: Add this paragraph if the Borrower wishes to authorize the listed persons to accept
Secure Identification Credentials and to deliver Applications by electronic means; if this is not applicable, please
delete the paragraph. Please delete this footnote in final letter that is sent to the Bank


﻿the Bank by electronic means. In full recognition that the Bank shall rely upon such
representations and warranties, including without limitation, the representations and
warranties contained in the Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials in
connection with Use of Electronic Means to Process Applications and Supporting Documentation
("Terms and Conditions of Use of SIDC"), the Borrower represents and warrants to the Bank
that it will cause such persons to abide by those terms and conditions.]
This Authorization replaces and supersedes any Authorization currently in the Bank
records with respect to this Agreement.
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
[Name], [position]      Specimen Signature:
Yours truly,
/ signed /
[Position]


﻿Attachment 131
Terms and Conditions of Use of Secure Identification Credentials
in connection with Use of Electronic Means
to Process Applications
and Supporting Documentation
March 1, 2013
The World Bank (Bank)1 will provide secure identification credentials (SIDC) to permit the
Borrower2 to deliver applications for withdrawal and applications for special commitments under the
Agreement(s) and supporting documentation (such applications and supporting documentation
together referred to in these Terms and Conditions of Use as Applications) to the Bank electronically,
on the terms and conditions of use specified herein.
SIDC can be either: (a) hardware-based (Physical Token), or (b) software-based (Soft Token). The
Bank reserves the right to determine which type of SIDC is most appropriate.
A.    Identification of Users.
1.    The Borrower will be required to identify in a completed Authorized Signatory Letter (ASL)
duly delivered to and received by the Bank each person who will be authorized to deliver
Applications. The Bank will provide SIDC to each person identified in the ASL (Signatory),
as provided below. The Borrower shall also immediately notify the Bank if a Signatory is no
longer authorized by the Borrower to act as a Signatory.
2.    Each Signatory must register as a user on the Bank's Client Connection (CC) website
(https://clientconnection.worldbank.org) prior to receipt of his/her SIDC. Registration on CC
will require that the Signatory establish a CC password (CC Password). The Signatory shall
not reveal his/her CC Password to anyone or store or record the CC Password in written or
other form. Upon registration as a CC user, the Signatory will be assigned a unique
identifying account name.
B.    Initialization of SIDC.
1.    Prior to initialization of SIDC by a Signatory, the Signatory will acknowledge having read,
understood and agreed to be bound by these Terms and Conditions of Use.
"Bank" includes IBRD and IDA.
2 "Borrower" includes the borrower of an IBRD loan, IDA credit, or Project Preparation Facility advance and the recipient
of a grant.


﻿2.    Where a Physical Token is to be used, promptly upon receipt of the Physical Token, the
Signatory will access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and register his/her
Physical Token and set a personal identification number (PIN) to be used in connection with
the use of his/her Physical Token, after which the Physical Token will be initialized for use by
the Signatory exclusively for purposes of delivering Applications. Where a Soft Token is to
be used, the Signatory will access CC using his/her account name and CC Password and set a
personal identification number (PIN) to be used in connection with the use of his/her Soft
Token, after which the Soft Token will be initialized for use by the Signatory exclusively for
purposes of delivering Applications. Upon initialization of the SIDC, the Signatory will be a
"SIDC User". The Bank will maintain in its database a user account (Account) for each SIDC
User for purposes of managing the SIDC of the SIDC User. Neither the Borrower nor the
SIDC User will have any access to the Account.
3.    Prior to first use of the SIDC by the SIDC User, the Borrower shall ensure that the SIDC User
has received training materials provided by the Bank in use of the SIDC.
C.    Use of SIDC.
1. Use of the SIDC is strictly limited to use in the delivery of Applications by the SIDC User in
the manner prescribed by the Bank in the Agreement(s) and these Terms and Conditions. Any
other use of the SIDC is prohibited.
2.    The Bank assumes no responsibility or liability whatsoever for any misuse of the SIDC by the
SIDC User, other representatives of the Borrower, or third parties.
3.    The Borrower undertakes to ensure, and represents and warrants to the Bank (such
representation and warranty being expressly relied upon by the Bank in granting SIDC) that
each SIDC User understands and will abide by, these Terms and Conditions of Use, including
without limitation the following:
4.    Security
4.1. The SIDC User shall not reveal his/her PIN to anyone or store or record the PIN in
written or other form.
4.2. The SIDC User shall not allow anyone else to utilize his/her SIDC to deliver an
Application to the Bank.
4.3. The SIDC User shall always logout from CC when not using the system. Failure to
logout properly can create a route into the system that is unprotected.
4.4. If the SIDC User believes a third party has learned his/her PIN or has lost his/her
Physical Token he/she shall immediately notify clientconnectiong@worldbank.org.


﻿4.5. The Borrower shall immediately notify the Bank at clientconnection@worldbank.orp of
any lost, stolen or compromised SIDC, and take other reasonable steps to ensure such SIDC
are disabled immediately.
5.   Reservation of Right to Disable SIDC
5.1. The Borrower shall reserve the right to revoke the authorization of a SIDC User to use a
SIDC for any reason.
5.2. The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to temporarily or permanently disable
a SIDC, de-activate a SIDC User's Account or both.
6.   Care of Physical Tokens
6.1.  Physical Tokens will remain the property of the Bank.
6.2.  The Bank will physically deliver a Physical Token to each Signatory designated to
receive one in a manner to be determined by and satisfactory to the Bank.
6.3.  Physical Tokens contain delicate and sophisticated instrumentation and therefore
should be handled with due care, and should not be immersed in liquids, exposed to extreme
temperatures, crushed or bent. Also, Physical Tokens should be kept more than five (5) cm
from devices that generate electromagnetic radiation (EMR), such as mobile phones, phone-
enabled PDAs, smart phones and other similar devices. Physical Tokens should be carried and
stored separate from any EMR device. At close range (less than 5 cm), these devices can
output high levels of EMR that can interfere with the proper operation of electronic
equipment, including the Physical Token.
6.4.  Without derogating from these Terms and Conditions of Use, other technical
instructions on the proper use and care of Physical Tokens are available at
http://www.rsa.com.
7.    Replacement
7.1.  Lost, damaged, compromised (in terms of 4.5, above) or destroyed Physical Tokens
will be replaced at the expense of the Borrower.
7.2.  The Bank reserves the right, in its sole discretion, not to replace any Physical Token in
the case of misuse, or not to reactivate a SIDC User's Account.


﻿Attachment [41
THE WORLD BANK
APPLICATION FOR WITHDRAWAL                                     Date:                          Application No.
STATEMENT OF EXPENSES (SOE)
Name of the beneficiary:
Sub-loan agreement no./ref.:
Sub-loan agreement amount:
IBRD Loan No. 8089-UA
Item   Name and Address     Contract or     Brief Description of  Currency and  Total Amount of  Elig. %     Invoice      Amount Paid      Remarks         Date of
No.     of Contractors/   Purchase Order     Goods, Works, or   Total Amount      Invoices                  Amount       From Special   (including no-    Payment
Suppliers       No & Date (or         Services        of Contract     Covered by                 Eligible for  Account (if    objection telex
other ref.)                                       Application (net             Financing        any)        date or "post
of retention)                                             review" as
applicable)
USD
Head of PIU for AF for EDP2


