Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A2 z9 z ,/A
Report No. 7058-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 7, 1988
Industry and Finance Division
Country Department IV
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Rs 1      =  US$0.077
Rs 13.00 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEARS
Government of India: April 1 - March 31
IDBI                : July 1 - June 30
ICICI               : January 1 - December 31
SAIL                : April 1 - March 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BIFR    -    Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction
BMR     -    Balancing, Modernizatior. or Replacement Projects
DAF     -    Development Assistanc, Fund
DFI     -    Development Finance Institution
GIC     -    General Insurance Corporation of India
GOI     -    Government of India
ICICI   -    Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI    -    Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI    -    Industrial Finance CorporaUion of India
LIC     -    I.ife Insurance Corporation of India
MRTP    -    Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act
RBI     -    Reserve Bank of India
SAIL    -    Steel Authoritv of India Limited
SCICI   -    Shipping Credit Investment Corporation of India
SFC     -    State Financial Corporation
SIDC    -    State Industrial Development Corporation
SSI     -    Small-Scale Industries
TA      -    Technical Assistance
UTI     -    Unit Trust of India



FOR OMCAL Use ONLY
-ill-
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nn.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY             ...................                  v
I .   INTRODUCTION .................... * ...1eoo.. 
II.      POLICY ENVIRONMENT AND PROJECT RATIONALE ..................                2
A.  The Industrial Sector .                                                2
B.  The Financial Sector ...4*.........              ..........  ....     4
C.  Past Bank Lending to Industry              .........................  7
D.  The Bank's Future Lending Strategy              ....................  8
III.    THE PROJECT  .*          ...........................................      10
A.  Objectives and Components           .............................    10
B.  Project Cost ..........................................              11
C.  Financing Plan ......... ..                                          12
IV.      THE DEVELOPMENI FINANCE INSTITUTIONS ....................                14
A.  Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBl) ...........              14
B. Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Ltd. (ICICI) ............................................   26
V.       TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO THE STEEL AUTHORITY OF
INDIA LTD. (SAIL) .....................see                               36
A.  The Steel Sector .....................................               36
B.  The Steel Authority of India Ltd.          .....................     37
C.  The Technical Assistance Project ......................              38
VI.      THE PROPOSED LOANS .......................o........                      44
A.  Terms and Conditions  *e....................... ..........           44
B.  Administrative Procedures ...... .......................             46
C.  Project Benefits and Risks ............................              49
VII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................               51
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peirforrnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



t     ~-iv-
ANNEXES
1.  IDBI.  Organization and Operational Data
2. ICICI. Organization and Operational Data
3.  DPI.  Technical Assistance Cost Summary
4. The Steel Sector
5. SAIL. Institutional Review
6. SAIL. Technical Assistance Project Details
7. Contents of Project File
This report was prepared by G. Vivado, S. Thomas, K. Arichandran, A. Edun
(AS4IF); J. Pernia (AEMlID); E. Mangan (LATIF); S. Mott (AS4CO), and
V. Barrios (Consultant), following an appraisal mission to India in
October 1987.



INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers       : a)  The loan to India:  India, acting by its President.
b) The Technical Assistance loan: Steel Authority of India
Limited (SAIL)
Guarantor of
the Technical
Assistance Loan
ti SAIL         : India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries   : Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI),
Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI),
and Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL).
Amount          : US$360 million comprising:
a) The loan to India: US$310 million
b) The loan to SAIL: US$50 million
Terms           s The proposed loans would be made at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate and would have a term of 20 years
including 5 years of grace.
Re-lending Terms:  The GOI Loan of US$310 million would be relent in luial
currency to IDBI and ICICI at 11 p.a. The lending rate
to the final sub-borrowers would be 14Z p.a. initially.
These rates would be reviewed periodically to ensure that
the rate to fiaal borrowers remains positive in real
terms, reflective of market conditions and provide a
reasonable spread to the development finance institutions
(DFIs). The proposed lending rate of 14X p.a. is the
current non-concessional rupee term lending rate for DFIs
in India, and is positive in real terms given current and
projected rates of inflation and consistent with the
overall structure of interest rates in India. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange and interest
rate risks on its loans to the DFIs.
Project            The proposed project would support the Government's strategy
Description    : for expanding and modernizing industries and assist in the
adjustment process both in the financial system and the
industrial sector. The proposed project would provide:



-vi-
a) financial and technical assistance support to the two
largest DFIs, IDBI and ICICI, to help them meet their
requirements for long term foreign exchange resources and to
strengthen their capacity to appraise projects effectively in
a less regulated environment, cope with the more difficult
portfolio management problems stemming from the adjustment
process and mobilize resources through new financial
instruments in more competitive financial markets; and
(b) technical assistance to the major Government steel
company, SAIL, to enable it to complement the physical
restructuring efforts on which it has embarked, by improving
organizational systems, technical skills, distribution
arrangements, pollution control measures, and devising
plans to reduce costs and improve quality.
Benefits and        In addition to strengthening key institutions in the financial
Risks          : and industrial sector, the credit component of the project
would help finance 80 subprojects, resulting in total
investments of about US$750 million and the creation of
28,000 jobs at an average cost per job of US$26,785. The
Technical Assistance to SAIL would contribute to improve the
productivity of the major steel plants, thus resulting in the
production of higher quality, lower cust steel to users
throughout the domestic economy. The Project would also have
positive effects on the environment as the DFIs have
incorporated strong environmental objectives in their strategy
statements and the technical assistance to SAIL would help it
comply with the Government's environmental standards.
The Government's recent pclicy reforms have resulted in
more domestic competition, which could create adjustment
difficulties for some enterprises accustomed to operating
in a more regulated and protected environment. These
circumstances, together with the fact that enterprises that
have borrowed abroad are exposed to foreign exchange risks,
could result in loan collection problems for the DFIs. The
technical assistance programs and the portfolio improvement
and collection strategies provided for under the project
would reduce this risk by ensuring detailed reviews of
existing portfolios, establishment of better portfolio
information systems for early warning of possible problem
projects, better portfolio management through closer
subproject supervision and intensive collection and recovery
efforts. Careful attention will be given during project
supervision to these activities and realization of agreed
collection objectives.



-vi i-
Estimated Costs:
---------(US Million)--
Local    Foreign    Total
Credit Component                              450       300        750
Technical Assistance for DPIs                   7         10        17
Technical Assistance for SAIL                  46         55       101
TOTAL                                    503        365        868
Financing Plan:
Bank                                            --       360       360
IDBI                                            55       --         55
ICICI                                           27       --         27
Subproject Sponsors                            225       --        225
Other Credit & Capital Market Sources          150        --       150
SAIL                                            46         5        51
TOTAL                                      503      365        868
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY  88    89    90       91     92       93    94
----------------…(US  Mill ion)-----…-
Annual      0.2  31.8   81.0  102.0  110.0   20.0   15.0
Cumulative  0.2  32.0  113.0  215.0  325.0  345.0  360.0
Economic Rate of Return: Subprojects financed by ICICI and IDBI would have a
minimum economic rate of return of 12%.
Map: IBRD 20713



INDIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Recognizing the need to improve the industrial performance of the
1970., the Government has in the 1980s revised its industrial development
strategy to place greater reliance on price signals and market forces. Since
the early eighties, the Government has been moving towards a supporting and
guiding role through provision of incentives, infrastructure and
institutional services. The policy reforms, described in more detail in
Chapter II, represent a marked change in substance and direction from past
policies, and are especially significant in view of the strong political and
social impediments to change in India. These policy reforms have fostered a
more competitive environment and more collaboration with foreign investors,
and the rate of growth of both manufacturing production and exports has risen
perceptibly in the last two years.
1.02    The reform process has also stimulated private investment and created
a need for industries to adjust to greater competition through modernization
of plant and equipment and more efficient management. Liberalization has
also affected the development finance institutions (DFIs), which need to
respond by diversifing their financial sources and services, improving their
capacity to select and appraise economically and financially competitive
projects and strengthening the management of their loan portfolios during the
adjustment process.
1.03    The proposed project would provide support to the Government in
dealing with two major issues emanating from the reform process. The first
relates to strengthening the capacity of the DFIs to appraise projects in a
less regulated environment, to cope with more difficult portfolio management
problems and to mobilize resources through new financial instruments in more
competitive financial markets. The second relates to the need for
restructuring in the industrial sector, particularly in industries which
provide important inputs to the rest of the economy and have important
effects on the overall cost structure.
II.  POLICY ENVIRONMENT AND THE BANK'S ROLE IN THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
2.01    The Government of India (GOI) has recognized that achievement and
future maintenance of the economic growth targets of the Seventh Five-Year
Plan (FY86-90) require a commitment to modernization an4 increased
efficiency, particularly in the industrial sector. During the Sixth Plan



-2-
(FY81-85), industrial and trade performance were disappointing. Though GDP
growth in real terms averaged about 5% p.a., industrial output grew at an
average annual rate of 4.9%, and total exports only 4.5%. Manufacturing
gross value added growth averaged 4.3% p.a. and manufactured exports grew
only 2.8% p.a. To support average annual GDP growth of 5.0%, the Seventh
Plan sets goals of 8.5% and 8.0% growth in real terms, respectively, for
gross industrial and manufacturing output, and 6.8% and 5.6%, respectively,
for industrial and manufacturing value added. The Plan emphasizes cost
reduction and productivity improvements, as well as domestic and
international competitiveness. It also calls for a greater role for the
private sector and the financial system, and more reliance on price signals
and market forces, with Government providing the necessary incentives,
infrastructure and institutional services.
A. The Industrial Sector
2.02    Many of the recent industrial regulatory, fiscal and export policy
initiatives represent marked departures from past practice in India. There
has been significant progress in industrial delicensing, easing regulations
on expansion by large firms, opening areas previously reserved for
small-scale industry (SSI), introduction of new procedures for the
rehabilitation or closure of "sick" firms, and deregulation of foreign
technology and investment collaborations. Fiscal incentives have been
improved and a modified value-added tax (MODVAT) has reduced some of the
adverse effects of the fiscal system on resource allocation and export
competitiveness. Exporters have been provided easier access to inputs at
international prices and 100% exporters have been exempted from capacity
licensing. However, there has been little change in overall import policy;
Indian industry remains protected with high and uneven tariffs, as well am
non-tariff barriers.
2.03    Regulatory Policy.  Delicensing, broadbanding and other policy moves
have reduced Government approval requirements for establishment or expansion
of manufacturing units or changes in their product mix. In March 1985, for
example, 25 broad categories of manufactured products were exempted from
licensing requirements for the establishment of new units. Thirty-seven
product groups were "broadbanded" in 1986; firms manufacturing them no longer
need official approval to shift to making another product within the same
group as their original line of business. The number of products that may
be manufactured by large firms (those with asset size over Rs 1 billion, or
otherwise under the purview of the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices
Acc (MRTP)) has been increased, and fast-track clearance has been introduced
for 23 additional product groups where a project is being set up by an MRTP
firm in designated "backward areas". While a few new items were added to the
list of goods reserved for SSI production, the definitions of some were
narrowed and more than 20 others were deleted. In addition to these and
other regulatory changes, improved administrative procedures have made



-3-
investment approval decisions faster and their basis clearer. This trend is
expected to continue.
2.04    Until recently, financial institutions and state governments have
been constrained to maintain "sick" industrial enterprises functioning
through different schemes thus burdening their portfolios. To deal more
effectively with obstacles to closure, restructuring and rehabilitation of
firms, the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985,
established procedures for identifying and resolving the worst cases of
financial difficulties. The Act established the Board for Industrial and
Financial Reconstruction (BIFR), with quasi-judicial Dowers to order and
speed closures, mergers, and other changes, including the power to override
some other industrial legislation, including MRTP. The current obligation of
a company with completely eroded net worth to report to the BIFR, and of the
subsequently appointed operating agency to coordinate all involved parties
and rapidly recommend a rehabilitation or closure scheme, should rationalize
and quicken the decision-making process on the rehabilitation or closure of
sick units. While the creation of the BIFR is a major step forward, its
ability to act efficiently is likely to be constrained by the fact that its
activities are confined to firms where networth is already fully eroded.
Consideration may eventually need to be given to allowing BIFR to become
involved earlier before a firm's financial plight has become so difficult.
2.05    Export Promotion.  The Government has also taken steps to encourage
the growth of an export sector t:hat can meet international standards of
price, quality and reliability. Among the measures taken are the expansion
and administrative simplification of the schemes for duty-free imports by
exporters (including duty exemption arrangements and duty drawbacks),
increased cash compensation for taxes and duties paid, widened eligibility
for advance import licenses, streamlined administrative procedures for export
processing zones, reduction of export taxes and improvements in foreign
exchange forward cover fac;,ities. Credit programs are being reviewed to
ensure that exporters have adequate access to preshipment financing. Price
and exchange rate policies have been managed to improve significantly the
profitability of exports.
2.06    Import Policy.  Changes have also been made in trade policy, but they
have been less sweeping than those in the regulatory and export promotion
areas. In 1985, the Long-term Fiscal Policy stressed the reorientation of
trade policy away from direct controls to a more tariff-based system. The
three year Import-Export Policy covering 1985-88 was intended to make trade
policies more stable compared to the previous system of annual determination
of import licensing norms. In general, the implementation of non-tariff
barriers has been improved; for example the "indigenous angle clearance"
requirement (that a capital goods importer demonstrate that a domestic
equivalent cannot be obtained within a reasonable time or near the landed
price plus duty of the import) has been simplified and decisions are made
faster. While progress is being made, there is still a need to reduce



-4-
quantitative restrictions further and to gradually rationalize and lower
tariff protection.
2.07    Results.  Overall, the policy changes of the past three years have
quickened decision making and fostered increased domestic competition. The
investment policy initiatives have promoted the realization of economies of
scale and technology upgradation; for example, the average size of industrial
projects has increased over the past two years in automotive products,
electronics, petrochemicals and cement and this is contributing to lover
production costs. Manufacturing output growth accelerated to an average of
8.9% p.a. in the last three years from less than 5% over the previous three
year period. Manufacturing export growth, after averaging 3-3% p.a. in
current U.S. dollars from FY81 to FY85, reached 9.3% in FY86 and 11.8% in
FY87. At least part of this improvement can be attributed to the reforms of
the last few years.
2.08    The severe drought during 1987 is expected to reduce the real growth
of GDP at factor cost to between zero and 2Z in FY88, and industrial growth
is likely to be no more than 7% to 7.5%; the negative impact on the balance
of payments is expected to exceed $1.5 billion over the next 18 months.
Nevertheless, barring any further unforeseen events, industrial growth should
resume its recent pace over the next several years. The growth of
manufactured exports is expected to continue, since some of the excess
capacity resulting from weak domestic demand this year will be used to
produce for export. Despite its current revenue and balance of payments
concerns, the Government has stated that it remains committed to the economic
reform process.
2.09    Remaining Issues.  The important areas for further policy reform to
encourage efficient industrial production are import policy (both removing
distortions and lowering levels of effective protection), continued
administrative streamlining of export promotion measures, including widening
their applicability to indirect exporters and new exporters, and improving
the ineans available to firms to take remedial action quickly when financial
difficulties emerge. This latter area is only partially addressed by the
sick industry policies recently introduced, since many of their provisions
only come into effect when a firm's net worth is completely eroded.
Necessary restructuring in response to the newly competitive industrial
markets will need to be ~mplemented quickly if the portfolios of the
financial institutions are to remain sound. Progress in these policy areas
will be monitored and encouraged through the Bank's sector dialogue with the
Government, and the financial institutions involved in the proposed project.
B. The Financial Sector
2.10    India's monetary and financial policies reflect a strong commitment
to macroeconomic stability which has contributed to high savings rates and



-5-
financial deepening. Savings rate are comparable to those of middle income
countries, averaging 22.61 of GDP during 1980-1985. The Reserve Bank of
India (RBI) acts as the central bank and the regulatory agency for the
financial system. Holdings of its currency issues account for 17X of
financial assets. The commercial banks, primarily government-owned, account
for 401 of total financial assets, and lend to the agricultural, industrial
and commercial sectors on both short and medium terms. Government and
privately-sponsored retirement schemes account for 23X of financial assets
while 10 correspond to government-owned life and general insurance
companies. The equity, debenture and short term money markets have grown
rapidjy in recent years and now account for 10% of the assets of the
financial system. The DFIs are not significant direct mobilizers of
financial savings, obtaining their funds from the central and state
governments, the RBI, the commercial banks, and the life insurance companies
throug} loans and bond issues. They are, however, important term lenders to
industry. The DFIs include four All-India institutions, the Industrial
Development Bank of India (IDBI), the Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India Ltd. (ICICI), the Industrial Finance Corporation of
India (IFCI) and the Industrial Reconstruction Development Bank (IRDB) plus
44 state level institutions.
2.11    Financial policies have been closely linked to the Government's
strategy of directed economic development and are principally reflected in
the flow of resources within the system. During the period 1981-1985 on
average, 401 of bank deposits, 75% of life insurance and practically 1001 cf
retirement fund savings have been transferred to the Government and
governmental institutions (including the DFIs) through high reserve
requirements on bank deposits and stipulations that financial institutions
invest in government and other public sector securities. The Government also
uses interest rate ceilings and sectoral allocation of credit in order to
promote investment and growth in preferred activities. Ceilings on deposit
rates have tended to be moderately positive in real terms, while, most of the
time real lending rates have been positive. However, because of the interest
rates ceilings, there are large differences between formal and informal
market rates with differentials as high as 10 on the deposit side and 18% on
the lending side.  The fragmentation of the financial system caused by
allocation and interest rate policies is further exacerbated by the
complexity and wide range of preferential lending rates.  The implementation
of this strategy has produced mixed results.  The financial system has
allocated large amounts of resources to rural areas and "priority" activities
while continuing to meet the demands of industrial finance, largely because
oi the rapid expansion of the system. However, the overall allocation of
resources may not have been as economic as would have been desirable and a
number of recent Government reports have recommended that market forces play
a greater role in resource allocation.
2.12    Since about 1980, there has been a noticeable shift in the pattern of
corporate financing away from commercial banks and the financial institutions
to direct savings mobilization through the capital and money markets. In



-6-
1980, equity and debenture issues combined were less than Rs 1 billion but
1985 equity issues alone totalled Rs 4 billion and debentures another
Rs 12 billion. During this period, the contribution of commercial banks to
industrial finance fell from 14% to 7%, while that of capital market
instruments increased from 2% to almost 12%. Loans to industry by the DFIs
remain important, and their contribution to industrial finance has remained
at around 14% of the total since 1980. However, DFI lending has been
expanding in absolute values and has accounted for the bulk of project
lending. The DFIs have played a major role in fostering the emergence of new
industrial sectors such as engineering, electronics and chemicals.
2.13    Policy Changes.  Conscious of segmentation and inefficiency problems
in the sector, the Government has constituted, in the past three years, a
number of committees to review financial sector practices and policies and to
make recommendations for reforms. The Chakravarty Committee lo,oked into
aspects of monetary policy and the development of financial markets and
instruments. The Patel Committee reviewed the operations of the stock
exchanges, while the Vaghul Committee examined the money markets. More
recently, the Hussain Committee is looking more broadly into the capital
markets. Other working groups have studied rather specific aspects such as
brokerage practices, automation of bank procedures, and special credit
schemes.
2.14    The recommendations of these committees provide a sound basis for
financial sector reform, and they are being implemented selectively and
gradually. The Government has taken measures to make Government financial
operations more transparent and more closely related to overall financial
market conditions. RBI sets out annual monetary targets within which RBI's
financing of the fiscal deficit is clearly identifiable. In addition, the
rate of interest for new issues of Government securities has been raised from
101 to 11% and their maturities reduced from 30 to 20 years. DFI bond issues
also now carry yields of 11.5% and shorter maturities. Complementing these
measures, initial steps toward rationalizing interest rates have been taken
by reducing bank lending rates over 15% by 1%, and increasing bank deposit
rates by 0.5% or 1%, depending on the maturity of deposits. The effects of
these measures, and the higher yields on GOI's securities and treasury bills,
have been a desired narrowing of the wide dispersal of interest rates, less
expensive working capital financing, and greater incentives to financial
savings. However, the very great diversity of concessional rates of interest
and the cross of short and long term lending rates remsin.
2.15    In the area of capital market reform, a number of recommendations of
the Patel Committee have been accepted to expand market participation,
prevent speculative trading, professionalize broker activity and safeguard
investor interests, principally by tightening procedures at the stock
exchanges. Implementation of other recommendations require changes in the
Companies Act or other legal instruments, as well as the establishment of new
institutions. For example, a stock holding corporation has been established,
sponsored by IDBI and other institutions, to facilitate stock transfers.



-7-
Similarly, a credit rating agency has been set up and an information services
company is coming into existence to assist investors with better market
information and professional advice. The recommendations of the Vaghul
Committee are also being implemented, with the establishment of a discount
house and concrete steps have been taken to promote greater acceptance of
short term market instruments. Treasury bills with 6 months maturities are
now issued on a monthly auction basis with flexible discount rates and issue
prices, that fluctuate as holders of treasury bills manage their liquidity
pisition.  The use of commercial bills and related discount facilities by the
banks are also being promoted through refinance facilities at 10% p.a. and
lower user interest rates, at 15.5%, than those applicable to other short
term borrowings.
2.16    As the indicated measures take full effect and other recommendations
for financial sector reform are implemented, new challenges and opportunities
will emerge for diversification and expansion of financial products and
services. As the reform in the structure of interest rates narrows the
operating spreads of financial agents, sharper risk analysis and greater
efficiency in their operations will be induced. Of particular relevance to
the development finance institutions and the commercial banks will be the
relative growing scarcity and absolute higher cost of resources. At the same
time, the opening up of the financial markets should enable these
institutions to develop new areas of assistance and new lending an.d resource
mobilization instruments.
C. Past Bank Lending to Industry
2.17    The Bank has made 18 loans and credits totalling US$1.1 billion to
DFIs and commercial banks in India for onlending to private industrial firms.
Fourteen operations have been to ICICT and three (Credit 356-IN, and
Loans 1511-IN and 1260-IN) were channelled through IDBI to State Financial
Corporations (SFCs) and State Industrial Development Corporations (SIDCs) for
relending. The Bank's experience with IDBI and ICICI in implementing past
projects has been discussed in recent Project Completion Reports (PCRs) and
the conclusions have been taken into account in project preparation. In the
case of IDBI, the PCR on the IDBI Public/Joint Sector Project (Loan 1511-IN)
concluded that, in view of recent shifts in Indian industrial policy to
foster greater internal and external competition and the likelihood of a more
competitive future economic environment, it was important for IDBI to assess
the efficiency of proposed subprojects i.L relation to world standards. The
PCR on the Second IDBI/SFCs Project (Loan 1260-IN) concluded that IDBI had
substantially enhanced its interaction with the SFCs and actively assisted
them in implementing their institutional upgrading program. However, the
report drew attention to the persistence of the serious problem of SFCs'
collections and arrears and recommended that IDBI's continued support to SFCs
should be linked to their collection performance. In the case of ICICI, the
most recent PCRs covered ICICI Projects Eleven and Twelve (Loans 1097-IN and



-8-
1475-IN). They concluded that implementation had been satisfactory and that
ICICI was a mature, well managed and profitable corporation. However, it was
recommended that ICICI improve loan collections.
2.18    The most recent development finance loan, Industrial Export
(Engineering Products) Project, (Loans No. 2629-2930-IN), approved in
September 1985, was designed to support the growth of exports of engineering
products through provision of term finance through ICICI and commercial banks
and the creation of productivity and marketing funds for exporters. As of
September 30, 1987, US$11.3 million, about 4.5% of the total loan amount of
US$250 million, had been disbursed. The slow performance is due primarily
to the reluctance of sub-borrowers to bear the currency pool foreign exchange
risk at relatively high interest rates. The fact that exports of engineering
exports have expanded much less rapidly than projected at appraisal is also
contributing to slow disbursements. Finally, the commercial banks, which are
borrowing from the Bank for the first time, have been slow in initiating
lending under the project. The Government has requested the Bank to allow
GOI to bear the foreign exchange risk, permit financing of locally purchased
equipment and broaden the categories of export industries able to participate
in the project. These changes are expected to result in a sharp acceleration
of loan commitments and disbursements.
2.19    The Bank Group has also provided US$3.2 billion for projects in the
fertilizer, cement, and petrochemicals subsectors where opportunities existed
for the Bank to support policy reforms at the subsectoral level and to
finance economic investment. Implementation of these projects has been
generally satisfactory with all projects currently under implementation
expected to have satisfactory rates of economic return and, despite some
initial delays, to be fully disbursed by the respective closing dates.
D. The Bank's Future Lending Strategy
2.20    The Bank has had an active industrial sector work program and
prepared a number of sector reports on such subjects as industrial
regulation, technology policy, export promotion and credit and capital
markets and a number of subsector reports including electronics, automotive
products, steel and fertilizer. The 1987 CEM, "India: An Industrializing
Economy in Transition" also focused on the development of the industrial
sector. Many of the issues in these reports will continue to be discussed
with the Government in the context of future operations.



-9-
2.21    The future lending program for industry will include:
i)  industrial finance projects which will serve as a focal point for
evaluating and discussing with Government overall progress on
industrial and financial policy reform as well as addressing
issues in the financial institutions;
ii) export and technology projects which will support some of
the key issues in the industrial reform process and
improve the policy, financial and institutional support
for exporters and facilitate the acquisition of
technology; and
iii)  subsector projects which will provide policy, technical and
financial support for economic investments in areas where
improved efficiency will have implications for the growth of the
whole industrial sector (e.g. petrochemicals, cement and capital
goods).



-10-
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives and Components
3.01     The proposed project would support industrial development  n India
at a time when significant reforms in the regulatory environment are taking
place. These reforms and others anticipated to follow in the future will
affect the direction of industrial invescment, the operating results of
industrial enterprises and the way industrial investments and operarions will
be financed. First, as the Government becomes less involved in determining
industrial capacity for the Indian market through the licensing system, the
responsibility for selecting industrial projects would fall more and more on
the financial system, especially the DFIs. This would require improved
appraisal capacity and sharper risk assessment by the financial institutions.
Second, as both the Government and the private sector are increasingLy
interested in having industry achieve economies through investments of
appropriate scale, projects are becoming larger and the financial
institutions are reaching exposure limits which has implications for risk
management. Third, increased competition is causing a shake-out of less
efficient firms. While this is on the whole a desirable result, it has
short-term adverse implications for the portfolios of financial institutions.
In these circumstances, the DFIs need to improve project supervision and
portfolio management. Finally, it has become increasingly evident that
industries in some key subsectors provide major inputs to the economy at high
costs and variable quality and are in need of restructuring in order to bring
their industrial production costs and product quality closer to international
standards.
3.02    The proposed project would assist the Government in dealing with the
adjustment process in both the financial system and the industrial sector.
It would provide a) financial and technical assistance support to the two
largest DFIs to help them meet their requirements for long term resources and
to strengthen their institutional capacity to appraise projects effectively
in a less regulated environment, cope with the more difficult porrfolio
management problems stemming from the adjustment process and mobilize
resources through new financial instruments in more competitive financial
markets; and b) technical assistance to the major Government steel company,
the steel authority of India (SAIL), to enable it to implement the
restructuring effort to which it is committed, through improvements in
organizational systems, technical skills, distribution arrangements,
pollution control measures, and devising plans to reduce costs and improve
product quality.



-11-l
3.03    To meet the above objectives, the proposed project would have the
following components:
a) a credit line of US$200 million to IDBI and US$100 million to
ICICI for direct lending to medium and large industrial
enterprises to finance economically sound and financially viable
projects;
b) provision of technical assistance amounting to US$10 million
($5 million each to IDBI and ICICI) for staff training in project
appraisal, portfolio management and mobilization of resources through
new financial instruments; computerization to facilitate better
planning, management information and monitoring of the existing
portfolio; and consulting services to improve the quality of
management and technical advice provided to DFI clients; and
c) technical assistance of US$50 million to SAIL to finance consultancy
assignments, training activities, productivity studies and technical
assistance related equipment to help SAIL enterprises improve
operational efficiency.
B. Project Cost
3.04    Total project cost is estimated at $868 million (Rs 11.3 billion)
of which $365 million (42%) is estimated to be in foreign exchange. Physical
contingencies (10%) have been added to the base costs of the technical
assistance component to allow for possible increases in the scope of
consultants or other support work. The expected price contingencies for the
TA components have been based on projections of annual inflation rates as
follows: for local costs -- 8.0% for 1988 and 1989, 7% for 1990 and 6.0% for
1991 and 1992; and for foreign costs -- 1.0% for 1988 through 1990 and 3.5%
for 1991 and 1992. Cost estimates are summarized in Table 3.1. Detailed
costs of the DFIs' technical assistance component are in Annex 3, while those
of the SAIL technical assistance details are in Table 5.2.



-12-
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary
(in current prices)
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total       X
Foreign
----Rs million----    ---US $ million---   Exchange
Credit Component
IDBI                    3900   2600   6500    300       200    500      40
ICICI                   1950   1300   3250    150       100    250      40
Subtotal                  5850   3900   9750    450       300    750      40
Technical Assistance
DFIs                      93    130    223       7       10     17       59
SAIL                     600    710   1310      46       55    101       54
Subtotal                   693    840   1533      53       65    118       55
Total Project Cost        6543   4740  11283    503       365    868       42
C. Financing Plan
3.05    The proposed Bank loan of US$360 million would finance the entire
foreign exchange cost of the project except for $5 million of the steel
component for which the possibility is being explored of obtaining 450
million yen (US$3.3 million equivalent) from the Japanese Cofinancing Grant
Facility with the Bank. In any event, SAIL would meet unfinanced foreign
exchange requirements from its own resources.  Table 3.2 shows the financing
plan.



-13-
Table 3.2: Project Financing Plan
(in current prices)
Bank  DFI  Sector  Others  SAIL  TOTAL
-- --------(US$ million)-------------
Credit Component
IDBI                            200   50    150       100      -      500
ICICI                           100   25      75       50      -      250
Subtotal                           300   75    225      150      -      750
Technical Assistance
IDBI                               5    5     -        -       -       10
ICICI                              5    2     -        -       -        7
SAIL                              50    -     -        -      51      101
Subtotal                            60    7     -        -      51      118
TOTAL                               360  82    225      150     51      868
3.06    Under the credit component, the Bank would finance 40% of subproject
costs representing the average foreign cost of industrial subprojects in
India. The DFIs would finance about 10Z of subproject costs from their own
Rupee resources. Based on financing patterns for medium and large industrial
projects in India, other capital and credit market sources are expected to
provide another 20% while subproject sponsors and other equity subscribers
(the sector) would provide equity financing for the balance 30%. Under the
technical assistance component, the DFIs and SAIL would finance the entire
local costs in addition to SAIL's partial financing of the foreign exchange
requirement.



-14-
IV. DEVELOPMENT FINANCE INSTITUTIONS
4.01     With the advent of more competitive conditions in both the financial
and industrial sectors, the role of the development finance institutions in
industrial finance has acquired renewed importance. In spite of the rapid
growth of the capital markets in India and the access to them by a large
number of established industrial firms, the DFIs are still the single most
important source of project finance.  Their assistence to industry extends
beyond the simple provision of funds and both the Government and the private
sector have come to rely on them for in-depth knowledge of financial and
industrial developments in the Indian economy. IDBI and the ICICI are the
two largest DFIs in India, together accounting for over 50% of total term
investment financing to industry by the financial institutions. In the
context of project appraisal, the DFIs have developed longer term policy,
strategy and loan collection statements as well as supporting technical
assistance programs, which are directed toward improving their capacity to
adapt to the changing policy regime and to play an active and constructive
role in the adjustment process.
A. Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI)
4.02    IDBI, which was established in 1964 as a wholly owned subsidiary of
RBI, is now fully owned by GOI. It is India's "principal financial
institution for coordinating, in conformity with national priorities, the
working of institutions engaged in financing, promoting or developing
industry, for assisting the development of such institutions, and for
providing credit or other facilities for the development of industry and for
matters connected therewith." 1/ As the lead institution for industrial
investment finance, IDBI operates as a direct lender and as an apex refinance
institution for the state financial institutions and the commercial banks in
their investment lending operations. It also acts as the central
coordinating agency for the operations of the other All-India DFIs (ICICI and
IFCI) and the term lending activities of the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC)
the General Insurance Corporation (GIC), and the Unit Trust of India (UTI).
Its importance as a direct lender is demonstrated by the fact that it
accounted for 44% of total industrial investment lending by the All-India and
state level financial institutions during the period 1982-87. Its
promotional role covers a wide range of activities at the national level and,
through specialized institutions, on the local level. These activities aim
at the development of both sound industrial investments and financial
practices, and include industrial potential surveys, entrepreneurship
development programs, consultancy and advisory services, and expanded
1/ IDE- Act, October 1976.



-15-
development banking training programs. IDBI was also instrumental in setting
up specialized financial institutions. Inevitably, then, IDBI is the
spokesman for financial institutions on matters of industrial and financial
policies, and its influence on Government decisions in these areas is
significant.
4.03    IDBI is a creditworthy institution cArrying out successfully the
leadership role in industrial finance in India. While IDBI is facing some
problems, primarily in the area of loan collections, it is taking steps to
address them through improvements in organization, staff training, appraisal
techniques, portfolio management and project supervision procedures, and
management information. To continue to fulfill its role adequately, it has
developed a medium term strategy that continues to address these areas and
others emerging out of the more competitive industrial and financial
environments where there are increased risks, larger exposures, and costlier
and scarcer financial resources. The proposed project incorporates a
technical assistance program which has been prepared ts support IDBI's
strategic initiatives.
4.04    IDBI's 21 member Board, appointed by Government, represents a cross
section of GOI officials, industrialists and commercial and development bank
executives, allowing for a wide array of expertise and diversity of view
points at Board meetings. These are held at least six times a year to f:ame
recommendations to Government on industrial and financial policies, formulate
internal policies, review IDBI's overall operations and its interaction with
the public and private industrial sectors. Full powers are delegated to an
11-person Executive Committee, which meets monthly on project proposals and
operational matters. Management is entrusted to a group of experienced
career executives, headed by Mr. S. S. Nadkarni as Chairman and Managing
Director. An experienced and internationally-recognized development banker,
Mr. Nadkarni enjoys the confidence of public officials and leading
businessmen. Since October 1985, when he assumed his position, he has sought
to make IDBI a more commercially oriented institution by streamlining
procedures, delegating decision-making responsibilities, improving physical
facilities and building up greater rapport with the private sector.
4.05    IDBI's organizational structure comprises six administrative units,
each headed by an executive director. The Direct Finance Operations group
is responsible for appraisal, disbursement, supervision, billing, collection,
and recovery of all direct lending operations. It also conducts product
market research to support appraisal assumptions. The Development Finance
Operations group is in charge of refinance and bill rediscount operations for
the state financial and commercial bank institutions, and the supervision of
these activities. It is also responsible for Personnel and Administration
and supervises IDBI's regional offices. The Small Industries Development
Fund is a specialized activity for the promotion and funding of small scale
enterprises at the national and state levels. The Corporate Finance Group
handles the secretariat, accounting, and planning functions. In addition, it
reviews, develops, and implements methods and organizational changes



-16-
throughout IDBI. It also conducts the internal audit function and
coordinates the work of the external auditors. The Technical Department has
internal functions assisting appraisal with technical reviews of project
proposal and external functions carrying out studies to provide advise to
industrial enterprises. It includes a new venture capital operation directed
at specialized technology projects. The Legal Department acts in an advisory
capacity to the Board and management and in an operational capacity in
dealing with internal legal matters.
4.06    This organizational structure was adopted in 1982 and while it is
generally satisfactory, important changes and improvements will be made this
coming year. An immediate step will be the reassignment of the Internal
Audit function to report to an Executive Director not dealing with accounts.
Another important change will be the placing of asset/liability management
functions under the direction of a Committee of Executive Directors. As
these activities grow and staff expertise in them is built up, thought may be
given to constitute them as a separate organizational group. Similarly, the
Personnel and Administration functions in as large an institution as IDBI
should have a separate identity. This change, recognized by IDBI's Chairman,
may come about as executive responsibilities are reassigned in the wake of an
Executive Director's retirement in late 1987.
4.07    IDBI's staff, numbering 993, is professionaily well qualified, since
IDBI is able to recruit top university graduates because its salaries are
competitive with other private and public institutions and career prospects
within the institution are attractive. Turnover of staff is minimal, and
much of the staff have spent their entire careers within IDBI. In spite of
intensive in-house training programs, there would be clear benefits in
enhancing staff exposure to other foreign financial institutions with strong
business orientation and to the issues facing modern industrial enterprises
in more competitive environments. A more focused training program has been
developed that will meet this need (para. 4.30).
4.08     Operations.  IDBI's financial assistance to the industrial sector is
effected through three basic areas of operations: a) Direct finance,
available to projects costing at least Rs 50 million (approximately
US$3.8 million), accounts for about 34% of IDBI's portfolio. Direct finance
takes the form of loans, underwritings, direct capital subscriptions or
guarantees. Directly-financed projects are generally cofinanced with other
all India term lending institutions; b) Refinanced loans account for 40% of
portfolio. These are originated as loans to small- and medium-sized
businesses by state-level institutions and banks which bear the risk on these
operations; c) Rediscounted bills, constituting 24% of portfolio, cover the
sale of machinery, financed by banks on a deferred payment basi' and bear
corresponding bank guarantees. In addition to these operations. projects
considered strategic to the development of the economy and viable in
financial terms, but that cannot be completely financed by commercial
resources because of their large size or long gestation period, are financed
by the Development Assistance Fund (DAF), separately managed by IDBI for the



-17-
central Government. The DAF's total assets (at Rs 3.5 billion in FY87)
constitute less than 21 of IDBI's assets. The Fund obtains close to 902 of
its resources from Government loans and issues of Government guaranteed bonds
and debentures. IDBI applies the same appraisal standards and criteria to
DAP financed projects as it does to the rest of its operations. Only 13
public and joint sector companies have received DAF funds for a total of
Rs 4.4 billion since its establishment in 1965. The Fund operates profitably
with a 2.5X average return on assets over the last five years.
4.09    Resources and Onlending Terms.  To carry out its operations IDBI has
to mobilize large amounts of resources. These include equity contributions
by the Government, RBI borrowings, bond issues, internal generstion through
collections and earnings and foreign currency borrowings. Rupee bonds and
debentures constitute the largest source of funds, for 50Z of all external
resources. These instruments with 10 to 15-year maturities, had been issued
at lower-than-market rates, but received ready acceptance due to their
eligibility for liquidity reserves of commercial banks and as approved
investments for other Government-controlled corporations. As explained in an
earlier chapter of this report, the rate on these bonds has been gradually
raised from 71 in the late seventies to 11, which is now closer to a market
rate. RBI loans, the other important source of funds, at 301 of total
resources mobilized, are presently available at 81 p.a. compared to 71 p.a.
in earlier years. The weighted average cost of domestic funds for IDBI has
consequently increased from 6.81 p.a. in 1983 to 7.71 p.a. in 1987. Foreign
borrowings constitute only 5.51 of IDBI's total resources, although they have
been growing rapidly in recent years.
4.10    Interest rates on domestic currency loans range from 11.51 to 141
depending on the type of loan. Loans to new projects in designated backward
areas and loans for modernization receive concessions on the standard rate,
while a 11 p.a. surcharge on interest is levied on companies whose shares
are not listed on a stock exchange. IDBI's standard terms provide for
maximum loan maturities of up to 15 years, including up to 3 years grace.
Inasmuch as the basic lending rate for industrial term financing has ramained
unchanged during this period at 14%, IDBI's basic gross operational spread
has been reduced from 7.2% to 6.3% in 1987. 1/ The full effect of the squeeze
on operating margins, through higher cost funds and rather stable lending
terms, has yet to show in the profit statements inasmuch as the greater
portion of IDBI's portfolio is still supported by earlier bond issues and RBI
borrowings, some at rates as low as 7% p.a.
1/ This basic spread does not apply to all of its portfolio, inasmuch as
many loans are booked at concessional rates, on which a lower spread is
obtained. About 21% of direct finance operations are at concessional
rates of interest.



-18-
4.11     Policies.  IDBI's activities have been governed by internal
gu-delines flowing from its charter and partly arising out of the structured
pattern of its funding and lending operations. As this framework is not
sufficient for a large and diversified institution, IDBI is adopting a
general Policy Statement which outlines its institutional objectives, the
areas of its activity, and the operations in which it engages. It also
provides guidelines on risk management such as enterprise and exposure
limits. Project implementation guidelines place particular emphasis on
procurement procedures, which conform to World Bank guidelines. The Policy
Statement mentions the stimulation of desired investment, the geographical
dispersal of industry, the promotion of small-scale industries, the promotion
of new financial activities and the development of entrepreneurs, as the key
areas of IDBI's activity. It also emphasizes the soundness of its financial
condition as a main policy objective to be achieved through high portfolio
quality, adequate operating spreads, sound provisions for operating losses,
tight expenditure control, continued reinvestment of profits and build up of
equity.  The preservation of the environment and ecological balances receive
adequate treatment in the Statement, which clearly states that IDBI will not
finance projects that may adversely affect the environment and will actively
encourage existing industries to adopt pollution-free processes and carry out
investments in environment-protection equipment.
4.12    Procedures and Standards.  The quality of appraisal reports is
generally satisfactory, and there is adequate staffing to handle project
appraisal work. Economic indicators such as internal economic rates of
return and financial rates of return are standard features of appraisal
reports. Sensitivity analysis is done on the effects of subproject
implementation delays, reduction in output prices, increase in input prices,
drop in capacity utilization rates, and changes in project-specific
parameters. Certain deficiencies in appraisal and follow-up procedures have
been identified during appraisal and IDBI plans to upgrade its appraisal
techniques. Planned improvements include greater uniformity in appraisal
presentations, the application of an inflation factor in the estimation of
investment costs and operational revenue and expenditure streams, higher
contingencies for exchange fluctuations, more stringent sensitivity analysis
in relation to increased market competition, and the credit rating of
clients, to be undertaken in cooperation with ICICI. In accordance with the
priority of the Covernment's industrial reform policies, IDBI has
increasingly given attention to appropriate economic scale of investments,
adoption of competitive technology and investments which create production
that approach world price and quality standards. As a result of Bank
encouragement, there are plans in FY88 to regularly prepare project
completion r2ports and ex post indicators, together with the introduction of
improvementa in subproject audit practices.
4.13     Recent Performance.  IDBI has successfully achieved its mandated
aims, measured in terms of the volume and growth of its operations,
institutional and financial support of other DFIs and the assistance to
priority activities, i.e. new types of projects, new entrepreneurs, the small



-19-
business sector, and projects in backward areas. Total commitments grew at a
high rate of 25% p.a. during FY82-FY87, attaining a level of Rs 48.7 billion
in FY87. Cumulative disbursements since 1964 total Rs 177 billion. In its
direct finance operations, even though IDBI is a government-owned
institution, it lends principally to the private sector. Of total IDBI
direct operations, 74% were to private industrial enterprises, 23% to public
sector corporations and 3% to cooperative ventures. About 64% of its
assistance is to medium and large enterprises and about 32% is for loans to
small scale enterprises channelled through the commercial banks and
state-level institutions and 4% is accounted by investments in shares and
bonds of other financial institutions. Sectorwise, its operations are fairly
evenly distributed, with the services sector accounting for 18%, textiles
13%, chemicals and power generation each 10% and cement and food processing
5% each. New projects account for 68% of all IDBI financing, modernization
and rehabilitation operations 17% and expansion and diversification projects
15%.
4.14    Loan collections and arrears.  IDBI's overall collection performance
is satisfactory. Principal and interest collected on total dues 1/ have
averaged 93% during the last five years and accounts in arrears are
equivalent to 4% of total portfolio as of FY87. However, under these global
figures there are signs of emerging collection and arrears problems which
merit close attention.
4.15    The collection performance of refinanced loans and discounted bills
payable has been 100% as state financial institutions and commercial banks
have always met their guarantee liability on these operations. However, the
average collection ratio of the state-level institutions themselves was cnly
35% in FY87, requiring important capital infusions by the state governments
to enable many of these entities to service their debt obligations. To
correct this situation, IDBI is reinforcing its program for assistance to the
state-level financial institutions to improve loan recoveries and
profitability. A program has been adopted that places emphasis on
consolidation of these lending operations and providing technical assistance
to the SFCs in improving collection performance (para. 4.28). The Asian
Development Bank is selectively supporting IDBI in this effort through a
proposed project that will provide funds to industry through some state
financial corporations.
4.16    The collection performance in IDBI's direct lending presents more
concrete difficulties and needs to be improved. In FY87 collections on
direct finance loans were 67% before rescheduling and 80% after
reschedulings. Portfolio infection stood at 31% before rescheduling and 20%
after rescheduling. Of the principal in arrears of Rs 1.56 billion, 59% had
remained unpaid for over a year, including 47% unpaid over 18 months. Five
1/ Amounts due during the year and amounts past due.



-20-
major industries (textile, sugar, paper, cement, and miscellaneous chemicals)
comprise 601 of total arrears. About 66Z of these arrears were in private
sector enterprises, 14X in public sector companies and 20X in joint sector
ventures. There are a number of factors which account for these arrears,
including the fact that many earlier investments took place under a policy
regime which was not conducive to creation of efficient and modern
facilities, which would be viable in today's increasingly competitive
environment. Under a highly protected environment and because of pressures
from the labor sector, it has been difficult for IDBI and other DFIs to take
concerted corrective action opportunely and or to press creditor claims
successfully. Consequently, a hard core of problem projects has developed
for the DFIs, and while for IDRI this constitutes less than 1Z of its loan
portfolio, it needs to be re6cLvtr'.  The Government has recognized this
problem and, as explained in ;ara. 2.04, has created a new organization,
BIFR, to assist the DFIs in cur. ig through regulatory restrictions
constraining the DFIs ability cv either restructure still viable companies or
to foreclose on enterprises which cannot be salvaged.
4.17    To improve collections on direct finance loans, and recognizing
legitimate difficulties that industrial enterprises face, IDBI, like other
DFIs, uses rescheduling of repayment obligations as a means of assisting
enterprises in such difficulties. The extent of reschedulings over the past
five years represented, on average, 22X of amounts due and resulted in low
levels of arrears. Experience with rescheduled payments has generaly been
good, with only 15Z of amounts rescheduled requiring further concessions.
Additionally, IDBI has stepped up its collection efforts and introduced more
systematic procedures for managing its portfolio, which have led to improved
collections during the last five years. Collections on principal have
increased from 47% in 1983 to 551 in 1987 and collections of interest have
increased from 66X to 76% during the same period. Finally, IDBI has
consistently made adequate provisions for both uncollected interest and
possible losses on principal of loans in arrears. Accounts which fall behind
payments for two installments (quarterly or half/yearly) do not accrue
interest and provision for losses on principal, done on a case by case
review, have generally exceeded the recommendation of IDBI's auditors in this
respect. Provisions for losses presently total Rs 1.3 billion, or about
1.5 times the amounts overdue for more than a year. Conscious that
collections may again be aggravated because of more competitive pressures in
the industrial sector, IDBI's Strategy and Collection Statements set out a
detailed action program for improving collections (see paras. 4.25-4.28).
4.18     Financial Results and Condition.  As a result of the rapid growth of
its operations and the high overall collection performance, IDBI has had a
history of satisfactory profit performance and its overall financial
condition is sound, with a consistent high level of liquidity and debt
servicing capacity. The rapid build-up of assets, which more than doubled
over the las. five years to Rs 111.3 billion as of FY87, has been reinforced
by a rise in the net operating margin from 2.53% in 1982 to 2.94% in FY87.
Revenue has consequently grown at an average :ate of 201 to Rs 9.9 billion



-21-
in FY87. Total income over the five-year period ending FY87 grew at an
average rate of 281 per annum. The growth of income has been accompanied by
control over general and administrative expense, kept at a commendably low
0.31 of total average assets in FY87. The net final result of operations
in FY87 was a 17Z return on average net worth, up from 15Z in FY86 and 131 in
FY85. The profit performance ±nabled IDBI to transfer Rs 441 million co GOI
as dividends in FY87, while keeping a high retained earnings ratio of 74Z of
profit.
4.19    The debt to equity ratio (including contingent liabilities) was 10.0
in FY83, 8.8 in FY84, and rose temporarily to 10.5 in FY87. The debt service
coverage ratios have been strong, averaging 2.7 over the past five years.
This is explained by the fairly long maturities of debt, most of which
involve global payments at maturity, and the absence of sinking fund
provisions. IDBI is able to cope with this debt retirement pattern with
comfortable margin due to the continuous growth in operations and a quicker
turnover of assets than liabilities. However, even if a straight line
sinking fund were computed for debt issues, the debt service cover ratios for
the past five years would still exceed 1.5, a situation which is clearly
satisfactory.
4.20    IDBI has always maintained a high level of liquidity, with the
current ratio averaging 3.0 over the past five years. Current assets
represented almost one-fourth of total resources at the end of FY87,
indicative of its liquidity level. Included under current assets are
government securities which, by special arrangement with RBI, may be
converted quickly into cash should emergency liquidity requirements arise.
IDBI's potential liquidity is also higher than indicated by the current and
liquid asset ratios since it has access to preferential term debt issues,
which can be mobilized at short notice, and a rediscount facility with RBI
for short term bills. Beyond the one-year horizon of the current ratio, IDBI
has the enviable position where the weighted maturities of its assets (3.6
years) are shorter than the weighted maturities of its liabilities (9.2
years). While this general situation is likely to continue to provide for a
liquidity cushion, it will be gradually modified in the future, since bonds
and debentures are being issued for shorter maturities and lending terms have
already been extended to a maximum of 15 years.
4.21   Future Role and Strategy.  IDBI defines its future role as the
continuation of its functions as the lead institution for industrial
investment finance in India. It will continue to expand its operations
though at a slower rate than in the past with a growing emphasis on direct
lending. It will become increasingly commercial in its operation seeking out
projects with strong financial and economic returns and intensify its efforts
to upgrade the quality of its existing portfolio. It will also play a role
in financial innovation through promotion of capital and commercial paper
markets; promote high-technology ventures; and support the development of
financially-sound leasing companies. It also intends to give growing



-22-
attention to environmental concerns in its appraisals and promotion of new
projects.
4.22   To attain these objectives, IDBI has the full support of Governme
and the RBI. IDBI's financial position is sound, and the capabilities a..
morale of its professional and support staff are high. Under the direction
of experienced managers, a more commercial orientation of their work is
already evident. However, there are both internal and external difficulties
that will have to be overcome to carry out its objectives effectively.
Internally, IDBI will have to become more flexible to adapt rapidly to
changing conditions, something that may be difficult simply because of its
large size and the weight of traditional molds built into its activities.
Secondly, because of its lead role in industrial finance, it may be more
vulnerable to exposure risks from new undertakings and large-scale projects,
which sometimes involve large loan amounts, new technology, new entrepreneurs
and long gestation periods. Potential vulnerability in this respect is
highlighted by the lumpiness of current exposure to a few borrowers. As of
June 30, 1987, the eight largest borrowers accounted for an aggregate
exposure of Rs 6.8 billion, or 8% of the outstanding portfolio of loans. All
of the eight borrowers are operating profitably, but two of them are in
arrears. While these borrowers account for 8% of the portfolio, they
constitute 70% of IDBI's equity, with the largest loan representing 14% of
capital. To minimize potential risks in this respect, IDBI's Policy
Statement restricts exposure to a single enterprise to 25% of IDBI's net
worth, presently Rs 9.8 billion.
4.23    In addition, there also exist increasing external pressure that will
make IDBI's development finance efforts more difficult in the future. While
a less restricted domestic environment presents opportunities for rational
industrial expansion, it will also result in higher risks in both industrial
and financial activities. Increased risks will be present in new lending
operations, but even the existing portfolio will be under the pressure of
greater uncertainty and competition in the industrial sector. IDBI itself
will face increased competition in the financial scene. Already the more
established and profitable firms have permanent access to investment funds
through the capital markets at lower costs and with simpler procedures. On
the liability side of the balance sheet, domestic resources are becoming
scarcer and costlier. IDBI's bond issues, bearing GOI's guarantee, are
limited by GOI to a 10% rate of annual growth, and their cost has been rising
since the late seventies, from 7% to 1979 to 11% p.a. currently. At the
same time, non-concessional lending rates for industrial investment exhibit
little flexibility and have remained at 14% since the late seventies, while
the range of industrial activities eligible for financing at concessional
interest rates has expanded.
4.24    To deal with the difficulties arising out of economic, policy, and
environmental change as well as to make the necessary internal adjustments to
fulfill its role, IDBI has adopted a medium term strategy, the main thrust of
which aims at improvements in risk management and portfolio quality to enable



-23-
IDBI to face increased uncertainty and competition in the industrial sector.
This business blueprint embraces three other main objectives: continued
growth in its operations and promotional activities to maintain its lead role
in industrial development assistance; internal adjustments on organization
and procedures to improve its intermediating role and cope with reduced
operating margins; and diversification of resources to face increased
competition in the financial sector and to develop the financial markets.
To diversify and expand its resource base, IDBI plans to lay greacer emphasis
on developing low cost borrowing instruments to access household and
corporate savings directly.' Already beginning steps in this direction have
been taken by the introduction in 1986 of an Investment Deposit Account
Scheme paying 10% p.a. and in 1987 of 3 year Capital Bonds, issued with
9% p.a. yields. These instruments have gained public acceptance and IDBI
plans to continue to develop direct resource mobilization schemes. To
improve its internal organization, it plans to continue to streamline its
systems and procedures, improve its information systems and intensify staff
training in areas relevant to the above three elements of its strategy.
Growth in accord with its lead role in industrial finance is interpreted as
expanding prudently the volume of its operations and their range and purpose,
while maintaining operating spreads that will guarantee its financial
soundness. Specific emphasis will be placed on flexibility in developing new
forms of assistance to its clients, transferring modern financial and
information techniques to the state-level institutions, upgrading the
technical level of Indian industry, and promoting other financial activities
such as leasing and the capital and money markets. As projected its
operating margins will be no less than 2.5% and close to 3% in the coming
years.
4.25    Risk management and Collection Strategy.  The central thrust of the
IDBI's strategy aims at protecting the quality of its portfolio, both through
improved risk assessment on new operations and higher collection ratios on
past loans. Improved portfolio quality is expected to be achieved through
more focused appraisal of project proposals, more careful sensitivity
analysis of the underlying assumptions, and stricter use of economic and
financial indicators with minimum financial and economic rate of return
thresholds of 15% and 12% respectively. IDBI also plans to place greater
emphasis on implementation and follow-up of projects financed, collecting
financial performance data and carrying out subproject completion reviews. A
collection strategy that spells out targets for collections and ceilings for
portfolio arrears has also been developed and is contained in a Collection
Strategy Statement. The objectives are to raise the pre-rescheduling
collection ratio for direct loans from 67% at present to 70% by FY90, or a
one percentage point rise each vear. While this may appear a modest
objective, it is realistic given the hard core of old accounts with
collection difficulties and the emergence of a more competitive economy in
India and the pressure this is likely to create on DFI portfolios. The
maximum portfolio arrears ratio after reschedulings is projected to average
around 3%, which is also acceptable.



-24-
4.26    The collection targets are supported by a specific action program
which includes: review and classification nf portfolio in arrears; the
creation of a special IDBI unit to handle cases within the purview of the
Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR); the establishment
of a single point collection system for consortium loans via the lead
institution; the gathering of updated information on collection efforts
through improved management information systems; the ippointment of auditors
in debtor enterprises; opportune decisions on merger, consolidations, and
management change, as required; and the holding of bi-monthly regional
executive meetings to coordinate collection efforts and take quick decisions
on foreclosure.
4.27    Additionally, it is anticipated that the active participation of
other financial institutions and principally the BIFR in the expeditious
resolution of rehabilitation measures for sick units should contribute
significantly to an improved portfolio. In this respect, IDBI's management
is prepared to take the necessary decisions to restructure viable projects or
to foreclose on unviable ventures.
4.28    An important corollary program for protecting the quality of the
portfolio is IDBI's active involvement to help improve the loan recoveries
and profitability of SFCs. Some of the SFCs are financially sound and
profitable, but others are distressed. The key ingredients of this program
include: emphasis on consolidation of the portfolios of the SFCs, rather
than enlarging them; intensive portfolio review; performance review of key
operations; efforts to tap commercial bank financing for clients of the SFCs;
the formation of a Default Review Committee for each SFC by March 1988;
periodic evaluation of every SFC; staff training; and adoption of policies on
collection targets and provisions for loan losses.
4.29    Technical Assistance Program.  In addition to agreements on lending
and financial policies contained in IDBI's Policy Statement and the
preparation of Strategy and Collection Statements, a technical assistance
program was developed during appraisal to support IDBI's strategic
initiatives. This program concentrates on three activities: human resource
development through training, both locally and abroad; development of
management and other information systems through automation; and expansion of
its non-credit supportive services to industry. The total cost of this
program is estimated at Rs 130.2 million, of which 50%, or about
US$5.0 million, is the foreign exchange component (Annex 3).
4.30    In the area of human resource development, the technical assistance
program to be supported by the prGpc'sed project would provide on-going
training at a new IDBI training institute in Hyderabad principally for the
officers of the DFIs and other banks, in line with IDBI's role as the lead
term finance institution in the country. For its own senior officers,
training would aim at improving the quality of project promotion and
appraisal, portfolio management and resource mobilization. With respect to
project appraisal, senior managers would attend training sessions at



-25-
financial institutions abroad which would focus on such subjects as scale and
technical standards for modern industries in various subsectors, risk
analysis and more sophisticated economic and financial analysis. With
respect to portfolio analysis, training would focus on loan classification
procedures, the handling of problem projects and the use of rehabilitation,
merger, or transfer measures. With respect to resource mobilization,
training would focus on use of new financial instruments to mobilize both
short and longer term resources. IDBI would submit annual training programs
and a list of candidates for foreign training to the Bank for comment at
least three months before the beginning of its fiscal year. It is expected
that annually about 10 staff members would benefit from foreign training in
specialized areas while about 30 staff would be trained locally in computer
use and applications, in addition to IDBI's regular training courses.
4.31    In the area of management and other information systems, the proposed
technical assistance program would support IDBI's plan for computerization,
with a mainframe computer at headquarters and networking with its five
regional offices. In addition to reducing manual workloads and increasing
the processing capacity for IDBI's daily operations, this system would be
able to generate accounting and administrative information for improved
management monitoring of IDBI's operations. It would also process
industrial, product market, industrial capacity, production and other
sectoral information needed to develop an early warning system for portfolio
management and for project appraisal purposes. IDBI's proposals for purchase
of equipment and software for specific applications would be discussed with
the Bank.
4.32    The third area of technical assistance would be in the expansion of
IDBI's non-credit support services to its clients and associated financial
institutions, which are an important part of its mandate, and enables it to
interact closely with the industrial sector in areas such as labour,
technology transfer, entrepreneurial development, infrastructural constraints
and others on which it can also advise the Government. The proposed program
would include the provision of management and technical consultancy
assistance in technology transfer and procurement of equipment, training of
entrepreneurs and managers, and risk and portfolio management techniques.
4.33    Projected Operations and Financial Results.  In accord with its
strategy, IDBI projects that its operations will grow at a rate of 14% p.a.
over the next five years, a more moderate rate compared to past rates of
growth which have exceeded 20Z p.a.
4.34    The growth in operations will demand increased resources that over
the five year period total Rs 364 billion, 61Z of which will come from
internal generation, through loan recovery and earnings. About
Rs 140 billion will come from borrowings and Rs 2 billion will be fresh
equity contributions by the Government. The proposed project would
contribute less than 1Z of total resources and about 7% of foreign exchange
resources required by IDBI's projected levels of operation.



-26-
4.35    IDBI's direct finance project pipeline continues to be strong, with
236 projects amounting to Rs 49.0 billion under consideration as of
August 31, 1987. Of the total financial assistance required by these
projects, 78% is expected to be rupee-based and 22% foreign currency-based.
The private sector accounts for 55% of total financial assistance sought, the
joint sector 38%, and the public and cooperative sectors 7%. Of total
financial assistance applications on hand, 82% are for new projects, 8% for
expansion projects and 10% for balancing modernization or replacement. The
strength of the pipeline is confirmed by the observations of industrialists
who report high business confidence as a result of policy liberalization and
strengthening of demand for term finance.
4.36    The high level of disbursements over the medium-term is expected to
produce a strong revenue stream. Income from direct finance, assuming a
moderate improvement in collection performance, is projected to rise by 28%
p.a. during the coming five year period, while the growth of refinance income
is expected to rise from Rs 3.0 billion to Rs 7.0 billion. As expected,
income from bills rediscounting will grow by a lower rate of 14% from
Rs 2 billion to Rs 3.9 billion.  Differential growth rates will influence
the relative composition of revenues such that income from direct finance
will rise from 38% to 52% of the total between FY87 and FY92, while refinance
income will slip from 30% to 28%, and bills income will likewise decline from
20% to 15%. Income from non-fund based financial services will increase from
12% to 15%.
4.37    The attainment of the projected net income levels will result in
rising profitability, with the rate of return on average equity rising from
17% in FY87 to a 18-20% range over the next five years. Consequently, IDBI
will be able to maintain a consistent dividend policy that calls for a cash
dividend rate of 9.5% of paid-up equity, a rate that will result in an
average pay-out ratio of 17% and income retention ratio of 83%, for important
reinvestment of profits.
4.38    It is anticipated that IDBI will be able to maintain its high
liquidity position, with the current ratio consistently exceeding 2.0 times
during the projected period, because of improved collections and continued
mobilization of debt with long maturities, blended with new equity
contributions by GOI. The debt servicing capacity will thus remain strong.
For the five-year period ending FY92, the debt service ratio is estimated to
be at least 2.2 times, providing ample leeway for payment of IDBI debt
obligations.
B. Industrial Credit And Investment Corporation of India (ICICI)
4.39     The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Limited (ICICI) was established in 1955. It has grown to assume a major role



-27-
in India's financial system, accounting for 451 of institutional foreign
exchange financing for industry. During the thirty-two years of the
Corporation's existence, the Bank has made fourteen loans totalling
US$765 million to ICICI. ICICI is also the principal intermediary
institution for the Bank's Industrial (Engineering Industries) Export
Project. Over the last few years, ICICI has diversified its activities, and
now provides a broad range of financial services including working capital
finance, mergers and acquisitions, export finance, supplier credits,
underwriting, guarantees and leasing. ICICI also is playing a much more
active role in assisting the government in formulating industrial policies,
especially those related to the private sector. ICICI also has diversified
its resource base and is now an established borrower in international
financial markets. From 1981 through 1987, ICICI raised the equivalent of
about US$700 million from the international financial markets. ICICI is
now a mature institution and an effective vehicle for reaching specific
target groups and/or charting new strategies in development assistance.
4.40    Ownership.  Ownership of ICICI is dominated by public sector
corporations, including the Life Insurance Corporation, the Unit Trust of
India and a number of nationalized commercial banks. Of ICICI's issued share
capital of Rs 800.5 million, public institutions hold 80.8Z, foreign
shareholders (mainly commercial banks) hold 9.3% and the remaining 9.9% is
held by more than 7,000 private Indian investors. As the public sector holds
more than 50% of its shares, ICICI is classified as a Government company
under the Companies Act for certain purposes such as the appointment of its
auditors. However, ICICI lends principally to the private sector.
4.41    Organization.  ICICI is well-managed and operates effectively under
a competent and experienced Board. The fifteen members of the Board
represent GOI (2 members), public financial institutions (1), foreign
shareholders (2), the professions and business (8), and include three
full-time executives of ICICI: the Chairman and two Deputy Managing
Directors. The Board meets regularly to set out ICICI's overall financial
and operational policies and decide on individual project proposals resulting
in single enterprise exposure over Rs 35 million. Mr. N. Vaghul, an
experienced banker, became Chairman in September 1985. Under him the
Corporation continues to benefit from the able leadership that has
characterized it for many years. Mr. Vaghul's efforts have been directed
mainly at decentralizing decision-making in the corporation by transferring
authority down the executive ladder and out to the branch offices; widening
and making more stable the resource base of the corporation by innovative
mobilization schemes; and adopting new strategies and instruments of
assistance for industry through such means as venture capital financing, and
technology development financing.
4.42     Organizationally, ICICI is divided into five major groups:
(i) operations; (ii) corporate planning; (iii) finance, (i~r) special
operations, and (v) administration. The Operations group, headed by a Deputy
Managing Director is the largest in professional staff and volume of



-28-
business. The group is responsible for appraising new projects and
monitoring the loan portfolio, including collections and legal recovery. It
also coordinates and supervises the activities of the regional offices in
Delhi, Calcutta and Madras. The Planning group is headed by a Deputy General
Manager and is responsible for corporate planning and policies. It is also
responsible for resource mobilization, which has been given a more prominent
role in ICICI's structure, given the increased importance of direct
borrowings from both foreign and local commercial sources. The Finance
group, supervised by a General Manager, handles all accounting and billing
functions, foreign exchange operations, and is responsible for the
Corporation's investment portfolio. The Special Operations Group, under a
Deputy Managing Director includes merchant banking, leasing, venture capital
and industrial rehabilitation operations. It also handles the export
development functions and is responsible for market and economic research
activities. The Administration group is currently under the responsibility
of the Chief General Manager. The Personnel Administration functions are the
responsibility of an Assistant General Manager, but are organizationally
under the supervision of the Deputy Managing Director. The Legal Advisor and
the Internal Auditor report directly to the Deputy Managing Director.
4.43     Operating Policies and Procedures.  Prior to 1977, ICICI had no
formal policy statement, but relied on its Memorandum of Association,
together with Government guidelines and the periodic resolutions of its
Board, to provide a satisfactory operating policy framework. That year,
ICICI's Board adopted a Statement of Financial and Operational Strategy in
which six broad areas were specified for priority attention: export
industries; power and transport; agricultural related enterprises; industries
basic to industrial growth; mass consumption goods; and balancing and
modernization projects. With the Fourteenth Loan, ICICI updated this
Statement principally to reflect ICICI's intention to diversify its foreign
exchange resources. Under the Industrial Export Project, ICICI placed
expanded emphasis on export-oriented projects, with a particular focus on
engineering products. ICICI's current Corporate Policy Statement, updated at
appraisal, continues ICICI's earlier basic lending policies, but gives new
importance to supporting sunrise industries, fostering technology development
and protecting the environment. It also places added emphasis on
contributing to the modernization of existing industries. Internally, the
build-up of capital reserves, the adequacy of provisions for doubtful
accounts, and minimization of the foreign exchange risk on its operations are
all more clearly defined.
4.44    Appraisal and Supervision Standards:  ICICI's appraisals continue to
be of a high standard and incorporate a thorough treatment of technical,
financial, market and economic aspects. Follow-up procedures and project
supervision standards also are satisfactory. Clients submit detailed
quarterly progress reports to ICICI for review and follow-up. Projects are
visited at least once a year and a satisfactory system of reporting and
management review exists. ICICI also reserves the right to appoint a



-29-
director on its clients' board and has done so selectively to intensify the
supervision of certain projects.
4.45     Onlending Terms.  Similarly to IDBI, ICICI's standard rare of
interest for subloans from euro-currency sources bear a spread of 1.5% over
the borrowing cost. Interest rates on domestic currency loans also range
from 11.5% to 14% with a 1% p.a. surcharge on interest levied on companies
whose shares are not listed on a stock exchange. ICICI charges a 1% p.a.
commitment fee on foreign currency loans, and a commitment fee ranging
between 0.25% and 1Z p.a. on domestic currency loans. ICICI's st-ndard terms
provide for maximum loan maturities of up to 15 years, including p to
3 years grace, which conform to those offered by the other all India
term-lending institutions. In the past, ICICI's sub-borrowers bo.'e the
exchange risk on foreign currency loans, but for the proposed oper.ction and
the ongoing Industrial Export (Engineering Industries) and Cemcx projects,
the Government has decided to assume this risk.
4.46     Recent Performance.  A summary of ICICI's operational perf,;rmance
for the last five years (1982-1986) is shown in Annex 2.Table 2. Ai of
December 31, 1986, ICICI had approved cumulative financing since its founding
totalling Rs 55 billion for some 4,100 projects.  For the year ending on that
date, disbursements were Rs 6.0 billion, reflecting a 25% average annual
growth over the level of disbursements in 1982. The sub-sectoral
distribution of assistance reflects ICICI's concentration on non-trasitional
and technologically more advanced industries.  The engineering sector,
including metal products, mechanical and electrical machinery and transport
eouipment, accounted for about 25% of the total, followed by the chemical and
petrochemical industries (22%).  Other more traditional subsectors receiving
a significant proportion of ICICI financing were:  textiles (13%); basic
metal (9%); cement (9x); and pulp and paper (6%).  ICICI's clients are
predominantly medium to large-sized private enterprises.  In 1986, ICICI's
average assistance per project was about Rs 13.9 million (US$ 1.1 million).
However, only 45% of the firms financed had net fixed assets of less than
Rs 100 million (US$7.8 million).
4.47    ICICI has emphasized the modernisation and upgrading of clients'
plant and equipment to improve overall industrial efficiency and improve
competitiveness. These efforts involve advising clients at the appraisal
stage on technology choice. ICICI also provides technical assistance,
through its merchant banking and rehabilitation divisions, to industries
which need financial restructuring. The geographical distribution of
assisted projects is somewhat skewed toward the more industrialized states in
Western India; however, ICICI has made progress in diversifying its portfolio
geographically, and its assistance now matches more closely that of other
lenders and investors in states with the infrastructure necessary to attract
medium and large private industrial projects.
4.48    ICICI carries out an annual review of the financial performance of
417 companies in its portfolio. Of this sample analyzed for the year 1986,



-30-
the average return on equity after tax was 15.3%, and return on capital
employed was aLout 15.7% which is an improvement over the return of 14.9%
obtained in 1985. Most companies financed by ICICI have a sound capital base
with an average debt:equity ratio of 0.68. The economic impact of ICICI
financed projects has also been satisfactory. The average ex-ante economic
rate of return for 80 projects approved in 1986 was 36%. These investments
are expected to create about 38,000 new jobs at an average investment cost
per job of about US$19,400; this is reasonable in view of the concentration
on balancing and modernization. Furthermore, a significant proportion of
ICICI's clients export at least part of their output, contributing 20% to
India's manufactured exports.
4.49    Other Developmental Activities.  ICICI undertakes a broad range of
complementary activities and services aimed at enhancing its overall
developmental impact. These activities include: industrial subsector and
policy studies; identification and promotion of new projects; and training
and advisory support for other domestic and foreign financial institutions.
Most of these activities were initiated following the joint Bank/ICICI study
of ICICI's development impact in 1973. Currently, a Technology Development
Corporation is also being established as a subsidiary to assist existing
industry in adopting advanced technologies in their fields and to encourage
investments in new high technology ventures. Venture capital operations have
started in 1986. A credit rating agency is being promoted, as well as an
information services agency, in collaboration with a leading internationally
recognized firm in this field.
4.50     Financial Results and Position.  ICICI's financial results for the
1982-1986 period are summarized in Annex 2 Tables 3 and 4. ICICI has
performed exceptionally well, especially since 1984. ICICI's total assets
passed the Rs 20.0 billion mark for the first time in 1985 and increased
further to Rs 28.0 billion at the end of 1986. Assets were financed by rupee
borrowings (54%), foreign currency borrowings (33%), other liabilities (4%)
and networth (9%). The rapid growth in assets correspond to the surge in
ICICI's business since 1981. This was due to an improved investment climate
and ICICI's concerted efforts to diversify and promote new business. Net
profits after tax as a percentage of average net worth during the 1982-1986
period averaged 20% compared with 16% in 1980. The improvement in net profit
was due to higher volume of operations and lower effective tax rate on
profits. The interest rate spread increased from 2.5% in 1980 to 3.5% in
1983 and declined to 2.8% in 1986 due to the rapid increase in ICICI's
borrowing from commercial markets at higher costs to reduce reliance on
GOI-guaranteed bond issues. Administrative expenses measured as percentage
of average total assets declined from 0.6% in 1981 to 0.5% in 1984. Due to
the increase in profit, ICICI's debt: equity ratio as defined in the latest
Bank loan agreement, declined from 10.5:1 in 1981 to 9.8:1 by the end of
1984, and to 9.5 by the end of 1986. The debt service coverage ratio also
remained favorable at 1.7.



-31-
4.51    These results have been supported by the general high quality of
ICICI's portfolio. Principal in arrears at the end of 1986, at
Rs 391 million, was less than 2% of total loans outstanding. However, the
appraisal mission and ICICI's management have identified an emerging
unfavorable trend in collection performance. The arrears ratio indicated
above has actually climbed steadily in recent years from a low point of 1.4%
in 1983, and for the first half of 1987 it was slightly above 2.1%. The
collection ratio before reschedulings has dropped from 75% in 1983 to 73% in
1985 and further to 72% in 1986. Industries in the cotton and synthetic
textiles, cement, paper, chemicals and sugar subsectors account for 64% of
portfolio in arrears. ICICI identifies adverse market developments,
prolonged labor trouble, inadequacies in management and low capacity
utilization as the principal causes of companies falling back in their
payments. Rapid corrective measures to prevent further deterioration in
these companies has not always been possible because of difficulties in
agreeing with other creditors and the enterprises' management on actions
necessary. As of the end of 1986, 24% of accounts in arrears were behind
payments for more than 12 months and an additional 28% were behind for more
than 24 months. These figures represent, as in the case of IDBI, a hard core
of difficult accounts which will require intensive attention. ICICI's
management has recognized these trends as indicative of potential portfolio
problems, particularly in view of more difficult competitive conditions for
Indian industrial enterprises and will take steps to prevent portfolio
deterioration. Actions proposed by ICICI's management to address this
problem are discussed in the following paragraphs, under ICICI's future
strategic initiatives.
4.52    Future Role and Strategy.  ICICI perceives its role in the near term
future as a continuation o. its past contribution to industrial development
in India, with increased emphasis on the financing of efficient,
internationally competitive modern technology industries. Its management is
conscious that to play this role effectively under different economic and
policy conditions it will have to adopt strategies different from those that
characterized past operations. Similar to IDBI, it will be encountering
different risks as larger projects are required because of the need for
economies of scale and as first time ventures in new industrial activities
are proposed. To meet these demands and to make established industries more
competitive, upgradation and development of modern industrial processes is
necessary. To permit market forces to rati inalize industrial production,
more decisive attitudes will have to prevail on closure of unviable
enterprises, while at the same time, rehabilitation of problem, but viable,
projects will have to be undertaken more vigorously.
4.53    ICICI is well positioned to assume this changing role.  As a result
of its long and fruitful association with industry and the financial sector,
it is a well established and highly regarded institution, both in India and
internationally. It has an enviable record of profitable performance and
enjoys a sound financial position. Its management is capable and proven,
enjoying the full confidence and support of ICICI stockholders. It is



-32-
endowed with in experienced and multidisciplinary staff and has the ability
to attract ant: reLain young professional talent. It has a diversified and
stable portfolio base with a large core of prime-risk clients, and has
developed a relatively wide resource base in both foreign and local
currencies.
4.54    However, the external pressures bearing on IDBI as the result of
industrial and financial sector changes also apply to ICICI. In addition to
increased risks in industrial activity and greater competition from capital
market sources for the business of the better rated companies, ICICI will
face competition in foreign currency finance. The same group of prime
clients that can access the domestic capital markets also prefer the
international markets for foreign currency borrowings at relatively low
interest costs. On the liability side of the balance sheet and the spreads
on interest income, ICICI is facing problems similar to IDBI's for basically
the same reasons: domestic resources are becoming scarcer and costlier.
4.55    To deal with the difficult scenario described above while achieving
its stated objectives, ICICI has adopted a four-pronged strategy to be
implemented during the next five years. This strategy, to be formally
adopted by ICICI's Board before loan effectiveness, aims at: ensuring high
portfolio quality; maintaining adequate levels of profitability; diversifying
its resource base; and preserving a sound financial structure. These four
objectives are necessarily overlapping and complementary.
4.56    To ensure high portfolio quality ICICI intends to apply stricter
appraisal criteria to new projects. Minimum economic and financial rates
of return, generally no lower than 12% and 15%, respectively, will be
required. Closer monitoring of subprojects should result in early warning of
difficulties in project execution and/or sub-loan repayment. It additionally
intends to tighten collection procedures, partly by classifying accounts by
risk categories and by decentralizing collection receipt procedures. :t will
enforce expeditious rehabilitation and restructuring measures by opportunely
approaching other creditors and/or the BIFR to avoid further sub-loan
deterioration. It will enforce stricter legal recovery of unviable projects
by using the legal means at its disposal. These and the measures outlined
above have been incorporated into a separate Collection Strategy Statement
that ICICI's Board has approved in December 1987.
4.57    To maintain current levels of profitability, ICICI will aim at
ex '-_ng operations in product lines that clearly have higher margins such
as leasing and local equipment financing (lines of credit). These product
lines are also those on which collection experience is more favorable. Local
equipment financing is practically risk free as it is done through deferred
bills of exchange guaranteed by the purchaser's commercial bank and
discounted for the equipment supplier. Leasing is by its nature a high
margin operation and collection experience in leasing operations has been
near 100% because of the selected ciientele to which this product can be
marketed. Additionally, to reduce the stress on profitability from reduced



-33-
margins on borrowed funds, ICtCI plans to expand substantially activities
such as issue management, merger and acquisition counseling, letter of crediL
business and portfolio managemert, so that non-fund based income will
contribute proportionately more to profits. This part of ICICI's strategy
will be complemented by efforts at controlling administrative costs. The
automation of systems and procedures and more focused and intensive training
should contribute to controlling administrative costs as operations expand
and diversify.
4.58    To diversify its resource base, ICICI plans to continue an active
borrowing role in the international capital markets, availing of
opportunities to reduce costs and minimize foreign exchange risks for its
clients by making full use of futures, options, swaps and optimal mix of
floating and fixed rate loans. ICICI has already acquired significant
expertise in this area and has successfully raised large volumes of
commercial foreign exchange resources at low costs and hedged risks. With
respect to rupee resources, ICICI plans to diversity both the sources of
fumds and the instruments used to raise them. The idea is to progress from
drawing first on corporate sector liquidity, then to attract general public
funds for investment, and finally to begin to tap rural savings. This
progression will have to be achieved through innovative financial
instruments, of which securitization of debt and the issuance of debentures
are initial steps which ICICI is planning for FY88.
4.59    To preserve a sound financial position, in addition to the emphasis
on high portfolio quality, adequate operational margins and diversified
borrowings, ICICI is adopting stricter policies on provisions for loan
losses, and will aim for continued reinvestment of earnings and programming
of periodic equity issues. Provisions for loan losses call for write-off of
interest earned on accounts which have more than two payments in arrears, and
write-off of the principal amount of loans classified for legal recovery. At
present, provisions on both principal and interest in arrears total Rs 449.5,
or more than 50% of arrears of Rs 756 million. Considering that serious
problem loans account for Rs 532 million of the total portfolio in arrears,
the provisions cover more than 80% of these subloans, exclusive of the value
of fixed asset guarantees. With respect to net worth, ICICI has been
reinvesting profits in large percentages and will continue to do so while
maintaining very satisfactory dividends and yields per share. Consequently,
recent equity issues have had acceptance with institutional shareholders and
with the general public. Further issues of stock are programmed in the
future for a total of Rs 430 million.
4.60    Technical Assistance Program.  ICICI's medium term strategy also
calls for technical assistance support. A program has been prepared during
appraisal covering two important areas of ICICI's institution building
programs: computerization and training. This program, at a total cost of
Rs 93.0 million, will be partially funded by the Project's TA component, with
ICICI covering the balance of expenditures (Annex 3).



-34-
4.61    ICICI is at present implementing a major computerization program.
An on-line database that would improve the quality of credit decisions and
the monitoring of problem projects, together with an automation plan to
improve office productivity, form the core of this program. The plan
envisages interconnection of hardware, software, and data resources among
individual departments at Headquarters and the regional offices. These local
networks would later be connected to each other over telecommunications
channels. To carry out the initial part of the program at the regional
level, investments in software and data communication equipment are also
necessary. Fuller computerization of its operations and more effective data
processing would enable ICICI to improve its collection performance further
by an early warning system for potential portfolio problems and by more
effective and decentralized billing.
4.62    ICICI has routinely carried out training of its staff, both in-house
and externally. Current plans, however, are for intensified training in
three important areas relevant to its strategic objectives. In the first
place, as its computerization program is implemented, training in advanced
concepts of information technology would be necessary. Second, to accomplish
its resource mobilization and more focused assistance objectives, ICICI's
staff will have to acquire expertise in new financial services, innovative
resource mobilization instruments, changing international market practices
and contemporary liability management techniques. Finally, there is
continuing need for training in ICICI's traditional operations term lending
operations, with emphasis on streamlining procedures, designing systems, and
adopting review and adjustment methods. Training in these three areas will
involve attending high level seminars and courses abroad, on the job training
and observation at institutions abroad, and the hiring of consultants/
trainers to conduct in-house seminars. ICICI would submit annual training
programs and a list of candidates for foreign training to the Bank for
comment three months before the beginning of each financial year. It is
estimated that annual programs, exclusive of ICICI's regular training of its
staff, will involve about 160 staff weeks of training in computer use and
applications, DFI operations, and state-of-the art financial practices.
4.63    Projected Operations and Financial Results.  ICICI's five year
projections through 1991 call for a 15% annual rate of growth in its
operations. This is a conservative estimate considering that recent years
have witnessed a 25% of growth in operations. Loan commitments during the
next five years are expected to total Rs 83.2 billion, while disbursements
projected total Rs 41.8 billion of which the equival .nt of US$600 million
will be in foreign currencies for 35% of total disbursements. This pattern
of disbursements reflects ICICI's policy to reduce foreign exchange risk
exposure in its portfolio.
4.64    Projections are also conservative with respect to portfolio arrears.
Even though it is expected that measures to improve portfolio quality will
pay off substantially, projections are deliberately set low to reflect only
minor improvements in collections before rescheduling. These projections are



-35-
modest because of the "hard core" quality of some of the existing arrears,
and considering that the portfolio will be under heavy pressure in the co ing
years due to growing competition in the economy.
4.65    Profitability is also projected under conservative assumptions.
While the strategy calls for significant expansion of high margin operations
and non fund based income, projections for these activities are reasonably
conservative. Annual after tax profits for the period are expected to
average 1.5% of assets, and 18Z of net worth compared to 1.8Z and 24%,
respectively, in the previous five year period. While projected returns on
net worth and total assets will be lower than in the past, they will still be
satisfactory, given the vastly different environment in which ICICI will
conduct its operations in the projected period. It is expected that actual
results will be even more satisfactory as ICICI's performance has generally
exceeded projected results.
4.66    Even with the conservative assumptions for projections, the financial
condition of ICICI will continue satisfactory with a debt:equity ratio of
10:1 and a debt service coverage ratio of 1:7. The liquidity position will
remain comfortable at 20% of assets. The generation of resources through
collections, external mobilization of funds and operating surpluses, will be
adequate to maintain the projected levels of operations.



-36-
V. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SAIL
5.01    As the Government continues with the reform process, the need for the
restructuring of industries in various subsectors becomes more and more
urgent, as enterprises need to adjust to an increasingly competitive
industrial environment. This need is co&firmed by sector studies and project
work that the Bank has undertaken in recent years, most notably in steel,
capital goods, electronics, fertilizer, automotive, textiles and cement.
While such restructuring typically would involve investment in the
modernization and upgradation of physical plant as a prime component, such
investment must also be complemented with efforts to improve technical and
managerial skills. The Bank has already financed restructuring of the cement
industry in India (Ln. 2660-IN and 2661-TN), and is studying the possibility
of similar financing in other sectors.
5.02    The Bank undertook a study of the steel industry in March 1986 and
produced a Steel Sector Strategy Report in January 1987, which was
subsequently discussed with the Government. The Government has since
requested the Bank to provide US$50 million to the Steel Authority of India,
Ltd. (SAIL) under the proposed project to support technical assistance for
the restructuring of the steel industry. The request is based on (i) the
well-defined needs of SAIL; (ii) SAIL's importance as a supplier of raw
materials to most other industrial subsectors, as well as the transport and
construction sectors of the economy; and (iii) the fact that an extensive
restructuring of this corporation is already underway and significant
progress in this respect has already ueen achieved. Bank involvement in the
preparation and implementation of the technical assistance work is expected
to help ensure the future success of the restructuring of the steel industry.
A. The Steel Sector
5.03    The steel sector report examined the role of the steel sector in the
economy, analyzed the major problems confronting the sector, and suggested
the outline of a strategy for addressing these problems. The steel sector
plays a critical role in the Indian economy. In 1985/86, steel production
amounted to nine million tonnes, or Rs 34 billion (US$2.6 billion),
equivalent to 1X of GDP. Imports have held steady in recent years at the
rate of 1-2 million tonnes per year with a value of US$300-600 million, and
are expected to remain at about this level or increase in the future. The
costs of production of domestically produced steel are on average 23Z higher
than prevailing international export prices 1/, while domestic prices,



-37-
reflecting the structure of levies, taxes, and tariffs over domestic
production costs, are typically 50Z to 100% higher than international export
prices. While India has a potential comp&vrative advantage in steel
production, based on market size, industrial skills and availability of iron
ore, coal and limestone, the following constraints have developed leading to
deteriorating performance: poor condition of plant and equipment, lack of
management autonomy, overmanning, constraints in the transport and
distribution networks, inability to meet increasingly stringent pollution
control standards and limited investment funds.
5.04    Faced with falling steel costs and prices worldwide, the domestic
industry must restructure so as to be able to improve productivity and to
reduce costs. In addition to hardware-oriented technological upgradation,
equipment modernization, and debottlenecking measures, the industry will need
to adopt software-oriented improvements, for which TA, and related equipment,
are required. Annex 4 gives a brief description of the Indian steel sector,
along with a development strategy.
B. The Steel Authority of India, Ltd. (SAIL)
5.05    With assets of Rs 84 billion and a workforce of 250,000 people, SAIL
is the largest industrial undertaking in India. SAIL accounts for 63% of
crude steel production in India. Its primary assets include five integrated
steel plants, two alloy steel plants, 25 mining operations, 46 sales and
marketing offices, and 60 stockyards throughout the country. It is a limited
company wholly owned by the Government of India. In the recent past, SAIL's
autonomy in relation to the Government has been quite constrained. This
tended to lessen the accountability of management, with the result that
performance was less than satisfactory. More recently, Government has
granted increased autonomy to SAIL in operational and investment
decision-making. Through the instrument of a yearly Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU), instituted for the first time for the fiscal year
1987/88, GOI grants SAIL more autonomy, while at the same time elaborating
clear parameters of accountability. Under new management, and with
increasing autonomy and accountability, SAIL's performance has improved over
the last three years, and it has embarked on an ambitious restructuring
program. This is expected to cost Rs 67 billion (US$5.2 billion equivalent)
over the period 1988/89 to 1994/95, which SAIL expects to finance largely
from internal cash generation and direct foreign borrowing, without recourse
to support from the central Government budget. SAIL values the involvement
of the World Bank, not only for the financial assistance which it is able to
provide, but also for the analysis it can contribute on steel sector
1/ Based on 1985 data. Recent movements in international export prices
show an increasing trend.



-38-
development issues. Following discussion of the Steel Sector Strategy Study,
SAIL requested the Bank to finance and help supervise a large technical
assistance program needed to complement other steel sector restructuring
efforts. Annez 5 provides a fuller discussion of SAIL's dimensions, its
organization and management, its finances, its restructuring program, and the
need for a program of technical assistance to complement in particular
physical restructuring efforts.
C.  The Technical Assistance Program
5.06    The proposed technical assistance program was prepared by SAIL and
reviewed by a Bank mission in September 1987. The technical assistance
component would include:
(a) a study on productivity improvement and planning at SAIL;
(b) a study on environmental management and pollution control in SAIL
plants;
(c) training - a study and a training program;
(d) studies on marketing and distribution; and
(e) a study on technology upgradation at the Alloy Steel PlU.nt.
5.07    Each of these project components is summarized here in turn.  Further
detail is available in a project report prepared by SAIL which is held on the
Project File. 1/
5.08    Productivity Improvement and Planning.  The purpose of this study is
to set in place the systems and procedures that would enable SAIL's
management to meet, on a continuing basis the productivity norms and targets
which will from time to time be set and agreed with the Government in Annual
Performance Plans which form part of the MOU's signed becween SAIL and the
Government MOU's (Annex 5, para. 6). The objectives of the study would be
to:
(a) increase organizational effectiveness through improved
organizational structures and accountability/responsibility
relationships;
1/  SAIL.  Project Appraisal Eeport on SAIL Projects being considered for
World Bank Technical Assistance. October, 1987.



-39-
(b) develop and/or improve management systems and procedures, to
enable better day-to-day management and control of physical,
financial and human resources, thereby improving productivity and the
quality of operational processes; and
(c) design and implement systems for improving strategic and
operational planning at SAIL to meet corporate objectives,
particularly with respect to (i) internal resource generation through
improvements in operational processes and work practices, and (ii)
improved customer service through improvements in quality service and
delivery.
5.09    The study would be carried out at three levels, viz. (i) the
corporate head office, (ii) the individual plant, of which one (Bokaro) would
be selected for initial attention, and (iii) the Central Marketing
Organization (CMO). Interlinkages (information flows, and
role/responsibility relationships) among these three levels would be examined
also. A counterpart team comprising SAIL personnel would be formed to work
with the consultants, who would be expected to transfer necessary
methodological skills and approaches for later extension to all of the plants
by SAIL staff, and for future continual review and adjustments to meet
changing needs and requirements.
5.10    Since this study goes to the heart of SAIL's corporate mission, it
will be the nodal study with which the others must be in harmony. SAIL
therefore would like to get this study off the ground as a matter of urgency,
and possibly even before the proposed Bank loan is approved. For that reason
some retroactive financing of up to US$250,000 would be needed. The Bank has
given its approval in principle to such an arrangement, on the understanding
that the Bank's Guidelines for the Uses of Consultants would be followed.
SAIL has agreed to this, and the Bank has cleared the terms of reference and
the shortlist of consultants proposed by SAIL, as well as the Request for
Proposals. It is anticipated that this study should begin by April, 1988 and
be completed by October 1989 (Annex 6).
5.11    A total of US$2.5 million has been budgeted to meet the foreign
exchange costs of this study, based on an estimated requirement of 150
man-months of consultancy input. It is estimated that a team of ten experts
would be required to conduct the study. It is anticipated that an
internationally recruited management consulting firm with appropriate
technical credentials would lead the study, assisted most likely by local
consultants. In addition, SAIL will set up task forces comprising its own
personnel, 18 in all, to work closely with the consultants and under their
direction, in carrying out the study, and to absorb the methodological skills
involved, for later transference to all .he plants of SAIL. A Steering
Committee headed by the Chairman of SAIL is also to be constituted to
supervise the work of the consultant/SAIL team, to give guidance where
necessary, and to head off and/or resolve problems that may arise from time
to time.



-40-
5.12    Environmental tfanagement.  The environmental and pollution control
study is being undertaken in the wake of stringent new pollution control
legislation (1986) recently adopted by the Government. SAIL has already
taken steps to monitor air and water pollution caused by its plants, but
because of inadequate expertise available within SAIL and in India, not
enough has been done.
5.13    This study will be conducted in three phases spread over three years.
The first phase will involve a survey of SAIL's plants to assess the
equipment requirements for monitoring and measuring the levels of air, water,
thermal and noise pollution. In the second phase, the consultants would
analyse the data collected and assess the current level of pollution, and
suggest a comprehensive system of environmental management and pollution
control, which would then be implemented in a third phase. The timing of the
various phases is shown in Annex 6.
5.14    An amount of US$27.4 million has been budgeted for the foreign
exchange requirements of this activity. This includes: (i) US$4.1 million
for internationally recruited consultancy services, to provide for 270
man-months of services from a team of 10 experts; (ii) estimated pollution
monitoring equipment requirements of US$3 million per plant (i.e. a total of
US$15 million) and US$3.5 million for mines and the central R&D institute
combined -- these are needed to assess systematically the extent of pollution
being caused, and to identify future investment requirements; and
(iii) US$1.0 million for training.
5.15    An important feature of this assignment would be the transfer of
skills to SAIL personnel in techniques of environmental pollution control;
the provision for training, over and above that discussed below (para. 5.16),
seeks to ensure that this objective is achieved. Internationally recruited
experts will be engaged for this assignment.
5.16    Training.  A major part of SAIL's restructuring effort must involve
the training and retraining of workers, engineers and staff to meet the
demands of new technologies being introduced, and to achieve the productivity
gains being sought. Accordingly, SAIL has articulated its TA needs in this
area, and has identified the following:
(a) the need (i) to upgrade and revamp its existing training facilities,
particularly to make greater use of video and computer technologies in
training, and (ii) to change the content of its ongoing training
programs at different levels to meet changed and changing requirements
induced by recent and projected technological change in plant and
managerial processes;



-41-
(b) the need to plan and implement a massive plant-specific retraining
effort occasioned first by the Durgapur modernization, and then to be
succeeded by similar modernizations at Rourkela and IISCO; and
(c) the need to expose approximately 200 of its young engineers to
international best-practice in identified areas of steel plant
technologies, including blast furnace operations, coke ovens,
sintering, basic oxygen furnace operations, continuous casting, and
rolling mill operations.
5.17    SAIL intends to hire internationally recruited consultants to assist
in the efforts required for (a) and (b) above, for which US$675,000 has been
budgeted, based on an estimated 45 man-month requirement for (a) and (b).
Training equipment requirements for the effort at (a) are estimated at US$6
million, and includes provision for blast furnace (US$2 million) and power
plant (US$3 million) process simulators. The cost of training 200 engineers
abroad at c) above is estimated at US$4.1 million. The firms invited to bid
on this component would be operating steel companies of international repute,
not consulting firms per se.
5.18    Marketing and Distribution.  SAIL has identified the need for a
thorough-going study of marketing and distribution arrangements, which is an
are (Annex 5, para. 15) in need of improvements. The study would be divided
into four parts:
(a)  Distribution channels:    This part of the study would look first at
the present system of allocational and distributional controls and
make recommendations for their improv4-ment, in particular reassessing
the role of Government as established in the Iron and Steel Control
Order (1956). The extent to which greater use could be made of
traders in the distribution of steel would be examined, among other
alternatives.
(b) Movement: This part of the study would focus on ways of minimizing
the cost of moving steel from the plants to the consumers, taking into
account constraints imposed by Indian Rail with regard to minimum size
of rake loads, and the present infrastructure at plants and stockyards
in respect of loading/unloading equipment and storage facilities. The
study would examine alternative routes, e.g roads and waterways.
c) Infrastructure: The study will examine the present material
handling infrastructure at plants, stock yards, and service centers,
and make recommendations on how this should be changed/extended to
accommodate growing requirements and to support the strategies adopted
under (a) and (b) above.



-42-
(d) Packing: The study will specify appropriate standards for packing,
and make recommendations for required packing infrastructure at plants
and stockyards.
5.19    A total of US$2.0 million has been budgeted for the consultancy costs
of this study, to cover a team of nine experts, whose work would spread over
12 months. In addition, it will be necessary to evaluate on an experimental
basis alternative pieces of equipment for packing, and material handling. A
total of US$8.2 million has been budgeted for this purpose. Both local and
foreign consulting firms, separately or in combination, will be asked to bid
on this assignment. While local firms may be competent to handle items
mentioned in sub-paras. 5.18(a) and (b), it is anticipated that foreign firms
will be needed to address items mentioned in sub-paras. 5.18(c) and (d).
5.20    Alloy Steel Plant Survey.  The Alloy Steel Plant (ASP) at Durgapur
has remained technologically stagnant since it was set up durir,g the 1960's,
and as a result, its cost and quality competitiveness has gradually eroded.
There is need, therefore, to survey the plant, and to determine what steps
would be necessary to take to restore its competitiveness. The study would
be divided into four phases:
(a) in the first phase, the consultant will study the existing facilities
and performance of ASP in relation to the market and prepare a general
investigative report on the areas for improvement including cost-
benefit analyses for the schemes proposed;
(b) in the second phase, a detailed project report would be prepared;
(c) in the third phase, detailed engineering would be undertaken for the
schemes selected in phase two; and
(d) in the fourth phase, the consultant would assist in smooth
implementation of the scbemes selected.
5.21    The total estimated involvement of the consultants over all four
phases is 92 man-months, costing US$1.4 million in foreign exchange.
However, a decision point will come at the end of each phase, at which time
the parameters of involvement for the succeeding phase would be re-examined
and decided. Internationally recruited consultants will be needed to carry
out this study, specifically consultants with operational experience in
running specialty steel plants.
5.22    Project Implementation.  The project will be implemented over a
period of five years as diagrammed in Table 1, Annex 6. The Corporate
Planning Directorate of SAIL will bear overall responsibility for the
management and coordination of the project components. The individual



-43-
projects will be managed by senior level Project Managers who have already
been selected for each project, and have primarily been responsible for
drafting the respective study terms of reference, the implementation
schedules, and cost estimates. SAIL would carry out its technical assistance
component in accordance with an Implementation Program, agreed with the Bank,
that would spell out the administrative arrangements, schedules for carrying
out the five technical assistance studies and submission of the individual
studies to the Bank for comment. Details of the foreign training program
would be sent to the Bank for approval prior to its implementation.
5.23      ?roject Cost.  A summary project cost table is shown in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2: SUMMARY PROJECT COST
Project Llement            Local  Foreign  Total        Local  Foreign  Total
(Rs Million)               (US$ Million)
Productivity Study          13      33       46       1.0      2.5       3.5
Environmental Study        244    294       538      18.8     23.6      42.4
Training                   109    140       250       8.4     10.8      19.2
Distribution Study          95    133       228       7.3     10.2      17.5
ASP Plant Survey             4      18       22       0.3      1.4       1.7
Base Cost                  465    618    1,083       35.8     48.5      84.3
Physical Contingencies      47      62      109       3.6      4.9       8.5
Price Contingencies         88      16      104       6.8      1.2       8.0
Project Cost               600    710    1,310      46.2      54.6    100.8
Note: (US$1 = Rs 13.0)
Source: SAIL, and staff estimates.
This shows a total base cost estimate of US$84.3 million, of which
US$48.5 million is in foreign exchange. Of the local currency cost of
US$35.8 million (Rs 465 million) duties and taxes amount to US$30.4 million
(Rs 396 million). The bases of the calculations of physical and price
contingencies are set out in para. 3.04. Consultancy fees have been
estimated at US$15,000 per man-month, inclusive of fees and expenses, based
on recent consultancies in this field with which the Bank h..s been involved.
Including contingencies, the total foreign exchange requirement amounts to
US$53.0 million, and the total project cost to US$95.0 million. Interest
charges during implementation are expected to amount to about US$3.2 million.



-44-
The allocation of the loan, by project element and by disbursement category,
is shown in Annex 6, Table 2. The financing plan is shown in Table 3.2.
VI. PROPOSED LOANS
A. Terms and Conditions
6.01    The loan of US$310 million for industrial credit would be made to
India at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with a repayment period
of 20 years, including five years of grace, and would be onlent to the DFIs
under the terms of subsidiary loan agreements between GOI and each DFI.
Draft subsidiary loan agreements were discussed and agreed during
negotiations and their signature would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
The US$50 million technical assistance loan for industrial sector
restructuring would be made directly to SAIL with the guarantee of the
Government of India, also at the Bank's standard variable interest rate with
a repayment period of 20 years including five years of grace.
6.02    Relending Terms and Conditions.  The US$310 million loan would be
onlent by OI to the DFIs in local currency at an interest rate of ll%, which
in turn would relend the proceeds to final borrowers at 14%, the prescribed
rate for non-concessional lending by the DFIs. This would leave a spread for
the DFIs of 3%, which is conrwidered appropriate for this Loan in view of
their projected administrative costs and repayment risks. The rupee lending
rate to subborrowers of 14Z p.a. is highly positive in real terms in view of
the current and projected inflation rate of 6% and is consistent with the
overall structure of interest rates in India. The Government will
periodically review the relending rates of DFIs 1/, in relation to changes in
inflation and other market conditions and adjust the relending rates as
necessary to ensure that rates on new subloans remain positive in real terms,
are reflective of market conditions and provide a reasonable spread to the
DFIs. GOI would bear both the foreign exchange and interest rate risks for
this loan.
6.03    Subproject Eligibility Criteria.  An eligible enterprise is defined
as an industrial enterprise in the private, joint and cooperative sectors,
which is engaged or intends to engage in manufacturing or processing. An
eligible subproject would involve the establishment, expansion and/or
balancing, modernization and replacement proposal of an eligible enterprise
which meets minimum economic and financial viability criteria. For these
1/ Including those for the Industrial Export (Engineering Products)
Project Part B of the Cement Industry Project and this Project,



-45-
purposes, all appraisals would include detailed subproject analysis showing
the economic and financial rates of return of subproject proposals, which to
be acceptable to the Bank would generally have a minimum economic rate of
return of 12% and a financial rate of return of 15Z. An enterprise should
have an acceptable capital structure such that with the new subloan the
debt:equity ratio of the enterprise would not exceed 70:30. These financial
and economic parameters for investment enterprises and subprojects are
contained in the Agreed Minutes of Negotiations.
6.04    Subloan Terms and Conditions.  The relending terms and conditions
reflect the policies of the DFIs and agreements reached with the Bank as
follows:
(a)  all subloans would be denominated in rupees;
(b)  the final lending rate would be 14% p.a. or the applicable rate set
after the periodic interest rate review under the proposed project;
(c)  the amount of the Bank loan allocated to a single enterprise would
not exceed US$20 million, either singly or jointly financed by IDBI
and ICICI;
(d)  subloan maturities would be at least three years and up to a
maximum of fifteen, including a grace period of up to
three years; and
(e)  Both DFIs would be.ve a free limit of US$6.0 million.  Since this
is the first Bank loan to finance IDBI's direct lending operations,
the Bank would review the first ten subproject proposals regardless
of size. It is anticipated that under these procedures, the Bank
would review 14% of the number and 45% of the amount of subloans by
IDBI. Similarly, for ICICI, above free-limit loans to be reviewed by
the Bank would constitute 12% of the number and 35% of the amount.
6.05    Policy, Strategy, and Collection Statements.  Each DFI has adopted
policy, strategy and collection statements. These documents, which are
described more fully in Chapter IV, will serve as internal guidelines for
the conduct of DFI operations and as reference documents for Project
supervision and monitoring of agreed courses of action between the DFIs and
the Bank. These statements cover a wide variety of issues including
institutional objectives, financial projections, adjustments in
organizational structure, improvement in appraisal standards and procedures
with minimum financial and economic returns on projects financed and measures
to improve project supervision and collection with a view to achieving
specific collection targets. Drafts of these three statements had been
discussed at appraisal and were agreed during negotiations. Any substantial
change in these documents would be discussed with the Bank.



-46-
6.06    Financial Covenants.  In accordance with their current policies and
future strategies, the DFIs would have to maintain appropriate capital
adequacy and liquidity ratios. The DFIs are committed to maintain:
(a) a maximau debt:equity ratio of 12:1; and
(b) a minimum debt service cover ratio of 1.2:1.
B. Administrative Procedures
6.07    Procurement.  Under the credit component, for conatracts exceeding
$8 million equivalent, the DFIs would irqist that sub-borrowers follow
international competitive bidding proce.Ares in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. For other contracts, procurement would be done in accordance
with the DFIs' internal procedures which are acceptable to the Bank.
Presently, the DPIs require their borrowers to submit three competitive and
responsive quotations for all procurement. For each withdrawal application,
the concerned DFI would have to certify that the agreed procurement
procedures have been followed. The DFIs would maintain records of the method
of procurement, summarizing offers and awards for each subproject. The Bank
would periodically review these records on a sample basis in the course of
regular project supervision.
6.08    For the SAIL and DPI technical assistance components, tendering for
all Bank financed contracts for goods expected to exceed US$500,000 in value
will be on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
World Bank Guidelines. Such packages would be subject to prior Bank review
and approval of related tender documents, bid evaluations, and contract
awards. A preference of 15%, or the level of custom duties, whichever is
less, would apply for domestic bidders under international competitive
bidding for goods contracts. Contracts of less than US$500,000 each would be
procured by inviting price quotations from at least three suppliers. However
in respect of SAIL, the aggregate of such contracts would not exceed
US$8 million. Limited International Bidding (LIB) or direct purchase would
be permitted when the equipment or goods to be procured involve proprietary
technology, subject to prior Bank review and approval. Table 6.1 shows a
breakdown of procurement method, by category.
6.09    Employment of consultants by the DFIs and SAIL would be in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency". Appointment of all
consultants and their terms of reference would be subject to the prior
approval of the Bank.



-47-
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US $ Million)
Table 6.01: PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method
Project Element        ICB/LIB        IS        CON            Total
Credit Component        45.0         705.0                      750.0
-Bank                (35.0)       (265.0)                    (300.0)
IDBI Technical
Assistance             2.0           5.0       3.0             10.0
-Bank                 (1.0)         (2.0)     (2.0)            (5.0)
ICICI Technical
Assistance             1.5           2.5       3.0              7.0
-Bank                 (1.0)         (2.0)     (2.0)            (5.0)
Productivity Study                               4.2              4.2
-Bank                                         (2.5)            (2.5)
Environmental           43.2                     7.5             50.7
-Bank                (20.0)                   (4.5)           (24.5)
Training                13.3                     9.7             23.0
-Bank                 (6.1)                   (4.9)           (11.0)
Distribution            18.2                     2.7             20.9
-Bank                 (8.4)                   (2.1)           (10.5)
ASP Surv4y                                      (2.0)             2.0
-Bank                                         (1.5)            (1.5)
Total                  123.2         712.5      32.1            867.8
-Bank                (71.5)      (269.0)    (19.5)           (360.0)
Notes:
ICB means International Competitive Bidding.
IS means International Shopping.
LIB means Limited International Bidding.
CON means in accordance with consultancy selection guidelines.
Source: Staff estimates



-48-
6.10    Disbursements.  Under the credit component, the Bank loan would
finance 80Z of the amount of DFI loans to eligible enterprises, or 100% of
the foreign cost of imported equipment financed by the sub-loans. This
procedure has been adopted to allow the DFIs to be reimbursed for estimated
average foreign exchange costs of subprojects, which in most cases is around
40Z of project cost. However, there are a number of cases where the DFIs
finance only equipment imports, particularly where they are minority partners
under consortium arrangements and in the case of simple balancing or
modernization projects. In these cases, 100% financing of CIF imports would
be appropriate. For the DFI and SAIL technical assistance component, the
proposed loan would finance 100l of the foreign exchange cost of imported
equipment and foreign consultants and training and 100% of the ex-factory
cost of domestically procured equipment under ICB procedures. It would also
finance up to 100% of the fees of local consultants and trainers and 601 of
expenditures in locally purchased equipment procured under other than ICB
procedures.
6.11    In accordance with the Bank's current disbursement profiles for DFI
projects and the Bank's experience in similar technical assistance projects,
it is expected that the US$310 million loan will be committed in two years
and disbursed over six years, while the SAIL loan is expected to be committed
in two years and disbursed over f.ve years. However, from the strength of
the DFIs' pipeline of eligible projects and the overall volume of their
operations it is very likely that disbursements of the credit component could
be completed in three years.
6.12    Since disbursements by the DFIs to industrial enterprises would be in
local currency, disbursements by the Bank would be made on a reimbursement
basis through a Special Account, which would be established for the project
in RBI, with an authorized allocation of US$40.0 million, or about four
months disbursements over a three year disbursement period (para. 6.11).
After Loan effectiveness, the Bank would deposit into the Special Account the
stated amount, through the submission of the usual Withdrawal Application,
which would serve as the revolving fund. The Bank would replenish the
Special Account on the basis of requests for reimbursements on a quarterly
basis or whenever the amount in each Special Account reaches 50% of the
initial deposit. Reimbursement to the DFIs would be made against Statement
of Expenditures (SOE) for projects which are below their free limits.
Supporting documentation under SOEs would be retained by the DFIs and would
be subject to review by Bank supervision missions, and to annual audit by
auditors acceptable to the Bank, such audit is to be submitted within four
months after the close of each financial year. For all sub-loans in excess
of free limits having prior Bank approval, the DFIs would fully document
Withdrawal Applications when requesting replenishments to the Special
Account.
6.13    For the steel component, a Special Account would be opened with
SAIL's bank, the State Bank of India, with an initial deposit of
US$3.0 million. For the Special Account, SAIL will maintain a Statement of



-49-
Expenditure (SOE) for disbursements made from this account. SOE's would be
submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis, and would be subject to review by
Bank supervision missions, and to annual audit by auditors acceptable to the
Bank, such audit to be submitted within four months after the close of each
financial year.
6.14    Retroactive financing up to US$250,000 may be required for the
Corporate Planning and Productivity Study of the SAIL TA in respect of which
proposals have been invited with the clearance of the Bank (para. 5.10).
6.15    Reporting and Audits.  Each DFI would submit to the Bank semi-annual
progress reports on commitments, disbursements, collections and arrears under
the project and for the institution as a whole. Financial statements would
also be submitted by the DFIs in conformity with the Bank's standard
reporting requirements, including the submission of audited financial
statements, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, within
four months of the close of each financial year. Audit of SOEs (para. 6.14)
would be submitted four months after the close of each financial year. After
full disbursement of a subloan, the DFI would prepare a subproject completion
report, comparing actual vs. projected costs and benefits of the subproject.
After closing of the Project the two DFIs would prepare and submit an overall
operational audit report of the Project's experiences and results within six
months of the closing date.
6.16    As a public sector enterprise, SAIL is already subject to stringent
audit requirements, and has made available to the Bank its annual audited
reports of accounts for the past three years. SAIL would continue to submit
a copy of its audited accounts, including audited SOEs, within seven months
of the end of its fiscal year, as long as the loan remains outstanding. The
auditors would be acceptable to the Bank. SAIL will carry out an operational
audit of each of the TA components financed under the Project within four
months of submission of the consultants' final report. The audit reports
would cover all aspects of implementation pertinent to the achievement of the
objectives defined in the TOR, and take into account considerations of
timeliness, cost-effectiveness, and efficiency. SAIL will prepare and submit
an overall Project Completion Report within six months of the Project Closing
Date.
C. Project Benefits and Risks
6.17    Benefits.  The proposed project would support the on-going process
of industrial policy reform in India and would provide a basis for continued
dialogue on its future course. It would support GOI's strategy for expanding
and modernizing industry and assist in the adjustment process as it affects
both the DFIs and the real sector. The technical assistance programs and the
policy, strategy and loan collection statements that were prepared in the



-50-
context of aprraisal of the Project would support the DFIs in imp:oving the
quality of appraisals and the management of risk and portfolio accounts and
mobilization of resources in the more difficult environment which is emerging
as part of the liberalization process. The loan would provide needed term
financing to the DFIs and finance about 80 subprojects, resulting in
investments of about US$750 million. The subprojects financed are expected
to generate about 28,000 new full-time work places at an average cost per job
of US$26,785.
6.18    The Steel TA component would assist SAIL in its restructuring
effo;ts, aimed ultimately at improving the competitiveness of the domestic
industry, reducing costs, and lowering steel prices in real terms. This
would be to the benefit of downstream users of steel, a group which includes
virtually all major segments of the economy. This TA component provides a
necessary complement to the physical investments in plant modernization and
debottlenecking, which must also take place if international competitiveness
is to be restored. The improvements in both hardware and software would
bring about efficiency improvements which would facilitate longer-term trade
and other liberalization measures.
6.19   Both the DFI and SAIL components would also contribute to greater
consciousness and actual measures to protect the environment by industrial
entrepreneurs and managers. The DFIs have adopted clear environmental
guidelines in their Policy statements to promote investments required for
cleaner processes in existing industries and to abstain from financing new
projects that do not meet GOI's guidelines on the matter. In the case of
SAIL, one of the key components of the technical assistance program aims at
determining the extent of pollution in steel production, the measures
required to reduce it and the investments necessary to carry these measures
out.
6.20    Risks.  With the changing industrial policy environment consequent
upon policy reforms, individual enterprises, established under a more
protected and regulated environment, could experience difficulties. Tne
quality of the portfolio of the DFIs could deteriorate further as a result of
the more competitive environment and the effect of possible future exchange
rate adjustments on the repayment capacity of enterprises which have borrowed
abroad. The technical assistance programs and collection strategies provided
for under the Project would reduce this risk by ensuring a detailed review of
existing portfolio, establishment of better portfolio information for early
warning of possible problem subprojects, stricter appraisal standards, better
portfolio management through close subproject supervision and intensive
collection and recovery efforts. Careful attention would be given during
supervision to these activities and the realization of agreed collection
targets.
6.21    The risks on the steel technical assistance component are minimal as
SAIL is committed to the technical assistance program, is expected to have
sufficient internal cash generation to finance its share of the technical



-51-
assistance program and has made adequate arrangements for the management and
staffing of the various studies. There is, however, a small risk that the
chosen consultants would not perform as expected. However, this risk would
be mitigated by the fact that the terms of reference have been carefully
drafted and approved by the Bank, the selection of consultants would be in
accordance with Bank guidelines and subject to the prior approval of the Bank
and careful arrangements have been made to ensure that counterpart SAIL staff
work closely with the consultants in all cases.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements and/or Understandir.gs Reached during Negotiations
7.01    Interest Rate Reviews.  GOI confirmed in a separate letter its
intention to periodically review the relending rates of the DFIs, including
those for this Project, the Industrial Export (Engineering Products) Project
and Part B of the Cement Project (para. 6.02)
7.02    Policy Strategy and Collection Strategy Statements.  The DFIs'
respective Boards approved, in December 1987, policy, strategy and collection
strategy statements. These -were reviewed by the Bank and found substantially
in accord with understandings reached in these respects at appraisal. The
Bank would be kept informed of important changes in these statements by the
DFIs (para. 6.05).
7.03    Eligibility Criteria and Subloan Terms and Conditions.  The
eligibility criteria and subloan terms and conditions for the credit
component of the Project were agreed upon by COI/DFIs and the Bank during
negotiations as outlined in paras. 6.03 and 6.04.
7.04    Procurement and Disbursements.  During negotiations it was agreed
that the DFIs/SAIL would observe procurement procedures consistent with World
Bank guidelines except that for contracts under US$8 million and US$500,000,
respectively, for the credit and technical assistance components, the
institutions can follow their internal procurement procedures (paras.
6.07-6.39). These exceptions are detailed in the IDBI and ICICI Project
Agreements and in the SAIL Loan Agreement.
7.05    During negotiations GOI and the Bank agreed on disbursement
procedures and on the establishment of a Special Account at RBI for the Loan
to COI for the DFIs and a Special Account at the State Bank of India (SBI)
for the Loan to SAIL (paras. 6.10 - 6.14).
7.06    Financicl Covenants, Audits and Reporting Requirements.  During
negotiations it was agreed that both IDBI and ICICI would maintain



-52-
appropriate capital and liquidity positions. For this purpose a mximum
debt:equity ratio of 12:1 and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.2:1
were agreed upon (para. 6.06).
7.07    Audit and reporting requirements for the IDBI, ICICI, SAIL, the
project components, and the Special Accounts were discussed and agreed upon
as indicated in paras. 6.12-6.13 and 6.15-6.16.
7.07    Condition of Effectiveness.  Final drafts of proposed subsidiary loan
agreements between GOI and the DFIs were agreed upon, reflecting the agreed
relending terms and conditions, subproject eligibility criteria and sub-loan
terms and conditions (paras. 6.03 and 6.04). Signing of the subsidiary loan
agreements between GOI and IDBI and between GOI and ICICI, both satisfactory
to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan to the
Government. No special condition of effectiveness applies to the SAIL loan.
B. Recommendation
7.08    The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of
US$310 million to the'Government of India, and a Bank Loan of US$50 million
to the Steel Authority of India Limited with the guarantee of India, both at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate and under conditions outlined in
Chapter VI.



INDIA
INDUSTRbIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INDWSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Organization and Operational Data
II. a          .                   _Upibi  .           _      P.            _     C..                _ am
MP imgmi of WC.MlSC  * nm adk Bud       9 Pd                   pmadmda aedva,ai he,   aped.. allmn        S  i m
NW".                _._maad                 some                   of pm   
1   1     ~    ~~~~ U"SU  Q ingn         na
.m. hU __1   _r. _                     ,     _
*:w~S__.  I1 g1            "  11         a I            i
I~~~~&I
Mdbw                    .                Poo af.
I s" 011       I          I I        I1I
*- mii mu           in~  aim sw
l.___     ~~~ I-  -:=          1    1--- I____
* ~~~~~~        60 admi umme i.
* ~~~u  ~~.    0u smi aut ma..
*- -            I paduI pmd
em                     adi q-                                                                                  '1.
*              _W                                                                              IO
1 _* Iat  a.uauimmbd..



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 8
Table 1
INDIA
IWDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVEmWPKENT BANK OF INDIA
Resource Position as of September 30, 1987
---  - -   ---(Rs.Billions)   -                     _--__---__
(Rupees)
Share Capital           4.75
Reserves                6.39
Loans                  90.26
Deposits                  7.3
Curr.Liabs & provs   14.01
Total Resources       116.13
Loan Portfolio
& Investments        109.66
Other Assets            5.42
115.08
Resources Avail.
For Disbursnent        i.05
Undisbursed Comitntst             51.8
N.C9
*includes US$ 228 sillion in foreign currency loans
Rs.100-US    7.79



INDIA
INDUSTI.AL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Actual and Projected S actios cnd Disbuirsmtet
(as. million)
Finc I Veer Endimg June       1983         1984        1955        1986         1987        19U         1969        1990         1991        1992
SAUTICT  S
Direct Assictaoce             4,742.70    7,584.20    12,104.90   15,021.20   17,629.00   20,273.35   23,314.35   26,811.51    10,533.23   35,4 8.22
lefinmace                     8,453.40    5,926.50    13,320.80    15,543.60    18,830.00   21,654.50   24,902.68   28,638.08    32,933.79   37,673.26
Sills IediscouatinS           5,140.90    7,401.80    6,556.10    9,298.60   10,386.00   11,424.60    12,567.06    13,623.77    1S,206.14   16,126.76
Otber.                          526.30       621.00    1,269.50    1,096.00     1,846.00    1,370.00    1,507.00    1,657.70     1,823.47    2,005.S2
Total                        19,063.30   24,533.50   33,251.30   40,961.40   48,691.00   54,722.45   62,291.09    70,931.05   60,796.63    92,064.65
DISSU IIEiZMTS
Direct Assistnace             4,629.00    5,478.00    6,029.00    7,766.00    9,913.50    16,416.53    19,168.21   22,096.63    25,411.12    29,222.79
Refiaaiice                    6,501.00    8,024.00    9,614.00   10,924.00   13,023.60   16,240.86   18,677.01   21,475.56   24,100.34   28,40S.39
bills llediecousting          3,1t28.00    5,594.00    4,946.00    6,970.00    7,766,30    5,568.45    9,425.30   10,367.62    11,404.61    12.545.07
Others                          466.00      490.00    1,079.00    1,012.00    1,58.00    1,100.00    1,210.00    1,331.00    1, 46.10    1,610.51
Total                         15,1124.00   19,556.00   21,663.00   26,672.00   32,285.40   42,325.65   45,430.51   55,274.01   62,960.17   71.73.76
La
I
T0



ANNE 1
Page 4 of 8
Table 3
INDIA
nDUSTRIAL FINA.NCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INDUSTRIA, DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Actual and Projected Income Statements
…-                            Rs. billions)--------------…----
FYE JUNE 30TH                       1983       1984      1985       19B6      1997       1998      1989       1990      1991       1992
----------------(Actual)----------------            ---------------(Projected)--------------
Incose
Total Income                        3.84      4.90       6.48      8.14       9.90      12.67     15.36      16.37    21.70    25.54
Expenses
Interest                            2.65      3.40       4.43      5.53       6.83      9.22    10.61        13.33    16.01       19.56
Financial Charges                   0.03      0.04       0.04      0.06       0.09       0.09      0.09       0.10      0.11       0.12
Provisions                          0.49      0.69       1.04       1.20      1.33       1.86      1.93       2.06      2.30       2.59
Admin.                              0.11       0.13      0.16       0.20      0.22       0.26      0.30       0.34      0.39       0.45
Total Expenses                      3.29      4.25       5.67       6.99      8.46      10.43     12.93      15.93     18.81      21.72
Net Incose                          0.56      0.65       0.91       1.15      i.44       2.24      2.43       2.54      2.89       3.62
Dividends                           0.15      0.22       0.3k      0.00       0.44       0.45      0.50       0.53      0.59       0.62
Reserves                            0.41      0.43       0.49       1.15      1.00       1.79      1.93       2.01      2.30       3.20
RATIOS
ROE                                 14.0%      12.1%     12.3%      14.91     15.9l    20.1%       17.9%      15.5%     14.9%      16.9%
on                                  N1.2X       1.1%      1.21       1.4%       1.4%      1.8Z      1.6%       1.4%       1.4%      1.6%
Source: IDOR.



MW 1
Page 5 of 8.
Table 4
INDIA
INDUSTtIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANE PROJECT
INDUSUIAL DOVEO                            OF INDIA
.tual and Projected Balance Shoots
.e-as. Billious-.    -                                                    ------------
EvE JCNE oS                       1         4 ;5 Q84  1?95    1986      1987      1;38      199W      1990      1991      !-92
-------- tActual …-----------------    ---------------…--cjected --------------
ASSETS
Cash ana Bank Balances            0.;2      1.97     3.02      4.91      5.46      5.33      4.93      4.33      4.33      4.33
Other assets and Advances        11.03    12.47    15.96    17.97    21.91    25.39    29.38   3'.74    39.57    43.95
Current Assets                   :1.35    14.44    19.99    22.79    27.27    30.71    34.21    38.07    42.90    48.29
Loans * Investeents              31.31    32.53    45.57    54.86    66.23    96.54   105.89   127.64   152.11   179.77
Bills Rediscounted                7.15    10.33    11.60    14.41    17.08    19.36    21.79    24.29    26.92    29.74
Other Assets                      0.08      0.10     0.22      0.35      0.45      0.50      0.55      0.60      0.66      0.73
TGTAL ASSETS                    49.99    63.40    76.37    92.40   111.03   137.11   162.43   190.60   222.59   258.52
LIAIILITIES AND NETLORTH
Payables                          2.70     3.97      4.73      5.62      7.65      9.26    10.36    11.17    11.95    13.08
CPLTO                            0.22       1.07      1.76     2.56      2.64      3.02      5.50      1.84      2.79     3.30
Current Liabilities              2.92      4.94      6.49       .19     10.29    12. -      15. h     13.01    i4.73    16.0O
Long Tere Cebt                  42.49    52.25    62.89    75.79    90.96   112.29   131.74   159.72   196.99   218.02
Share :aaital                    2.56      3.95      4.15      4.45      4.75      5.25      5.56      6.25      6.55     6.95
Reserves                          1.93     2.36      2.85      3.99      5.03      7.30      9.27    11.62    14.33    17.57
Total Equity                      4.49     6.21      7.00      8.44      9.79    12.55    14.93    17.97    20.88    24.42
TOTAL LIABILITlIES              49.89    63.40    76.37    92.40   111.03   137.11   162.43   190.60   222.59   259.52
AND NETNOR-H --…----------------------------- - -                                               - ----------
Contingent Liabi:ities            0.30     0.38       1.49     3.00      3.50      3.90      4.40      4.90      5.50     6.20
RATIOS:
M£hT.rMMl7 y  StIMV                 aa     C OA A^t nh                     th     !66        @ 0      10407    10O        0.9
Sr ..   109_... - .    - - - - - - .  - .      - .     - - - .  - _  - - .          - ,
Source: 1081.



ANEX 1
Page 6 of 8
Table 4
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INDUSTRTAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Actual and Projected Caeh Flow Stateanwut
…._________-----…Re.  Billions ----------------------
FYE 3UNE 3.TH                      1993      !?B4      1995      1986       1987      1989      1969      1990      1991      199
----------------(Actual)-----------------    ------ ---(Projected)--------------
Sources
Opening Cash                       0.55      0.32      1.99      3.43      4.96       5.83      5.33      4.83      4.33      4.33
Operations(Int.& Other Inc)    3.55          4.34      6.36      9.00      9.12      12.32    14.97    17.92    21.19    24.97
Share Capital                      0.55      1.30      0.30      0.30      0.30       0.50      0.30      0.70      0.30      0.30
Loan Drawdouns                     8.93    11.81      12.93    14.70    17.36    21.95    24.95    29.91    30.04    34.04
Repayeents                         5.99      B.23      9.69    12.75    15.54    19.26    21.78    25.57    29.72    34.32
Dispcsal of Investments            0.02      0.03      0.06      0.14      0.10       0.10      0.10      0.10      0.10      0.10
… -  -             _    __  _                   --  -  -    -----
Total                             19.59    26.03    31.32    39.32    47.39    59.96    67.43    78.93    85.69    98.06
USES:
Disbursements                     15.82    19.59    21.67    26.67    32.29    42.33    48.48    55.27    62.98    71.78
Repayments                         0.51      0.90      1.62      1.75      2.70       2.64      3.06      5.50      1.84      2.79
Dividend                           0.11      0.15      0.22      0.32      0.00       0.44      0.45      0.50      0.53      0.59
Others(Interest)                   2.90      3.40      4.40      5.61      6.57       9.22    10.61      13.33    16.01    18.56
Closing Cash                       0.34      1.99      3.41      4.97      5.82       5.33      4.93      4.33      4.32      4.35
___ _   _ _ _   _ __  _  __  ____  _  ___  _____    _   _- _   __ -  _  -_
Total                             19.59    26.03    31.32    39.32    47.38    58.96    67.43    78.93    85.68    98.06
DSCR:                              1.59      1.61      1.65      1.90       1.91      1.93      1.77      1.75      1.79      1.93
Source: IDBI.



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 8
Table 6
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELPEN  SAK OF INDIA
Direct Lending Operations
Collection Performance Before Rescheduling
…I ----.------------------- s. Billions-----------------------
YEAR                                 1983      1984       1095       1986       1997
Amount Overdue
At Beginning Of Year                 1.68      0.98       0.92       1.15       1.29
Aeount Falling Due
During Year                         2.46       4.17       4.98       5.93      7.62
Asount Collected
During Year                         2.37       2.83       3.47       4.46      5.98
COLLECTION RATIO:                   57.22      55.02    59.82        63.02     67.12
Collection Performance After Rescheduling
-----------  (Rs.billions) ------------- 
YEAR                                 1993      1994       1995       1986      1987
Amount Overdue
At Beginning Of Year                 1.68      0.98       0.92       1. 15     1.29
Amount Falling Due
During Year                         2.46       4.17       4.98      5.93       7.62
Amount Collected
During Year                         2.37       2.83       3.47      4.46       5.99
Amount Rescheduled
During Year                         0.79       1.40       1.29       1.29      1.41
COUL.ETIQN RAT1ln                   70.77      75.51    75.1t        77.02     79.7n
_ _-  _ - _ _ - _ _ - _ _ - _ _ _ - _ , -_-_… - .--     -   -  -     -    -     …
Source: 1D09.



ANN  1
Page 8 of a
INDIA                           Table 7
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOdMENT BANK OF INDIA
Direct Lending Operations
Arrears of Principal Before Rescheduling
… R_  _                                  R.  Billions --_-___-_-___-_-__-_-_-
YEAR                               1983       1984      1985      1986       1987
Aeount Rescheduled
During Year                        0.36       0.75      1.09      0.68        0.8
Arrears At Year End                0.67       0.76      0.84      0.94       0.94
Loans Outstanding                 19.11    23.12    27.60    33.83    42.13
ARREARS RATIO:                      5.42       6.51      7.0%      4.81       4.12
Arrears Of Principal After Rescheduling
------------(Rs.billions)--------------
YEAR                               1983       1984      1985      1996       1987
Arrears At Year End                0.67       0.76      0.84      0.94       0.94
Loans Outstanding                 19.11     23.12    27.60    33.83    42.13
ARREARS RATIO:                      3.5%       3.32      3.02      2.82       2.22
Source: IDBI.



INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1HE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Organizational and Functional Chart
DIRECTO
I                        I                                      . D*           I                             1PR                      1
FIIIANCE              PLANNING                                             GenINISTR^tlON   OPERAltONS   SffCt^L OI"IiYTuIONA       S
General manager    Deputy General Manager       Deun   irco                       nra      narr
1   Ac:unts         1.  Corporate Planning    1.  Development Program           1.  Appraisal            l.  Merchant Banking           1.  Secretariat
2.  Inestments    2.  Corporate Policy          2.  Administrative Services  2   Supervision             2.  toeoing                    2.  Shares Ragiatt
3.  Foleign Ex-    3.  Resource Mobilization 3.  Estotes                        3.  Collection           3.  Venture Capital
cRange                                                                    4.  Legal Recovery       4.  Industrial Rehabilitetion
A.  billing                                                                     5.  Operations           S.  Export Devolepient
!'.  Cooiputerization                                                                 Coordination       6.  Export Development
e.  Vus                                                                         S.  Operations Systems 7.  Ecenomicw
7.  Regional Offictes   S.  Pub. of Public Relations
S.  Personnel
*Alao  oak  after Administrativ  Services and Eat :e.                                                                                            lbr 
0
GoI



AM= I
Page 2 of 8
Tabl.l 1
INDIA
NDUSTRI  FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Resource Position as of October 8,1987
--------------------------------------
…-------(billions)---------------
(Rupees)                                (US$)
Share Capital         0.80
Reserves              2.14
Loans                 16.10              1.25
Deposits & Other      2.25               2.24
Total Resources      21.29               1.25
Loan Portfolio       16.56               0.77
Investments           1.21
Advance Payments
to for.creditors     0.70
Other Assets           1.96
20.43              0.77
Resources Avail.
For Disbursement     0.86               0.48
Undisbursed Commitments.* Rs.5.12
N.B
*includes US$ 141 million in foreign currency loans
Rs.100=US$ 7.79



INDIA
INDUSTRIRIL FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND IHVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA (ICICI)
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS 1982-1991
Actual                                 Projected
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Fiscal Year Ending Sanctions
Loans   Rupee                        1816    1903    2381    2971    3920    5060    5820    6690    7700    83SO
- Lines -f credit               296     337      550      871    1360    1650    1900    2180    2510    2690
- Forei1n currency              915    1254    1447    1700    3570    3440    3960    4550    5230    6020
Equity Investments                     40       92      63       82      470     550      630     730      840      960
Bond/deb. Investments                  188     220      370      63      240     240      280     320      370      420
Leasing                                -       121      196     281    1040    1100    1350    1550    1750    2000
Guarantees                             166     260      236     183      230     250      290      330     380      440
Total                        3421    4187    5243    6151   10830   12290   14220   16350   18770   21570
Disbursements
Loans - Rupee                        1697      1775   2117    2218    2840       3530   4060      4670   5370    6170
- Linoe of credit               102       293    315      544     810      1000   1150      1320   1520    1750
- Foroign currency             1018      1096   1204    1345    1790       2170   2500      2870   3300    3801
Equity Investments                     60        80      51      77       70       100    120       130    150      170
Bond/dab. Investmonts                  45        72      45      38      140       180    210       240    270      310
Leasing                                -         32    119      159      370      600    700       900   1100    1300
Guarantees                                       -        3       5       10        20     20        30     30       30
Total                        2922     3348   3854    4386    6030        7600   8750    10160  11750   13540
w0



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 8
Table 3
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LTD.
Actual and Projected Balance Sheets
--------------------------Rs. Billions---------------------
FVE DEC 31ST                       1982       1983      1984      1985       1986      1987      1988       19B9      1990       1991
----------------(Actual)----- - ---------…- -…-Pro
Incose
Interest on Loans & Debs.          1.12       1.30      1.54      1.96       2.51      2.88      3.43       4.05      4.77      5.62
Fees and Commission                0.04       0.05      0.07      0.14       0.27      0.25      0.40       0.61      0.85       1.14
Other income                       0.01       0.01      0.01      0.01       0.15      0.22      0.23       0.25      0.26      0.29
Total Incose                       1.17       1.36      1.62      2.11       2.93      3.35      4.06       4.91      5.89      7.05
Expenses
Interest                           0.80      0.90       1.16      1.44       1.92      2.19      2.74       3.40      4.16      5.05
Provisions./lrite offs*            0.01       0.03      0.00      0.00       0.15      0.13      0.15       0.17      0.20      0.23
Salaries & Personnel               0.02       0.03      0.03      0.04       0.05      0.07      0.09       0.10      0.12      0.14
Depreciation                       0.01       0.02      0.02      0.02       0.11      0.14      0.24       0.36      0.50      0.66
Other                              0.02       0.04      0.05      0.07       0.07      0.10      Q.13       0.14      0.15      0.17
Total Expenses                     0.86       1.02      1.26      1.57       2.20      2.63      3.34       4.17      5.13      6.25
Profit Before Tax                  0.31       0.34      0.36      0.54       0.73      0.72      0.72       0.74      0.75      0.80
Tax                                0.12       0.13      0.15      0.16       0.12      0.12      0.11       0.11      0.11      0.12
Profit After Tax**                 0.19       0.21      0.29      0.38       0.61      0.60      0.61       0.63      0.64      0.69
Dividends                          0.04       0.04      0.06      0.08       0.09      0.13      0.14       0.15      0.17      0.19
Reserves                           0.15       0.17      0.22      0.30       0.52      0.47      0.47       0.48      0.47      0.49
* interest incoae for 1984,1985 is net of provisions and write-offs
##1984 figure includes write back of Rs.70 million froD doubtful debt reserve
RATIOS!
ROE                                22.5Z    21.3?    23.2?    24.7?    29.9?    21.7?             18.6?     16.7?     14.89    13.9?
ROA                                  1.9?      1.6?      1.89       1.9?      2.4?      1.9Z       1.7?      1.5Z      1.3?       1.2Z
Source: ICICI.



AUIU 2
Page 5 o£f 
Table 4
INDIA
IUDUsTITIAL FINUACE AND TECNICAL ASSISTANCE PRJCT
TU  INUThIAL CEDIT AID IWVEThET CORPOATION OF INbIA LTD.
Actual and Proiected Balance Sbeets
FYE DEC u    tS7                1 . 4    1983      1994     1985      1916     1987     1989     1999      1990     1991
---------------- iA:tual! -----------------    --------------(Projected) -------- -----
ASSETS
Cash and Bank Balances          0.99     0.40      0.42     1.47     1.51      1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50     1.50
Other assets and Advances       0.92     0.90      1.05     1.27      1.53     1.90     2.30     2.90      3.40     4.00
Current Assets                  1.91     1.20      1.47     2.74     3.04      3.40     3.80     4.30      4.90     5.50
Loans(rupees)                   5.79     7.70      9.40    11.40    14.12    17.10    20.40    23.80    29.01    33.00
Loans(4x)                       3.70     4.60      5.50     6.83     9.27    10.50    11.70    13.10    14.71    16.46
Investments                     0.75     0.90      1.00     1.20     1.29      1.50     1.58     1.92      2.00     2.30
Net Fixed Assets                0.04     0.05      0.20     0.24     0.41      1.00     1.49    .2.10      2.10     3.40
TOTAL ASSETS                   12.09    14.35    17.57    22.41    28.13    33.50    38.97    45.12    52.32    60.66
LIABILITIES AND NETMORTH
Payables                        0.60     0.76      0.97     1.09     1.23      1.23     1.25     1.25      1.24     1.26
CPLTD                           0.54     0.41      0.67     o.9      1.22      1.39     2.34     2.15      2.68     2.21
Current Liabilities             1.14     1.17      1.64     2.08     2.45      2.62     3.59     3.40      3.92     3.47
--                      - - ------_ -----           ---- - -  ---- - - - ---   ___------ _ - -
Rupee Debt                      6.90     9.40    10.00    12.70    14.96    18.69    22.09    26.90    31.79    38.03
Foreign Currency  ebbt          3.15     3.70      4.60     5.89     8.25      9.12     9.79    10.87    12.00    14.00
Net Long Term Debt             10.05    12.10    14.60    18.51    23.21    27.91    31.88    37.67    43.79    52.03
Share Capital                   0.27     0.27      0.41     0.50     0.67      0.80     0.80     0.11      1.00     1.10
Reserves                        0.62     0.91     0.92      1.25     1.90      2.27     2.70     3.17      3.61     4.06
Total Equity                    0.99     1.08      1.33     1.75     2.47      3.07     3.50     4.05      4.61     5.16
TOTAL lIABILITIES              12.09    14.35    17.57    22.41    29.13    33.50    38.97    45.12    52.32    60.66
AND NETNORT- -----------------------                              --------------------
RATIOS:
DEMt:EGQUITYMt!ES)              9.60    10.30      9.80    10.40     9.50      9.21     9.1q     9.42      9.62    10.17
Source: IClII.



hUm 2
?w a of a
USUL  FINAUc AND TUUCAL ASSISTAC PUc?
TIE IlTDUStRIAL C&. IT Ai ISTIErT CO 6ATIN F  INIA LINITES
Atial ad Projected Csh Flow Statuuuts
------ -   (Rs-I.btllionsl ------
PIE MC 31ST                   m2       19       19      19       1        1        19       m        19"     19I
0                     ~~       ~~       ~~~~-  -    te-   ----  -- --    -Po*i              - -
Sbwcn
Operatimus                    0.32     0.38    0.53    0.53    0."        0.73    0.O5      o.9      1.15    1.35
hwmc Capital                  0.00     0.00    0.07    0.09      0.11    0.13      0.00    0.01    0.11      0.11
Loun DraWiods                 2.43    2.23    3.13    4.59       4.C4      .00    4.52    5.03    3.0    10.55
Rupayuts                      0.70    0.63      1.10    1.56     2.06    2.40      3.30    3.9S    4.40    4.92
Dispasl of Investments        0.04     0.03    0.04    0.04    0.21    0.0         0.04    0.07    0.07    0.00
Total                         3.49     3.47    4.07    L.O5    8.09    9.31    10.73    13.12   14.43    17.01
Fixed huts                    0.01     0.03    0.12    0.13    0.26    0.12    0.0        0.65     0.05    0.02
Disuhousnts                   2.64     3.0     3.47    4.18    5.7        4.70    7.71     1.34    10.19   11.72
Investnits                    0.12    0.14     0.14    0.24    0.31    0.90        1.0    1.29    I.5       1.61
Ruiaymts                      0.54    0.41     0.6      o.9      1.15     1.22    1.50    2.42    2.24    2.79
Dividdis                      0.04     0.04    0.04     0.06     O.09     0.13    0.14     0.11    0.17    0.19
Othrr                         0.21    0.27    0.14    0.14    0.45    0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
Chnge in Cash                -0.09   -0.53     0.04     1.06     0.04    0.24    0.26    0.35    0.41    0.46
I uters invetamts
Total                         3.N9     3.4i    4.37    4.5       6.09     9.31    10.73    13.12    14.13    17.01
NCII                          1.30     1.40     1.50    1.50     1.70    1.40      1.40     1.50    1.50     1.50
Surce  ICICI.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 8
Table 6
INrtIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LTD.
Collection Performance Before Rescheduling
-…-_ -__--___-_ _   _------_  Rs.  Billions ------------------------
YEAR                                 !982      1983       1984       1965       '986
Aount Overdue
At Betinning Of Year                0.27       0.27       0. 31      0.37      0.56
Amount Falling Due
During Year                          !.53      1.72       2. 36      3.00      3.73
Asount Collected
During Year                          1.32      1.49       L.96       2.46      3.10
COLLECTION RATIO:                    73.31     74.91      73.4l    73.0Z       72.3Z
Collection Performance After Rescheduling
---…(Rs. billions)--------------
YEAR                                 1982      1983       1984       1985       1986
Amount Overdue
At Beginning Of Year                0.27       0.27       0.31       0.37      0.56
Amount Falling Due
During Year                          1.53      1.72       2.36       3.00      3. 73
Amount Collected
During Year                          1.32      1.49       1.96       2.46      3.10
Aaount Rescheduled
During Year                         0.20       0.19       0.35       0.35      0.35
COLLECTION RATIO:                   82.51      82.81      84.5      81.5l     73.7Z
Source: ICICI.



ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 8
Table 7
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LTD.
Arrears of Principal Before Rescheduling
-------------------------Rs. Billions-------------------------
YEAR                                1982       1983      :984       19e5      1986
Amount Rescheduled
Durirg Year                         0.10      0.09       0.17      0.17       0.19
Arrears At Year End                 0.13      0.16       0.20      0.31       0.44
Loans Outstanding                   9.60     12.52      15.26     18.65      23.88
ARREARS RATIO:                       2.42       2.0%      2.4%       2.6%      2.6%
Arrears Of Principal After Rescheduling
------------(Rs.billions)--------------
YEAR                                1982       1983      1984       1985      1986
Arrears At Year End                 0.13      0.16       0.20      0.31       0.44
Loans Outstanding                   9.60     12.52      15.26     18.65      23.88
ARREARS RATIO:                       1.41       1.3%      1.31       1.7%      1.8%
Source: ICICI.



INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO DFI
(Rs Million)
1988/89                    1989/90                    1990/91                      TOTAL
ID0I                   Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Management Info. Systems         6.9      8.6    15.5      11.0    12.6    23.6        11.0    13.0       24.0    28.9    34.2    63.1
Support Services                 3.0     3.2      6.2       5.8      8.0    13.8        5.2      5.0      10.2    14.0    16.2    30.2
Human Resources Development   2.4         2.0     4.4       4.0      3.0      7.0       4.0      3.0       7.0    10.4      8.0    18.4
Subtotal Base Costs             12.3    13.8    26.1       20.8    23.6    44.4        20.2    21.0      41.2    53.3    58.4   111.7
Physical Contingencies           1.2      1.3     2.5       2.1      2.4      4.5       2.0      2.1       4.1     5.3      5.8    11.1
Price Contingencies              0.5      _       0.5       2.4      0.4      2.8       3.5      0.6      4.1      6.4      1.0      7.4
Total IDI                      14.0    15.1    29.1       25.3    26.4    51.7        25.7    23.7      49.4    65.0    65.2  130.2
ICICI
Information Technology           5.3    12.3    17.6       12.0    29.8    41.8         -        -        -       17.3    42.1    59.4
Overseas Training                 -       2.7     2.7        -       6.3      6.3       -        -         -         -      9.0      9.0
In house Training Center         1.4     2.4      3.8       4.4      4.8      9.2       -        -        -        5.8      7.2    13.0
6.7    17.4    24.1       16.4    40.9    57.3         -        -        -       23.1    58.3    81.4
Physical Contingencies           0.7      1.7     2.4       1.6      4.1      5.7       -        -         -       2.3      5.8      8.1
Price Contingencies              0.4     0.1      0.5       2.2      0.8      3.0       -        -         -       2.6      0.9      3.5
Total ICICI                      7.8    19.2    27.0       20.2    45.8    66.0         -        -         -      28.0    65.0       93.0
Grand Total                     13.8    38.6    52.4       35.3    91.4   126.7         -                  -      93.0   130.2    223.2
Iw



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
THE STEEL SECTOR
I. Role
1.      The steel sector plays a critical role in the Indian economy.  In
1985/86, production of saleable steel amounted to 9.0 million tonnes, a value
at international prices of Rs 34 billion, and 1% of CDP. Imports in the same
year amounted to 2.0 million tonnes, with a corresponding value of Rs 8
billion. Though imports are small relative to domestic production, the
import bill which they represent is significant, ranking fifth after
petroleum, machinery, gems, and edible oil. The steel industry ranks high in
the value of its assets, which now total about Rs 70 billion, close to that
of Indian Railways, which, with assets of Rs 75 billion, is the largest
undertaking in India. Steel also ranks high in the planning of public
expenditures. It accounted for 36X of Sixth Plan industrial sector
expenditures, and is targeted for 37S of Seventh Plan industrial sector
outlays - about Rs 64 billion -- which represents three times that for the
next subsector, chemicals and fertilizers.
II. Structure and Market
2.      Indian steel production is dominated by six integrated steel plants,
five of which are in the public sector under the control of SAIL, with the
sixth being the Tata Iron and Steel Co. (TISCO), in the private sector. The
six integrated plants account for 100% of the production of iron, and 77Z of
the crude steel production. In addition to the integrated plants, there are
160 mini-plants, based largely on scrap, with an average capascity of 25,000
tonnes per year (tpy) of crude steel, with the largest at 130,000 tpy and the
smallest at less than 10,000 tpy, which altogether account for the remaining
23S of crude steel capacity. In addition, there are private rerolling mills,
some attached to mini-plants, others independent, which contribute to
finished steel production. India's iron and steel balance for 1984/85 is
shown in Chart 1.
3.      India consumed in 1984/85 10.7 million tonnes of steel, or at the
rate of roughly 17 kg. per capita. The rate of consumption is about 30 times
greater in the U.K, and about 50 times greater in the U.S., roughly in line
with the differences in GDP per capita. The consumption pattern has remained
in the proportion of 631 non-flat products to 37Z flat products over the last
15 years or so.



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
4.      Recent steel demand forecasts suggest that steel demand will grow at
a slightly faster pace than GDP -- if the latter is projected to grow at 4%
p.a, steel demand is expected to grow at about 5% p.a. On this basis, steel
demand is projected to increase from the level of 10.7 mtpy of 1985/86 to
18.7 mtpy by 1995/96 and to 23.6 mtpy by 2000/01, with little change in the
structure of demand. On this basis, and taking into account new capacity
that will be coming onstream, a supply shortfall will develop in the
mid-1990's expanding to about 6.0 mtpy by 2000. However this shortfall is
met, whether through imports, or through domestic production, and whether
through the integrated route of production or through scrap-based mini-plant
route, it will be very costly, and it is important to make the right choices.
Most important, emphasis must be placed in the first instance in maximizing
the utilization of existing capacity through increased operational
efficiencies.
III. Costs and Prices
5.      Steel prices in India are very high compared to international prices.
Duties (basic and auxiliary) on mild steel products range from 65Z to 952,
and go up to 325X on some specialty steels. These high duties are not,
however, reflective of the extent of protection required by the domestic
industry. A weighted average of the cost of saleable steel produced by the
integrated plants in 1984/85 amounted to Rs 4,561 per tonne, which is 231
higher than international cif prices (Rs 3,700 per tonne) for a product mix
appropriate to India. That is, the average required level of protection is
23X. The average level of protection actually enjoyed, that is to say, unit
income retained by the steel producers (net sales realization), compared to
international prices, is 261. In the best case, that is for TISCO, the
required level of protection is just 132, and this in an international market
situation characterized by variable cost pricing on export markets. Over and
above retention prices, the price of domestic products is increased by
various levies and taxes, specifically the Freight Equalization Fund (FEF),
the Steel Development Fund (SDF), and the Engineering Goods Export Assistance
Fund (EGEAF), along with excise duty. With these add-ons, the free-on-rail
(FOR) price of domestically produced steel therefore is roughly comparable
with the landed- duty-paid price of imported steel, with some higher, others
lower, but mostly the domestic steel would be priced more favorably,
particularly when inland freight is added on to the price of the imported
steel. In any event, imports are controlled, not just through prices and
fiscal means, but through physical control over import licenses.
IV. Comparative Advantage
6.      India's presumed comparative advantage in steel production stems from
the following:
(a)  India has the required raw materials of iron ore, coal and
limestone needed for steel production, and the qualities are
generally adequate;



ANNEX 4
Page 3 oE 6
(b) India has a huge potential domestic market, both for steel and for
downstream capital and engineering goods industries, and so could
secure the economies of scale necessary for modern steel
production; and
(c) India has built up a large pool of technical manpower with the
necessary technical and other skills needed for efficient
industrial production.
V. Constraints
7.      India enjoyed a period during the sixties when its cost of steel
production was among the lowest in the world. Since that time, however,
India's cost advantage has steadily eroded. The present constraints on
performance include the following: (a) deterioration in raw material quality,
principally of coking coal and iron ore; (b) limited availability of power
supply; (c) constraints in the transport infrastructure; (d) poor condition
of plant and equipment; (e) outdated and obsolete plant facilities; (f)
inability to meet increasingly stringent environmental pollution control
standards of the country; (g) surplus labor, coupled with weaknesses in work
culture; (h) inadequacies in the distributiou system; and (i)
limited availability of investment funds.
VI. Policy Environment
8.      These constraints have arisen in a policy environment characterized
by the following major features:
(a)  insulation of the industry from import competition through high
tariffs as well as quantity controls on imports;
(b) limited domestic competition due to a system of administered
pricing; this has also limited resource generation;
(c) public sector reservation for integrated steel mills, TISCO --
whose establishment predated independence -- being the sole
exception;
(d) regulation of private sector mini-mills and rerollers through a
system of capacity licensing;
(e) regulation of the distribution system, with about 60Z of steel
production earmarked for designated priority sectors (Defence,
Railways, etc.), sales restricted to end-users, except for small
quantities permitted to be sold to traders;
(f) limited autonomy for SAIL, and day-to-day supervision of SAIL
operations and decision-making by the central Ministry; formal
control by the Central Government over investment decisions in



ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 6
excess of Rs 10 crores, as well as of decisions regarding
product-mix, employment policy, and prices;
(g) surcharge on the producer price to finance the Steel Development
Fund (SDF), administered by the Central Ministry, which could be
construed either as a tax on consumers or a device by which the
Central ministry asserts control over the disposition of what would
otherwise be retained earnings of the producers;
(h) equalization of freight rates to all destinations throughout India
throught the mechanism of a Freight Equalization Fund (FEF);
(ij) excise tax on finished goods which GOI uses as a device for raising
revenue; and
(k) rebates to engineering goods exporters through the mechanism of an
Engineerirg Goods Export Assistance Fund (EGEAF), made necessary
because of the relatively high retail price of steel including the
above charges.
VII. Diagnosis
9.      Given the foregoing major features of the policy environment, the
broad diagnosis which suggests itself is that there has been too much
pre-emption of market forces by Government intervention. If one considers the
list of constraints previously cited (para. 7), one finds that these could
largely have been avoided if, at least in hindsight, the right performance
incentives had been in place. The effects of declining raw material quality
could have been mitigated through appropriate investments in preparation
facilities. Power supply limitations c.. Id also have been overcome through
investment. Indeed captive power planti are a feature of most integrated
steel mills around the world. Poor condition of plant and equipment also is
a reflection of inadequate maintenance having cumulative effects over the
years. Obsolescent facilities suggest that the incentives, or the funds,
necessary to undertake investment in plant having more modern technology have
been absent. The existence of high levels of surplus labor similarly raises
the more fundamental question how and why this condition was allowed to
develop, with a strong presumption that public sector modes of operation
might have had something to do with it.  Likewise for inadequacies in the
transport infrastructure and distribution system.  Finally, lack of adequate
investment funds to correct at least the problems which are amenable to
solution through appropriate investment activity is not only the cause of
present difficulties, but also the result of policies which have ensured that
retained earnings in the industry have not been enough zo keep plant properly
maintained, to invest in newer technology, to acquire facilities that would
mitigate the effect of declining raw material quality, to invest in captive
power plants that would ensure adequacy of power supply, etc.
10.     Thus, in retrospect, Government control over prices, and the setting
of prices at levels too low to cover reinvestment requirements, probably



ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
account for most of the difficulty now faced by the industry.  This basic
problem was exacerbated by excessive interference by Government in even
routine AMR (additions, modifications, and replacement) investments, leading
to inordinate delays, and deteriorating condition of plant and equipment. The
third factor was the absence of either domestic competition, or competition
through imports, which meant there were few pressures to halt the slow but
sure slide into the present unsatisfactory state of affairs.
VIII. Strategic Response
11.     The Bank's steel sector report advocated the following strategic
response:
(a) The individual enterprises, particularly SAIL, which accounts for 632
of crude steel production, must move:
(i)    as a first step to improve work culture and discipline, and at
the same time, to improve operational and maintenance
practices; these are relatively painless steps that could
yield significant results in plant productivity: variable
costs could be reduced, and capacity utilization increased
through such measures;
(ii)   as a second step, efforts must be made to reduce the levels of
overmanning; SAIL has developed a plan intended to achieve
this goal, relying mostly on attrition, but involving also
innovative schemes for voluntary retirement; and
(iii) third, costly investments must be undertaken to restore the
condition of plant, modernize where it is cost-effective to do
so, and to improve raw material preparation facilities to
address the problems of deteriorating and fluctuating raw
material quality.
(b)  Assuming that international cost-competitiveness could be restored,
it remains essential that policy reform should be instituted to
ensure that pressures are in place to maintain competitiveness. This
requires
(i)    increasing the level of autonomy for SAIL, as the single most
important steel producer; SAIL should be allowed to function
as a commercial enterprise; if it is not allowed to do so,
then its accountability for results achieved is compromised,
and to that extent, it cannot be expected to remain
competitive; this point has been accepted by the Government,
which has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
with SAIL which delegates more autonomy in both operational
and investment decision-making to SAIL;



ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
(ii)   heightening the level of competition, which must be achieved
ultimately through relaxation of import controls, and moving
from physical instruments of control, to .iscal instruments
(i.e tariffs); as the health of the industry is restored,
tariffs could be reduced; domestic competition could be
heightened through relaxation of capacity licensing
restrictions for new entrants, and through abolition of the
system of administered pricing and distribution controls. The
Government is, however, reluctant to dismantle its system of
pricing and distribution controls without further study,
arguing that both steel and foreign exchange are in short
supply, necessitating some form of Government control and
rationing; and
(iii)  ensuring incentives parity between minimills and integrated
plants, through abolition of FEF, SDF and EGEAF schemes; as
things now stand, the minimills are protected relative to the
integrated plants, which pay into the foregoing schemes while
the minimills do not; as a result there is a concern that
inefficient minimills will be set up in an environment where
the prices of electricity and scrap -- the main inputs of the
minimill producers - are prohibitive by world standards.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 9
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
THE STEEL AUTHORITY OF INDIA, LTD.
I. Basic Dimensions
1.      SAIL is the largest industrial undertaking in India.  It owns and
operates a vast array of facilities, consisting of five integrated steel
plants. 1/ two alloy steel plants, a centralized Research and Development
facility, 25 mining operations that produce coal, iron ore, limestone,
dolomite, quartzite, and fire clay, all of which are located in the eastern
part of the country. Its head office is in Delhi, and it has 46 sales and
marketing offices and 60 stockyards throughout the country. The integrated
steel plants have a combined capacity of hot metal of 10.3 million tonnes per
year (mtpy); 8.8 mtpy crude steel; and 6.6 mtpy of saleable steel.
2.      SAIL and IISCO together employ 250,000 people, a number which has
risen oniy slightly from 241,000 people since 1981. Most are employed at the
plants, with only about 7,000 people being employed in marketing, research,
training, and the corporate offices awa> from the plants. Of SAIL's 206,000
people, 125,000 work in steel-making operations, with the remainder employed
in projects, mining, R&D, marketing and administration, which includes
townships, security and plant administration. The vast majority of the
employees are between 25 and 50 years old, only 17% being older or younger.
Skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers make up about two-thirds of the
workforce.
II. Organization and Management
3.      Relations between SAIL and the Government are governed by the
Memorandum and Articles of Association of SAIL, which was incorporated under
the provisions of the Companies Act (1956) on January 24, 1973. The share
capital of the Company was set at Rs 40 billion divided into forty million
shares of Rs 1,000 each. The initial subscribers were three, viz. the
President of India acting through the Secretary of the Department of Steel,
1/ Among which is the wholly-owned subsidiary, the Indian Iron and Steel
Co. (IISCO) at Burnpur.  Formerly in the private sector, this company
was nationalized in 1978 after running into financial difficulty, and
has been managed by SAIL on the Government's behalf. It remains a
separate juridical entity with separate books of account.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 9
Ministry of Steel and Mines, and two officers of the Department of Steel, of
the ranks respectively of Joint Secretary and Director. The Company was set
up as a "private company" under the Companies Act (1956), which meant that
shares were not to be issued to the general public. Shares issued and
subscribed stood at Rs 35.8 billion on March 31, 1985, all of which are held
by Government officials in their official capacity; no shares have yet been
issued to the general public.
4.      The management of the Ce" -%ny is entrusted to a Board of Directors
headed by a Chairman who is appoi.ed by the President under terms and
conditions determined by the latter. Full-time functional directors are
appointed by the President in consultation with the Chairman. Directors
representing the Government are appointed by the President without such
consultation. There are now 15 directors, five of which represent the
Government.
5.      The Company's Articles of Association contain provisions which
effectively determine the relations between SAIL as a Company and the
Government as its owner, and which have, in the past, severely restricted the
autonomy of the Company's management. Matters explicitly reserved for the
decision of the President include, inter alia:
(a)  any program of capital expenditure in excess of Rs 200 million;
(b) agreements involving foreign collaboration;
(c)  the five-year and annual plans of development and the Company's
capital budget; and
(d) appointment of any person aged 58 years or older where the rate of pay
proposed for such person would exceed Rs 2,500 per month.
In addition, specific provision is made allowing the President to issue such
directives or instructions as may be considered necessary in regard to
conduct of the business and affairs of the Company. Hence, ultimate authority
over SAIL as a company is wielded, not by its Board of Directors, or even
Government acting through the Board, but by Government as Government.
6.      Notwithstanding these powers of Government, the Government has
recently accepted the wisdom of granting increased autonomy to SAIL on
operational and even investment decision-making. Through the instrument of a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), it grants to SAIL more autonomy, on the
one hand, while at the a--me time elaborating clear parameters of
accountability. This is expected to lead to improved performance by SAIL.
The MOU for 1987/88 is held on the Project File.
7.      SAIL's internal organization is headed by -:he Chairman who is the
Chief Executive of the Company. The Chairman is assisted by full-time



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 9
functional directors in the technical, financial, commercial, personnel,
R & D, planning and projects areas. An organization chart for SAIL is shown
as Chart 1. SAIL's five integrated steel plants are each headed by a
Managing Director (MD), and are separate profit centers. The MD's are
delegated full authority on all matters relating to their respective plants
subject to authority ceilings in defined areas. The MD's are
administratively under the control of the Chairman, although their
appointment, including terms and conditions, tenure and removal are
determined by the Government within the frame of the Articles of Association
(para. 4).
III. Financial Performance
8.      SAIL's balance sheets for the last four years are shown in Table 1.
These show a fundamentally sound financial condition. The current ratio in
1985/86 is 1.7:1, while the long-term debt to equity ratio is 44:56. Total
assets amounted to Rs 84.4 billion in FY86, with net worth amounting to
Rs 38.1 billion. As of 1986/87, this fundamentally sound position has been
maintained with a debt:equity ratio of 47:53, and current ratio unchanged
at 1.7:1.
9.      The Company's profitability over the last four years is displayed in
Table 2. This shows a steadily improving performance over the last four
years, coinciding with the appointment of a new Chairman and with a concerted
effort on the part of new management to boost morale, to minimize Government
interference, and to ensure accountability at all levels of management.



ANN  5
Paso 4 of 9
SAIL OGAIUA!NumAs
wt&Mtm            r     j          m                    too &
uam nm siscoauuUv  OZIT                           usIe.SMIca
N"U    esm           ]       Itvg aguen       s I  I      o"°L U¢ro I
"I sLAt mCL  n    I      I       . a noC.   I          uc. 6 Tgcl. I
I c"tll otscm Ia                                       tu ss
t-ss_   -u r. n                                                     _
DI ot            I                              r     NAL DI tC       I
rUim"                                           Case.  HH
|| tUOc!                                       550111WWL SICOtXU:
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~UP2 S NQtC tR
I   C=tElWI ~    ~        ~       I                                   C _ets_, ci@ 
aszmmmmmm
COSOIM ON.I                                      *SIIOUAL  0133010
r  OtUSlOl                                         amn  " O=OtSOt 
.0tu.  Io                                      _ tttotut
U5WOI t otw.                       ., ~~~~~~- R search A Dew.
- S ellntoa  u
Operatione             Coke & *y-rodut S
lAwttIoUL OItCStO
TechntcaL
| O;fttooL otfCiozt
ADOIZIOWAL ot$ZCto.
-     CorLetLdan jor
SUUSIUIARII5Fz"NACIN  018.8010               CGNltCAL WANAG8
VeMv COIUpaLtd.
_' :                         SbcL toi tee G        _   t0Ujjd Pt"  .
.~ ~ ~~~         ~S *XtL C=say Ltd.           rewr Cowea Lt4



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 9
Table 1: SAIL - BALANCE SHEETS, FISCAL YEARS ENDING MARCH, 1984 TO 1986
(Rs Billion)
1986/87    1985/86    1984/85    1983/84
Assets
Inventories                      17.7        15.7       14.9        15.5
Other Current Assets             11.9        12.8        10.3        8.8
Total Current Assets          29.6       28.5        25.2        24.3
Gross Fixed Assets               60.0        56.0       47.1        36.5
Less: Depreciation               24.4        22.3        19.0       16.6
Net Fixed Assets              35.6        33.6       28.1        19.8
Cap. Work in Progress            22.2        21.3       24.6        29.0
Other Assets                      2.8         1.0         1.0         1.0
Total Assets                  90.2       84.4        78.9        74.1
Liabilities
Current Liabilities              17.7        16.8       17.1        15.3
Loan Funds                       33.7        29.5       27.6        27.3
Equity                           40.2        40.0       37.9        35.1
Reserves/(Losses)                (1.4)       (1.9)      (3.6)       (3.5)
Net Worth                        38.7        38.1       34.3        31.6
Total Liabilities             90.2       84.4        78.9        74.1
Note:  Totals may not add due to rounding of individual line items.
Source: SAIL Annual Reports.
All performance indicators show improvement: an FY84 loss of Rs 2.1 billion
has been turned around to an FY86 profit of Rs 1.6 billion; sales have
increased from Rs 31 billion in FY84 to Rs 45 billion in FY86; production of
saleable steel increased from 4.3 m.tonnes to 5.5 m.tonnes; and
profitability, expressed as the ratio of gross margin to capital employed,
increased from 2.1Z to 15.3%, the best SAIL has ever done. A creditable
performance was maintained in 1986/87, with productions showing continued
increase; the value of sales did however, decline, owing to canalized sale of
imported steel being taken over by the Minerals and Metals Trading



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 9
Corporation. Profitability declined slightly as an effort was made to hold
the line on price increases even in the face of mounting pressure on costs.
10.     Despite improving performance, SAIL must improve even further if it
is to match the performance either of TISCO, in the private sector, or of
international competitors. The broad strategy necessary to achieve such
improvements has been described earlier (Annex 5.1, para. 11(a)).
Table 2: SAIL - PROFITABILITY STATEMENT, FY84 - FY86
(Rs Billion)
1986/87   1985/86   1984/85    1983/84
Income
Sales                                  42.8      44.7       37.2       31.1
Other Revenues/Adjustments              4.1        1.8       0.8       (1.2)
Total                               46.9      46.5       38.0       29.9
Expenses
Materials                              14.5       15.2      13.7       11.1
Employees' Remuneration                 6.1        5.4       4.9        4.5
Operating Expenses                     12.6       11.4       9.1        7.8
Freight Outwards                        2.7        2.6       2.3        2.1
Excise Duty                             2.8        2.6       2.3        2.1
Levies                                  2.4        2.4       2.2        2.2
Interest                                2.1       2.1        1.3        1.4
Depreciation                            3.2        3.2       2.2        1.3
Total                               46.4      44.9       38.0       32.0
Profit/(Loss)                           0.5        1.6        .04      (2.1)
Memo Items:
Saleable Steel Production (m.tonnes)  5.8         5.5       4.9        4.3
Pig Iron for Sale (m.tonnes)            1.1       1.1       1.1        1.3
Gross Margin as Z Capital Employed   12.2        15.3      10.0        2.1
Source: SAIL Annual Reports



ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 9
IV. SAIL's Restructuring Program
11.     SAIL's restructuring effort is already underway.  This effort invol-
ves hardware as well as software elements, very much along the lines earlier
mentioned (Annex 5.1, para. 11(a)).
12.     On the hardware side, the Company has developed short-term and
medium-term programs. The short-term programs include "additions,
modifications, and replacement" (AMR) projects which amount in large degree
to overdue maintenance undertakings. These AMR projects appear to be well
justified, require little capital, and should provide immediate benefits.
13.     The medium-term plans involve modernization and technical upgrading
of both facilities and skills. The investment plans for each plant are
summarized in Table 3. The total investment planned for the period 1988/89 to
FY1994/95 is Rs 67 billion, or approximately US$5.2 billion. The investment
program includes a total of Rs 13.5 billion earmarked for AM&
Table 3: SAIL - INVESTMENT PROGRAM, 1987
Cost per
capacity                        Capacity-       Tonne of
Total         Related       Additional
Plant      Before    After      Investment      Investment      Capacity
(Million Tonnes)   (Rs Million)   (Rs Million)        (Rs)
Bhilai       3.6        4.0         4,463           3,164          7,910
Bokaro       3.6        4.0         3,314           3,171          7,928
Durgapur     1.0        1.6        13,573           7,923         13,205
Rourkela     1.0        1.9        15,998          14,593         16,214
IISCO        0.5        2.2        29,280          23,040         13,964
Total/Avg.   9.7       13.7        66,628          53,197         13,468
Source: SAIL
projects intended to maintain existing capacity of the five plants, and for
mining, infrastructure and environmental projects that will not directly add
to steel-making capacity. The balance of Rs 53.2 billion is to be spent on
technological modernization and upgradation investments, typically including
replacement of obsolete open-hearth furnaces by basic oxygen furnaces, the
introduction of continuous casting technology, improved raw material handling
and preparation systems, the modernization of rolling mills, and complemen-
tary balancing investments in sinter plants, blast furnaces, coke oven
batteries, etc. These will have the effect of debottlenecking plants,



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 9
increasing effective capacity through increased yields, raising quality
standards to meet increasingly stringent customer requirements, and lowering
operational unit costs, both variable and fixed.
14.     These investment plans are at varying stages of progress.  Detailed
feasibility needs to be established for the IISCO proposal, and the Rourkela
proposal has not yet been approved by the Cabinet. The Durgapur proposal has
recently been approved and is going forward, while the Bhilai and Bokaro
projects are still under preparation.
15.     In addition to the plant-based investment programs, SAIL needs to
improve the marketing and distribution systems. SAIL's stockyards are cur-
rently a bottleneck, hampered by lack of rail facilities, and of proper
unloading and handling equipment. This means that SAIL's customers are now
poorly served by the distribution system, which does not physically deliver
to the customer what he wants, when he wants it; moreover, poor handling in
transit not infrequently causes damage to the goods. In addition to being
poorly served by the physical distribution system, the Government's alloca-
tion policy means that customers who need the steel and are willing to pay
for it at the asking or even higher price, must often go without, while
"priority" users do not always lift their allotment. In both allocational
and physical terms, therefore, the system of marketing and distribution needs
to be revamped.
16.     To complement its hardware investments, SAIL plans also to make
investments in comunnications and automation technology to improve systems of
planning, information, and control.  The marketing network will improve its
performance with the availability of a satellite co-munication network,
SAILNET, which would allow all of SAIL's stockyards to be linked.
Comp'iterized systems of sales order entry could be linked also to production
planning in the plants, and in turn to the systems for the despatch of
finished product. It is planned also to introduce systems of automated
process control within plants, as a means of improving operational efficiency
primarily in the coke oven batteries and blast furnaces. With the assistance
of UNDP, SAIL is also introducing a computerized maintenance management
system, starting with the Rourkela plant (1989), and later extending it to
the other plants (1995).
17.     SAIL intends to carry out its investment program without budgetary
support from the Government, relying instead on internal resource generation,
and independent borrowings from domestic and external sources. Internal cash
generation is now of the order of Rs 5-6 billion per annum, meaning that if
SAIL's investment program were to be completely internally financed, and if
current performance is maintained or improved, it would require in the order
of 6-8 years, which is roughly the implementation period contemplated.
18.     On the human resource side, the prime concern is to improve work
culture, discipline, and operational and maintenance practices. Based on



ANlEX S
Page 9 of 9
operational performance over the past two to three years, some success in
this effort is already apparent (para. 9). Labor productivity has remained
more or less stagnant at 50 tonnes of crude steel per man year. The new
technologies which will be inducted as part of the investment in hardware,
along with increased levels cf automation, will require reduced levels of
manpower. The skill level and the technological discipline of the work force
will have to be improved to match the increased level and quality of
operations. SAIL has developed a manp3wer plan which uses natural attrition,
a voluntary retirement scheme, and a program of training/retraining and
redeployment to attain the required level, age and skill mix.



SAIL TA COMPONENT DETAILS
Toble 1: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1    1988    l    1989    1    1990    1    1991    l    1992
Component         IJFMAMJJASONDIJFMAMJJASOND JFMAMJJASOND IJFMAMJJASOND IJFMAMJJASONDI
Prod. Study       =SC///////// //I////I                    T
Environment       D.auBu-C/// P>>>>>>>>>>> >>>>>>>>>>>> X**********
Training          D=BuuuC///// /P>>>>>>>>>> >>>>>>>>>>>   X****** *****e*ee
Distribution      DuuB.*C////P>>>>>>>>>> >>>>>X              ********
ASP               D-BC/I    / //Il   //I //                 I
Key:
Symb,els                       Activity
a                   Document Preparation
B                   Invitation to Bid
C                   Contract for Consultancy Services
P                   Cc'mtract for Equipment Purchase
X                   Equipment Operational
z==                 Preparatory Activities
III                 Consultant Studies
>>>                 Equipment Procurement/Delivery
Operational Phase
Note:  Consultancy activity continues in general into tho Equipment
phases.
Source:  SAIL and staff estimates.
7



SAIL TA COMPONENT DETAILS
Toble 2s ALLOCATION OF THE IBRD LOAN AND JAPAN GRANT COMBINED,
DY CATEGORY AND COMPONENT
(USS Million)
Project Component
Catogory          1      2       4      4      5      U  Total   Share
TA Cons. Expensos      2.6    4.3    0.7    2.1    1.5           11.1     22
TA Training Expenses                  4.1                         4.1      8
TA Related Equipmnt           19.5    6.0    8.2                 33.7     68
Unallocated                                                 1.1   1.1      2
Total                  2.6   23.8   10.6   10.3    1.5    1.1  50.0    100
ShareC )               5      48     22     20      3       2   100
KeY:
No.                Component
1                Corporate Planning and Productivity Study
2                Environmental Management Study
3                Training
4                Market and Distribution Studies
S                Tochnology Upgrodat ion *t ASP
U                Unallocated
Sources  SAIL. and staff estimates
1°
L



NOTS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



MAP SECTION
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 20713
!0.                           -          HIMACHAI I     6     .                                                         @0*
* ,..SAFGHANISTAN                              i        .     -A   IES
)           ' Chondigof   I
____RU/v B {/'imIr   8                                         C  HIN A
PAKISTAN                  jtIAR1AV4A    0tntonogor
V~~LH/       Rompur
/           /        XEWt~~~~          ~~DELH> 
-<->         ("\ uTAR4>   _.n NEPAL
/                                                    R                                                                BHUTAN
<, , A  D<V jR             AfuckSHw
L'AJA5HANjomokpur
Ssora                            EG4Y
4' tro >f      /t               H A                BANGLADESH
GL"IA RA T                                                    J    u
el           httubaneswar
S   X    4       5 +t 2         8       %           ~~~~~~~~~~~Srirrm pug
Bombay     1 H-1 RA SH!R4                         
.. _ -) . ;'~~yderabad-- t
| < %J g4   KN8, 9s A  >   (   NDICHERRY
GOA
K4RNATAKA
)   Boy    ; Madras
Ba8ngolooee -
PONOICHERRY              *-P                                                   INDIA
<~~~~    VAL                                                                                   10/s  
0o,                                                  |    4 '
'-*-J-- l  Railroods
Cochin        
rJLOMETER0S   10r   200   300  400   SW         KERALA/                                                   0     Towns and Cities
I                                                                           E)|  i   \   9   /  -  (3    State and Union Territory Capitals
miles  ll    21~       3~0 Trivondrum@ nSR                                                       National Capital
SRI                               Sfoe/ Sote ond Union Territory Bourndories
LANKA                     -         I- Internotional Boundaries
,_ _'. I V orOJ.g7 b.,c.. g' _0'' - .o a.V. oe - to_bW                                                   OUn Wo wale consilerartos som arers cold ,-ot
c~w~ao. no   w     ~--wt *-a'_ 00.. c a. 'a~ -_                                                      he ibncluded iicldni. the mop: tw Jo ony anfoinfm ox
ihat mly opply to ech w5os.
0    W'  d a a.,a.c. a, ..f.OO-.so..Ot0bt
70'                                                            0                                                            9_ 
FEBRUARY 1988



