Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16069
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2928-IN)
October 20, 1996
Country Operations, Industry & Finance Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of hi
offilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Annual Average)
Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs.)
1989                       $1.00 = Rs. 16.2             Official Rate
1990                       $1.00 = Rs. 17.5             Official Rate
1991                       $1.00   Rs. 22.7             Official Rate
1992                       $1.00 = Rs. 26.0             Market Rate
1993                       $1.00 = Rs. 30.5             Market Rate
1994                       $1.00 = Rs. 31.4             Unified Rate
1995                       $1.00 = Rs. 32.4             Unified Rate
1996 (as of March 31, 1996)   $1.00 = Rs.34.4           Unified Rate
FISCAL YEAR
Government of India:        April 1 - March 31
ICICI:                      January 1 - December 31
IDBI:                       July 1 - June 30
SAIL:                       April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BIFR:           Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction
CEM:            Country Economic Memorandum
DFI:            Development Finance Institution
ERAS:           Exchange Risk Administration Scheme
ERR:            Economic Rate of Return
FRR:            Financial Rate of Return
GOI:            Government of India
ICICI:         Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd.
ICR:            Implementation Completion Report
IDBI:           Industrial Development Bank of India
IEP:           Industrial Export Project - Engineering Products
PCB:            Participating Commercial Bank
SAIL:           Steel Authority of India Limited



FOR OFFICLkL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2928-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ..................i
Evaluation Summary ...............                                                                                   ii
Part I:           Project Review  From  Bank's Perspective ...............................................l           1
A.       Background ...............................................1
B.       Project Objectives and Description ...............................................4
C.       Achievement of Project Objectives ...............................................7
D.       Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ........................9
E.       Project Sustainability ...............................................                            12
F.       Bank Performance ...............................................                                  12
G.       Borrower Performance ..............................................                               13
H.       Assessment of Outcome ..............................................                              13
I.       Future Operations ..............................................                                  13
J.       Key Lessons Learned ...............................................                               14
Statistical Annexes .............                                                                                    15
Annexes:    I: Mission's Aide-m6moire
II: Characteristics of ICICI sub-loans
III: Characteristics of IDBI sub-loans
Part II:          Borrower contribution to the ICR
T.s document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2928-IN)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial Finance and
Technical Assistance Project in India, for which Loan 2928-IN in the amount of US$360 million
was approved on March 11, 1988. This was divided into a US$3 10 million loan to the Government
(No. 2928-0) and a US$50 million to the Steel Authority of India (No. 2928-1). Both loans became
effective on August 9, 1988. The loan was closed on December 31, 1995, two years after the
original closing date, and final disbursement took place on December 12, 1995, when a US$31.6
million balance was canceled.
2.    The ICR was prepared by the Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division, Country
Department II, South Asia Region, with individual contributions by the three beneficiaries of the
Loan (the Industrial Development Bank of India--IDBI, the Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India Limited--ICICI, and the Steel Authority of India--SAIL). The IDBI and SAIL
provided comments that are included as appendices to the ICR. The ICR was prepared by Herman
Nissenbaum (consultant) under the supervision of Paul Beckerman (SA2CI) and the SAIL
component of the ICR was prepared by Paulo de Sa (IENIM). The ICR was reviewed by Luis
Emesto Derbez, Chief, Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division and Kazuko Uchimura,
Project Advisor, Country Department II, South Asia Region.
3.    The preparation of this ICR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project component related to SAIL in April 1995, with the work on the ICICI and the IDBI
component accomplished during a special mission in April 1996. It is based on material obtained
during these missions and contained in the project file. The borrowers contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by contributing views that are reflected in the mission's aide-memoires,
by preparing an evaluation of the project's execution and initial preparation, and by commenting
on the draft ICR.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2928-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   In the mid-1980s, the Government of India recognized that poor industrial performance
figured significantly in the country's disappointing low growth rate. Accordingly, it decided to
reform the long standing restrictive industrial regulatory policies and inward-looking trade regime.
The actions to put these new directions into effect led to a series of supportive Bank loans, one of
which was the Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project.
2.    In reviewing the latter's experience, it should be noted that its implementation spanned two
periods of distinctly different economic policy environments:
(a) Before 1991. The initial post-1985 liberalization measures did not materially alter
India's development model. The Government still monopolized and tightly controlled investments
in the most important sectors, with the financial system among the most regulated. The dominant
state-owned banks served mainly to finance Government-selected activities determined by non-
market socio-economic criteria, with relatively little discretion. Prudential regulations were
inadequate and the true quality of banks' portfolios and effectiveness was not rigorously tested.
(b) After 1991. After a bout of serious economic deterioration, the new 1991 Government
instituted bold measures to overcome a balance of payments crisis and other severe imbalances. A
comprehensive stabilization program and major transformation of India's development strategy saw
trade and international payment regimes significantly liberalized. Quantitative controls and
licensing of imports and exports were substantially reduced. Prior government approval of
decisions concerning expansion, diversification etc. was eliminated, as were controls on prices and
goods distribution. Capital and money markets were also liberalized and interest rates partially
deregulated. Cumbersome credit norms were eased and priority sector lending requirements
reduced.
3.    By 1986-87, Indian manufacturing exports were improving but the authorities saw that
more needed to be done to increase the competitiveness of Indian industry. The Government
therefore set out to stimulate industrial enterprises' achievement of greater efficiencies of scale,
modernization and adoption of new technology. It recognized however that the promotion of
greater domestic competition would create adjustment difficulties for enterprises accustomed to a
more protected environment, like the Steel Authority of India (SAIL), which had eroded its past
comparative advantage.



iii
4     The Project's main objective was to foster more rapid industrial growth by helping
industrial companies adjust to the significant reforms in the regulatory environment that had
already occurred (and others anticipated). The chief operational target was to channel US$750
million term financing for investment projects through credit lines of the Industrial Development
Bank (IDBI) and Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI). An associated
target was helping SAIL in enhancing its operating and maintenance practices, installing
environmental management and pollution control systems, upgrading training, marketing and
distribution, and restoring the competitiveness of its Alloy plant. There was also technical
assistance to enable the two development finance institutions (DFIs) to upgrade project appraisals
and portfolio management.
5.    The design of the credit component was affected by the contemporaneous revision of the
onlending arrangements under the Industrial Exports Project. The use of the IBRD variable
currency pool and interest rate in the largest credit lines had proved unworkable because of sub-
borrowers' mounting resistance to foreign currency subloans, as well as their unfamiliarity with the
currency pool. The Industrial Finance project terms therefore relieved borrowers of the foreign
exchange risk on the Bank loan (which the Government undertook). They were provided rupee-
denominated loans and a fixed interest rate, set at the prescribed local rate for non-concessional DFI
lending, with the understanding that it would be periodically reviewed and adjusted as necessary.
6.    In addition, the Bank was then concerned about ICICI's and IDBI's deteriorating portfolios,
earnings squeeze and resource constraints, blemishing their overall favorable status. However, the
project design did not broadly tackle sector issues. The loan involved only a few provisions
intended to improve the banks per se. The financial performance covenants covered only debt
service and debt/equity ratios, and were relatively modest. But these should not be interpreted as
manifesting Bank laxness.
7.    The project designers appreciated that the DFIs were unlikely to meet more demanding
goals while coping with an increasingly more competitive environment and scarcer domestic
resources. In addition, the Bank's leverage was limited by the fact that the loan was estimated to
contribute less than 1% of IDBI's total resources and about 7% of its foreign exchange
requirements. Moreover, IBRD-Government agreements then focused mainly on onlending interest
rates, exchange rate risks, credit line performance etc. Accordingly, the Bank decided to tackle
financial sector issues through parallel track Government-Bank discussions. Among others, at least
nine IBRD papers were disseminated on financial system issues in 1989, following three such
documents in 1988. All these contributed to the 1991 systemic changes while the Project was
being executed.
8.    The Bank involvement with SAIL also dates back to the preparation of a Steel Sector
Strategy Study presented to the Government and SAIL in 1987. This work was the background
for Bank dialogue and much of the opening of the sector until now. The report identified several
constraints on the performance of the steel industry and advocated policy reform to ensure that
incentives are in place to maintain competitiveness.



iv
9.    Implementation. The loan was approved in March 1988 and becamne effective the following
August. There was a fast start on credit commitments and the line was fully committed by the
December 1991 target. Later though, there were subloan cancellations and underdisbursements that
delayed expenditures on up to seven percent of the Bank funds, which were partly recommitted but
ultimately not fully used. This was also true for the TA component. But these apart, the project was
smoothly executed.
10.   The IDBI credit line led to 98 subloans, aggregating total investments of US$1,810 million.
These entailed a wide array of output, with considerable representation of relatively advanced
industrialization. Most of these subprojects were relatively small and almost half were for new
"greenfield" activities. Analysis of their results showed that 68% of the economic rates of return
obtained (on the 86 subprojects on which mixed information was available) exceeded 32%. About
three fourths of the financial rates of return fell in the 15-20% range.
11.   The ICICI credit line enabled 87 companies to undertake investments of US$571.8 million.
The average sized project was US$6.57 million, of which the Bank loan financed some 17%. (As
with IDBI, this was substantially below the 40% foreseen in the project financing plan.) Borrowers
reported having generated 10,284 jobs in the process. ICICI's figures on the results showed that
these subprojects' financial rates of return at appraisal were in the 15.4-4.5% range, averaging
19.3%. They ended up falling to the 11.6-22.4% range, averaging 17.5%, and 15% of the subloans
were canceled.
12.   TA Component. SAIL's technical assistance activities included three components. The
first dealt with studies and consultancy services on five areas: (i) productivity improvements and
planning; (ii) establishing the environmental management division at corporate level and raising
environmental safeguards; (iii) restoring the competitiveness of the Alloy plant; (iv) streamlining
SAIL's marketing and distribution; (v) upgrading its human resource management. The second
component was focused on upgrading of the company's internal training capabilities and in
obtaining greater involvement of line managers in training, while the third involved the purchase
of technical assistance related equipment in the two areas mentioned above.
13.   However, SAIL failed to carry out the planned "productivity study" which was intended to
set in place the central systems and procedures considered necessary for the Authority's improved
management. At the end of the project, the Authority and the Bank concurred that little harm had
been done since the essential purpose of this study was met by the incorporation of its components
in other studies. Nonetheless, the Bank agreed in January 1994 to reinstate loan financing for a
"restructuring study" of similar objectives and scope. SAIL then awarded the contract on a sole
source basis, to a firm not included in the original shortlist--an arrangement which the Bank
rejected in 1989. It was selected on the grounds that it was the only public sector steel company to
have successfully done what SAIL wished to accomplish, plus its extensive knowledge of the
Authority. Regrettably, the firm selected subsequently withdrew from the contract on conflict of
interest grounds.
14.   In the case of the ICICI/IDBI components, the uses of the TA funds differed substantially
from the plans outlined in the appraisal report, to a limited extent because of differences over



v
procurement. Clearly though, the TA program was too loosely defined. Unfortunately too, despite
constant prodding, supervision missions were unable to persuade the DFIs to undertake a precise
program to meet the goals of strengthening portfolio management and project appraisal.
Subsequently, it was unclear that these institutions made particularly great strides in improving
subproject preparation, assessment and supervision. However, these banks were then heavily
engaged in extensive turnaround efforts triggered by the 1991 (and even earlier) policy reforms.
Moreover, their management were busily diversifying into non-lending operations.
15.   Results. It is impossible to segregate the Project's effects from the more fundamental
consequences of the 1991 macroeconomic and financial sector reforms. With that qualification, the
project appears to have achieved its objectives. When the 1991 economic liberalization began,
SAIL especially was ready to take advantage of the changes because of the project-supported
modernization. In addition, the project's resource transfer was helpful, especially during the earlier
macroeconomic instability and credit rationing, in maintaining industrial activity. Over the full
project term, the generation of some US$2.38 billion of new investment (more than three times the
predicted effect) provided a boost to the economy. This contributed to the rise in gross domestic
investment/GDP, which averaged 23.4 in 1989-1995 compared to 22.8 in 1986-88. In addition,
interviews with a sample of subborrowers revealed encouraging instances of "new exports" by
firms which had previously almost exclusively catered to the domestic market or only ventured to
neighboring countries.
16.   Institutionally, the three implementing agencies upgraded their policies, adjusted to new
market conditions and built up better trained staffs. Each succeeded in other notable respects as
well:
(a) IDBI and ICI by the end of the project were transforming into much more self-
sustaining and versatile banks, no longer reliant on raising government funds at below privileged
rates. Instead, they successfully began to tap international and local markets on the strength of
improved credit standings. Their range of services multiplied progressively.
(b) IDBI's 1994-95 statements reported that its internal funds generation had been
increasing to cover 64% of its resource requirements (compared to 43% in 1991). Also, its 1994-95
return on average net worth was almost 23%, average return on assets 11.25%. IDBI's debt/equity
ratios over 1990-95 averaged 9.54 and exceeded 10.0 in only one fiscal year. Its debt service
coverage ratio during that period averaged 1.6.
(c) ICICI's financial growth and profitability were also positive. From 1988 to 1993, total
assets increased from Rs 36 billion to Rs 123 billion. Return on equity averaged about 20% before
taxes over this period, and 18% after taxes. Its debt/equity ratio, which hovered just below 10%
through 1992, fell to 6.6% in 1992-93. Its spread between average cost of funds and lending rate
increased from about 3% in FY 88-91 to some 4% in FY 92-93.
(d) ICICI's collection ratio rose to 82% by FY 93, although arrears constituted 5% of the
portfolio (up from 3% in 1990). IDBI's collection ratio steadily improved from 72.3% in FY 89-90
to 83.6% by FY 93-94 but then slipped to over 82% in the following year. These signified the



vi
satisfactory accomplishment of the project target of progressive increases over the 67.1% ratio at
appraisal. IDBI's arrears declined from 6.6% of all loans in FY 89-90 to 6.1% through FY 93-94
but exceeded 7.4% the following year.
(e) SAIL's annual earnings kept increasing for over a decade. Salable steel output rose to
new records and the 1995-96 figures showed unprecedented production of 9.2 million tons, with net
profits rising to about US$380 million. Energy consumption systematically decreased to 8.7 G.
Cal/t of crude steel; productivity rose to 92 tones of crude steel per man-year. Several mills'
pollution loads fell substantially.
17.   Sustainability. India's real GDP growth recovered from 2 percent in 1991-92 to 6.3 percent
p.a. during 1994-95. There was also success in reducing the central government's fiscal deficit, as
well as a turnaround in the overall balance of payments. These achievements would have been
impossible without the significant exchange rate adjustments for external balance, the restoration of
financial discipline and monetary stability. In tandem, there has been considerable institutional
change in the interests of a more market-oriented economy.
18.   Clearly, the long-run sustainability of these improvements hinge on continuation of these
policies, as well as the strength of the private sector. These and the financial system reforms
mattered much more to the recent success than the Industrial Finance Project. But the latter did
make a contribution, as indicated above. By the same token, there are reasonable chances that the
Project's own results will also be sustained. In addition, the high 1994 and later industrial growth
figures appear to indicate that this expansion was broad based. They likewise demonstrate good
prospects for continuation of the favorable investment trends that have sharply reversed the
negative conditions which the Industrial Finance project sought to ameliorate.
19.   Overall assessment. The Project was well focused for achieving the objectives of the loan.
The strong commitment of the executing agencies to these objectives figured importantly in the
project's achievements. The Bank played a positive role in advancing the institutional development
of the three participants at the same time that it provided valuable investment resources. The
overall rating of the Project is "satisfactory," particularly as it achieved almost all its objectives in a
timely manner. The SAIL component experience was especially rewarding. It reflected an
accurate diagnosis of what was ailing the industry and what corrective measures were required.
The Authority's dedication to the project goals was of a high order, as were the results on the
ground. The enterprise is now able to finance internally the continuation of several programs
initiated under the loan.
20.    Lessons. This experience illustrated the value of an early beginning and continuing policy
dialogue on sector problems and their possible solutions, as part of a sustained Bank-government
working relationship. This, along with extensive Bank economic analysis, contributed to
substantial agreements on sweeping policy and institutional changes. The Project per se illustrated
that there can be merit in judicious separate investment lending untied to but supporting these
dialogues. In so doing, it provided a useful mechanism to monitor and discuss important sector
changes.



IMPIEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANT PROJECT
(LOAN 2928-I
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. BACKGROUND
1.   In the mid-1980s, the Government of India recognized the need for substantially
improved industrial performance. The sector had successfully attained the post-independence
goal of self-sufficiency. The industrial base was diversified with widespread production
capability. However, industrial expansion, substantially less than in many other industrializing
nations, had been disappointing. This figured significantly in the surprisingly low growth rate
in a country saving and investing over one-fifth of its GDP.
2.    Manufacturing's share of GDP had remained unchanged (at around 16%) for several
years. In 1981-85, industrial output grew at an average annual rate of 4.9% and total exports
only 4.5%. Manufacturing gross value added growth in the same period averaged 4.3% p.a.
and manufactured exports increased only 3.3 %. Moreover, Indian industry was considered
high cost and sub-par in technology, scale and efficiency.
3.    Accordingly, the Seventh Plan (1984/85-1989/90) and similar documents forecast
reforms of the restrictive industrial regulatory policies and inward-looking trade regime which
had long been in place. Several post-1985 actions successively began to put these new
directions into effect.  These ultimately produced a series of significant industrial
improvements, complemented by some liberalization of the financial system. These measures
formed the setting for a series of IBRD loans intended to support and further advance these
policy initiatives, keyed on assisting Indian industries to expand output and exports.
4.   In reviewing the Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project (IFTAP)
experience, it should be noted that its implementation spanned two periods of distinctly
different economic policy environments, discussed below. This had consequences for the
industrial activity on which the project centered. There were sharp changes in related Bank
policy during the project period as well.
5.    Before 1991.  The initial post-1985 liberalization measures did not materially alter
India's "dirigiste" development model.  While private enterprise was important in most
economic areas, the public sector still monopolized and tightly controlled investments in the
most important segments. The trade regime meanwhile remained highly protective with high
tariffs, many quantitative restrictions and discretionary import licenses.



2
6.    Also, India's relatively large, sophisticated financial sector was then still among the
most controlled economic functions. The dominant state-owned banks served mainly to
finance Government-selected activities determined by non-market socio-economic criteria,
under which they had relatively little discretion. They were also weakened by state policies
perpetuating loss-making operations and considerably concessional lending. Under the state's
protection, the banks' credit evaluations were lax. Prudential regulations were inadequate and
the true quality of banks' portfolios and effectiveness was not rigorously tested. Consequently,
the banks were uncompetitive and among the least profitable in the world (e.g., return on
assets in the late 1980s averaged about 0.15%).
7.    After 1991. After a bout of serious economic deterioration, the new 1991 Government
instituted bold measures to overcome the unprecedented balance of payments crisis and other
severe imbalances. A comprehensive stabilization program and major transformation of
India's development strategy saw trade and payment regimes significantly liberalized.
Quantitative controls and licensing of imports and exports were substantially reduced. Prior
government approval of decisions concerning expansion, diversification, mergers and
acquisitions was eliminated, as were controls on prices and distribution of key commodities.
The environment for private sector development was much improved, and foreign investment
significantly liberalized.
8.    There were similarly sharp financial system reforms. Capital and money markets were
liberalized and interest rates partially deregulated. Cumbersome credit norms were likewise
eased and priority sector lending requirements reduced. Barriers to private sector entry into
the banking system were removed. Competition in financial services was also invigorated
through the lowering of various barriers to term lending and opening capital markets to foreign
investment. Thus, industrial companies became less dependent for their funding on the banks,
who gained greater lending discretion.  They were subjected meanwhile to more stringent
capital adequacy standards and supervision.
9.    Seeing the IFTAP in its context also warrants recalling that it was created at the time of
a now outdated IBRD financial sector paradigm. The Bank then mostly sought to strengthen
DFIs and improve their efficiency, increase local resource mobilization and expand
disadvantaged groups' access to credit. This approach was then considerably altered in 1991.
The new norms called for broader sector policy undertakings aimed at improvement of the
financial system as a whole and more commercial operations.
10.   The Bank had historically provided numerous lines of credit to Indian financial
intermediaries for firms in industry (as well as agriculture and other sectors). Both the ICICI
and IDBI had long been IBRD clients (14 previous operations with the former and three with
the latter before the subject loan).  Other project loans supplied investment resources to
enterprises in cement, fertilizers, petrochemicals etc. There were no loans for the financial
sector as a whole (until 1995) though.



3
11.   Immediately prior to the Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project, the Bank
approved the Industrial Export Project (Lns. 2629/30, reviewed and audited in PCR No.
12612), which differed from the previous DFC-type loans in targeting engineering and export
ventures. In the event though, less than half of the funds went to engineering firms because of
changing conditions during the project period. It became necessary to broaden the use of these
funds to permit investments in the gamut of export projects. The economic impact of the
Loan, mainly in terms of incremental investment in export industries, was considered positive
(although the project's own part was uncertain).  By 1986-87, export performance was
improving with manufactured exports rising first by 9.3 % and then 11.8% (around three times
more than in 1981-85). This Loan was followed by another operation with essentially similar
goals: the FY89 Export Development Projects, largely executed by the same development
finance institutions (DFIs) involved in the IFTAP, during substantially overlapping periods
with somewhat common experiences.
12.   Despite these advances however, the authorities concluded in the late 1980s that more
needed to be done in order to increase the competitiveness of Indian industry. The mid-decade
changes in export policy (especially in the exchange rate regime) had generated little
improvement in several important subsectors. The Government therefore set out to place
greater reliance on price signals and market forces to stimulate industrial enterprises'
achievement of greater efficiencies of scale, modernization and adoption of new technology.
To this end, they decided to further rely on India's key DFIs as the catalyst, as well as the
resource channel, for stimulating such improvements. In addition, the Government recognized
that its promotion of greater domestic competition would create adjustment difficulties for
enterprises, like SAIL, accustomed to operate in a more regulated and protected environment.
13.   The Bank involvement with SAIL started in the mid-eighties, when a Steel Sector
Strategy Study was prepared and presented to the Government and SAIL in 1987. This work
was the background for Bank dialogue and much of the opening of the sector until now. The
report identified several constraints on the performance of the steel industry that had arisen in
a policy environment characterized, among others, by the following features: (i) insulation of
the industry from import competition through high tariffs and quantity controls on imports; (ii)
limited domestic competition due to a system of administered pricing; (iii) public sector
reservation for integrated steel mills, with the exception of TISCO; (iv) regulation of private
sector mini-mills and rerollers through a system of capacity licensing; (v) regulation of the
distribution system, with about 60% of steel production earmarked for designated priority
sectors; (vi) limited autonomy for SAIL, with day-to-day supervision of operations and formal
control by the Central Ministry over investment decisions, product-mix, employment policy
and prices; (vii) surcharge on the producer price to finance the Steel Development Fund
(SDF), administered by the Central Ministry; and (vii) equalization of freight rates to all
destinations throughout India through the mechanism of a Freight Equalization Fund (FEF).
14.   The Bank's steel sector report advocated that policy reform should be instituted to
ensure that incentives are in place to maintain competitiveness. This required: (i) increasing
the level of autonomy for SAIL, that should function as a commercial enterprise (before the
signature of the loan this point was accepted by the Government which entered into a



4
Memorandum of Understanding with SAIL which delegates more autonomy to the company in
both operational and investment decision-making); (ii) increasing competition, through the
relaxation of import controls, the elimination of capacity licensing restrictions for new
entrants, and the abolition of the system of pricing and distribution controls; and (iii) ensuring
incentives parity between minimills and integrated plants, through abolition of the FEF and
SDF schemes.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
15.   The primary objective of the project was to foster more rapid industrial growth by
advancing Indian companies' adjustments to the significant reforms in the regulatory
environment that had already occurred (and others which were anticipated). These were
perceived to affect the direction of industrial investment and the means of financing business
operations. The Government was becoming less involved in determining the capacity and
other parameters of Indian industry. In turn, the financial system, especially the DFIs, would
be assuming greater responsibility for selecting projects and helping manage them. The
project's operational targets were set at providing term financing for sound industrial
investment projects. Allied objectives focused on upgrading ICICI's and IDBI's practices.
16.   The main objective of the technical assistance component was to assist in developing a
more competitive, better managed enterprise within SAIL, so that the state-owned company
could respond to the liberalization of the controls which inhibited the growth of the steel sector
in India. The Government needed to be reassured about the ability of SAIL (India's biggest steel
producer about 65% of the market) to improve its technical and financial performance in order to
survive on a more competitive market structure. This called for a complete shift in the corporate
culture of the enterprise in selected key areas like business planning, marketing and distribution,
human resources development and environment. It was assumed that increases in SAIL's
autonomy vis-a-vis the Government could go hand-in-hand with the progressive deregulation of
the sector and the decrease in entry barriers.
17.   The Loan consisted of the following:
(a) Credit component: a credit line of US$300 million to the two largest DFIs (IDBI,
US$200 million; ICICI, US$100 million) for an estimated 80 industrial subprojects;
(b) ICICI/IDBI technical assistance: US$5 million each to ICICI and IDBI for
technical assistance aimed at strengthening their capacities to appraise projects, overcome
portfolio problems and mobilize resources more effectively (which together comprised Loan
2928-0); and
(c) SAIL technical assistance: US$50 million for three components. The first dealt
with studies and consultancy services on five areas: (i) productivity improvements and
planning; (ii) establishing the environmental management division at corporate level and
raising environmental safeguards; (iii) restoring the competitiveness of the Alloy plant; (iv)
streamlining SAIL' s marketing and distribution; and (v) upgrading its human resource



5
management. The second component was focused on upgrading of the company's internal
training capabilities and in obtaining greater involvement of line managers in training, while
the third involved the purchase of technical assistance related equipment in the two areas
mentioned above (Loan 2928-1).
18.   The US$868 million financing plan for the projected 7-year activity anticipated
substantial contributions from other sources: (i) US$225 million from industrial credit
borrowers; (ii) US$150 million from other credit institutions and participating commercial
banks; (iii) US$91 million from ICICI and IDBI; (iv) US$51 million from SAIL; and (v) a
Japanese grant of Y450 million given to SAIL exclusively for consultancy studies. The Bank
loan would cover 99% of the project's estimated foreign exchange component and over half of
technical assistance activities.
19.   A prominent feature of the design of the credit component was the adjustment of the
onlending arrangements which had been created for the then still active Industrial Exports
Project. Most of the latter's credit line had been denominated using the IBRD variable
currency pool and interest rate (plus a 2% spread). But this proved unworkable because of
sub-borrowers' mounting resistance to foreign currency subloans, as well as their unfamiliarity
with the currency pool. One main reason was the real depreciation of the Indian rupee of
about 25% in 1985-87; another was the increased volatility in global foreign exchange
markets. Further, Indians had been permitted to borrow in rupees and buy foreign exchange
when needed at spot rates. On these accounts, the DFIs' "foreign currency sanctions" fell 34
percent in 1987 and credit commitments under the several IBRD loans geared to such on-
lending conditions lagged considerably.
20.   The Industrial Finance project terms therefore relieved borrowers of the foreign
exchange risk on the Bank loan (which the Government undertook). They were provided
rupee-denominated loans and a fixed interest rate. The latter was set at 14%, the prescribed
local rate for non-concessional DFI lending, with the understanding that the Government
would periodically review and, as necessary, adjust the rate to keep it positive in real terms.
21.   These terms deviated from the prevailing general IBRD view that sub-borrowers should
bear the ultimate foreign exchange risk. Obviously, the Bank would have preferred a situation
in which this risk was not an issue, i.e, where there were no foreign exchange controls and
interest rates were market-determined. However, it was recognized that India will still a long
way from that condition. Thus, given the growing demand for term finance, the authorities
contended that the imperatives of modernizing and expanding industry justified their
assumption of the foreign exchange risk (which actually was in line with several ongoing
IBRD-assisted projects in India). The Bank concurred, mainly fearing that the failure to take
this course would jeopardize the planned new commitments.
22.   It did so, however, only after determining that no subsidy was entailed, supplemented
by the Bank's satisfaction with overall Indian interest rates. This judgment drew on the
Financial Intermediation Policy Paper, dated July 9, 1985, which sanctioned on-lending in
domestic currency provided there was a realistic foreign exchange risk fee. The Government's



6
proposed relending rate on examination was calculated to be similar to those in other Asian
countries. Those governments received an exchange risk fee equivalent to the difference
between the interest rate on the Bank loan and the final rate to sub-borrowers aligned to the
domestic market term lending rate (less the DFI's spread).
23.   Another feature was the elimination from the list of possible executing agencies of the
commercial banks and Export-Import Bank, despite their presence in the Industrial Export
Project. The IBRD staff sought to retain these institutions, partly to involve the small and
medium-sized firms in their clientele. However, the Government felt that these commercial
banks' problems (e.g., too many non-performing loans) would raise issues in the content of the
loan which they preferred avoiding. It was accordingly agreed to concentrate instead on the
two main DFCs (which provided over half of all term investment financing to industry).
24.   In this connection, the Bank staff was mindful of the banking system's considerable
difficulties, especially concerns about ICICI's and IDBI's deteriorating portfolios, earnings
squeeze and resource constraints (which blemished their overall favorable standing). The
project design however did not broadly tackle sector issues, and the loan only involved only a
modicum of provisions directed at the two banks' improvements. The financial performance
covenants only covered debt service and debt/equity ratios, which were relatively soft
(minimum 1.2:1 and maximum 12:1 respectively). Also, at the authorities' request, the
"understanding" regarding periodic Government interest rate reviews and required adjustments
was deleted from the legal documents, and relegated to the minutes of negotiations. Further,
the funds earmarked for assisting the DFIs' institutional advancement were only generally
defined.
25.   These should not be interpreted though as demonstrating Bank laxness. It was fully
appreciated that the DFIs were unlikely to meet more demanding goals while coping with an
increasingly more competitive environment and scarcer domestic resources (which the Bank's
project appraisal accurately foresaw). In addition, the Bank's leverage was restrained by the
fact that the loan was estimated to contribute less than 1 % of IDBI's total resources and about
7% of its foreign exchange requirements. Moreover, IBRD-Government agreements then
focused mainly on onlending interest rates, exchange rate risks, credit line performance and
overall institutional conditions. Accordingly, the project designers decided that it would be
best to tackle financial (as well as industrial) sector issues through parallel track Government-
Bank discussions.
26.   To this end, at least nine IBRD papers were disseminated on Indian financial system
issues in 1989, following three such documents in 1988. Thus, when the Government
requested the Bank's assistance in 1990 for basic system reforms and modernization of the
banking sector, it was ready with a substantial body of analyses. (So too were India's Reserve
Bank and Planning and Securities and Exchange Commissions.) The results of these labors
flowered in the dramatic 1991 changes (summarized in para. 9) while the Industrial Finance
project was being executed.



7
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
27.   This review does not attempt to segregate the results of the Industrial Finance and
Technical Assistance Project from the broader, more fundamental consequences of the
momentous 1991 macroeconomic and financial sector reforms. It would be misleading to
ignore the latter's influence in advancing the country's now more efficient market-oriented
economy. With that qualification, the project distinctly achieved its objectives.
28.   The rapid development of the Indian steel industry since the project appraisal has
proven that the chosen strategy and objectives have produced the desired results. Many of the
industrial regulatory, fiscal and export policy initiatives adopted since 1992 represent marked
departures from past practice in India. There has been significant progress in industrial
delicensing, easing controls regulations on private investment. Price and distribution controls
have been scrapped, and the FEF and SDF schemes have been abolished. Deregulation
resulted in an investment boom in the steel sector, while import tariffs continue to go down
(higher rates came down from 56% in 1992 to 40% in 1994, to a targeted goal of 25% in the
near future).  When the 1991 economic liberalization began, SAIL was ready to take
advantage of the changes because of the project-supported modernization effort. GOI has in
the meantime sold 11% of SAIL's equity in the stock market and is planning to reduce its
share to 51 % in the near future.
29.   The  project's  resource  transfer was  helpful, especially  during  the  earlier
macroeconomic instability and credit rationing. This was particularly timely then in helping
maintain industrial activity. Over the full project term, the generation of some US$2.38
billion of new investment (more than three times the predicted effect) provided a boost to the
economy. Its extent was probably too small to have a major impact on the macroeconomic
statistics. Nonetheless, the project contributed to the rise in gross domestic investment/GDP,
which averaged 23.4 in 1989-1995 compared to 22.8 in 1986-88.
30.   The project usefully stimulated greater activity at the smaller end of the industrial size
spectrum. Perhaps somewhat on that account, the subprojects financed were also beneficial in
employment generation. The data indicates that the two DFIs' lending led to 21,100 new jobs.
This is short of the 28,000 total which was expected but the sum is substantial (and ICICI's
data may not be complete).
31.   In addition, interviews with a sample of ICICI and IDBI subborrowers revealed
encouraging instances of incremental exports.  Their case stories reflected a substantial
incidence of "new exports" by firms which had previously almost exclusively catered to the
domestic market or only ventured to neighboring countries. Numerous businessmen cited
undertaking innovations in technology and products as well.
32.  Institutionally, the two DFIs upgraded their policies, adjusted to new market conditions
and built up better trained staffs. Each succeeded in other notable respects as well:



8
(a) IDBI and ICICI both profited by the 1991 deregulation of interest rates and capital
gains on asset sales. By the end of the project, they were transforming into much more
durable, self-sustaining and versatile banks. They were no longer reliant on raising funds
from governmental sources at below market rates. Instead, they successfully begun to tap
international and local markets on the strength of improved credit standings. Their range of
services multiplied progressively--foreign exchange service, venture capital, merchant
banking, mutual funds, etc.--in order to become more competitive. These efforts have been
useful, especially with the phasing out of their access to assured sources of long term funds
(the Investment Deposit Account and Capital Bonds Scheme; to a lesser extent, the National
Industrial Credit).
(b) IDBI's 1994-95 financial statements reported that its internal generation had been
increasing to cover 64% of its total fund requirements (compared to 43% in 1991). Also, its
1994-95 return on average net worth was almost 23%, average return on assetV 11.25%. At
the same time, IDBI's debt-equity ratios over 1990-95 averaged 9.54 and exceeded 10.0 in
only one fiscal year. Its debt service coverage ratio over the five year period averaged 1.6.
Both handily met the Bank loan covenants (as did ICICI).
(c) ICICI's financial growth and profitability were also impressive. From 1988 to
1993, total assets increased from Rs 36 billion to Rs 123 billion. Return on equity averaged
about 20% before taxes over this period, and 18% after taxes. Its debt:equity ratio, which
hovered just below 10% through 1992, fell to 6.6% in 1992-93. Its spread between average
cost of funds and lending rate increased from about 3 % in FY88-91 to some 4 % in FY92-93.
(d) Both also made some impressive strides in improving collection performance.
(i) ICICI's record at the time of project appraisal was increasingly unfavorable. The
collection ratio before rescheduling dropped from 75% in 1983 to 72% in 1986, at
whose end there was a substantial hard core of difficult cases. Under the project
accordingly, ICICI pledged to apply stricter appraisal criteria, tighten monitoring,
enforce stricter legal recovery, etc. Its measures were fruitful. The collection
ratio rose to 82% by FY93, when arrears however constituted 5% of the portfolio
(up from 3 % in 1990).
(ii) IDBI's ratio (also before rescheduling) steadily improved from 72.3 % in FY89-90
to 83.6% by FY93-94 but then slipped to over 82% in the following year. Despite
that setback, this record signified the satisfactory accomplishment of the project
target of progressive hikes from the time of IBRD appraisal, when the ratio was
67.1%. IDBI readily surpassed the particular FY90 goal of 70%. Also, its
arrears declined from 6.6% of all loans in FY89-90 to 6.1% through FY93-94 but
exceeded 7.4% the following year.
33.   SAIL's annual results evolved from a situation of recurrent losses in the mid-1980s to
ten successive years of profits, reflecting substantial improvements in its technical
performance. Crude and salable steel output rose to new records and the Authority's 1995-96



9
figures showed unprecedented production of 9.2 million tons.  Its energy consumption
systematically decreased to 8.7 G. Cal/t of crude steel. Manpower productivity rose to 92
crude steel tons per manyear (a commendable increase although still low by world standards.)
The Alloy plant regained global competitiveness. The sharper environmental concerns kindled
significant cuts in pollution loads in several mills. Human Resource Development today is
among the thrust areas in SAIL, and the company was able to direct its efforts to obtaining
ISO 9000 quality certificates in most of its plants.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
34.   Economic Environment. Some two years after the loan became effective, the country's
internal and external imbalances reached critical proportions. GDP growth fell to one percent
in 1991-92.  Balance of payments pressures rose, capital outflows accelerated and the
Government compressed imports drastically.  Foreign exchange reserves declined to two
weeks of imports in mid-1991 and the current account deficit was 3.7 percent of GDP in 1990-
91. The fiscal deficit, if uncorrected, would have exceeded 10 percent of GDP. Fortunately,
the situation improved after the mid-1991 reform program, although progressively, e.g., the
capital goods sector experienced negative growth rates in 1991-92. By 1994 though, national
growth reached 5.4 percent, fastest in the industrial sector, where manufacturing expanded by
9 percent.
35.   Overview,  The loan was approved on October 1987 and became effective the
following August. There was a fast start on credit commitments and the line was fully
committed by the December 1991 target of the loan. Later though, there were subloan
cancellations and underdisbursements that delayed expenditures on up to seven percent of the
Bank funds, which ultimately were not fully used. This was also true for the TA component,
as discussed below. But despite these, the project was smoothly executed.
36.  IDBI's on-lending figures (ref. Annex III) show that the project led to 97 subloans,
combining into a total investment volume of US$1,810 million. These entailed a wide array of
output, with considerable representation of relatively advanced industrialization, e.g, diesel
engines, circuit breakers, computer and oil drilling equipment, polypropylenes, special steel,
ball bearings, intravenous fluids, teleprinters, etc. Most of these subprojects were relatively
small (e.g., half of the Bank loan commitments were for less than US$1 million, almost one
fourth were for less than US$500,000). The DFI's May 1996 figures indicated that these
investments generated 10,816 jobs, compared to the 7,965 forecast at appraisal.
37.  IDBI and its collaborating banks (under the new, more informal system of loan
syndication) furnished half of total investment costs on average, while project sponsors
provided 40%. The IBRD loan provided the remaining ten percent (a fraction of the 40%
predicted in the Project's financing plan), mainly for foreign expenditures.
38.   A sample of 86 IDBI sub-projects' results economic rates of return over 32% (well
above the Bank loan requirement of minimum 12% ERRs). The financial rates of return were
in the 15-20% range.



10
39.   There were cost overruns in an estimated 55%  of these sub-projects.  These were
largely attributed to slow implementation (e.g., because of capital goods licensing delays),
exchange rate fluctuations and underestimated land and equipment purchase prices. The
smaller financial returns were caused by reduced capacity utilization and sales because of more
costly raw materials and stiffer than expected local and foreign competition, etc. Nevertheless,
repayment performance has been satisfactory on the whole. As of April 1996, IDBI reported
that there were arrears of 7.8% on the IBRD credit line (principal), over half of which were
overdue for less than a year.
40.   ICICI On-lending. The ICICI credit line enabled 87 companies to mount investments
of US$571.8 million. The average sized project was US$6.57 million, of which the Bank loan
financed some 17%. (As with IDBI, this was substantially below the 40% of subproject costs
foreseen in the Bank project financing plan.) Borrowers reported having generated 10,284
jobs in the process. ICICI's figures on the results showed that these subprojects' financial
rates of return at appraisal were in the 15.4-24.5% range, averaging 19.3% (ref. Annex II).
They ended up falling to the 11.6-22.4% range, averaging 17.5%. At the same time, there
were a sprinkling of negative results, e.g., 15% of the subloans were canceled.
41.   SAIL Component. SAIL's technical assistance activities followed the project scheme
most closely. Its consultants carried out most of the major studies planned. More than 600
SAIL officers were trained in the process. However, in June 1994 SAIL requested an
obtained cancellation for part of the loan, reducing the total amount of the Project financed by
the Bank to US$46.1 million. SAIL ultimately used US$39.04 million of the original loan
allocation. This was the consequence of the reduced demand for consulting services (with the
cancellation of the "productivity study" discussed below), the availability of bilateral funds for
some services initially set to be covered under the Loan, equipment cost savings and rupee
devaluations, resulting in the reduction of the local currency component expressed in Dollar
terms. Part of the "savings" were used to purchase the pollution control equipment needed to
carry out several important recommendations of the environmental study.
42.   The planned "productivity study" was intended to set in place the central systems and
procedures needed for the Authority's improved management. Almost six years after the
terms of reference and consultants' shortlist were cleared the study had not yet been launched.
Ultimately over the course of the project period, the Authority and the Bank concurred that the
essential purposes of the study were met through the incorporation of its components into other
studies, and the productivity study was deleted from the project.
43.   However, in January 1994, the Bank agreed to reinstate loan financing for a
"restructuring study" of similar objectives and scope, based on signs that the way was now
finally clear. SAIL, with the Bank's assent, awarded the contract on a sole source basis, to a
firm which was not included in the original shortlist--an arrangement which the Bank had
rejected in 1989. SAIL championed this firm on the grounds that it was the only public sector
steel company to have successfully done what SAIL wished to accomplish, plus its extensive



11
knowledge of the company. Regrettably, the firm selected subsequently withdrew from the
contract on conflict of interest grounds.
44.   DFI's TA.  In the case of the ICICI/IDBI components, the uses of the TA funds
differed substantially from the plans outlined in the appraisal report, e.g. 95% of IDBI's
allocation went for computerization improvements. The scheme for consultant services to IDBI
for promotion of non-credit activities was not implemented. Similarly, the funds were not
applied for the "new IDBI training institute in Hyderabad." However, IDBI did establish the
envisaged new training institution on its own account, and it is functioning today. The DFIs
(especially ICICI), and SAIL to a lesser extent, apparently found it difficult to develop these
training components, all of which disbursed slowly. One of the few exceptions appeared to be
the banks' use of these funds to refine their asset and liability management. In the main
though, trainees were sent to numerous foreign institutions without, it appeared, a clear,
overriding objective. Many attended general business management courses. In addition, the
computerization improvements badly lagged behind the project schedule.
45.   Clearly, the TA program for ICICI/IDBI was too loosely defined.  Nor did the
supervision missions insist that the DFIs develop a precise monitorable program defined to
meet the goals of strengthening portfolio management and pr3ject appraisal. Instead, the
supervision reports showed far less prominent attention to the banks' institutional development
requirements than their loan collections.
46.   In this connection, it was unclear that these institutions made particularly great strides
in improving subproject preparation, assessment and supervision. Questioning of their staffs
and sub-borrowers failed to produce evidence of notable improvements in upgrading appraisal
techniques, for example. Although already of reasonable quality, the DFIs' evaluations seem
to have remained more fixed mainly on their sponsors' creditworthiness than the economic
merits of the proposed investments. Borrowers reported considerable bank concern, however,
about their products' market prospects.
47.   To be sure though, these criticisms need to be tempered by the appreciation that the
banks were then heavily engaged in turnaround efforts involving every level of their
organizations, triggered by the 1991 policy reforms (and the earlier one to a lesser extent).
They were also still operating then under "consortium lending" practices, which continued to
mute critical judgments about project approvals. Moreover, their managements were then
somewhat preoccupied with diversifying into leasing, merchant banking and other non-lending
operations.
48.   Another deterrent at the time to the introduction of more rigorous practices was the
Government's tardiness in implementing the new Bank for Industrial and Financial
Reconstruction (BIRF). The latter was intended to hasten the closure of moribund debtors,
and its prompt implementation might have helped spur sharper portfolio management. But
there were protracted delays in getting it operational, notwithstanding the Bank's attempts to
persuade the Government to accelerate this action.



12
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
49.   India's GDP recovered from 2 percent in 1991-92 to 6.3 percent p.a. during 1994-95.
Early estimates for 1995-96 put GDP growth at around 5.8 percent. There was also success in
reducing the central government's 8.4 percent of GDP fiscal deficit at the outset of the 1991
reform program to 5.7 percent in 1992-93. And there was a turnaround in the overall balance
of payments.  These achievements would have been impossible without the significant
exchange rate adjustments for external balance, the restoration of financial discipline and
monetary stability. In tandem, there has been considerable institutional change in the interests
of a more market-oriented economy.
50.   Clearly, the long-run sustainability of these improvements hinge on continuation of
these policies, as well as the strength of the private sector. These and the financial system
reforms were much more key factors in the recent success than the Industrial Finance and
Technical Assistance Project. But the latter did make a contribution, as indicated above. By
the same token, alongside of the favorable prospects for maintenance of the healthier macro
policy framework, there are reasonable chances that the Project's own results will also be
sustained. In addition, the high 1994 and later industrial growth figures appear to indicate that
this expansion was broad based. They likewise demonstrate good prospects for continuation
of the favorable investment trends that have sharply reversed the negative conditions which the
Industrial Finance project sought to ameliorate.
51.   Other indications of good possibilities of the sustainability of these industrial sector
advances relate to their employment effects. Statistics indicate that under the 1960-86 policies
providing high effective protection for capital-intensive manufacturing sectors, there was a
four-fold decrease in labor intensity of manufacturing. Conversely, following the substantial
policy changes, there was accelerated employment creation. The 1994-95 Economic Survey
indicated that jobs increased twice as fast between 1992 and 1994 than during 1985-92, at a
rate of 6 million new jobs a year. Employment growth was approximately 7.8 million in
1994-95.
52.   SAIL's performance has improved substantially, both from the technical and financial
point of view. As a result of the project, SAIL has adopted environment management as one
of the thrust areas of its operations and created an Environment Management Division at
corporate level, supported by Environment Management Departments at each plant. The
Human Resources Division has been strengthened and improvements in the handling and
distribution of steel products have become a benchmark for the industry. The enterprise is
now able to finance internally the continuation of several programs initiated under the loan.
Moreover, SAIL is now selling its technical expertise under the form of consultancy services,
through the recently created Consultancy Division.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
53.   The Bank performance was "satisfactory" in identification, preparation, appraisal and
supervision. The project was identified during the course of Bank's active industrial sector



13
work program  and allied financial system  analyses.   The 1987 CEM  "India:   An
Industrializing Economy in Transition" also explored overall industrial development while
several subsector reports examined individual fields in detail. At the preparation stage, the
Bank correctly diagnosed what was ailing the industry and identified in conjunction with GOI
and SAIL the correct solutions for the prevailing situation. Appraisal has identified project
goals and established concise project objectives consistent with the overall economic strategy
for the country, as well as the sector strategy for steel. Supervision missions visited India
regularly. Additionally, the Bank maintained a lively dialogue with GOI on economic and
policy reform and with SAIL on business strategies.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
54.   The three implementing agencies top-management was fully committed to successful
implementation of the project and their performance was highly satisfactory. In spite of the
procurement incident in SAIL's TA component, Bank's procurement policies were totally
understood and have inspired new procedures in the company. Consultants were generally
competent and their contribution highly appreciated by the enterprise.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
55.   Overall assessment, The Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project was well
focused, with terms and conditions appropriately designed for achieving the objectives of the
loan. The strong commitment of the executing agencies to its objectives figured important in
the project's achievements. The Bank played a positive role in advancing the institutional
development of the three participants at the same time that it provided valuable investment
resources.
56.   The overall rating of the project is satisfactory. It achieved almost all its objectives in
a timely manner. The SAIL component experience was especially rewarding. It reflected an
accurate diagnosis of what was ailing the industry and what corrective measures were
required. The Authority's commitment to the project goals was of a high order, as were the
results on the ground.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
57.   Financial sector operations in India were recast since this loan to concentrate on the
overall policy framework.  These have placed special emphasis on minimizing credit
distortions, ensuring effective accounting and supervision, and supporting autonomous
institutions and competition within the system as a whole. The previous pattern of credit lines
through a few selected intermediaries has been discarded.  Further, the opening of the
economy and liberalization of financial markets have improved the environment for more IFC
activity.



14
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
58.   This experience illustrated the value of an early beginning and continuing policy
dialogue on sector problems and their possible solutions, as part of a sustained Bank-
government working relationship.  This along with extensive Bank economic analysis
contributed to substantial agreements on sweeping policy and institutional changes. The
Project per se illustrated that there can be merit in judicious sparate investment lending untied
to but supporting these dialogues (so long as the environment is suitable for effective
investment). In so doing, it provided a mechanism to monitor and discuss important sector
changes.



15
INDIA
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHIICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2928-IN)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives           Substantial     Partial     Negligible    Not Applicabk
Macroeconomic policies                                                             V
Sector policies                        V
Financial objectives                   V
Institutional development                            V
Physical objectives                    V
Poverty reduction                                                                  V
Gender concems                                                                     V
Other social objectives                                                            V
Environmental objectives               V
Public sector management               V
Private sector development             V
Other (specify)
K.  Project sustainability                   Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
C.  Bank p2erformanc                      satisfactor         Satisfactor          Deficien
Identification                                               V
Preparation assistance                                       V
Appraisal                                                    V
Supervision                                                  V
D.  BorTower performnance                 satisfactorv        Satisfactor          Deficient
Preparation                                                  V
Implementation                                               V
Covenant compliance                                          V
Operation (if applicable)                                    V
H. Aih   HSa
E.   Assessment of outcome             sI~a.tisf    Sa tair        Unsatisfactorv    Unsatisfactorv



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                Purpose               Year of             Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Industrial Export Project-   Support trade policy reform and  1986    Closed in 1992; ICR in 1993;
Engineering Products (Loans  increase the supply of investment        OED audit in 1996.
2629-IN and 2630-1N)       funding for export oriented
projects and export promotional
activities
2.
Foiowing operations
1. Financial Sector        Greater market orientation,       1995    Undisbursed $ 544 million
Development                allocative efficiency, technical
(Lns.3856/57/58-IN)        competence and competition in
financial system
2.
Etc.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle                             latest estimate
Identification                                                          05/08/87
Preparation                                                             05/27/87
Appraisal                                                               10/05/87
Negotiations                                                            02/10/88
Letter of development policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                                      03/31/88
Signing                                                                 05/21/88
Effectiveness                                                           08/09/88
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)     _
Project completion
Loan closing                                                            12/31/95



17
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
Appraisal Estimate             31.82    112.82   214.82   324.82   344.82   359.82   359.82
Actual                          59.2    144.37   235.86   296.28   312.22   323.85    328.85
Actual as%of estimate           186       128      110      91       91       90        91
Date of final disbursement                                                             4/96
Table 5: Studies Included in Project
Study                     Purpose               Status        Impact of study
1.  Upgrading of Human        Upgrade and revamp SAIL's    Completed    66% of the workforce
Resources Division (HRD)   training facilities and programs.        retrained. 200
Plan and implement massive                engineers trained
retraining.                               abroad.
2.  Marketing and Distribution  Improvement of distribution  Completed    Revamping of
channels and infrastructure.              marketing organization
reduced cost of moving
steel to consumers and
improved customer
satisfaction
3.  Environment Management   Survey of SAIL's plants to    Completed    Creation of
and Pollution Control    assess the equipment                       Environment
requirements for monitoring               Management Division;
and measuring the levels of air,          setting up of pollution
water, thermal, and noise                 monitoring schemes
pollution; design and                     and environmental
implementation of a                       laboratories; pollution
comprehensive system of                   levels brought in
environmental management.                 compliance with Indian
standards.
4.  Productivity improvement   Increase organizational     Canceled;
and planning at SAIL     effectiveness; develop and   Incoporated
improve management systems   within other
and procedures; improve     stuides
strategic and operational
planning.
5.  Technological Upgrading of Survey of the plant; preparation  Completed    Produced
Alloy Plant.             and implementation of                      recommendations for
recommendations for                       achieving international
improvement.                              provisions. Plant
competitiveness
restored.



18
Table 6: Selected Indicators of Credit Line Achievements
IDBI                   ICICI
Amount of Ln.2928 Committed* ($m)                    186.61                  94.2
Amount of Ln.2928 Disbursed ($m)                     176.97                  79.8
No. of Subloans                                       98                      87
Ave. Size Project                                    18.48                   6.57
Ave. Size Ln. 2928 Commitments ($m)                   1.89                   1.10
Purposes of Project (%)
-- New activities                                    47                      29
-- Expansion/diversification                         39                      31
-- Modernization                                     14                      38
-- Others                                             -                      2
Total Investments Generated ($m)                     1,811                   571
No. Jobs Created                                     10,816                 10,284
* Net of cancellations



19
Table 7A: Project Costs
SAIL Component
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)        Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Item           Costs       Costs      Total       Costs      Costs       Total
Productivity Study         1.0        2.5         3.5       0.00        0.00        0.00
Environmental Study       18.8       23.6        42,4       17.82       7.02       24.84
Training                   8.4       10.8        19.2       9.95       14.45       24.40
Distribution Study         7.3       10.2        17.5       5.72        5.55       11.27
Alloy Steel Plant          0.3        1.4         1.7        1.65       2.82        4.47
Survey
Total                     35.8       48.5        84.3      35.14       29.84       64.98
Physicai                   3.6        4.9         8.5       0.00        0.00        0.00
Contingencies
Price Contingencies        6.8        1.2         8.0       0.00        0.00        0.00
Total                     46.2       54.6       100.8      35.14       29.84       64.98
Table 7B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)        Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local     Foreign                  Local     Foreign
Source          Costs      Costs       Total       Costs       Costs       Total
IBRD/IDA'                 0.0        50.0       50.0       14.08       29.84       43.92
SAIL                     46.2         4.6       50.8       21.06        0.00       21.06
Total Project Cost       46.2        54.6      100.8       35.14       29.84       64.98
including Japanese Grant



20
Table 8A: Project Costs
IDBI Credit Component
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Local      Foreign                  Local       Foreign
Item          Costs       Costs       Total        Costs       Costs        Total
Credit Line             300         200         500        1,720          90        1,810
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)                Actual (USSM)
Local    Foreign                    Local     Foreign
Source            Costs       Costs       Total       Costs       Costs        Total
IBRD                                200         200           87          90         177
IDBI                     50                       50         240                     240
Other DFIs              100                      100         661                     661
Project Sponsors        150                      150         732                     732
Total Project Cost      300         200          500       1,720          90        1,810



21
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Subprojects financed by the fmancial intermediaries were required to have projected minimum
economic rate of return (ERR) of 12 percent. The actual performance of sub-loans varied across sub-
sectors and institutions, with fnancial rates of return ranging from 12 to 60 percent. ERR data was too
sketchy to draw conclusions.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
India
Loan 2928-IN
::Original   *Revised
.........................   ........................ .........................;...........................................................                    ............
:Covenant  :Present               fulfillmentifulfillment iDescription of
Agreement :Section  ,type                       Status           date            date             covenant                                                  :Comments
Board             2.02 (b)             I               C                                         Borrower to open Special Account for
'purposes of Part A and B.
.......   ...... ........................ .. ..........................................................................................   .............
4.02             I                C                                         :Special Account to be audited and report
to be furnished within six months after
:end of each year/
............     ......................... ..        ......... ....................................................................................................... 
4.02 (b)            I               C        .                                 Borrower to arrange for audit of
:expenditures/withdrawals under
Statements of Expenditures and furnish
;  . ;   ,      ;               jireport within four months of end of each
-year.
Board                3 3.01            1 I     i       C        ;               .                iIDBI's accounts to be audited and report
::to be fumished four months after end of
:each year.
;   3 02         2               C                         ;;(i) IDBI's debt: equity ratio not to exceed 
i   i     ji               ;               ;               jil~~~~~~~~~~2:1.                                           j
;(ii) IDBI's consolidated internal cash
:generation for each year to be at least
1.2:1 times its consolidated debt service;
:requirement for that year.
......................... , , , .... .. ...... .....                           ........... ........... ............ .. .... .. ....
3 3.01            1 I     ;       C        ;               i               iICICI's accounts to be audited and report
ito be fumished four months after end of
:each year.
.............     ........     ......................... ....................................  .............................................    .................
*   3.02    .        2        *       C        .               *                 (i) ICICI's debt: equity ratio not to
;exceed 12:1.
;   (ii) ICICI's consolidated intemal cash
:generation for each year to be at least
;1.2:1 times its consolidated debt service
;__________________________ ;_______ ;______                                    irequirement for that year.                                ;
Status: C - Complied with



22
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
State of               Planned                 Revised                  Actual
project cycle       Weeks        US$        Weeks         US$        Weeks        US$
Through appraisal        29.9        74.9         29.9        74.9        29.9        74.9
Appraisal--Board         39.1        101.7        39.1        101.7       39.1        101.7
Board--effectiveness
Supervision              96.3        343.3        96.3       323.2        94.4        289.8
Completion               17.4        37.8         17.4        55.4        11.5        48.5
TOTAL                    182.7       557.7       182.7        555.2       174.9       514.9



23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of            Number  Days  Specialized   Implemen-    Develop-
project    Month/      of       in    staff skills   tation        ment        Types of
cycle      year    persons  field  represented      status       impact       problems
Through       05/87       5               TM,FA
appraisal     03/88                       CON.E
Appraisal
through
Board
approval
Supervision    09/89      2       14      TM, E           2            2
10/90      1       13      TM, E           2            2
02/91      1                 TM            2            2
07/92      2       16        TM            2             2
04/93      1       13        TM            2             2
11/93      1       16        TM            2            2
. __________  07/94       1       16        TM            1            2
Completion    04/96       3       35    Econ. Fin.        S           HS
.-                      -       -






Annex 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT OF:
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOANS 3058/3059-IN)
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2928-IN)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
I.           A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Paul Beckerman (SA2CI) (who
accompanied the mission only in Bombay), Paulo de Sa (IENIM), Herman Nissenbaum
(Consultant), and Ms. Lin Chin (SA2CI) visited India from March 31 to April 11 to prepare the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Export Development Project (Loans 3058/3059-
IN) as well as the Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2928-IN). It also
met with the management of the Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) in New Delhi. The
mission met with all five implementing financial institutions -- Industrial Development Bank of
India (IDBI), Industrial Credit & Investment Corporation of India (ICICI), Export-Import Bank
of India (EXIM), Canara Bank, and Bank of Baroda (BOB), as well as with a sample of about 30
loan recipients in Bombay, Bangalore and Delhi. This aide-memoire records the views of the
Bank mission, the implementing agencies and of a sample of sub-borrowers, and discusses the
implementation performance for each component. Preliminary commitment and disbursement
figures based on the data provided by the administering agencies are also included. The mission
would like to thank the implementing agencies for their hospitality and assistance.
2.           The Export Development Project had four components: (i) a US$175 million
credit line administered by ICICI (later reduced to US$76.3 million); (ii) US$100 million for
term loans through three participating banks, the Export-Import Bank of India (EXIM), Canara
Bank, and Bank of Baroda; (iii) US$20 million for matching grants to exporters for export
promotional activities, the Export Development Fund (EDF); and (iv) a US$2.7 million
Japanese Grant (No. 2727) available for technical assistance to the implementing agencies.
3.           ICICI Loan Component: The ICICI component has provided US$76.3 million
for sub-loans to 102 companies. Original plans were for a US$175 million loan that would be
relent to sub-borrowers in foreign exchange at the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus 2%
or in rupees at the prevailing exchange rate under the Exchange Rate Administration Scheme
(ERAS). During implementation, however, the line of credit stalled because of the collapse of
the ERAS scheme, following the 47% depreciation of the rupee between 1989-1991, and the
introduction of partial convertibility of the rupee. These developments impaired the exporters'
incentive to pay above-market rates on fixed loans. On the other hand, the lack of familiarity of
the borrowing companies with the currency pool arrangement made them reluctant to take on
exchange rate risk at a time of repeated devaluation. Borrowers also found the mechanism
difficult to understand. As a result, in February 1993, the Bank and the Government of India
(GOI) agreed to cancel the remaining undisbursed amounts, totaling US$98.7 million.
Preliminary data provided to the mission show that the average loan size was US$748,000, and
total investment costs were US$495 million, which generated 17,057 jobs.
4.           Participating Banks Loan Component: This component has provided US$97.3
millions for sub-loans to 235 companies. The US$100 million loan was originally to be
allocated among the participating banks as follows: Eximbank, US$40 million; Bank of Baroda,
US$30 million; and Canara Bank, US$30 million. At the request of GOI, in April 1991 the Bank
reallocated US$10 million from the share of each participating financial institution to create a



2
pool fund for all the banks to be made available on a first-come, first-served basis. In July 1992,
at the request of GOI, the Bank reallocated the remaining uncommitted funds under this
component on a first-come first-served basis. Bank of Baroda took maximum advantage of this
reallocation of funds.
5.           Based on the preliminary data transmitted to the mission, the disbursement status
of this component is as follows:
-  EXIM committed US$30.1 million and disbursed about US$27 million to 43
small and medium companies. The average loan size was US$635,000 and the average financial
rate of return expected at appraisal was 34 percent. There were 3 full cancellations, and 3
projects with long-term arrears.
- Bank of Baroda committed US$49.85 million and disbursed US$45.5 million to
108 small and medium companies (with average sales of about US$7 million). The average loan
size was US$441,000 and exports generated over the past three years exceed Rs 8.6 billion.
About sixty percent of the companies are located in small towns or backward areas. There were 5
full cancellations, and 11 projects with long-term arrears. At the end of FY 1995/96, 37 units
were performing below expectations, although more than two thirds of them were regular in
meeting their term loan obligations.
- Canara Bank committed US$24.8 million in 84 loans, of which about US$22
million were disbursed mainly to small and medium companies (with average sales of about
US$6 million). The average loan size was US$262,000 and the average financial rate of return
expected at appraisal was 31 percent. There were 12 full cancellations, 4 projects with long term
arrears, and the number of defaults totaled 18.
9.           Export Development Fund (EDF) Grant Component: The EDF component has
supported marketing programs for about 450 companies. The original allocation of funds among
the participating banks was as follows: ICICI, US$7 million; Eximbank, US$7 million; Bank of
Baroda, US$3 million; and Canara Bank, US$3 million. Overall implementation was highly
satisfactory. The average size of the grant was US$451,190. The firms assisted were small,
medium and large in size. On the basis of the available data, the ratio of actual incremental
export earnings to grants at the end of the FY 1995/96 had largely exceeded the target of 10-to-1
(37-to-I in the case of EXIM).
10.         ICICI committed US$7.5 million and disbursed about 70 percent of this amount
to more than one hundred companies. EXIM overcommitted its allocation with the agreement of
the Bank US$7.4 million was committed to 118 companies, although only about 85 percent of
this amount was actually disbursed. The average grant size was US$61,513. The other
participating banks were slower to commit their allocations and to disburse the sanctioned
amounts. Bank of Baroda has received an allocation of US$3.38 million under the EDF. As of
December 1995, 94 projects had been approved but nearly US$1 million remained undisbursed
because Bank of Baroda decided to only release these disbursements after proof that incremental
exports amounting to ten times the grant over five years had taken place. Similarly, Canara
Bank only disbursed about 60 percent of its original allocation.
11.          Japanese Grant Technical Assistance Fund CE) Component: About US$2.6
million was spent on this program from an initial allocation of US$2.7 million, distributed as



3
follows: ICICI, US$1.175 million; Eximbank, US$675,000; Bank of Baroda and Canara Bank,
US$425,000 each. The grant originally supported a training program for all implementing
agencies to upgrade staff skills in the area of exports. After three years of virtually no
disbursements, the component's scope was widened to include sector studies and establishment
of two overseas service centers by EXIM (in Rome and Budapest) to collect market information
for Indian companies and identify joint-venture opportunities. EXIM's final utilization of funds
amounted to US$1.043 million, as authorized by the Bank. ICICI disbursed US$990,000, mainly
for training under the ADL-CTP program, while Canara Bank utilized virtually the entire
allocated amount for training abroad. Bank of Baroda was somewhat slow to submit final
proposals to the Bank, even though it was allowed to do so irrespective of the original
allocations, and utilized approximately US$150,000.
12.          Overall Project Implementation: General implementation of the project
proceeded without major problems, especially as the financial institutions' previous experience
under the Industrial Engineering Project enabled them to disburse the term credit more rapidly.
Slow initial disbursement of the two Funds was compensated by intense activity during the last
year of the Loan. The most important problem during implementation was the failure of the
ERAS scheme (because of macroeconomic circumstances that were not foreseen at the time the
loan was prepared) and cancellation of the remaining funds. In this connection, the borrowing
agencies and the financial institutions and sub-borrowers expressed their satisfaction with the
Bank's timely advice on this problem.
13.          During the discussions with the financial institutions, the mission provided
advice and support for the preparation of their respective portions of the ICR.
14.          Project Resulti: During the visit to India, the mission was only able to obtain
partial information on the final results of the project. Information was especially limited in the
case of ICICI. All the financial institutions agreed to make available to the Bank the complete
list of sub-borrowers, costs and financing for each project, expected financial and economic rates
of return, as well as their performance in improving the banks' collection records no later than
May 15. Nevertheless, the project can be considered to have achieved its main objectives, in
spite of the changes in the macroeconomic environment that could not be foreseen at the time of
preparation and appraisal.
15.          The sub-borrowers told the mission that the EDP presented very attractive
conditions. They stressed that (i) provided access to term credit enabling them to purchase of
imported capital goods in a period of extreme scarcity of foreign exchange (especially in 1991);
and (ii) made available rupee-denominated funds at reasonable real interest rates. The Loan
contributed to the companies' modernization efforts, and helped them prepare to meet foreign
competition. They said it helped several small and medium companies expand aggressively
through exports, at a time when domestic growth was relatively sluggish (1990-1993). It was
felt that the EDP was particularly useful for new entrepreneurs and starting exporters, as it was
then the single source of funds available to them.
16.          The sub-borrowers were also generally satisfied with the performance of the
financial institutions in terms of timing, service quality, and lending conditions. Most noted that
the banking industry in India then provided no comparable sources of finance. It should be
noted, however, that the changes in the economic environment during the implementation phase
adversely affected the financial performance of the first projects approved. In effect, they



4
incurred high capital costs as a result of: (i) the effect of the devaluation on the costs of imported
equipment; (ii) high duties for imported equipment that were subsequently considerably reduced;
and (iii) delays in obtaining of Governmental licenses, especially during the period of foreign-
exchange scarcity.
17.          Under the EDP, several beneficiaries were assisted both financially and with
technical assistance in marketing activities that proved valuable for their export expansion. This
could not otherwise have taken place because of restrictions on access to foreign exchange. The
Fund also contributed to sharpening export awareness and penetration by Indian companies in
world markets. It encouraged them to move away from volume-oriented activities toward a
focus on quality and on client service.
18.           The performance of the financial institutions and the changes observed in their
internal procedures and organization -- making them more commercially-oriented, and more
responsive to clients' requirements -- must be understood within the context of the evolution of
India's economic environment and sector deregulation since 1991. The EDP contributed to
improving their abilities to assist clients in export-oriented activities, to widening their client
base, and to expanding the range of services provided. It also had a catalytic role for the sub-
borrowers in enabling them to secure other sources of finance (particularly for working capital).
19.          Overall, the banks feel that the EDP helped them identify the shortcomings in
their appraisal techniques, and helped them improve internal operating procedures. This may
help explain why sub-loans extended under this credit line had higher rates of return and better
collection ratios when compared to the average performance of their portfolio. Term lending in
foreign exchange, especially from export-credit agencies and other bilateral sources, is now an
integral part of these financial institutions' operations.
-  ICICI used the grant funds to redefine its strategy in the export business. It
created an export cell, now part of the Advisory Services Group, to assist companies in their
export strategies.
- EXIM has decided to launch a third export development program -- including
term lending (in dollars) and grant funds -- financed essentially through internal funds. The bank
has also created an Exporter's Club and now provides integrated services to potential borrowers
at a fee.
- Participating commercial banks consolidated permanent cells within their
organizations to deal with financing of export projects and used the TAF to build-up their staff
skills. They are now planning to expand the advisory services provided to their clients on a fee
basis.
20.           On return to Bank headquarters, the mission will prepare the Implementation
Completion Reports for Loans 2928, 3058 and 3059, drafts of which will be sent to the GOI for
review.



5
Attachment
Selected Indicators of Subloan (Lns.3058/59-IN) Achievements
Indicator                 ICICI  Bank of   Canara    EXIM         Total
Baroda     Bank
Amount committed (US$ million)          112.8     49.9      24.8      30.1     217.6
Amount disbursed (US$ million)           76.3     45.5      22.0      27.9     171.7
Number of loans                           102      113        84       47        346
Number of companies                      102       113        83       46        344
Average loans (US$)                   748,000  441,000   262,000  635,000   496,000
Average sales of companies (Rs. million)  n.a.     228       187    1,862
Average financial rate of return (percent)  n.a.   n.a.       31       34
Number with long-term arrears or         n.a.       11         4        2
reschedulingsa                                      I
Number of full cancellations               17        5        12         3         3
Additional jobs created                17,050    5,000     4,500    1,500    28,050
a -- long-term arrears are arrears over one year.
Selected Indicators of EDF (Lns. 3058/59-IN) Achievements
ICICI  Bank of    Canara      EXIM    Total
Baroda      Bank
Amount committed (US$ million)      7.50      3.38      3.04       7.44   21.36
Amount disbursed (US$ million)      5.25      2.00       1.79      7.44   16.48
Number of loans                      131        89       100        129     449
Number of companies                  123        89        97        121     430
Average loans (US$)               40,100   26,900    17,900    65,500  36,700
Incremental exports                  n.a.     n.a.   42 times  102 times



Export Development Project - Lns.3058/59-IN
Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project - Ln.2928-IN
Implementation Completion Report Mission (April 1 - 12, 1996)
List of Officials Met
Industrial Development Bank of India
Mr. S.H. Khan                                  Chairman and Managing Director
Mr. G.P. Gupta                                 Executive Director
Mr. P.S. Subramanyam                           Chief General Manager
Mr. K. Sivaprakasam                            General Manager
Mr. J. John                                    Deputy General Manager
Ms. Mythili Ravi                               Assistant General Manager
Mr. K.X.M. John                                Chief General Manager (Delhi Office)
Mr. R. Satyamurthi                             General Manager (Delhi Office)
Mr. Smriti Dhaon                               Deputy Manager
The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd.
Ms. Lalita D. Gupte                            Executive Director
Mr. Ambikapratap Singh                         Senior Vice-President
Mr. Mahinder Chugh                             Senior Vice-President
Mr. Suneet K. Maheshwari                       Senior Vice-President
Mr. N. Sridhar                                 Assistant Vice-President
Ms. Shubha Kamalsurya                          Assistant Vice-President
Mr. Mahesh Rao                                 Deputy Manager
Mr. T. Raghavendran                            Vice-President (Bombay Zonal Office)
Mr. S. Ragothaman                              Zonal Manager (BZO)
Mr. Mohit Chaturvedi                           Assistant Manager (BZO)
Mr. N.P. Subramanian                           Deputy Manager (BZO)
Mr. T.R. K                                     Deputy General Manager
Export-Import Bank of India
Mr. T.C. Venkat Subramanian                    General Manager
Mr. Shankarnarayan R. Rao                      Deputy General Manager
Mr. Rajshekar Singh                            Manager
Mr. Dipankar Basu                              Assistant Manager
Mr. Vinod Goel                                 Manager (Delhi Office)
Mr. S. Sridhar                                 Regional Resident Representative



Bank of Baroda
Mr. G.A. Nayak                                 General Manager (Zonal Office)
Mr. V.B. Lal Seksena                           Assistant General Manager
Mr. Arun Tiwari                                Senior Manager
Mr. Hemant K. Parikh                           Chief Manager (Project Finance)
Mr. M.M. Modi                                  Senior Manager
Mr. K. Kalidas                                 Manager
Canara Bank
Mr. K.P. Pai                                   General Manager
Mr. M.V. Kamath                                General Manager
Mr. A.R. Jayaprakash                           Senior Manager
Mr. C.G. Adwalpalker                           General Manager
Mr. K.P.Y. Rao                                 Deputy General Manager
Steel Authority of India Ltd.
Mr. Arun J. Malhotra                           Senior Manager
(Consultancy Division)
Mr. S.C. Suri                                  Executive Director (Planning)
Mr. U.S. Jain                                  Director (Finance)
Mr. S.D.M. Nagpal                              Addl. Director (Finance & Account)
Mr. R.K. Garg                                  Senior. Manager (Vice-Chairman
Secretariat)



Export Development Project - Lns.3058/59-IN
Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project - Ln.2928-IN
Implementation Completion Report Mission (April 1 - 12, 1996)
List of Sub-Borrowers Interviewed
Aro Granite Industries Ltd.
Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd.
Ballarpur Industries Ltd.
Flex Foods Ltd.
CT Cotton Yarn Ltd.
Kajaria Ceramics Ltd.
Eicher Motors Ltd.
AKG Acoustics (india) Ltd.
Indo - American Hybird Seeds
Namaste Exports Ltd.
Shenoy Granites (P.) Ltd.
Mangal Arts & Crafts
Amit Spinning Industries Ltd.
Keshavial Talakchand Kaytee Corporation Ltd.
Patodia Eurotex Group
Onida Electronics Ltd.
DCL Polyesters Ltd.
The Andhra Petrochemicals Ltd.
Repi Engineering Ltd.
Vidyut Metallics ltd.
Jain Irrigation Systyms Ltd.
The Zandu Pharmaceutical Works Ltd.
AFM India Ltd.
Protecto Engineering Ltd.
Lyka Labs Ltd.
Royal Cushion Vinyl Products Ltd.
Foundation Software Associates P. Ltd.
Inter Gold (India) Ltd.
Enkay Texofood Industries Ltd.
Bausch & Lomb India Ltd.
Triveni Oilfield Services Ltd.
Surya Roshni Ltd.



Industrial Finance and Technical A.sistance Project
(Loan No: 2928 IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Aide Memoire
Introduction
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Messrs. Edmund Mangan, Principal
Industrial Specialist, and Paulo de Sa, Industrial Economist, visited
India from April 1, through April 17, 1995 : (i) to prepare the
Implementation Completion Report for the Technical Assistance portion of
the Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project (Loan No: 2928-
IN), ad (ii) to respond to the request by SAIL, Steel Authority of India
Limited, the beneficiary of this portion of the loan, for assistance in
the review and updating of SAIL's current Business and Strategic plans.
It is agreed that this assistance would be beneficial to SAIL and would
be consistent with the objectives of the project and Loan which was
extended to the end of calendar year 1995 in order to complete a
proposed strategic review. Mr. de Sa was responsible for the preparation
of the ICR and provided assistance to the review of policy issues
relating to the SAIL corporate plan. Mr. Mangan concentrated on the
strategic and business planning exercise, for which a separate report
was prepared.
2.    In addition to detailed discussions with the Business Planning
Group of SAIL, the mission had extensive interactions with the
Commercial Directorate, Operations Directorate, Finance Directorate and
the Personnel Directorate at the Corporate Office of SAIL at New Delhi.
The primary focus of these discussions was to have an overview of the
changes that have already taken place in the business environment facing
SAIL since 1986 when the World Bank had prepared a Steel Sector Strategy
Report for India.
3.    The interactions at Delhi were followed by field visits covering
Bombay, Bangalore, Calcutta, Durgapur, Bokaro and Ranchi, where the
mission held discussions with: (i) SAIL's customers representing various
segments and product profile; (ii) SAIL's major competitors like TISCO,
Mukund, Essar, Nippon Denro, etc.; (iii) Coal India Limited, the only
domestic supplier of coking coal in India; and (iv) the major
beneficiaries of the Technical Assistance Loan within SAIL: the Central
Marketing Organization (CMO), the Raw Material Directorate (RMD), the
Environment Management Division (EMD), the Management Training Institute
(MTI) at Ranchi, and SAIL's Alloy Steel Plant, at Durgapur, Durgapur
Steel Plant, and Bokaro Steel Plant.
4.    The mission wishes to express its gratitude for the excellent
cooperation and constructive discussions held with SAIL's officials and
takes this opportunity to thank all concerned staff for the assistance
and hospitality extended to the mission during its stay in India.



Project Objectives
S.    The World Bank has been active in the steel subsector in India for
some time. A Steel Sector Strategy Study was undertaken by the Bank in
1986 and a Report was prepared and presented to the government and SAIL
in 1987. This work was the background for Bank dialogue and much of the
opening of the sector until now. The objective of the Project was to
provide technical assistance to SAIL, to enable it to complement the
physical restructuring efforts on which SAIL has embarked, by improving
organizational systems, technical skills, distribution arrangements,
pollution control schemes, and devising plans to reduce costs and
improve quality. This achievement would benefit downstream users of
steel, a group which direct or indirect concerns include almost all the
segments of the economy. The project would also have positive effects on
the environment as it would help SAIL to comply with Government's
environmental standards and to establish benchmark operational
procedures in the industry.
6.    Technical Assistance in the US$ 50 million component of the
Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project (Loan No: 2928-IN)
was to finance consultancy assignments, training activities and
technical assistance related equipment to help SAIL to improve
operational efficiency. Along with the loan the Bank also provided a
Japanese grant of V 450 million (approximately US$ 3.3 million) to SAIL
for the same project.
a) Consultancy Studies. Under the Loan four consultancy studies
were commissioned in different areas: (i) upgradation of the Human
Resources Division (HRD) and training study awarded to British Steel
Consultants Limited, U.K. (BSCOS); (ii) marketing and distribution
studies awarded to USX Engineering and Consultants Inc., USA (UEC);
(iii) environment management and pollution control study awarded to
BHPE/Kinhill joint-venture, Australia; and (iv) productivity improvement
and technological upgradation at the Alloy Steel Plant, Durgapur, study
awarded to Voest Alpine Industrial Services, Austria (VAIS). A great
number of recommendations of the consultants have already been
implemented while others, of long term nature, are under implementation.
b) Training. As a part of implementation of the HRD and Training
Study recommendations, training was provided in different areas by BSCOS
in U.K. to SAIL officers. SAIL also commissioned Institute for Resource
Development, USA (IRD), for providing training in the area of Total
Quality Management. This component was further expanded to include
training in Austria by VAIS in the areas of operations and maintenance
management. All training programs financed in the scope of this Project
have been completed.
c) TA Related Equipment. Under this item, the required equipment
in the areas of pollution monitoring and control, training aids and
material handling equipment recommended by the consultants has been
purchased. Pollution monitoring laboratories at SAIL plants have been



installed and pollution control projects at different SAIL plants are
under implementation. Material handling equipment has been installed at
selected stockyards. Similarly, the training laboratories in the areas
of electrical, electronics and hydraulic and pneumatic have been
installed.
7.    Project components included:
(in US$ million)         WB component       SAIL         TOTAL
Productivity Study               2.5          1.7         4.2
Environment                     24.5        26.2         50.7
Training                        11.0         12.0        23.0
Marketing & Distribution        10.5         10.4        20.9
Alloy Plant Study                1.5          0.5         2.0
TOTAL                           50.0         50.8        100.8
8. The Project was approved by the Bank Board on May 12, 1988 and was
amended in January 1992 to accommodate a change in project scope and a
reallocation within categories under the subject loan as shown below:
Category                        Original             Revised
(Amount in USS million)        Allocations        Allocations
Consultancy                           11.1                7.7
Training                               4.1               10.0
TA related Equipment                  33.7               31.2
Unallocated                            1.1                1.1
TOTAL                                 50.0               50.0
9.    The changes were due in part to: (i) a lower demand for consulting
services (US$ 2.5 originally allocated to the Productivity Study); (ii)
the availability of Australian grant financing for a portion of the
Bank's original scope of consulting work; (iii) cost savings in the
equipment category related to pollution monitoring of the Environment
Study, and also for the training equipment for blast furnace and power
plant simulators. Part of the savings were used by SAIL to purchase
pollution control as opposed to monitoring equipment to implement
several key recommendations from the Environmental Study and to achieve
actual pollution control results. with respect to the training program
it was agreed to expand the overseas training program, in consistency
with the overall project objectives.



10.   The original closing date for the SAIL portion of this loan was
December 31, 1993 and was extended twice in order to accommodate the
replacement of the Productivity Study originally proposed by a Business
Plan and Restructuring Study for Sail. However, the consultant selected
for this study withdrew for internal corporate reasons and the study was
not carried out as envisioned. Instead SAIL has requested direct Bank
assistance in reviewing the company's objectives and plans in the
emerging business environment in India. The expected closing date is now
June 30, 1995. In addition, in June 1994 SAIL requested an obtained
cancellation for a US$ 5 million part of the loan, reducing the total
amount of the Project financed by the Bank to US$ 45 million.
Implementation Experience and Results
11.   Achievement of Prolect Objectives. The projects undertaken under
the loan are presented in Attachment 1. All contributed favorably for
the achievement of the project objectives. As mentioned earlier the
Productivity Study was not commissioned due to lack of suitable
proposal. To avoid delay, the relevant issues were incorporated into the
remaining four studies and a training program in Total Quality Process
was included instead.
12.   Malor Factors Affecting the Project.
a) Factors not generally subject to Government control: conflict
of interests by the consultant selected to conduct the Business Planning
& Strategy Study prevented the project from achieving its full
objectives.
b) Factors generally subject to Government control: Government has
been responsive to the changes being implemented in the enterprise,
giving more autonomy to its management and divesting a minority share of
its capital. Additionally, the deregulation of the competitive framework
accelerated the on-going changes inside SAIL.
c) Factors generally subject to borrower control: top-management
commitment to the operation translated into excellent implementation.
Staff turnover after overseas training was not substantial, in spite of
the new entrants coming into the sector, which shows a strong commitment
to the changes being implemented. The very good timing of the operation
must also be stressed.
13.   Actual Project Cost. SAIL has prepared an updated budget for the
Project (see Attachment 3) indicating that by end February US$ 41.35
million had already been withdrawn and that at that time US$ 2.2 million
remained uncommitted.
Delhi, April 17, 1995



Annex 2
IA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPO
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT - LOAN 2928-IN
ICICI: Financial Characteristics of Subgroeccts Financed
(June 1995 Data)
Project Cost       IBRD Funding       Financial Rate of
Rs. million         Rs. million        Return (%)
Product              Appraisal    Actual      LC        FC    Appraisal  Actual
MIRC Electronics Ltd.            CTV & VCRs               104.00         -        -     10.40       18.60
Ucal Fuel Systems Ltd.           Fuel pumps               120.00                        7.70        21.00
Kajaria Ceramics Ltd.            Ceramic tiles             92.00    322.90              9.60        21.00
Century EnkaLtd.                 NTY/PIY                 1077.10                       47.70        18.60
Shree Pre-coated Steels Ltd.     Steel sheets             330.00    392.00              9.00        14.40   11.60
PSI Data Systems Ltd.            Mainframes               145.50    154.40              2.94        40.10
Century Textiles & Industries Ltd.  Textiles              137.50    113.60     4.90     17.10       13.80
Restile Ceramics Ltd.            Vitrified tiles           90.00    160.00              5.10        14.50
Gujarat Propack Ltd.             BOPP film                 99.40    109.20              6.00        14.80   17.20
Sri Katragadda Electrics Ltd.    Stepper motors            72.30     77.90              6.30        14.30
Dyna Lamps                       FTLs                     435.00    518.60             45.80        15.00
Raymond Synthetics Ltd.          PFY                     1856.00                       10.30        17.30   15.50
Synthetics & Chemicals Ltd.      Latex & rubber           790.00   1534.90             90.00        16.80
VBC Industries Ltd.              Ammonium nitrate
& nitric acid           338.60    531.60              15.30       17.30   17.00
Arvind Mills Ltd.                Cotton & Synthetic       309.10    269.90              18.10       16.70   14.60
Salvigor Labs. Ltd.              Sulphuric acid           103.50    124.50    11.30                 16.10
Modi Alkalies & Chemicals Ltd.   Caustic soda              95.00    105.00    16.70                 16.70
Laxmi Synthetics Machinary       Synthetic filament       120.00              15.20     3.40        16.00
Indian Seamless Metal Tubes Ltd.  Seamless carbon
& alloy steel tubes     375.00    405.00               6.30                16.20
Keonics Penta Semiconductors Ltd    Semi conductor         47.50     47.50     9.42                 20.20
Esab India Ltd.                  Automatic cutting
& welding equip.        110.00              12.30                  14.00
Calcom Vision Ltd.               Color TV                  78.00               8.30                          22.00
Eurotex Industries & Exports Ltd.  Cotton yam              43.00              11.60                 16.00
Rama Vision Ltd.                 B&W TVs picture
tubes                   180.00    219.90    18.10                 25.10   20.00
Precision Electronics Ltd.       Printed circuit
boards                  148.70             258.00    25.00                  8.00
Al-kabeer Exports Ltd.           Meat products            310.00    310.00   455.10    29.10        26.60
Bharat Forge Ltd.                Steel forgings           675.00    972.00             35.00        14.40    14.40
Bell Ceramics Ltd.               Ceramic glazed
floor & wall tiles      112.00    141.80             44.00        24.00   21.00
Nijjer Agro Foods Ltd.           Tomato processing        115.10    128.90              9.40        15.30   17.50
Bajaj Auto Ltd.                  Scooters, motor-
cycles & 3 wheelers     184.30                       99.60         15.60
Swiss Health Foods Pvt. Ltd.     Chocolates                60.00     99.00              3.15        13.30
Titan Foods & Fashions Ltd.      Fruit Pulp Leather        55.00     53.40             14.71
Polycoat Powders Ltd.            Powder coating           675.00                        7.94        28.00



Project Cost     IBRD Funding      Financial Rate of
Rs. million       Rs. million       Return (%)
Product            Appraisal   Actual     LC       FC    Appraisal  Actual
Royal Vinyls Ltd.              PVC based
calendered prods.              550.00             9.52       24.70
Intech International Ltd.      Microwave power
amplifier              68.00                     36.00       34.00
Snez Leather Ltd.             Shoe Leather            85.00    85.00                        22.30
Vimta Labs Ltd.                Lab                   62.00    62.00                        25.80
R.R. Medi Pharma Ltd.          Intravenous fluids   114.30                     40.00       23.50
NCL Seccolor Ltd.             Pre-painted
steel profiles       111.00   114.50   15.80                19.00
Biax Ltd.                     BOPP film             312.00   480.50   42.40                16.60
Fenoplast Ltd.                PVC Calendered
film                  86.00   129.00   25.60                15.00
Ispat Alloys Ltd.             Calcium Silicide      226.00   291.20   41.30                16.10
Straw Products Ltd.           Cement                105.00   105.00   24.00                23.70
Premier Instruments & Controls Ltd. UPS/SMS
instrumentation       57.00              8.20               28.00
Herdillia Oxides & Electronics ltd.   Electronic equipt.  185.00   225.00   15.20  2.90    17.90   20.00
Bakelite Hylam Ltd.           Phedex foam wall
covering material     84.00    78.20   19.70                17.00
Mahindra Ugine Ltd.           Special steels        205.00   336.00   22.40                16.00
Baroda Rayon Corp. Ltd. (Phase 1) PFY               290.00                     22.80       25.90
Daulat Electronics Ltd.       Video magnetic
tapes                 76.00   105.00              8.30      18.00   20.00
Polar Marmo Agglomerates Ltd.    Marole/Granite
slabs                107.00   151.00             6.80       15.30
XL Telecom Ltd.                Heat shrink sleeve    72.00                       9.00      24.00
Triveni Pool lntairdril Ltd.   Oil drilling         116.50   116.50   55.40    24.00       18.50   18.50
Tamilnadu Telecommunications Ltd. PIJF cables       233.00   286.50    8.00    10.10       16.20   14.00
TVS Whirlpool Ltd.            Washing machine       284.80   210.00             20.10      17.00
Powmex Steels Ltd.            High speed steel
bars/rods            697.00                     21.70       17.70
Polychea Ltd.                 ABS resins            180.00                      7.80       16.10
Hindustan Magnetics Ltd.      Audio/video
computer tapes       135.00   215.00             21.50      28.00
Kirloskar Cummins Ltd.         Diesel engines       200.00                     57.60       24.00
Hardilla Unimars Ltd.         Ethylene Pre-
opylene Co polym.    462.00   825.00             12.00      18.60   22.40
Tosna Picture Tubes Ltd.       B&W picture
tubes                 149.00   269.00            14.80      75.00   18.80
Pantape Electronics Ltd.      Video magnetic
(Indian Magnetics Ltd.)       tapes                 106.00   143.20             12.60      17.80   20.70



Project Cost    IBRD Funding     Financial Rate of
Rs. million      Rs. million      Return (%)
Product           Appraisal   Actual    LC      FC   Apprasal Actual
Webel TelematiK Pvt. Ltd.    Electronic
teleprnters          90.00                     9.10      21.50
Gyan Leather Boards Pvt. Ltd.  Leather boards     124.00   202.10           8.50       16.50  23.05
Champdany Industries Ltd.    Jute blended
carpets              57.00    68.00            5.60      26.00  24.00
Baroda Rayon Corpn. Ltd.     PFY                 287.00                    21.50       18.10
Rajasthan Petrosynthetics Ltd.    PFY             169.00   141.20          15.80      24.70
Krone Communications ltd.    Telephone
connectors &
accessories         110.00                    23.30      21.00
Ushta-te-Bio-tech Ltd.       Starch products     200.00   298.00    8.10    3.40       15.00
Woolworth (India) Ltd.       Worsted woolen
& blended yam       169.00   210.00   10.00              17.80
Gujarat Apar Polymers Ltd.   AB rubber &
Latexes             268.00   383.00    4.60    5.80      15.50
Century Extrusions Ltd.      Aluminium
extrusions          101.00   118.00            4.90      18.00
Grasia Industries Ltd.       Cement &VSF         227.00   229.70  128.00               17.00  17.00
GSFC - Caprolactum           Caprolactum        3962.00   515.00  280.00               16.00
DCL Polyesters Ltd.          PFY/PDY             1280.00  1652.00  201.60             18.10  17.50
Essar Gujarat Ltd.           Sponge iron         3720.00  4163.00  320.00             17.00  17.60
Andhra Petrochemicals Ltd.   2 EH & butanols     1200.00  1950.00  224.00   7.00       16.00  15.32
Kesoram Industries Ltd.      Tyres & tubes       2815.00                   87.00       17.50
Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd.   Cement              2650.00  3600.00 2045.02              17.00  16.30
Gujarat Fluro-chemicals Ltd.  CFC refrigerant     226.00   288.80   17.10              19.50  13.30
Consolidated Petrotech Ltd.  MEK                  110.00   136.80   16.00             28.30
Prakash Tubes Ltd.           FTLs & steel mill   136.00   136.00   17.40              20.00  15.00
Vindhya Telelinks Ltd.       PIJF cables          170.00   170.00          45.70      26.00
Gujarat Alkalies & Chemicals Ltd.  Caustic soda   388.00   450.00   24.80              15.10  19.55
Hindustan Sanitaryware & Industries Ceramics & glass  241.00   280.70   20.20          17.80



INEWSTRILL DEVELOFEIM  BE  OF  IA
1DD LIE OF CRrEDIT 2921 - IN
STATEMEN 1
C IP Y-WSE DEUULS 0lF ONO AUTfUSAUnUS.. UTEJSATIUIN ( WEU IC-tEI & M  CEU ATIOW
imm   caWIcnx-   NET                                             DISUUUsK
Projacti                        UX w co.ruv                                 km. is Trns 1i  A                                      lADE u        BkLAECI
..    , .   ..                                         S
B1ll  N    CLSECLOR                                                          1112.000            1 K.ADt      1.00ooo           1tOw-72 00            32B.90
8.11K B13XPACMGING LTD                                                       2980.000            1 ED000      2 83000            2,33770.97           22903
Bil N     SUPERSPINNN                                                        1380s000            2?Z.0 DO     1j.o000            117446.48         -6.746J4|
B.llt   FENOPLAST (R) LTD                                                    1soI,0D0           SK247        1,2,753            11 9a53.09
18.111    SFI M        LPIRANULLSLTD                                         1530,0W             35faw        jl J100            1,079M.AB73       9651127
813 12   ISPATALLOYS                                                          3AS0,000        1i6*U!O         2.2F&000           2,4*.513.47      -18Z S13.4?
8.1-13    sTRiWVF<ODIrS                                                      1,940,000           613JIDO      1,327.000          1,23903295        a7.967.0s
B1.14    PRENERINSTRUIENTS                                                   B1&aDO             176.a0a        4MMoo              470,8a.52       -28098 52
81.15   FIERDLLLAaIDE                                                         1A1410846           4016BS      117l58             1..483,446.48    -113288.L
Bl-lt   B:EUTE HYLAM                                                         1,47Th0             428.a30      1.041000            1 59.1 tO6Oo   -110.106iA
B.117   MAHNDRAUGIE                                                          1.578,000           3t.,000      1.2E8,000          1,254,989.40      13.01 D60
8.1113    BAXR YAkcON COFPORATKA O 51.3?                                     2.99436                          2.994,436          240D3.85237      590.sa.63
B1.13   PAPAS5MAGNETCTAPESLlluFayDetdEleas                                   s2ROO              40,002        4BS,998            4ss.ss8.as
81A       POL       OAGGL           AE                                        487.00D            168,748        318.252            318,251.59
81.21      LTELWALTD.                                                         58&0W00                           SB65 00            58332169          W.6B31
Page2



IJD5ltI BE          ON       NM      F   DInk
1N0 LIM or cumn 2123 - IN
STATEM    1
cUWAIWNSE KIETAS OF-EE MTN U11SAUTUUS. TrUJSATIE I ECV4MEJ 6 CMUEEAT I
NET
1393    5&E    AUJ.Z.&-  A CLlM              UNDI'"OsnEUS
Project&                 NM    u  c.wiuv                     &M. ifions GM           TX3    I         ir*   6     3 au.&ic
us, 9       Ns I         sI                         it ls ls
I1I22   TRNENr4P0a NTE1 DRL                                   1294l                     128L0C          127U516.?       t4.3.13
ILI-23   TAMLINArDVELCOMhLTD                                  1,4.743I,       717j020    1jEt0aa        1]33,0Z77.5   -10D077.!
B.1.24   TVSWHlPUL                                            1,340D          611560      7M4D7          72M40.94
8.12S  fPOWEX STEL LTD                                        1.65aQDa[       51Q3W      1s5w?          159.970.39
B91.26  POLYCOEM                                               52RY0                     5s11loo         50,3s6SD      14.3310
8.1.27   HNDUSTANtlANGNET S(ABSO B2fl                         1A458.DI                  1AWA30          1,4%.332QD      1,66B.0
BL2C   NA.T1ONALEIGMEEN4NG                                    3.553U0         15918      3.35&l         3.3942.45
B1.t29  IQRLOSK*AWWNS                                         &169.397                   .1629397       VW1696.53          L47
B1.1 3C    ERDLLUAUfAEPS LTD                                   330 330)                   8(,665         (20.01D         -35.00
Bl631   TOSKAPICflTUBES                                       104100          131.01)     S0)aW          9 ao
0.132  INDIAN AUC CSLMT D(PANTAPE)                             B02D,           4.296      817.60         8W75n0aD
B.1.33   SEhENSIEEMAIICLTD.                                    6s00.00         VIU3       6fl297         6Th29721
81-34   GYAN LEAT1R BOARD LTD                                  663.010         Es31       567,471        56A469.54
B.1.3   CH  EPIDM&CnSTFOES                                     39BtWD          2536       3%464          3P246334
61-3C   P.AAM&FETROSYNTHETIS                                  1.102.001        X37?      1.06"23         .0W2317
Popg 3



INDUETIL UVLOFEW  or3  0   IlI
UDn LIE Of CEDIT 2523 - IN
STATEWE  1
E8WM W%IWKSE  KTE ILS O  OM AUNIIIIIUSA11IS. UTIUSATEE (DIENCV-W EJ S    rhZUAT
NET
TM   CkWcsiU- AU"HHR16                    C_ uS ., I9
Pv4u*9    1131 01 ~~~~~~~~FAN!                      LIfE~~W   hi    itsI $        us s                           if SIsIE
IL1.39   AAARARkABT`ETESp)LTD                                           82&WD            1 M,O00       721X00            721.21520        -21520
BI-1   tI          COMMUNICATIN                                        S5000            I t4A91      1.39U5D9         1395'o8e5
ILI.41  t5ALLW   ?iSTPESLTD.                                            1A06735          121,000      1.685735         165.638.33          9667
1.42   USHTAE--TE(HI T ME           ES                                  800D90           569.451       23Q54            2X54947
B-143   WOOLWORrH "I LTD.                                               65E000           161,750       40250            488.25000
91I44   MAWHNDRA   MAHNORA                                             1U5775            331,467      1.24,.33         1,24.032.57
0.16   C TAR&TAPAR P LYMEFSLTD LM                                       70DJD            160,000       54Q0.            2600507.00     2SR9100
-1.45   CENTURYEXlW STIONLTD                                            30)1000           35.000       2MAD0            26,317.30        -317.30
1.1.4    MKELETONICS LTD                                                M7OOD                          67"00            472,78515      2021485
.1.4    UCALRJEL  SSTEM                                                 50100             67,728       432.272          432.27170
S-1-     KIACEPACSWORKS                                                 671.000           46,35        62&065           624.06512
9D1.51   Ce1URYUA1A                                                    3.470.00                       34740.0          3.154.40419     315.595.01
ILIt52   SHREE PRECCATED STEELS                                          32            632023          6 23             632.02300
IL1.53   CROMPTONGREAWESLTD                                            .1110Dl0          689,114       42086            410.08.40       11.000.00
I1.S4   PSDATASYS1EMSLTD                                                47.00D                         47000            16149426       350.5.74
Page 4



InUUEIAL 3Ev   oPNIr MMo1                      r 0    IA
DIU IUE o CRIEDIT 2521 - El
STATEMdEN 1
EtIUFAU-WUM UTA.SU OF N  AI11IUSA1IUS. UIUfT JIU   (UNCV-WUEJ & CAUUATfIf
im    caIcKLIA-- N                                           m*suus*
"acmt t                        RNM  o 01COuri                               kw &5i.. II 10 1351 A3HFIAcixsu                                        &J.hCK
us . .
B-1-55   CENTURYJVTExLESLTD                                                  1.171,00                         1.1 nano           1,17 243A4         -243.4
Bil St   PESLE CERAMS LTD                                                     410.000                          470.000            421.65I0D        4W50.0
.1 SS   GULRAT FPCF AKTD                                                      5fM.anoo                         5DCKL              481.426.8s       18573.11
BI.U      SHPKATRAGADA E.ECTROCSLM                                            40                               42.00              3291418 6        97.05814
B1l.tl    DYN  LAWPS & GLASS WORKS                                           2275)]I0            482001       29.2000            2,293,409.97        -409.7
3l1-2    RAYMONDSrNTHETZSLTD.                                                 60.000            141.000        459,000            464155.88        -4155.80
I.1.C3   STHETCS &   CHEICALS L1.                                            3.669                            3,62.1S            3510,01826       152177654
B1-4    VBCINDUSTRiESLTD.                                                     BD,000            274.290        575.710            575309.97
.1.U    AR1ND MtLS LT.                                                       4,625flD0         3A45z01        1.1?3.000          1.0.762.47       106,237.53
1I.C      SoMSS HEALTH FOODS PVT LTDK4LSO B.1.9)                              306,050                          3DtUSO             1 81797.5D      125252.93
111.U     KRILOSY OLENGfESLTD                                                 834.000                          8341000            844593.17       -15.568.17
BIl tN    SALvGORLAB  'T.LTD                                                  60.O000           507500         152500             1261 7500        202s5.D1
fLI17     PLAMAGINTERNATrIL LTD                                              1)000,000                        1100.000            869087.13       130,912.7
I.L1.      MODI AI &CH1IMEkS LTD.                                            1.530D00a          65000 8DO.B00                     86409.1 9        1.910.B
BI.12    LAKSHW SY"TH. MAC1tMF.LTD.                                          1100,OOJ                         1,100)100           125)011183      974088.17
Page 5



INhhTEAL  EEYLSP ZUn or IODIA
IBD LIM OF CKEDI 2921 - LD
STATEMENT 1
Conoy-VWE   BETAU OF 01D MIIIIIUMTI1S.i UJIsnAlnl  (y111iC7-MEw                  CACELUTIONS
Pu,4u~~~~~~~~~~~~~F ~~~~im                                      CfC U             METhG S    OhD1*K-                IilC
PnjUd t                      1=  w COE"                               AM. I.   TIU   AUTHMSp cN                      s  DE - D   SESA W
81.73   INDIANSEASMBMETALTIEESLTD.                                      50&0I0                        50600            38.63,74       11.33&26
BiJ.S   KEONIS PENTASEMlCONDUCTORS LTD                                  8N00M            321000       492000           481.97546           2I54
L1-7    ESABWLAL1T.                                                     7209000                       729.000          607,57016      1142R84
B 1.77   CALCIVISION LTD.                                               45,000           3498S        139005           139.004 77
BIL .J    EUROTEXINDUSTRIES LTD                                         6.DX0           175.651       50(349           504D3490
Bl.7   RPAMVISIONLTD                                                  1.055.00         304)072       75Q,929           75Q,92850
8.1.S     PRECIINECrONCSLTD                                            1,400.000       1.15000        23100            236253.77        -5.25137
B.1.1    ALAERE)ORTSLTB                                                1.70VU00           MM000      1.6A7300         1.6D6.60923      -13.60923
B.112   BCAAT FORGE LTD                                                 )00.000          547.000     2153 aoo         2.151072.27         -727
Bi1SI3   eELCERACSLTDALSO 19A.1S                                       2.2W0Z00                      202If00          2.125.625.37     76,37363
B.1-4   NJJERAGRO FOODS LTD                                             53D,000                       530D0            509.367.38      2D.63Z62
311 Bi    AUTOJLTD.                                                    5.410.0         1.4W.000      3,94900         13946.401.64        -41.64
BI. N    VLIUAYREXLTD                                                   52D.00                        52u000           455.5D206       64417.54
IL1.U    COMNCO) NAD N 2NC LTD                                          38.000            Q00a             0
8.1.1   J0 K NDUTRESL                                                    2)M9.000      2,289000            0                 0.00



lonsrs T           cW onrE        g     oir DulA
IUI LIE or CREDIT 252  - YD
STATEMENT 1
ausfO   -SE AETAhS OF *li AU InUS 1HS- UTJUsTINE (UhWU -W EJ & MCEUATIO
i m      camcmau-        NET~S                        Mr-WHOMsuus
"act#     mm   or COMPAM                         &MANT. II  TIONS is AUTO,NS cwa u                       0 BILAECK
PusjZet # fl .                                         Il Tl s s I
8.1-22  SOUTWERNPERTOCFEMLTD                                      2,9O            1A4t.0Ei    1A4U 1OX         1 2A.91          -8
8D1-    TrtAN FOODS LTD                                            &4ftWD          1 W350       4B&M50          4W50.08
8.1.U   POLYAT POWDERS LTD                                         270O.O                       27.000          256832.54        31 7.
B.1.S    ROYALMYLS LTD.                                           3,2SD           3.250PD30         a                0.00
B.1. S    ITCLT                                                    q.ofo            1866         7L,314          %314.00
8.117  IN4TECH NTEPW ONALLD                                       13.000                      1.3B9.000         Q             910a.0
8.1-5   SHEZIEANHERM                                              1,525,000                   1,525.0D0        1,524-82.51       17549
31.65    MAATA LABS LTD.                                          1..1 I0.D00                 1,18J,000         561.256.48    61 B.74a52
BFIl   EASTINAGR4TS                                               Z4EJ.0Wi         113.109     23..91          2336.9126
8.ZU   RRMEIXPHARWA                                               1                          1t59tQtW          1..14.30      -46.B1438
B914   IFBNUETESLM                                                  10]00S                      205P00          2..8B7.60     -15.BO7.6
B.235   SIL LTD                                                    587.OOO                      5B7,000         SK137.11        1.06ZB9
TOTAL                           223,168,06?    37.55.131    18151?36     176.97t053       R68Z683
Paw 7



IJuSTjAL tIEMLO. or nIu  0    DIA
IDD LINE OF CEIoiT 2123 - DN
STATEMBff 1
DINPAY-%SE DETMS OF MID A0MSAlUU39S. JIhSAII1E (uUMnUEEV-E) I USCIUATINS
Prnjmd#  uluK or couliuw                 hElL~100  CI 1C039A1  AUTHISA  aAmsu   - B 3UAE'
Proet t        X         0B OIX on                      A -i   Tile 10  TK               Nu  $          D BE  sI
is,                   L s   tI                 is  ,s 
TECHNICA ASSITANCE COMPONENT
EDPLBI                                           450.G0                  4sv].1na       42a1a0.ao   2o20.000
IOU TRhNN                                         5OSX                    5 .           515,6S.46    -15.i5.46
TOTAL           s            a[Ia.o[     c D        5s[1JJ0        4?95.65      2D4 1 3s
Gwd TMhl 2228,1 6867 . 37,515,131   19(S53 7                        111z6 ,91  B   . 8,866 817
Pae9 F.,~



IUS11TA OEVELaPET BNK OF IDIA
OIREcr ASSSSTAMCE - ARREARS ANALYSIS - COLLECnOU RAllOS
STATEMENIT 2                                                                                         (US. iMIUJ
SR. PART1CAE-S                          1M-11                        13- 31                         131 -f2                       1gm-n3                        1333-H!                       1134-S
_AP- MAR                       A    - W.-.-                Z PRU - MAP                     (            - MARQ    JARL - MAROQ    VPL - MARCO-
PWR     1T.. TOTAL PRIII  NT  TOTAL PRIM.  Kr. TOTAL PRIM.  Ir.  TOTAL PRIN- KT. TOTAL PRIM. KT. TOTAL
Amowuiswwners ift
1  begimngdtsyer              1044      1333       2377      1153      1461      2614      1592      1609      3201       2007      1995      4002      2541      1936      4477      3361      2287      564
Amouitlen dus duing
2   styeo                     7086      8363      15449      9213      11337    20550    12663    13677    26340    24591    19155    43746    31497    28024    59521    47276    30052    77328
3  ToW dues(1.2)              8130      9696      17026    10366    12798    23164    14255    15286    29541    26598    21150    47748    34038    29960    63998    50637    32339    82976
Aru,M escudtised
4  duigtisyes                1589       735       2324      1535      1472      3007      1873      1999      3872       2137      2335      4472      2870      1958      4828      1305      2637      3942
Awhtdue for
cobdn* dumg te
5  year-                      6541      8961      15502      8831      11326    20157    12382    13287    25669    24461    18815    43276    31168    28002    59170    49332    29702    79034
Afdmaicascdddunmg
6  teysw                      5388      7500      12888      7239      9717      16956    10375    11292    21667    21920    16879    38799    27807    25715    53522    43102    24949    68n51
Arourtiin    aettie
7  endc tUeyw5')              1153      141       2614       1592      1609      3201      2007      1995      4002       2541      1936      4477      3361      2287      5648      6230      4753     10903
8  LoansouWnding                                  74594                          90546                        116860                         141596                         171001                       201037
9 Cohdcimo:
3  Bolusrsnshsd mk m          66.27X.  77.35%    7230%    69.3%    75S3%    730%    72.78%    73.87%    7335%    02.41%    79.81%    8126%    81.69%    85.3%    83R3.   65.12.  77.15%    8201%
ii  Asorreaisdadlemsn         8237%    83.70%    93.14%    81.97?     85.79%    84.12%    83.79%    84.99%    84.41%    89.1%    89.71%   89.15%    89.22%    91.3%    90.4*%    8737%   84.0%    86.10%
10 %umoearslbbnsC,S
3  Bobo msd 8gn ifmei                               662                           66%                           6.74%                         632%                          6.13%                         742%
iA armsdm        eidnt                              350%                          354%                           3.42%                         3.16%                         330%                          5.46%
Pop 9



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDlA
IBRD UNE OF CREDIT 2928 - IN
STATEMEENT S
COMPANY-WISE DETAILS OF PROJECT LOCATION, SECTOR
IBRD              PURPOSE
NAMEOFTHECOMPANY   AUTH IN  PRODUCT  JDATE OF   PROJECT   SECTOR
US$ MN.       APPROVA  LOCATION  SCO
Rudaram
Meat       Now   Village. Medak
AF-Kabeer Exports Ltd.       1.673    products   13.06.90    . A.P.      Pvt.
Sealed acid
storage     New    Karakambadi,
Amara Raja Batteries Ltd.    0.721    batteries   20.07.89  Chnttoor, A.P.   Pvt.
2EH&       New                   Joint
Andhra Petrochernicals Ltd.  12.96    butanols   20.03.89  Tanuku A.P.  Sector
Cotton &
Synthetic    Mod      Naroda,
Arvind MIUs Ltd.             1.173    fabrics    29.03.90   Gujarat      Pvt.
Scooters.
motorcy1ces    Mod      Akurdi.
BajA Auto Ltd.               3.946  & 3 wI,heders 09.08.90  Maharashtra   Pvt.
Phendex
foam wai
covenng     Diy    Jeedimetla.
Bakelite Hylam Ltd.          1.049    material   27.02.89     A.P.      PRt.
Ballarpur,
Paper &     Mod   Dt.Chandrapur,
Ballarpur lnd. Ltd.          1.688  Caustic soda  15.08.89    Mah        Pvt.
Baroda Rayon Oorpn. Ltd.                          Exp    Udhna-Surat.
(Phase I)                    1.701      PFY     02.03.89    Cujarat      Pvt.
Baroda Rayon Corpn. Ltd.                          Exp    Udhna,Surat,
(Phase II)                   1.293      PFY     10.07.89    Gujarat      Pvt.
Ceramic
glazed floor &    Exp   Dora Dt.
Bell Ceramics Ltd. 1         2.202    wall tiles   20.08.90  Bharuch. Guj.  Pvt.
Steel   Upgradatlo    Pune,
Bharat Forge Ltd.            2.163    forgings  n 06.07.90  Maharahstra   Pvt.
New
Biax Ltd.                    2.834   BOPPfitm   04.01.89  West Bengal  Public
B&W Colour   New
Calcom Vlslon Ltd.           0.139      TV       .4.12.89  Gazlabad, U.P.  Pvt.
EnplDiv     Puna.
Century Enka Ltd.            3.47    NTYIPIY   28.09.89  Maharashtra   Pvt.
A1uminium    New    Midnapur Dist.
Century Extrusions Ltd.      0.265   extrusions  08.09.89  West Bengal   Pvt.
Mod
Century Textiles & Inds. Ltd.  1.173    Textiles   30.10.89  Worli. Bombay   Pvt.
Jute blended Mod 1988  Hubil, West
Champdeny Inds. Ltd *        0.362    carpets      aP        Bengal      Pvt.
Consolidated Petrotech Ltd.                        Diy      Baroda.
(formerty Gujarat Carbons Ltd.)   0.832  MEK    11.10.88    Gujarat      Pvt.
Electrical
motors &
circuit    Mod    Ambad Nasik
Crompton Greaves Ltd.        0.421    breakers   1 8.10.89  Maharashtra   Pyt.
Video
magnetic     DNv    Kashipuw, Dt.
DaUlat Electronics Ltd.      0.486     tapes    17.03.89  Natai, U.P.   Pvt.
New     Mouda Dist.
DCL Potyesters Ltd.         11.978   PFYIPOY   20.12.88     Nagpur       Pvt.
PAGE10



INDUSTRLAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
IBRD UNE OF CREDIT 2928 - IN
STATEMENT S
COMPANY-WISE DETAILS OF PROJECT LOCATION, SECTOR
IBRD              PURPOSE
IBRD /~DATE OF PROJECT
NAME OFTHE COMPANY   AUTH. IN PRODUCT APPROVA  LOCATION   SECTOR
USS MN.             LPRV            LCTO
New   Gummidipoond
Dyna Lamps & Glass Works Ltd.  2.298   FTLs     18.01 .90    i.T.N.      PAt.
New     Krlshna Dt.,
East Indlia Granites Ltd.    2.337   Granite tiles  03.12.91  A.P.       Pvt.
Automatic
cutmng &
welding     New
Esab India Ltd.              0.72   equipment  04.08.90      Thane       Pvt.
New    Hazira Surat
Essar Gujarat Ltd.            20    Sponge iron  28.01.89    Guarat      Pt.
Exp      Kolhapur,
Eurotex Inds. & Exports Ltd.  0.504   Cotton yam   08.0B.90  Maharahstra   Pvt.
PVC
Calendered    Diy
Fenoplast Ltd.               1.191      film    22.02.89   Medak A.P.    PAt.
Jawad. M.P.
Nagda M.P.
Cement &   Mod/Exp    Harihar.
Grasim Industries Ltd.        7.6      VSF      02.12.88   Kamataka      Pvt.
Exp   Nagar. Baroda,  Joint
GSFC- Caprolactum            14.888  Caprolactum  02.12.88  Gujarat    Sector
Mod
Gujarat Alkalies & Chemicals Ltd. 1.527  Caustic soda 02.12.88  Baroda  Joint
AB rubber &    New     Bharuch,
Gujarat Apar Polymers Ltd.    0.54    Latexes   08.09.89    Gujarat      Pvt.
CFC        Now    Panch Mahal.
Gujarat FRuro-chemicals Ltd.  1.078   refrigerant  11.10.88   (uj.       PAt.
Exp     Baska Dist
Gujarat Propack Ltd.          0.5    BOPPIlim   18.01.90  Panch Mahal   Pvt.
Leather/Boar   New
Gyan Leather Boards Pyt. Ltd.    0.667  ds      29.08.89   Pondicherry    Pvt.
Ethylene
Preopylene    New    New Bombay.
Herdila Unirnars Ltd.        0.80s   Co polymers  29.0e.89   Maharastra    Pvt.
Lote
Parshuram,
Chiplun,
Electronic    New     Ratnagirl,
HerdilUa Oxides & Electronics Ltd.  1.37   equipment  27.02.89   Maharastra    Pvt.
AudioMvideo
computer    New    Medale Dist.
Hindustan Magnetics Ltd.     1.456     tapes    05.05.89      A.P.       PAt.
Hindustan Sanitaryware & Inds.       Ceramics &    Mod    Bahadurgarh,
Ltd.                         1.244   glassware  04.01.89    Hatyana      Pvt.
Exp (EFS)
IFB IndustFies Ltd.          0.205   AC motors  03.12.91    Bangalore    Pvt.
Electronics
Video               Complex
Indian Magnetics Ltd.(formerly       magnetic     New       Shogi Dt.
Pantape)                     0.884     tapes    29.08.89     Shimia      Pt.
PAGE 1I



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDiA
lBRD UNE OF CREDIT 292 - IN
STATEMENT S
COMPANY-WISE DETAILS OF PROJECT LOCATION, SECTOR
IBRD              PURPOSE
NAME OFTHE OOMPANY   AUTH. IN PRODUCT APPROVA  LOCATION
US$ MN.                 L
Seamless
carbon &
Indian Searless Metal Tubes          aloy steel    Exp    Ahmednagar
Ltd.                         0.506     tubes    24.05.90  Maharashtra   Pvt.
Microwave              SPEEZ.
power      New       Bombay.
Intech International Ltd.    1.389    amplifier   12.11.91   Mahashtra    Pvt.
Calcum      Exp      Balasore.    Joint
ispat Aloys Ltd.             2.264    SUcide    27.02.89     Orlssa    Sector
Software  Mod (EFS) Ralamundry.
ITO Ltd.                     0.079  developmrent 12.11.91     A.P.      FPt.
Mod       SIrohl
J. K. Corp. Ltd. (Straw Products)  1.327    Cemrent   27.02.89   Rajasthan  Pvt.
Exp    Sikandrabad.
Ktaaria Owwnics Ltd.         0.B24  Ceramic tiles 26.09.89    U.P.       Pvt.
Serni
Keonics Penta Semiconductors         Conductor    New
Ltd.                         0.492    devices   25.05.90   Bangalore    Pvt.
DiY.     Balasore.
Kesorum Industries Ltd.      8.296  Tyres &Tubes 22.03.89    Orissa     PFt.
Diesel     Mod    Kotrud, Pune,
Kifkkar Cummins Ltd.         4.189    engines   29.08.89  Maharashtra   Pvt.
Diesel     Mod        Pune.
K1loskar Oil Engines Ltd.    0.834    engines   07.06.90  Maharashtra    Pt.
Telephone
connectors &    New
Krone Communications Ltd.    1.396  accessorIes  28.07.89   Bangalore    Joint
Synthetic    New    Coimbatore.
Luwni Syrthetics Mach. Mfg. Ltd.  1.1    filament   23.06.90  T.N.       Pvt.
LCVs.
Tractors,   New    KandMi,Nasik,
MahNndra & Mahindra Ltd.     1.248     dlesel    30.08.89    Igatpurl    Pvt.
Special   ExpIMod    Khopoli.
Mahindra Ugine Ltd.          1.268     steels    27.02.89   Maharastra   PFt.
Eup       Vaeal,
MIRC Eloo1rwio Ltd.          0.676  CTV&VCRs 08.09.89  Maharashtra    Pt.
Bai.Equip
Modi Akalies & Chemicals Ltd.    0.88   Caustic soda 22.05.90   Rajasthan  Pt.
Naibnal Engg. Inds. Ltd.     3.394  Ball bearings   Mod.  Jaipur & Nowai  PFt.
Pre-painted    New
NCL Secoolor Ltd.            1.003  steel pro1tles 04.01.89   Medak, A.P.   Pvt.
Vllage
Meharbanpura
Jncdlala Guru
Tomato      New    Dist. Amrrtsar  Joint
NIWrAgro Foods Ltd.          0.53   processing  22.08.90     Punlab    Sector
Rotary
printing    Exp
Plwnag internationa Ltd.       1      machine   22.06.90    KoWapur      Pvt.
Marble/     New
Po0W Marnm Agglomerates Ltd.  0.318  Granite slabs 17.03.89  Kashipur, U.P.   Pvt.
EiqlMod   (ioregoan.
PoVd-om  Ltd.                0.52   ABS reshs  05.06.89    Bombay    PFt.
PAGE12



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
IBRD UNE OF CREDIT 2928- IN
STATEMENT S
COMPANY-WISE DETAILS OF PROJECT LOCATION. SECTOR
IBRD              PURPOSE
NAME OFTHE COMPANY   AUTH. IN  PRODUCT  /APPROV    LOCT    SECTOR
US$ MN,             APPROVA  LOCATION
Lote
Powder      Exp     Parshuramn
Polycoat Powders Ltd          0.27     coating    12.11 91   Maharastra   PFt.
High speed
steel      Now      Bolangir.
Powmex Steals Ltd.           1 699    barserods   06.05.89    Orissa     Joint
Circuit     Diy
Precision Electronics Ltd.   0.231     Boards    20.02.90   Noida UP.    Pvt.
U PSiSMS             Coimbatore,
Prerfmier Instrumentc & cortrols       instru-    OlvIMod  T.N IGurgoan
Ltd.                         0.442   mentatlon   27.02.89    Haryana     Pft.
DPS main     DiY
PSI Data Systems Ltd.        0 475    frames    30.10.89    Bangalore    PYt.
Intravenous NewO3.12. Alathurchengal
R. R MedI Pharma Ltd          155      Tiulds       91        . T.N.     PFt.
Rilco Indi. Area
Village Sukher
Exp    Dist Udalpur
Ralasthan Petro-synthetics Ltd.   1.07  PPFY     12.07.89    Rajasthan    Pvt.
B&W TVs      New      Kichha 0t.
Rama Vision Ltd.             0 761     picutre    14.09.89  Nainital. U.P.  Public
New      Nalni Dist.
Raymond Synthetics Ltd.      0.459      PFY      06.02.90   AJlahabad     Pvt.
New     Medak Dist.
Restile Ceramics Ltd.         0.47   Vrtrified tiles  14.12.89  A.P.     PFt.
SaMgor Laboratories Ltd.     0.153      acid     22.05.90  Vapi. Gujarat   Pyt.
Ranga Raddy
Shez Leather Ltd.            1.626  Shoel leather New NA    Dlst. A.P.    Pvt.
New        Pune.
Shree Pre-coated Steels Ltd.  0.632  Steel sheets 05.10.89  Maharashtra   Pvt.
Electronic
teleprinters.    New   Calcutta, West
Siemens Ltd.                 0.577      RAX      29.06.89    Bengal       Pvt.
Mod (EFS) Tutcorin. Tamil
SPIC                         1.479    Fertilizer   12.11.91   Nadu        Pvt.
Rlng/openne    Mod    Coimbatore,
Sri Kannapiran Mills Ltd     1 178   d spinning   22.02.89     T.N.       Pvt.
Stepper     New    Nalgonda Dist.
Sri Katragadda Electronics Ltd.   0.42  motors    18.01.90    A.P.       PFt.
Cotton yarn    Exp    Hlndpur, Tlk.,
Super SpInning Ltd.          1.108    spInning   22.02.89  Anantpur, A.P.   Pvt.
Surya Roshni Ltd.(Prakash            FTLs & steel ExpJMod
Tubes)                       1.069      mill    02.12,88  Kashipur. U.P.  PFt.
Metal   Exp (E FS)    Nasik..
SWIL Ltd.                    0.E87    products   18.11.91   Maharashtra   Pvt.
New     Padra Dist.
Swiss Health Foods Pvt. Ltd A'x   0 30s   Chocolates  27.04.90  Baroda   PFt.
SBR latex &    Exp
Synthetics & Chemicals Ltd.  3.662    rubber    13 .03.90   Bareli, U.P.    Pvt.
Tamilnadu Tele-communications                      New
Ltd.                         1.028   PIJF cables  28.04.89 Arakonam. T.N. Joint
DOversilicati Sonadih, M . P
Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd      10      Cement       on    Jojobora Bihar  Pvt.
PAG El 3



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDLA
IORD UNE OF CRtEDrr 2929- IN
ST^TEMENT 8
COMPANY-WISE DETAILS OF PROJECT LOCATION, SECTOR
IBRD         ~PU RPOSE
NAME OFTHE COMPANY   AUTH IN  PRODUCT  APPROVA   LOCATION  SECTOR
US$ MN.             LPRV    LCTO
Fruit Pulp   New
Than Foods & Fashions Ltd.    0.486    Leather   12.11.91    Bangalore    Pvi.
B&W picture    New
Tosha Picture Tubes Ltd.      0.909     tubes    29.06.89   Dadri. U.P.    Pv.
New
Triveni Pool lntairdril Ltd.   1.28    Oil driing   28.04.89  Gujarat     Pvt.
Washing      New
TVS Whirlpool Ltd.            0.728    machine   24.04.89   Pondkcherny    Pvt.
Maraimalal
Nagar,
New     Chengalput.
Ucal Fuel Systems Ltd.        0.432   Fuel pumps  21.09.89     T.N.        Pvt.
Starch      New                   Joint
Ushta-teB4o-tech Ltd.         0.231    products  1 .08.89 Cuddalore. T.N. Sector
Ammonium
Nitrate &    Exp
VBC induistries Ltd.          0.576    Nitric add   28.03.90  Ponnada. A.P.   Pvt.
Flexible    Exp     HaJol. Panch
Vijay Flexible Containers Ltd.  0.52    container   05.06.91  Mahal. Gujarat   Pyt.
Cherla Pall
Ranga Reddy
Vlmta Labs Ltd.                1.18      Lab      New NA      Dist. A.P.   Pvt.
E-p     Udyog Vhar
V.ndhyaTelelinks Ltd.         3.678   PIJF cables  02.12.88   Rewa M.P     PA
Worsted
wollen &    New      Msdak Dlst.
Woolworth (India) Ltd.        0.488  blended yam  30.08.89      A.P.       Pvt.
Heat shrink    New    Mallapur R.R.
XL Telecom Ltd.               0.586     sleeve    07.04.89    Dist. A.P.   Pvt.
TOTAL              186.66
PAGE14



INDUSTRLAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
IBRD LINE OF CREDIT 2929- IN
___STATEMENT 4
COMPANY -WISE DETAILS OF M EANS OF FI NANCE OF THE PROJECT
IBRD0
AUTH.
NAME OFTHE COMPANY   US$ MN.              MEANS OF FINANCING
TPROM.
CONTJIN
TERNAL
0DBI   OTHER    GEN.
_____     ____      ~~~~LOAN  Flis     ETC.   TOTAL
RS. MN. RS.MN. RS.MN. RS.MN.
AI-Kabeer~~~orts Ltd.  67     104      98.1     107.9   310
Amara RaBatteriesLt        0.721    474        61      68       192
Andhr~a Petrochemicals Ltdl.   12.96    495.1    352   352.9   1200
AryindMills Ltd.           1.178    755       7         5.       09.1I
Balal Auto Ltd.            3.948    99.8      07      184.7     184.3
Bakekite Hy)am Lt.1.049    24.5               38.2     21       83.8
BalruInd. Ld.           .88      82       109      519      228
Baroda Rayon Corpn. Ltd.1
Phase~~~~~~~ ~1.701    22.8           46.6      2216    290
Baroda Rayon Corpn. Ltd. 
1123 21.5     43.1    1222.4   287
Bell Ceramicsg Ltd.        2.202    67.3      20       54.6     141.8
Bharat E dE922.15.                   17.      348.     1.7    575
BIak Ltd.                  2.834    80        115      117      312
Calcom Vision Ltd.         0.139    9         1 35     30       52.5
centuryEnka Ltd.           3.47     47Z7      1 669    865      1077.1
C*ntury xruon  Ltd.        0.285    40       :34.27    26 .78    101
xTexUes& inds. Ltd.   1.173    50        50       37.5     137.5
5?anyanyInsLR03862    18.5                    2        14.2    1567
Consofidated Petrotech Ltd.
~frmerly G  .,aratCarbons Ltd.) 0.882    20  36       65       110
crom  tn Greaves Ltd.      0.421    28.1      49.9     19.5    97.5
Daulat Eleactronics Ltd.   0 488    2         28       27       75
DCLfo"esers Ltd.           11.978   280       60       30       18
Dyna Lamps & Glass Works
Ltd.   ___        _ __2.293    70.8           179.7   18456   435
East India Granites Ltd.   2.337    25        25       36       85
EsebIndIa Ltd.             0.72     25        6.2      24.8     110
Essar Qularat Ltd.         20       820       2047     1:303    4170
Eurotex Inds. &Exorts Ltd.   0.504    156     1 4      1 4      43
Fenoplast Ltd.             1.191    32        32       21.5    85.5
Grasim Industries Ltd.     7.5       180      0        695      229.05
GS  pr-9~achtrr        14.888   55.4    1320.6  2075        3962
Gujarat Aikalies & Chemicals
Ltd.                ___1.527    62            19656   130       387.5
GujaratApa obmer Ltd.    0.54       60.8      10356   103.2   267.15
aujaratFRuro-chwmicals Ltd.   1.078    61 .5  124 8 --10256   288.8
GuJara Prpack Ltd.         0.5       18.2     4656    44.5      109.2
a~nLeather BoaIrds Pvt. Ltd. 0.557    28.5   51       44.4   _123.9
Hercdilla Unimars Ltd.     0.808   .112      .198      154      452
pagelI 5



INDUSTRLAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDLA
IBRD UNE OF CREDIT 2928 - IN
STATEMENT 4
COM PANY -WISE DETAILS OF MEANS OF FINANCE OF THE PROJECT
.............   .      ...... .     .     ........   .........   .. . .. .... .I. ..      . . .   . . . .. . . .
AUTH.
NAM E OF THE COM PANY    US$ MN.  -.         MEANS OF FINANCING
TERNAL
IDBI   OTHER    C OEN   I
-~~    -  - --      -   ~~~~~LOAN       Fl's     ETC   ITOTAL
..... .... .....   ......    . ....  -f - -   ~  ..... .   .. ....
RS.MN. RS,MN   RS.MN. RS.MN~
Herdillia O)<des & Electronics               -- 
Ltd             ~3                     3856      83        6.        185
ilindustan Magnetics Ltd 11 456  47.5     88. 4     14.      21
H-lndustan sanltaryware & Inds. 
Ltd                  Il~~~~~ ~~~ 1244    150  100  h90.7     240.7
IFB Industrieks Ltd.         O 205     5 24      0         1 .46    6.-7
Indian Magnetics Ltd.(formerlyt --  ---------- -----
.~~~- 40~~O884        1 9       48.9     {378!105.7
IninSeamless Metal Tubes60
Ltd,                         0.0       40.6      196       255- ~375
IriTechlihterrnatior~ia Ltd. 4  8      36        0       -          68
sa   losLtd.          22.264     65.8      94.4    165.8    {226
ITO Ltd~ . .... .        10.079     0.25     0         0.07      0.32
J.KOo~. Ltd Straw  roducsTh1.327  30      51.4  2- .          106.e
K"Pa alCeramics Ltd.         o 62      16        21.    '43.3        92
Keonics Penta Semniconductors 
Ltd.                        10.492     1 6       15.5   ~1          { 47.5
Kesorarn Industries Ltd.    -16.2 98  "  " 53' 7' .....   989...59 ------ 1128.   -2-815----
Kirtoskar Cummins Ltd.      44.169     77.065    77.66   -44.7      200
KrokrOil EQiesLd        [0.834     88.4      1 668   185.8    1341
Krone Co~mmunications Lt.    11396     275       4.5....... 40       I 110
Laxmil Sy'n htics' Mah Mg
Ltd..                                  42.6  -   54                  120
Mahindra &Mahindra Ltd.-1.4            24.3      24A-4101            151.8 
Mahindra U2ino -Ltd         . 1 268    44.5      109       51       204.5
MI RC Electronics Ltd.      4067Wig    29  .......         25.2    1.103.9
MoiAlk&Aies &L Cthemlcai!5 Ltd. ~0.88  42 5    43       f.5       9
INationaIEn~inds - Ltd.  1339       120.9   1186.1    11         1420
NcL5eccoloL....t.d ......  ........          ...3......33  144 4  III1
NI~AU qro Faoods Ltd.       1053   _44.5         42.9      27        115B.1I
Pi!a4rn     onI Ld.        4221                  0.        9.2      36.2
Polar Marmoe Agglomerates Ltd.j 0.318  26        44        37        107
Po~~ycoat Powders Ltd  1027    47.5      0         20        87.5
Powmex Steels Ltd.           1.599     167.1  -436.1-93.7            696.9
Premier Instruments & Controls1 
Ltd.    ~ ~    ~      O 2       1~7.6  - 26.7
10.475    25.8    133         956.       1154.4
page'15



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDiA
IBRD UNE OF CREDIT 298 - IN
STATEMENT 4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                    ___ ...............   _  ... ____ .............. _    __ .....................  . _  . ..........  . 
COMPANY-WISE DETAILS OF MEANS OF FINANCE OF THE PROJECT
'I BR D
AUTH-
NAME OFTTHE COMPANY   USS MN.             MEANS OF FINANCING
CONTJIN
TERNAL
IDBI   OTHER    GEN.
LOAN      FI s    ETC   I TOTAL
RS- MN.  RS. MN. RS. MN. RS. MN.
R. R. Medl Pharma Ltd.     1.55     40       27.7     488      114.3
R asthan Petro-syr  heics cLtd 1.07  38.8    78.4     52       18g
RamaVision Ltd.            0.761    50.8     79.4     89.9    219.9
Rany  Snthetics Ltd.       0.459 _     .2  3    994.7   600    186_
Restile Ceramics Ltd.      0.47     20.3     51.2     18.5    90
SamorLgborator6es Ltd.     0.153    34.6    34.5      34.5     1 03.5
Shez Leather Ltd.          1.626    32.4     16.4     %7.2    85
Shree Pre-ooated Steels Ltd.  0.632    62    1        132      330
SIemens Ltd.               0.677    39.4     14.6   |S6        90
SPIC -                     1.479    190      0 _      72.5    282.6
.18 3156     31.5    117.1     8
Sn Kana,EizanMills Ltd.          1S_    16 3.        .      80.1
Sri Katr_9adda Electronics Ltd. 0.42  19     31 3 _   22       72.3
Sue,er SpsnninM2 Ltd.   _ _ 1.108    41.8 31.9 20              75._
Surya Roshni Ltd.(Prakash
Tubes)                     1.059    S0       70      3s        136
SWIL Ltd.                  0.687    15.14    0        13.7?    28.9
SwAss Health Foods Pvt. Ltd.' 0.30B    9.3   25.7     25       B0
5yhetls & Chemloals Ltd.   3.882    61 .3    170.1   568.8   790
Tamllnadu Tele-communicatlons
Ltd.                       1.023    41       100      92       233
... .._ . . _ . . .....   _  _. ._ ..........   .. ..... . . . . .   . _ . .. . .  _ - -  _. _. -... _.._ _. __ -..... . . .. . -. - - -_  -. -.. - - - -.. -. -
Tata Iron & Steel Co. Ltd.  10      1199    879       1522    3600
Ttan Foods & Fashions Ltd.   0.486    10    10.8    S0        50.8
Tosha Picture Tubes Ltd.   0.909    28.8     67      65.2       149
Triveni Pool lntalrdrnl Ltd.  1.28  24       55 4     37.1     116.5
1Tt hieipool Ltd.          0.728    6886 -     93.7    1 32.6   284.8
Ucal Fuel Systems Ltd. _   0.432    30.2     37.9    61.9      120
Ushta-te-Bio-tech Ltd.     0.231    43.4     85.1     71.5     200
VBC Industrles Ltd.        0.678    78.2     1372    1232    3388
V jay Flebl Containers Ltd.  0.52   14.4    21.8      20       56
Vlmta Labs Ltd.            1.18     30.8    21        10.4    82
Vin hya links Ltd.         3.878     6       6         110      170
Wooh orthjIndlaj Ltd       0488    63.5      63       82.6     169
XL Teicom Ltd._            0.86_ 18 8        37.4     1 8.3    72
TOTAL (IN RUPEES)        185.86  8310.38  13183.6  14599.3  38098.2
TOTAL (IN US S)        186.65   416.88  681.33   732.36  1810.56
pagel 7



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
IBRD UNE OF CREDIT 29 28- IN
STATEMENT 6
COMPANY - WISE DETAILS OF EMPLOYMENT JIRR & ERR
IBRD.    EMPL    FINANCIAL  ECO RATE
AUTH. US$ GEN.    RATE OF    OF RET.
NAME OF THE COMPANY          MN.       (NO.)   RETURN    (
Ai--ab.r Exports Ud.              1.673     476         26.6
Amara Raja Batteries Ud.          0.721     200          24       27.3
Andhra Petrochemicals Ltd.        12.96 NA.              16       13.2
Ar,ind Mills Ltd.                 1.173 NA.             18.1 NA
Baja Auto Ud.                     3.946 NA.             15.6 NA
Bakelite Hylam Ud.                1.049 NA.              17       93.6
Ballarpur Ind. Ud.                1.686 NA.    NA.          NA.
Baroda Rayon Corpn. Ud. (Phase    1.701 NA.             25.9      27.7
Baroda Rayon Corpn. Lid. (Phase   1.293 NA.              26      27.97
Bell Ceramics Lid. }              2.202 NA.              24 NA.
Bharat Forge Lid.                 2.163      73         14.4       17
Biax Ud.                          2.834     148         16.6       19
Calcom Vision Ud.                 0.139     315          30        30
Century Enka Lid.                  3.47 NA.             13.6      32.9
Century Extrusions Lid.           0.265     263          18       48.4
CenturyTextil-s & Inds. Lid.      1.173 NA.             13.8 NA
Champdany Inds. LW *              0.362 NA.              26 NA
Consolidated Petrotech Lid. (forms  0.832    75         24.7      19.4
Crompton Greaves Lid.             0.421 NA.    NA.          NA.
Daulat Eloctronios Lid.           0.486 NA.              18        27
DCL Polyesters Ud.               11.978     348         18.1      19.7
Dyna Lamps & Glass Works Lid.     2.293     340          1S       22.2
East India Granites Ud.           2.337     137 NA.               46.6
Esab India Lid.                    0.72 NA.              14 NA
Essar Gujarat Lid.                  20      437          17       23.4
Eurotox Inds. & Exports Lid.      0.504 NA.              16 NA
Fenoplast Lid.                    1.191     148          15         25
Grasim Industries Lid.              7.5 NA.              17         24
GSFC - Caprolactum               14.888     200          16         14
Gujarat Alkalies & Chemicals Lid.  1.527 NA              17       12.3
Guarat Apar Polymers Ud.           0.54     124         15.5      19.8
Gujarat Fluro-chemicals Ud.       1.073     137          16       16.1
Gujarat Propack Lid.                0.5      40         14.8      18.6
Gyan Leather Boards Pvt. Ld.      0.567     102         16.5     34.28
H-rdilla Unimars Lid.             0.806     107         18.6      14.1
Hordillia Oxides & Elec-ronics Lid.  1.37 NA.           17.3      29.1
Hindustan Magnetic. Lid.          1.466     238          28       38.9
Hindustan Sani tywate & Inds. Ltd    1.244 NA.          17.8      20.5
IFO Industries Lid.               0.205 NA.    NA.          NA
Indian Magnetd  Lid.(form-rly Pan  0.884 NA.            17.8      17.8
Indian Seamless Metal Tubes Ltd.  0.506 NA.             16.2 NA
Intcch Itemational Ltd.           1.389 NA.             18.1       47
lspat Alloys Ltd.                 2.264 NA.             16.2      17.5
ITC Ltd.                          0.079 NA.    NA.          NA
J. K. Corp. Lid. (Straw Products)  1.327 NA.            23.7 NA.
Kajaria Ceramics Lid.             0.624     206          21        20
KIonlcs Ponta SemIconductors Li   0.492      67         20.2      43.6
Kesoram Industries Lid.           6.296 NA.             17.5       28
Kirloskar Cummins Lid.            4.169 NA.              24 NA
Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.        0.834 NA.    NA.          NA.
Page 18



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
IBRD UNE OF CREDrr 22 - IN
STATEMENT 6
COMPANY - WISE DETAILS OF EMPLOYMENT IRR & ERR
IBRD.     EMPL    FINANClAL  ECO RATE
AUTH. US$ GEN.    RATE OF    OF RET.
NAME OF THE COMPANY          MN.        (NO.)   RETURN    (
Krone Communications Ud.           1.396     100           21        57
Loami Synthetics Mach. MIg. Ltd.     1.1     311           16        23
Mahindra & Mahindra Ud.            1.246 NA.     NA.         NA
Mahindra Ugine Ud.                 1.268 NA.               16 NA
MIRC Eloctronic Ltd.              0.675 NA.              18.6      65.7
Modi Alkalies & Chemicals Ud.       0.88     102         16.7 NA.
National Enog. Inds. Ltd.         3.394 NA.               27 NA
NCL Scoolor Ltd.                   1.003     160           19        19
Nijir Agro Foods Ltd.              0.63      140         15.5        30
Plamag Intemational Ltd.              1      300         16.6 NA
Polar Marmo Agglomerates Ud.      0.318       75         15.3        37
Polych-m Ud.                       0.52      115         16.1      11.2
Polycodt Powders Ltd.              0.27       35         24.7     25.87
Powmex Steels Ltd.                 1.599     558         17.7        21
Precision Electronics Ltd.        0.2S1      124        18.71        25
Premier Instruments & Cornrols Uc  0.442 NA.               28 NA.
PSI Data Systems Ud.              0.475 NA               40.1 NA
R. R. Madi Pharma Ltd.              1.55      97         23.5        43
Rajasthan Petro-synthetics Ud.      1.07      98         24.7       26.4
Rama Vision Ltd.                  0.751      307         25.1        43
Raymond Syntheics Ltd.            0.459      729         17.3       21.8
Restile Ceramics Lid.              0.47      101         14.5        41
SaMgor Laboratories Ltd.          0.153       S0         16.1     38.62
Shez Leather Ltd.                  1.525     410         22.3        44
Shree Pre-coated Steels Ltd.      0.632 NA.              14.4      32.9
Siemons Ltd.                       0.677 NA.             21.5       30.1
SPIC                               1.479 NA.     NA.         NA.
Sri Kannapiran Mills Ltd.          1.178 NA.     NA.         NA.
Sr ICaragadda Electronics Ltd.      0.42      96         14.3 NA.
Super Spinning Ud.                 1.108 NA.     NA.         NA.
Surya Roshni Ud.(Prakash Tubes)    1.059      75           20        37
SWIL Ud.                           0.587 NA.     NA.         NA
Swiss Health Foods Pvt. Ltd.P*     0.306      80         13.3      61.1
Synthetics & Chemicals Ud.        3.662      115         16.8       20.3
Tamilnadu Tle-oommunicaions       1.023     200         16.2      41.82
Tatg tron & Steel co. Ud.            10     1076           17        18
Titan Foods & Fashions Ud.         0.485 NA.     NA.         NA.
Tosha Picture Tubes Ltd.           0.909     306         18.8 NA.
Triveni Pool lntairdril Ltd.        1.28 NA.             18.5 NA
TVS Whirilpool Ltd.                0.728     500           17        17
Ucal Fuel Systems Ltd.            0.432      200           21        77
Usht&-t_io4teoh Ud.               0.231 NA.                15      55.3
VBC Industries Ud.                 0.576 NA.             17.3 NA.
Vijay Flxible Containers Ud.        0.52 NA.     NA.         NA
Vimta Labs Ltd.                     1.18      56         25.8 N.A.
Vindhya Telelinks Ud.              3.678      50           26        42
Woolwor*h (India) Ltd.             0.488 NA.             17.8 NA
XL Telecom Ltd.                    0.56       70           Z4        4t
TOTAL                            185.651    10816
Page 19



IC2ASTIS Xls
INDUSTRAL DEVELOPMEN BAK OF INDIA
IBRD LINE OF CREDIT 2928-IN
STATElENT 6
COMPANY-WISE DETAILS OF PROJECT OCST
IBRD
AUTHORISATION
NAME OFTHE COMPANY                  US $ MN.        PROJECT COST                                  COST OFTHE PROJECT (RS. MN.)
AS       AS
APPRAiS REVISER
ED    ACTUAL                   AS APPRAISED                             AS REVISEDIACTUALS
TECH.                                        TECH.
LAND/ PLANTIM   KNOW-                       LAND/B PIANTJM   KNOW-
RS. MILLION    BLDG.  ACH.    HOW    OTHERS  TOTAL   LDG.   ACH.    HOW    OTHERS  TOTAL
4KabeerEportsLtd.                           1.673      310       310   52.2   175.7         3.5    78.6       310 NA.   NA         NA.      NA.       NIA
ara RaaBatteriesLtd.                        0.721      192       241   22.7    96.6         8.5    64.2       192   32.1      94A       10.5      104      241
AdhraPetrocherricals Ltd.                   12.96     1200     2269   60.2   625.2        224.3   290.3      1200  151.2    940.6    412.4    755.1   2259.3
AindMilsLtd.                                1.173    309.1    269.9   11.8   276.4           0      20.9    309.1 NA.   NA.        NA       NA.       NA
BajuAutoLtd.                                3.946    184.3        0       0   170.6          0     13.7    184.3 NA.   NA.        NA        NA.    NtA.
BakeliteHybamLtd.                           1.049       84      78.2   11.8    40.4          7     24.8       84 NA.   NA         NA        NA.      NA.
BalarpurInd. Ltd.                           1.686      228      228    7.2   165.1         15.6    39.9    227.8 NA.   NA.        NA.       NA.      NA
Baroda Raon Corpn. Ltd. (Phase 1)           1.701      290        0 NA.   NA.    NA            NA       NA.       NA.   NA.       NA.       NA.      NA
Baroda Raon Corpn. Ltd. (Phase II)          1.293      287        0    2.3   202.7          0.6    81.4       287 NA.   NA        NA.       NA.      NA
Bel Cerarics Ltd.                           2.202      112     141.8   13.3    75.9          0     22.8       112 NA.   NA.       NA.       NA.       NA
Bharat Forge Ltd.                           2.153      675      972   27.7   508.7          0.7   137.9      675 NA.   NA         NA        NA.       NA.
EaxLtd.                                     2.&34      312     419.    20.7   181.8        11.5      98       312 NA.   NA         NA.      NA.       NA.
CaloomVsion Ltd.                            0.139       78      52.5   10.5    34.3          0     33:3      781 NA.   NA.        NA.       NA.       NA.
CenturyEnkaLtd.                              3.47    1077.1        0   29.4    687           0    360.7   1077.1 NA.   NA.         NA.      NA.       NA
Centuy Extrusions Ltd.                      0.265      101       118   15.5    492          0.8    35.2    100.7   1 95       47.6       0.8     50.1      118
CentryTexibs & Inds. Ltd.                   1.173     137.5    113.6      0     126          0      11.5    137.5 NA.   NA.        NA.      NA        NA
Charnpdary Inds. Ltd                        0.362       57       68   12.1       21          0     23.6      567 NA.   NA.         NA.      NA.       NA.
ConsoidatedPetrotechLtd.'formery            0.832      110     136.8    8.8    38.3        19.6    43.3       110 NA.   NA.        NA.      NA.       NA.
Compton Greaves Ltd.                        0.421      97.5     83.8      0    97.5          0        0      97.5 NA,   N.A.       NA.      NA.       NA.
Dalat Eleronics Ltd.                        0.486       76      105  7.197    31.73       5.709   31.383    76.019 NA.   NA.      NA.       N.A.      NA.
DCLPolyesters Ltd.                         11.978     1280      1662   73.5  682.96       81.13   492.41     1280 NA.   NA        NA.       NA.       NA.
DynaLamps&GiassWors Ltd.                    2.293      435    4625   22.4   252.3          32.3     128       435   34.4    233.1      36.1    158.9    462.5
EastIndiaGranbesLtd.                        2.337       85       115    8.4    50.4         1.1    25.1        85    8.4      622        1.1     43.3      115
EsabIndiaLtd.                                0.72      110         0   14.9    597         13.9    21.5       110 NA.   NA.        NA.      NA.       NA.
EssarGuqarat Ltd.                             20      3120     4170  160.1  12569.        3828   13202      3120 291.41   1805.49     442.6  1623.22  4162.72
Page 20



ICAST  Xi S
INDtUSTRAL DEVELOPMENT BAMC OF INDIA
IBRD U NE OF CREDIT 2928 - I N
STATEBENT 6
COMPANY-MWSE DETAhLS OF PROJECT COST
IBRD
AUTHORISATION
NAME OFTHE QDMPANY                  US $ MN         PROlJECT COST                                 COST OFTHE PROJECT (RS. MN)
AS       AS
APPRAIS REVISE
ED    ACTUAL                  ASAPPRAISED                               AS REVISEDACTUALS
TECH.                                        TECH.
LAND/ PLANT)M  KNOW-                       LAN HB PLATfM   KNOW-
P S. MILLION   BLDG.  ACH.    HOW    OTHERS  TOTAL   LDG.   ACH.    HOW    OTHERS  TOTAL
Eurotexinds. &Eports Ltd.                   0.504       43         0    2.1    30.9          0       10       43 NA.   NA         N A.      NA       NA
Fenopbst Ltd.                               1.191       88       129    5.2    54.7        2.7    22.9      86.5    6.5      93.7        0      288       129
GrasimIndusies Ltd.                           7.5      227     2297   14.31    150.4       5.8   56.61       227  14.31    1504        5.8      59.31    229.7
GSFC-Caprolaclun                           14,888     3962     5860      50    2182        675    1055      3962     60   3877.6      961.5   1150.9    5850
GupratAIales&Chemicals Ltd.                 1.527      388       450      2   832A        20.8    32.3    387.5 NA.   NA.         NA        NA       NA
GuprApar Porers Ltd.                         0.54      268       383   16.6   119.7       172       114    267.5 NA     NA.       NA.       NA       NA
Gu,ratR-dernicaisLtd.                       1.073      226    288.8    18    69A          37.7   100.9       226 N.A.   NA.       NA.      NA        NA
Gujaat Propa* Ltd                             0.5       80     109.2    4.4    45.9          7     22.7       80 NA    NA.        NA.       NA       NA
GyanLeaiter Bwds Pvt.Ltd.                   0.567      124    2775    7.5    932           27      205      123.9 N.A.   NA       NAA       NA       NA
Herdla Unins Ltd.                           0.806      462      825   17.1   183.8        61.4   1997        462 NA.   NA.        NA       N.A       NA
Herdl Oxides&Ectroncs Ltd.                   1.37      185      225   17.7    65.4          56     45.9      185 NA.   NA         NA.      NA        NA
Hindstan Magnetcs Ltd.                      1.456      135      261    6.2    852          6.4    37.2       135   12.6    121.6       17.5    109.3      261
HWidstanSanidaqwwe&Inds. Ltd.               1.244      241     280.7  22.18  218.56          0        D   240.72 NA.   NA         NA       NA        NA
IFB Indasties Ltd.                          0.205      6.7       6.7      0     6.7          0       0       6.7 NA.   NA         NA       NA        NA
IndanMagneticsLtd.(forrnertPanta            0.884      106     143.2   6.1    55.5         6.4    37.7    105.7    7.9       68.7       6.4     602      1432
IndanSeamnlssMetalTubes Ltd.                0.506      375      405   29.7   205.6          22    117.7      375 NA.   NA         NA..     NA        NA
IrrtechIntemationa Ltd.                     1.389       68        0    1.7    32.3        14.1    19.9        68 NA.   NA         NAA       NA       NA
IspatAlys Ltd.                              2264       226   291 02   25.2   137.4         2.6    608        226 NA.   NA         NA.      NA        NA
ITC Ltd.                                    0.079     0.32      0.32      0    0.25          0     0.07     0.32 NA.   NA         NA..     NA        NA
.KCorp. Ltd. (StrawPoducts                 1.327      105      117    3.8    69.9        14.6    16.8       105  1401      83.59      9.93     9.47      11
KaariaCrairdcs Ltd.                         0.824       92      106    6.8       54        6.1    25.1        92 NA.   NA         NA.      NA        NA
Keorics PentaSericonductors Ltd.            0.492     47.5      47.5    3.6    35.9        0.5      7.5     47.5 NA.   NA         NA.      NA        NA
Kesoram Industnes Ltd.                      6.296     2815     2710    179  1540.4        54.8  1040.8    2815 NA.   NA           NA       NA        NA
Kirskar Cnmns Ltd.                          4.169      200         0      2   190.7          0      7.3      200 N.A    NA        NA.      NA        NA
KiroskaOlEnginesLtd                         0.834      341        0       0     238          0     103       341 NA    NA.        NHA.     NA        NA
Page 21



_   _   _  ___                                 IZ.~~~~~~~~~~MRTR X1 S
INDUSTFIAL DEVELOPMEN BAW  OF INDA
IBRD U NE OF CREDIT 2928 - I N
STATEVENT 6
COMPANY-WISE DETAILS OF PROJECT COST
IBRD
AUTHOR ISATION
NAME OFTHECOMPANY                    US $ MN.        PRCJECTOOST                                    COSTOFTHE PRLJECT(RS. MN.)
AS       AS
APPRAIS REVISE)
ED     ACTUAL                  AS APPRAISED                             AS REVISEDOjCTUALS
TECH.                                        TECH.
LANDI PLANTIM  '.NCfW-                       DINB PANTIM  KNOW-
RS MILLION      BLDG.  ACH.    HQ`/   OTHERS  TOTAL  LDG.   ACH.    HOW    OTHERS   TOTAL
Krone C0o unicaons Ltd.                      1.396      110         0    8.7    69.7        10.6       21      11 IA    NA         NA        NA.       NA
Laani Syhetic Mac. fg. Ltd.                    1.1      120       170   20.5    49.4        14.6    35.5       12  ?.995    67.496       14.6    58.91      170
Matindra&MhnktaLtd.                          1.246      152       152    9.8   130.6         7.5        4     151.    9.8    130.5        7.5        4     151.8
MahindraUgneLtd                              1.268      205       336   10.1   114.8         5.4    74.2    204. IA    NA          NA        NA        NA.
MIRCElctronicsLtd.                           0.675      104         0   24.6    58.6         0.4    20.3    103, IA    NA          NA        NA.       NA
Modilkllies&Chernicals Ltd.                  0.88       95       105    2.5  81 262         1.5      9.7   94.96  I      NA       NA        NA.       NA
National Engg. Inds. Ltd.                    3.394      420       502    8.9    316            0     96.1      42  Nk    NA        NA        NA        NA
NCLScccobrLtd.                               1.003      111     114.5    5.3    63.9          15     26.8      111      7      632       14.7     29.6    114.5
Ni#rAgroFoodsLtd.                             0.53     115.1    128.9  14.41    48.66          4       48    115.0 7      NA       NA        NA        NA
Pbmag lnternainl Ltd.                           1       36.2        0   36.2        0          0        0      36.  A    N A       NA.       NA.       N A
Polar amoAgglomerates Ltd.                   0.318      107       151    10.8     51        12.6    32.8    107.  A    NHA         NA        NA        NA
Polyien Ltd.                                  0.52      180         0      6      110       13.3    50.7       18 IA    NA         N A       NA.       N A
PolyoatPowdersLtd.                            027      67.5         0      0    67.5           0        0      67. tA    NA        NA        NA        NA
PowmeSteelsLtd.                              1.599      697 NA.          61.8     387       42.4   206.7    696. kA    NA          NA.       NA        NA
Precision Bectrorics Ltd.                    0.231     148.7      201    13.2    78.8        5.6    51.1    148. A    NA           NA.       NA        NA
Prernierlnstwnerr&Controls Ltd.              0.442       57 NA.           7.3    36.1        2.4    11.2        5  ^    NA         NA        NA        NA
PSI DataSstems Ltd.                          0.475     146.5    154.4   12.2    53.8        361      43.4    146. tA    NA         NA        NA        NA
R. R. MeiPhama Ltd.                           1.55     114.3    125.6    8.4       75        2.7    28.2    114.    18        83.5       12       22.9    125.6
R4astmanPe rteticsLtd.                        1.07      169     141.2    9.6    76.7        20.5    62.2        16 V     NHA       NA.       NA        NA
Rama VionLtd.                                0.751      180     219.9   19.1    83.4           1     76.5       18  X    NHA       NA        NA        NA
RaymordSynttiecs Ltd.                        0.459     1856      2370  173.6  1163.8       205.5   313.1       186  186.5     1188     238.7    757.8      2370
RestIeCerawsLtd.                              0.47       90       160   6.74       53       3.36     26.9       9  1.358   91.452      6.077   52.113       160
SfrigorLaboratones Ltd.                      0.153     103.5    124.5   11.4       63          1     28.1    103.        N NA      NA        NA       NA
ShezLe0aherLtd.                              1.525       85    112.73    88      44.2         0.8    31.2        8 A    NHA        NA        NA       NA
ShreeFPe-cotedSteelsLtd.                     0.632      330       392   19.3   144.5        41.3    124.9       33 V    NHA        NA        NA        NA
Page 22



((MSTA~ XiI
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BAMC OF INDIA
IBRD UNE OFCREDr 2928 - IN
STATE)VNT 6
.________                COM PANY-WISE DETAILS OF PROJECT COST
IBRD
AUTHORI SATION
NAME OFTHE COMPANY                   US S MN.       PROJECT COST                                  COST OFTH E PRWOECT (RS. MN.)
AS       AS
APPRAIS REVISED
ED    ACTUAL                  AS APPRAISED                             AS REVISEDIACTUALS
TECH.                                        TECH.
LANDI PLANT)M   KNOW-                      LAND/B PLANTIM   KNOW-
.._____________    ___RS. MILLION  BLDG.  ACH.    HOW    OTHERS  TOTAL   LDG.   ACH.    HOW    OTHERS  TOTAL
Siemens Ltd.                                0.677       90      102    7.3    38.9         9.8      34        90 NA.   NA,        NA.      NA.      NA.
SPIC                                        1.479    262.5         0      0   262.5          0        0    262.5 NA.   NA         NA.      NA       NA
Sri Karrapiu   Mils Ltd.                    1.178       80       80   14.6    49.7           0     15.8     80.1   14.6      49.7        0      15.8     80.1
Sn Katragadda Eletronics Ltd.                042       72.3     86.9    6.4    34.6        7.2    24.2      72.3 NA.   NA         NA.      NA       NA.
SuperSpmng Ltd.                             1.108       77        77   10.5  51.084          0   14.916     76.5   10.5   51.084         0    14.916     76.5
SuryaRoshniLtd.(Pr*ashTttes)                1.G69      136       136 10685  86.854        0.56   37.401    135.5 NA.   NA.        NA.      NA.       NA.
SWIL Ltd.                                   0.587      28.9     28.9      0    28.9          0        0     28.9 NA.   NA.        NA       NA.      NA.
SwissHeathFoodsMt.Ltd."                     0.S06       60       99 NA.   NA.    NA            NA       NA.      NA.   NA.        NA.      NA.      NA.
Synihetcs &Cherricals Ltd.                  3.662      790   1534.9   23.3    482         35.3   249.4       790 NA.   NA.        NA.      NA        NA
TarnihaduTle-comriunatiorsLtd.              1.023      233    286.5   21.1   146.8         4.3    60.8       233   23.2    1612         4.6     97.5    286.5
ataIron&SteedCo.Ltd.                           10     2660      3600    390    1520         80      660     2660 NA.   NA.        NA.      NA.       NA.
rb Foods&FastimnsLtd.                      0.485      50.6      34   10.1    21.8           0     18.7     50.6    82         28        0      17.2'    53.4
osha Pkt'eTubes Ltd.                       0.909      149      269      16    63.7        1.5    68.8       149 NA.   NA.        N.A.     NA.      NA.
rrvniPodlIntatdriLtd.                       128      116.6    116.5      0    85.6          0     30.9    116.5 NA.   NA         N        NA.       NA.
T Whdpoo Ltd.                            0.728    284.8    260.6   28.9   145.5          7.8   102.6    284.8 NA.   NA.        NA.       NA.      N.A.
UcaFuelSystemsLtd.                          0.432      120      120    9.5    54.7        15.5    40.3       120    9.5      54.7      155      40.3      120
Ushta4e-Bi-tech Ltd.                        0.231      200      298   20.5    92.3        13.7    73.5       200 NA.   NA.        NA.      NA.      N.A.
BC Industies Ltd.                          0.576    338.6    531.6   15.2    181         30.6   111.8    338.6 NA.   NA.        NA.       NA       NA.
Va Reoebl Containers Ltd.                    0.52       56         0    9.3    362           0     10.6      56.1 NA.   NA,       NA.      NA.       NA.
rdta Labs Ltd.                               1.18       62        62   11.1    34.5          0     16.4       62 NA.   NA.        NA.      NA        NA.
\4ndhtTelelinks Ltd.                        3.678      170     176.5    9.9   1266         0.3    33.2       170 NA.   NA.        NA.      NA        NA.
Wortfh(inda] Ltd.                        0.488      169       210   17.7    97.7        1.8    51.8       169 NA.   NA.        NA.       NA.      NA,
LTelcon Ltd.                               0.586       72      82.3    1.9    53.4        3.1    13-6        72      2      62.7      5.4      12.2     82.3
TTAL                                     186.651  33824.02 39004.07 2176.1  19169.5  2481.639  9642.39 33469.569
Page 23



PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVES
There follow comments on the Project received from IDBI and SAIL. In
both instances, the implementing agencies also submitted more detailed
remarks and statistics which are available for review in the project file.



INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
Industrial Finance & Technical Assistance Project
- IBRD LINE 2928 - IN
Borrower's Final Evaluation Reort -
L.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   Backdrop of the Indian Economy
1.1.1  During the period of implementation of the Credit under review the Indian
Economy went through a phase of rapid macro-economic changes in a dynamic policy
environment. During the two years following the commencement of this line in 1988, the
Indian economy was affected by fiscal imbalances that were accentuated by the Gulf crisis
and the resultant third oil shock. The period that followed was marked by a revival of a
strong economic growth, rapid expansion of productive employment, a surge in exports
and a decline in inflation - aided by the growth impulses unleashed by the macroeconomic
reforms process.
1.1.2 The average growth at 5.7% of the economy during the first 4 years of the Eighth
Plan period (1992-97) exceeded the target of 5.6%.  This growth has also been
accompanied by a decline in current account deficits in the balance of payments and a drop
in inflation rate. Economic reforms have enhanced the efficiency and productivity of the
industrial economy. Imports and exports have both witnessed an upsurge during the late
eighties and the nineties.



IFTAP 29X-IN - ICR
Industrial Scene
1.2   The process of delicensing and deregulation in Indian industry had begun during
the mid eighties. It was during such a time that this line was contracted, partly for
supporting Indian industry to cope with deregulation and competition. The industry is
now almost totally delicensed barring a few exceptions, and laws pertaining to MRTP are
rationalised to encourage creation of economic capacities. Simultaneously tariffs have
been reduced substantially to boost overseas trade and encourage production of world
standard quality goods. Industrial growth rate which was around 8-9% during the late
eighties. After a brief period (1991-93) during which industry restructured itself, growth
rates have once again been restored to the levels of 1980s. Industrial growth for April-
September 1995 is estimated at 12%. One significant feature of industrial growth has
been that it has been well spread out over wide-ranging segments.
Context of the World Bank Line of Credit:
1.3   The proposal for the Line was initiated in the changing environment in the Indian
economy characterised by sharper competitive forces and entrepreneurial dynamism. The
World Bank decided to catalyse investment activity by lending financial support to the
Indian industry through IDBI and ICICI. In particular it was intended that the import
financing needs of the Indian industry be met out of the line. The resource needs were
assessed by the World Bank in consultation with DFIs and the GOI and the Line became
operational in May 1988. The last date for commitment and drawal under the line were
Dec 31, 1991 and April 30, 1996 respectively. The line was fully committed within the
time allocated on various dates between 1988-1991.  The drawal of the loan was
completed by February 1996.
2



IFTAP 2928-IN - ICR
II.    PROJECT DESIGN
2.1   The line was designed in 3 parts viz. Part A, B & C. The scope of Part "A",
administered through IDBI includes sub-loans to eligible enterprises and technical support
to IDBI for improvement of MIS and human resources system. This report covers Part A
of the project.
Obiectives:
2.2   The objectives of the Line were to assist, IDBI in carrying out its programme of
industrial development by strengthening the operational, resource allocation and
institutional capabilities of IDBI.
Loan Allocation:
2.3   The allocation of the Line was as follows
Amount in US $
Category                    equivalent
(i)   Subloans for investment projects          200 mn.
funded by IDBI.
(ii)  Technical assistance for Training &        5 mn.
MIS
3



IFTAP 2928-IN - ICR
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1    Assistance to Sub-Borrowers:
Commitments and Disbursements:
3.1.1 Out of an allocation of US$ 200mn. made by the World Bank for on-lending to
IDBI sub-borrowers a sum of US$ 185.65 was committed to 98 sub-borrowers; these
figures represent commitments after netting out cancellations. The average commitment
per project works out to US$ 1.894mn. Total disbursements to these sub-borrowers
amounted to US$ 176.97mn. leaving an unutilised balance of US$ 8.68mn. (Annexure 1).
The short utilisation has been mainly due to downward movement of the Indian Rupee
against the US$ and or other convertable currencies in which the imports were invoiced.
Other reasons for short utilisation are changes in the means of financing/reduction in the
final cost of the relevant projects and consequent part cancellation of IDBI's assistance
under the line of credit. Average utilisation per project works out to US $ 1.806 mn.
Industry wise Commitments
3.1.2  The line was intended to supplement IDBI's resources allocation. Accordingly,
resources were spread over projects in wide-ranging industrial sectors, viz., textiles,
petrochemicals, iron & steel, electronics, machinery, rubber etc. Industry wise list of
sanctions is given in the Annexure - 2. The share of assistance to petrochemicals (16.52%)
were the highest followed by Iron & Steel (14.93%), Textiles (13.98%), Cement (10.14%)
and Electronics (9.62%).  These industries together shared over 65%  of the total
assistance under the line.
4



IFTAP 2928-IN - ICR
Purvose - wise Commitments:
3.1.3 Assistance under the line have been broadly distributed over a wide range of
purposes, viz., for green field projects, expansion of capacity, upgradation/modernisation
of existing plants and for diversification into new areas of activity. Data on purpose - wise
assistance are given below.
US$MN.
PURPOSE            NO. OF    AMOUNT
PROJECTS
NEW                       46            85.821
EXPANSION                 28            48.741
MODERNISATION              14           29.934
DIVERSIFICATION            10           21.155
TOTAL              98           185.651
State - wise Commitments:
3.1.4 Commitments under the line have been distributed over a wide geographical spread
since projects located in different parts of the country have been assisted. It may be
observed from Annexure 3 that maximum no. of projects assisted are located in
Maharashtra (23 with an assistance of US$41.323mn) followed by Andhra Pradesh (22
projects with US$31.875mn) and Gujarat (15 projects with US$47.988 mn). In terms of
quantum of funds however, Gujarat accounted for the maximum share of assistance (i.e.
25.8%). Uttar Pradesh (11 projects with US$18.638mn) and Tamil Nadu (11 projects with
US$11.023 mn) are other states with a significant share of assistance.
5



IFTAP 2928-IN - ICR
Size - wise Commitments:
3. 1.5 Size-wise classification of assistance sanctioned is furnished below
Size interval         No. of     Amt. sanctioned US$mn
Projects
Less than US$ lmn.           47                24.338
US$lmn-2mn                   32                41.389
US$2mn-6mn                   12                36.402
US$6mn                       7                 83.622
Total               98                185.651
A substantial number of projects (79) accounting for 35% of sanctioned amount were
projects with an assistance of less than US$ 2mn. There were 7 large projects that
accounted for 45% of the total assistance. This pattern fulfils one of the objectives of the
loan viz. assistance to a large number of small projects.
Overall Performance
3.1.6   Of the 98 projects assisted about 80% of the cases have been implemented and
most of them are working satisfactorily. Of the remaining, some are affected by adverse
market conditions, increasing costs, working capital shortages, inadequacy of power,
competition from existing players, competition from imports following liberalisation of the
trade regime etc. IDBI has taken necessary ameliorative measures in such cases.
6



IFTAP 2928-IN - ICR
3.2   Technical Assistance (TA):
3.2.1 The Technical assistance component of US$ 5 mn was intended to be utilised
under the following heads:
Training            US $ 500,000
Equipment           US $ 4,500,000
3.2.2 The assistance was intended for financing acquisition of mainframe computer
system with the attendant software for establishment of Management Information System
in IDBI. The training component was intended for upgradation of human resource skill of
IDBI.
3.2.3 Of the authorised sum of US $ 5 mn. under the TA component, a sum of US $
4.79 mn. has been utilised - US $ 4.28 mn. towards equipment and US $ 0.52 mn. towards
H.R.D. Thus the TA was fully committed and almost fully utilised.
3.2.4 The assistance has been utilised for installation of computer hardware and software
for automation of MIS in the organisation. ICB procedures were duly followed and a
major part of the equipment imported.  Development system  and supporting PC
workstations were procured locally. Based on the acquired equipment, Accounts and MIS
system have been developed and implemented. Systems are being developed to compile
and aggregate the data relating to up-country branches. The corporate data base is so
developed for easy access by users at the corporate office.
7



IFTAP 2928-IN - ICR
3.2.5  The funds channelised for training and HRD have been fully and effectively
utilised. HRD has a special place in the operating plans of IDBI. Besides specially
conceived in-house programme that are ongoing, IDBI also deputes its employees for
various programme organised by specialised & well-established training institutes abroad.
The programmes are usually of two kinds -
(i)   Skill oriented and
(ii)   General Management and behavioural.
The new economic environment has reoriented IDBI's training activities towards
imparting not merely specialised knowledge and skills to its employees but also in helping
them to cope with increasing client expectations. With the increase in importance of
customer oriented corporate culture, IDBI has constantly been redesigning its HRD
programmes. HRD plans comprise predominantly of programmes based on sharpening and
upgrading skills and acquisition of new skills to suit the emerging needs of the dynamic
environment.
3.2.6 During the five-year period 1990-95, 503 programmes were conducted benefiting
about 1800-2000 employees every year. On an average, training is being provided to every
officer every year.
8



IFTAP 2928-IN - ICR
IV  ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4,1   IFTAP - 2928 -IN is the first project loan from The World Bank to IDBI for
supporting direct lending activities of IDBI.  The loan conceived during period of
deregulation in the Indian economy, was expected to -
1.    Provide financial support to IDBI to meet its long term financial
resources and
2.    Strengthen its institutional capacity to appraise industrial projects
effectively in the less regulated environment and cope with the more
difficult portfolio management problems stemming from adjustment
process.
4.2   The loan envisaged funding investment requirements of about 54' sub-projects
with an estimated total investment of US$ 5OOmn ( Rs.6500 mn). Of the investment of US
$ 500 mn envisaged to be catalysed, US $ 200 mn (i.e. 40%) was expected to be funded
by IBRD under loan (Annexure - 4). As against these targets, 98 sub-projects were
assisted catalysing the investment of US $ 1811 mn of which, a sum of US $ 176.97 mn
was provided by IBRD. This represents about 10% of investment catalysed. The project
plan envisaged creation of 18,700* jobs and the actual numbers are expected to be about
21,000.
4.3    While assessing sub-project proposals the minimum project parameters with regard
to financial rate of return and economic rate of return of 15% and 12% respectively were
* 54 sub projects and 1870(0 jobs were arrived at on pro-rata basis out of a total of 80 sub-projects and
28(000 jobs envisaged in the Staff Appraisal Report.
9



IFTAP 2928-IN - ICR
almost invariably fulfilled. The IRR for the sub-projects under the line has been in the
range of 15% - 40%.
4.4    One of the chief features of the loan was the protection afforded to industry
against adverse foreign exchange fluctuations for import of capital goods for sub-projects.
The Indian rupee which was around Rs. 13 per US $ in 1988 has since depreciated and is
now hovering between Rs.34 and Rs. 35 per US $. As the exchange risk for the loan
was borne by the Govt. of India, the sub-borrowers under the project were protected
against adverse exchange rate fluctuations.
Technical SUDDort
4.5   There has been substantial reinforcing of IDBI's appraisal, project  monitoring
and portfolio and risk management capabilities.
V   PERFORMANCE OF IDBI
5.1   IDBI's portfolio of direct finance comprises over 2700 companies representing the
complete range of industrial activities and a well diversified client profile. Its portfolio of
loans and investments as on Sept. 30, '95 exceeded Rs.352 billion. Data on IDBI's
sanctions are given in Annexure 5.
5.2   The following two tables summarise the information on IDBI's financial
performance during the last three financial years and the position as on / during the six
month period ending Sept. 30, 1995.
1()



IFTAP 2928-IN - ICR
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Accounts
(Rs.million)
Year ended March 31           1993       1994         1995      Sept. 30 1995
Balance Sheet
Net Worth                     28720      33540       37420         50260
Total Assets                 310830    345880        381610        407430
Profit and Loss Statement
Total Income                  30140      35850       40930         23800
Interest Expenses            23200       26850       29160         16270
Admn.& other Expenses          760       1040         1460          1000
Total Expenses               23960       27890       30620         17270
Profit before Tax             6180       7960        10310          6530
Provision for Tax             1310       1850         2350          1500
Profit after Tax              4870       6110         7960          5030
Key Ratios and Indicators of Profitability
Year Ended March 31                                   1993     1994    1995
Average cost of funds (%)                             7.92     8.25    8.10
Average return on assests (%)                         10.2    10.92   11.25
Margin (%)                                            2.28     2.67    3.15
Net Profit Margin (after tax) (%)                     1.65      1.86    2.19
Return on average Net Worth (%)                       18.9     20.2   22 96
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                            1.5      1.7      1.6
Capital Adequacy Ratio (%)                            13.3      13.4    12.4
Standard Assets to Total Assets (%)                   92.4     91.8    92.2
11



IFTAP 2928-IN - ICR
VI. OPERATIONAL EXPERIENCE
6.1   The loan was approved at a time when the economy was going through a phase of
rapid macro economic changes. The industry undergoing restructuring also had
considerable import requirements to be met. The availability of foreign currency to meet
import needs without the attendent exchange risk helped the Indian industry in its
restructuring efforts and growth path.
6.2   In helping the industrial units cash-in on the available opportunity and upgrade the
product quality, IDBI has played a direct role as well as a catalytic one.
6.3   Regular interaction with the sub-borrowers throughout the monitoring and review
period enabled IDBI to assess the factors contributing to effective project implementation
and its success.
12



SAIL
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
IBRD LOA NO. 2928-1 RN
BORROWER'B Z VALATIO  REPORT OF E PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
Under the India Industrial Finance and Technical
Assistance Project, a loan of US $ 50 million was given to
Steel Authority of India Limited by the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.  A loan and project
agreement No.2928-1 IN was signed on May 12, 1988 between
SAIL and IBRD guaranteed by the Government of India. The
loan was made available at the IBRD's standard variable
interest with a term of 20 years including a moratorium
period of 5 years.
Purpose of the loan was to enable the major Government
steel company SAIL to complement its ongoing physical
restructuring effort by improving organisation systems,
technical skills, distribution arrangements, pollution
control measures and devising plans to reduce cost and
improve quality.
The Technical Assistance project had three components,
consultancy studies and related training of personnel and
installation of equipment.
A Japanese grant of V 450 million equivalent was also
given to SAIL along with the loan to be exclusively utilised
for consultancy studies.
1



Ih Proiect
Under the consultancy studies component following five
studies in SAIL were planned on
1.  Productivity Improvement and Planning
2.  Environmental Management and Pollution Control
3.  Human Resource Development
4.  Marketing and Distribution
5.  Technology Upgradation at Alloy Steels Plant
The summary project cost details are depicted at
Annexure-I.
1.Produgtivity Improvement and Plannina Study
The study on Productivity Improvement and Planning
could not be commissioned due to lack of a suitable proposal
and to avoid delay the relevant issues were incorporated
into the remaining four studies and a training programme in
Total Quality Process was included in lieu.  Under this
training programme 46 SAIL personnel were trained in the USA
and India by IRD Inc. USA a Westinghouse Group Company as
facilitators and trainers. Appropriate manuals and software
were also provided by IRD Inc. Pilot projects in technical
and non-technical areas were conducted to improve quality of
work and productivity of resources by SAIL facilitators and
employees were exposed to quality awareness, cost of quality
and performance improvement through quality management by
SAIL trainers under the guidance of IRD Inc. The programme
started in January 1991 and ended in March, 1992.
2



2.  Environment   nacamant =d Pollution Cgntrol Studv
The study was undertaken in the wake of new and
stringent Pollution Control legislation adopted by the GOI
in 1986. The study was undertaken by a consortium of two
Australian firms, namely BHPE Engineering and Kinhill
Engineers. The study first assessed need of equipment for
monitoring of pollution at SAIL plants and mines and the
recommended equipment were procured and installed.
Thereafter using these equipment, level of pollution was
measured and a comprehensive system of pollution control and
environment managem-ent was implemented which included
training of personnel and installation of pollution control
equipment. Under the loan pollution control equipment have
been installed at SAIL Steel Plants. The programmi started
in January 1989 and will end in June, 1995.
3.  HRm  Resource DeveloRment Study
In order to mest the demands of the new technologies
and equipment being introduced and to improve productivity,
the need of a study on Human Resource Development in SAIL
was appropriately identified to be covered under the
project. The study undertaken by British Steel Consultants,
U.K. coverod -
a)   Planning and implementation of a retraining effort
occasioned by the SAIL plant modernisation programme.
b)  Development of training programme to meet the changing
and changed requirement induced by the ongoing
modernisation programmes.
c)   Revamping and upgradation of the existing HRD
facilities.
3



d)   Greater use of computer and video technologies.
e)   International best practices exposure to young SAIL
executives in identified areas of steel plant
operations.
Under the study state-of-the-art training aids and
equipment were procured and 700 SAIL officers were trained
abroad in the steel plants of British Steel Plc, U.K. and
Voest Alpine, Austria. The programme commenced in November,
1988 and completed in October, 1994.
4.   Marketing a   Distribution Study
The marketing and distribution systems of SAIL were
inadequate to handle the increased output being envisaged.
Also the demand for liberalisation of distribution controls
was picking up. Therefore, this study was undertaken which
specifically looked into -
1.  The marketing organisation and system
2.   The distribution channels
3.   Movement of steel from plants to the consumers
4.   Material handling infrastructure including equipment at
plants and stockyards
5.   Packing and storage of material
USX Engineers and Consultants, USA did this study for
SAIL. The issues were examined under two different
scenarios one with the existing controls and the other
without the controls.
4



The study included procurement of certain experimental
material handling equipment and training of personnel. The
work started in March 1989 and completed in October, 1994.
5.   Technoloov Uparadation Study at Alloy Steels Plant
Alloy Steels Plant, Durgapur was technologically
stagnant, resulting in erosion of its cost and quality
competitiveness. The study was undertaken in three phases
by Voest Alpine Industrial Services, Austria as under :
a)   First existing performance, technologies and facilities
were investigated in relation to the market.
b)   Thereafter a detailed report suggesting the measures to
be taken to improve performance at all facilities of
the plant were prepared.
C)  In the last phase, Consultants assisted SAIL in
implementing a number of selected suggested measures.
The study started in April 1989 and Consultant
assistance under the loan ended in March, 1993.
Employment of Consultants for the studies and trainers
for the training and procurement of equipment was done in
accordance with the IBRD Guidelines and Procedures and with
prior approvals of the Bank. Allocation and utilisation of
the IBRD loan and the Japanese Grant are indicated at
Annexure-Il.
BL ENEFITS
The project was successfully executed and achieved its
objectives and SAIL not only could take full advantage of
its modernisation effort due to it, but also became a trail
5



blazing organisation in Indian steel industry. When the
process of economic liberalisation started in India in 1991
SAIL was ready to face and exploit this change to its
advantage.
The improvements in organisation systems and
procedures, operating processes, employee morale, costs,
quality, customer satisfaction, productivity of resources,
market goodwill, social prestige, compliance with statutory
regulations and many other areas are visible all around SAIL
today. A few major achievements are listed below
1.  The Environment Management Division (EMD) at Corporate
level and environment management departments in SAIL
plants and mines have been established which are fully
equipped to constantly monitor state of environment in
and around and take remedial measures.
2.   For execution of a project,  its clearance from
environmental angle by EMD is a must in SAIL.
3.  All water discharges and most of the working stacks and
ambient air quality are today well within statutory
limits. An inter-plant Environment Trophy for best
environmental performance has also been instituted.
4.  Human Resource Development today is among the thrust
areas in SAIL. A large number of specific need based
training modules for all levels of employees have been
developed and state-of-the-art, training aids and
laboratories have been installed in SAIL plants and
units.
5.  A cadre of professional trainees has been developed..
6



6.   There is an active involvement of line managers in
training and work methods have improved leading to
higher productivity of resources.
7.   Today SAIL employees are well aware of importance of
quality in their operations and internal customer
satisfaction is being practiced.  Over 45000 e*ployeae
have been exposed to Total Quality Awareness programes
till date.
8.   Ten facilities of SAIL today have obtained ISO 9000
series certificates and rest are on way to obtain
these.
9.   Today there are Total Quality set ups at Corporate
level and at plant/unit levels in SAIL to propagate
quality in all aspects of operations and inter and
intra plant/unit competitions are organised to promote
quality awareness among employees.
10. Marketing organisation has been made flatter and branch
and regional offices have been strengthened to achieve
better control on operations.
11. order booking and customer servicing procedures have
been simplified and long term relationships with
customers is being established.
12. Nodal stockyards and alternative modes of transport
have been established to smoother distribution network.
13. Stockyards have been modernised to effect safer custody
and faster delivery of material.  Damage to material
during storage and handling has reduced.
14. Customers are getting better service and material.
7



1$. The order booking and product planning system has been
revamped. Today branch sales offices are in direct
contact with plants.
16. Continuous and cheaper production of stainless steel
has been installed at ASP.
17.  Yield in SMS and CCS in ASP has improved and costs have
been reduced by changing work practices.
18. Fuel consumption, rejections, refractory consumption,
and cycle time have reduced.
19. ASP has been certified as an IS0-9002 steel plant.
E=E PLANS
The project has achieved its objective but has not
stopped. The activities started under the loan project have
become a part of SAIL's operations and continuous work in
furthering the gains is going on with funds provided from
other sources. Today, Total Quality, HRD, Environmental
Management, Customer Satisfaction and Productivity
improvement have become inseparable ingredients of SAIL's
work practices and the Technical Assistance Project has
contributed significantly to SAIL's zooming performance in
costs, quality, profitability and customer satisfaction
despite competition being hotting up in the market.
8



ANNLPXURE-I
r In US I (01
W  Component   SAIL        TOTAL
Productivity Study              2.5        1.7         4.2
-    Environment               24.5       26.2        50.7
-    Training                  11.0       12.0        23.0
-    Mktg. & Distribution    10.5         10.4        20.9
-    ASP Study                  1.5        0.5         2.0
50.0      50.8       100.8
9



ANNEXURE-II
Allocation and Commitment of World
BanA Loan as on 28th February. 1995
rln US j Millionl
CATEGORY                        ORIGINAL             COMMITTED
ALLOCATION
CONSULTANCY
- Productivity Study               2.50                  -
- Environment                      4.30                 5.00
- Marketing                        2.10                 1.65
- ASP                              1.50                 2.95
- HRD                              0.70                 1.40
11.10                11.00*
TRAINING
- BSCOS CUK]                       4.10                 6.50
- VAIS  CAustria]                    -                  4.86
- IRD   CUSA]                                           1.04
4.10                12.40
EQUIPMENT
- Environment                     19.50                13.48
- Training                         6.00                 2.50
- Marketing                        8.20                 6.72
33.70                22.70
Unallocated                        1.10
TOTAL                        50.00                46.10**
Amount of loan                    50.00                45.00 Q
Amount of Japanese Grant           3.30                 3.30
TOTAL                             53.30                48.30
BALANCE UNCOMMITTED                                     2.20
*    Includes US $ 3.30 million from the Japanese Grant.
**   US $ 41.35 million already withdrawn.
Q    Excluding US $ 5.00 Million cancelled.
10






i MAG I NG
Report Not 160J69
T1' ype : I'h



