Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2928 IN
       (Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated May 12, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 12,  1988,  between INDIA, acting by its
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  Part A  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Industrial Development Bank  of  India  (IDBI) with the Borrower's
assistance and as part of  such  assistance the Borrower will make
available to IDBI part of the  proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement;
     (C)  Part B  of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by the
Industrial Credit  and  Investment  Corporation  of  India Limited
(ICICI)  with  the  Borrower's  assistance  and  as  part  of such
assistance the Borrower will make  available  to ICICI part of the
Page  2
proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
     (D)  by a loan agreement  of  even  date herewith between the
Bank and the Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL), the Bank has
agreed to make a loan to  SAIL in an aggregate principal amount of
$50,000,000 (the SAIL Loan)  to  assist  SAIL  in the financing of
Part C of the  Project  on  the  terms  and conditions therein set
forth;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this  Agreement  and in the Project Agree-
ments of even date herewith between the Bank and IDBI and the Bank
and ICICI, respectively;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  5  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "IDBI Act"  means  the  Industrial  Development  Bank of
India Act No. 18 of 1964  of  the Borrower, as amended to the date
of this Agreement;
     (b)  "IDBI" means the Industrial Development Bank of India, a
body corporate established under the IDBI Act;
     (c)  "ICICI"  means  the  Industrial  Credit  and  Investment
Corporation of India Limited,  a company established and operating
under the laws of India;
     (d)  "ICICI Charter" means the  Memorandum of Association and
the Articles of Association  of  ICICI  dated  January 5, 1955, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (e)  "IDBI Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and IDBI, of even date  herewith,  as the same may be amended
from time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the IDBI Project Agreement;
     (f)  "ICICI Project  Agreement"  means  the agreement between
the Bank and ICICI,  of  even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the ICICI Project Agreement;
     (g)  "Project Agreements"  means  the  IDBI Project Agreement
and the ICICI Project Agreement collectively;
     (h)  "IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means the agreement to
be entered into between the  Borrower and IDBI pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) and (c) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (i)  "ICICI Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ICICI pursuant to Section
3.02 (b) and (c) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time  to  time,  and  such  term  includes  all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the ICICI Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
Page  3
     (j) "Subsidiary Loan  Agreements"  means  the IDBI Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and  ICICI  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement collectively
and "Subsidiary Loans" means any loans provided for therein;
     (k)  "Sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be
made by IDBI  or  ICICI,  as  the  case  may  be, to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment  Project  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to IDBI and ICICI  under the IDBI and ICICI Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, respectively;
     (l)  "free-limit Sub-loan" means  a  Sub-loan, as so defined,
which  qualifies  as  a   free-limit   Sub-loan  pursuant  to  the
provisions of paragraph 2 (b) of  Schedule 1 to the IDBI and ICICI
Project Agreements, respectively;
     (m)  "Investment Enterprise"  means  an industrial enterprise
which is engaged  in  or  intends  to  engage  in manufacturing or
processing and  to  which  IDBI  or  ICICI,  as  the  case may be,
proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (n)  "Investment  Project"   means   a  specific  development
project to be carried  out  by  an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (o)  "Prior Loan Agreement"  means,  in  respect of IDBI, any
outstanding loan agreement between India, acting by its President,
and the Bank pursuant to  which  the  proceeds of the Loan or part
thereof were relent to  IDBI  and,  in  respect of ICICI, any out-
standing loan agreement between  the  Bank and ICICI, dated before
the date  of  this  Agreement  and  "Prior  Loan"  means  any loan
provided for therein;
     (p)  "IDBI Policy,  Strategy  and  Collection Strategy State-
ments" mean the  policy,  strategy  and collection strategy state-
ments adopted and approved by  the  Board of Directors of IDBI, on
December 9, 1987 as  each  of  which  may  be amended from time to
time;
     (q)  "ICICI Policy, Strategy  and  Collection Strategy State-
ments" mean the  policy,  strategy  and collection strategy state-
ments adopted and approved by the  Board of Directors of ICICI, on
November 12, 1987 as each  of  which  may  be amended from time to
time;
     (r)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (s)  "Rupees" means the currency of the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent to three
hundred ten million dollars ($310,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for:  (i)  amounts paid (or, if the
Bank shall so  agree,  amounts  to  be  paid)  by  IDBI and ICICI,
respectively, on  account  of  withdrawals  made  by an Investment
Enterprise under a Sub-loan to  meet  the reasonable cost of goods
and services required  for  the  Investment  Project in respect of
which the withdrawal from the  Loan Account is requested; and (ii)
expenditures made (or if the Bank  shall  so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts A (ii) and B (ii) of  the  Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A and B of
Page  4
the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in the
Reserve Bank of India on  terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1995 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower, IDBI and ICICI of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project;
                    Use of Proceeds of the Loan
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause each of IDBI  and  ICICI  to  perform in accordance with the
provisions  of  the   Project   Agreements  all  their  respective
obligations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources,  necessary  or  appropriate  to  enable  IDBI and
ICICI, respectively, to  perform  such  obligations, and shall not
take or permit  to  be  taken  any  action  which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
     Section 3.02. (a) The  Borrower  shall make available to IDBI
out of the proceeds of  the  Loan  an  amount not to exceed in the
aggregate   $205,000,000   equivalent,   comprising   $200,000,000
equivalent for Part A (i) of the Project and $5,000,000 equivalent
for Part A (ii)  of  the  Project,  pursuant  to a subsidiary loan
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and IDBI.
Page  5
     (b)  The Borrower shall make  available  to  ICICI out of the
proceeds of the Loan  an  amount  not  to  exceed in the aggregate
$105,000,000 equivalent,  comprising  $100,000,000  equivalent for
Part B (i) of  the  Project  and  $5,000,000 equivalent for Part B
(ii) of the Project, pursuant to a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ICICI.
     (c)  The Subsidiary Loan Agreements  shall be under terms and
conditions which shall have  been  approved  by the Bank and which
include, inter alia: (i)  assumption  of  the foreign exchange and
interest rate risks under the  Loan  by  the Borrower and, to this
end, denomination of the Subsidiary Loans in Rupees; and (ii) rate
of interest of 11% per annum on the principal amount withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time or such other comparable rate as may
be determined after  regular  interest  rate reviews; repayment in
Rupees by  IDBI  and  ICICI,  respectively,  within  twenty years,
including therein a period of grace of five years.
     Section 3.03. The  Borrower  shall  exercise its rights under
the IDBI and ICICI Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to
protect  the  interests  of  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  and to
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive  the  IDBI  and  ICICI  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreements  or any
provision thereof.
     Section 3.04.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and  services  required for Parts A and B
of the Project and to be financed  out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed, respectively,  by  the provisions of Schedule 2
to the IDBI and ICICI Project Agreements.
     Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and  land  acquisition,  respectively)  in  respect of
Parts A and B of  the  Project  shall  be  carried out by IDBI and
ICICI  pursuant  to  Section  2.04  of  their  respective  Project
Agreements.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) For all  expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from  the  Loan  Account  were  made  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure under Parts A  and B of the Project, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one  year  after  the  Bank  has received the
               audit report for the fiscal  year in which the last
               withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) (i) of  this  Section for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
Page  6
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each such year the  report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have  reasonably  requested, including a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements  of  expenditure  submitted  during such
               fiscal  year,  together  with  the  procedures  and
               internal controls  involved  in  their preparation,
               can  be  relied   upon   to   support  the  related
               withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
      Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  have the Special Account
for each financial  year  audited  in  accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently  applied  by independent auditors
acceptable to  the  Bank  and  furnish  to  the  Bank  as  soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each year the report  of  such  audit by said auditors, of such
scope and  in  such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
requested.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  IDBI or ICICI shall have  failed to perform any of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreements;
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make  it  improbable  that either IDBI or ICICI
will be able  to  perform  their  respective obligations under the
Project Agreements;
     (c)  IDBI  Act,  or  IDBI  Policy,  Strategy  and  Collection
Strategy Statements, shall have  been  amended so as to materially
and adversely affect the carrying  out  of  Part A of the Project,
or the operations or financial condition of IDBI;
     (d)  ICICI Charter or  ICICI  Policy, Strategy and Collection
Strategy Statements shall have  been  amended  so as to materially
and adversely affect the carrying out of Part B of the Project, or
the operations or financial condition of ICICI;
     (e)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of either  IDBI  or  ICICI  or  for  the  suspension of their
respective operations; and
     (f)  Any part of the principal  amount  of any loan to either
IDBI or ICICI having  an  original  maturity  of  one year or more
shall, in accordance with its  terms,  have become due and payable
in advance of  maturity  as  provided  in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for  any  such loan shall have become
enforceable.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified, namely,
that:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall  have been given by the Bank
Page  7
to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any event specified in  paragraphs  (c), (d), (e) or (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that:
     (a)  the IDBI Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and IDBI;
     (b)  the ICICI Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ICICI; and
     (c)  that all conditions  precedent  to  the effectiveness of
the SAIL Loan, except  for  those  related to the effectiveness of
this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that:
     (a)  that the IDBI Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by IDBI, and  is  legally  binding upon IDBI in accor-
dance with its terms;
     (b)  that the ICICI  Project  Agreement  has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by ICICI,  and  is legally binding upon ICICI in
accordance with its terms;
     (c)  that the IDBI  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower  and  IDBI and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and  IDBI  in accordance with its terms;
and
     (d)  that the ICICI Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower  and ICICI and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and ICICI in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  Any  Secretary,  Additional  Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy  Secretary  or  Under Secretary in the
Ministry  of  Finance,  Department  of  Economic  Affairs  of  the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of India
          Ministry of Finance
          Department of Economic Affairs
          New Delhi, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  8
               ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
               New Delhi
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INDIA
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans for           200,000,000       100% of foreign
     Investment                                expenditures or
     Projects under                            80% of IDBI Loans
     Part A (i) of
     the Project
(2)  Sub-loans for           100,000,000       100% of foreign
     Investment                                expenditures or
     Projects under                            80% of ICICI Loans
     Part B (i) of
     the Project
Page  9
(3)  Technical
     Assistance for
     Part A (ii) of
     the Project:
     (a)  Consultants'           300,000       100%
          services
     (b)  Training             1,000,000       100% of foreign
                                               expenditures and
                                               50% of local
                                               expenditures
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
     (c)  Equipment             3,700,000      100% of foreign
                                               expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 70% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally
(4)  Technical
     Assistance for
     Part B (ii) of
     the Project:
     (a)  Consultants'          1,500,000      100%
          services
     (b)  Training              1,500,000      100% of foreign
                                               expenditures and
                                               50% of local
                                               expenditures
     (c)  Equipment             2,000,000      100% of foreign
                                               expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory cost)
                                               and 70% of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally
                              ___________
     TOTAL                    310,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentage for  Categories  (1) and (2) have
been calculated in compliance with the policy of the Bank that the
proceeds of the Loan shall not be disbursed on account of payments
for the acquisition of land,  taxes  or  duties; on this basis, if
the cost of land, taxes or  duties represents more than 50% of the
total cost of the concerned  Investment  Project, the Bank may, by
Page  10
notice to the Borrower, decrease the disbursement percentages then
applicable to respectively Categories  (1)  and (2) as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  in respect of a  Sub-loan,  unless the Sub-loan has been
made in  accordance  with  the  procedures  and  on  the terms and
conditions set forth or referred  to  in the respective Schedule 1
to the IDBI and ICICI Project Agreements.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are  to assist the Borrower in
carrying   out   its   program   of   industrial   development  by
strengthening   the    operational,    resource   allocation   and
institutional capabilities of IDBI  and ICICI; and supporting SAIL
in its restructuring efforts  in  order  to provide more efficient
steel production.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
      (i)  Financing of specific  Investment Projects through IDBI
           Sub-loans  to  eligible   private  enterprises  in  the
           industrial sector.
     (ii)  Provision of  assistance  to  IDBI  to support training
           programs at the  new  training  institute in Hyderabad,
           overseas training,  improvement  of  its management and
           information systems,  and  provision  of management and
           technical consultancy to support non-credit services to
           its associates and IDBI sponsored institutions.
Part B:
      (i)  Financing of specific Investment Projects through ICICI
           Sub-loans to  eligible  enterprises  in  the industrial
           sector.
     (ii)  Provision   of   assistance    to   ICICI   to   enable
           implementation  of   a   computerization   program  and
           consultancy,  training   programs,   in-house  training
           center, overseas fellowships and sponsorships for ICICI
           staff in all aspects of its operations.
Part C:
      Provision of  technical  assistance  to  assist  SAIL in the
restructuring  of   the   steel   sector   through  the  following
activities:
      (i)  carrying out of a study on productivity improvement and
           planning;
     (ii)  carrying out of a study on environmental management and
           pollution control  in  SAIL  plants  together  with the
           provision of  pollution  monitoring  equipment required
           for the purposes of such study;
    (iii)  carrying out of  a  study  to  enable the upgrading and
           revamping of SAIL's  existing  training facilities, the
           revision of existing  training programs, plant-specific
Page  11
           retraining  programs  together  with  the  provision of
           training equipment  such  as  blast  furnace  and power
           plant process simulators;
     (iv)  training  of   approximately   200   engineers  through
           approved training programs at foreign steel plants;
      (v)  carrying out of a  study  on marketing and distribution
           together  with  provision   of  experimental  equipment
           related  to  such   study   for  packing  and  material
           handling; and
     (vi)  carrying out  of  a  study  on  technology upgrading at
           SAIL's alloy steel plant at Durgapur.
                *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
     beginning November 1, 1993
     through   November 1, 2007                   10,335,000
On May 1, 2008                                    10,285,000
_______________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
Page  12
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Parts A and  B  of  the  Project  and  to  be  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan allocated  from  time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; provided, however,  that notwithstanding the provisions
of paragraph 2 (b) of  Schedule  1  to  the IDBI and ICICI Project
Agreements, repectively, payments for  expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the
Special Account before the  Bank shall have authorized withdrawals
from the  Loan  Account  in  respect  thereof.  Such expenditures,
however, shall qualify as  eligible  expenditures only if the Bank
shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $40,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
Page  13
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  Parts  A  and B of the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts A  and  B  of  the  Project shall follow such
procedures as the Bank  shall  specify  by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after  and to the
extent that the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit  into  the  Special Account as of the
date of  such  notice  will  be  utilized  in  making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special  Account:  (i)  was  made  for  any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank, deposit into  the  Special Account (or, if the Bank
shall so request,  refund  to  the  Bank)  an  amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                Modifications of General Conditions
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
Page  14
     (1)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (2)  The following sub-paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
                "21. The term 'Project Agreements' has the meaning
          set forth in paragraph (g)  of  Section 1.02 of the Loan
          Agreement."
     (3)  The words "the  Bank  may,  by  notice  to the Borrower,
terminate the  right  of  the  Borrower  to  make withdrawals with
respect to such  amount.  Upon  the  giving  of  such notice, such
amount of the Loan shall  be  cancelled"  set  forth at the end of
Section  6.03  are  deleted   and  the  following  is  substituted
therefor:
               "or (f) by  the  date  specified  in the respective
          sub-paragraphs  3  (c)  of  Schedule  1  to  the Project
          Agreements, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of
          the Loan: (i) have  received no applications or requests
          permitted under respective sub-paragraphs  (a) or (b) of
          said  paragraphs;   or   (ii)   have   denied  any  such
          applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice to the
          Borrower,   terminate   the   right   to   submit   such
          applications or approvals  or  to  make withdrawals from
          the Loan Account, as  the  case  may be, with respect to
          such amount or portion of  the  Loan. Upon the giving of
          such notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
          cancelled."
