Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2928 IN
       (Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                 STEEL AUTHORITY OF INDIA LIMITED
                        Dated May 12, 1988
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2928 IN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 12,  1988 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the  Bank)  and STEEL AUTHORITY OF
INDIA LIMITED (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS: (A) India, acting  by  its President (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described  in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
have requested the Bank to  assist  in  the financing of Part C of
the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan made pursuant to this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Government Loan" means the  loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement of  even  date  herewith  entered  into between the
Guarantor and the Bank for  the  purposes  of carrying out Parts A
and B of the Project.
     (b)  "Charter" means the  Memorandum  of  Association and the
Articles of Association of the Borrower dated January 24, 1973, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (c)  "IDBI" means  Industrial  Development  Bank  of India, a
body corporate established  under  the Industrial Development Bank
of India Act No. 18  of  1964  of  the Borrower, as amended to the
date of this Agreement;
     (d)  "ICICI"  means  the  Industrial  Credit  and  Investment
Corporation of India Limited,  a company established and operating
under the laws of India; and
     (e)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in this Agreement,
an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  fifty million
dollars ($50,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for Part C of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for  the  purposes  of Part C of the
Project, open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special account in the
State Bank of India  on  terms  and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special Account
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
Page  3
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semi-annually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part C of the Project
with  due  diligence  and   efficiency   and  in  conformity  with
appropriate   administrative,   financial   and   steel   industry
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other  resources  required  for Part C of
the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Bank  and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree,  the  Borrower  shall  carry  out  Part  C of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial, and steel industry  practices  under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance with sound engineering,
financial and steel industry practices.
Page  4
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect  in  accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   and   the  records  and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than  seven months after the end
               of each  such  year,  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  5
     (a)  the Charter shall have been  amended so as to materially
and adversely affect the carrying out  of Part C of the Project or
the operation or financial condition of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Borrower or for the suspension of its operations.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that any event specified in paragraphs  (a) or (b) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The following  event  is  specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning  of  Section  12.01  (c)  of  the  General Conditions,
namely, that all the conditions  precedent to the effectiveness of
the Government Loan, except for those related to the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section 7.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  8.01.  The  Chairman   or  the  Director,  Corporate
Planning  of the Borrower  is  designated as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.03  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Steel Authority of India Limited
          Ispat Bhavan
          Lodi Road
          New Delhi 110 003, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               STEELINDA                         031-62689
               New Delhi
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  6
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    STEEL AUTHORITY OF INDIA LIMITED
                    By /s/ N. Misra
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'               11,100,000      100%
     services
(2)  Training                    4,100,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(3)  Technical                  33,700,000      100% of foreign
     assistance-                                expenditures,
     related                                    100% of local
     equipment                                  expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 70% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(4)  Unallocated                 1,100,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 50,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than that of the Guarantor for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Guarantor; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not exceeding the  equivalent of $250,000, may be
Page  7
made in respect of Category  (1)  on  account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1988.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to assist the Guarantor in
carrying   out   its   program   of   industrial   development  by
strengthening   the    operational,    resource   allocation   and
institutional capabilities of IDBI  and  ICICI, and supporting the
Borrower in its  restructuring  efforts  in  order to provide more
efficient steel production.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:
     (i)  Financing of specific  Investment  Projects through IDBI
          Sub-loans  to  eligible   private   enterprises  in  the
          industrial sector.
    (ii)  Provision of  assistance  to  IDBI  to  support training
          programs at  the  new  training  institute in Hyderabad,
          overseas training,  improvement  of  its  management and
          information systems,  and  provision  of  management and
          technical consultancy to  support non-credit services to
          its clients.
Part B:
     (i)  Financing of specific  Investment Projects through ICICI
          Sub-loans  to  eligible  enterprises  in  the industrial
          sector.
    (ii)  Provision   of   assistance    to    ICICI   to   enable
          implementation   of   a   computerization   program  and
          consultancy, training programs  and overseas fellowships
          for ICICI staff in all aspects of its operations.
Part C:
     Provision of technical assistance  to  assist the Borrower in
the  restructuring  of  the  steel  sector  through  the following
activities:
     (i)  carrying out of a  study on productivity improvement and
          planning;
    (ii)  carrying out of a  study on environmental management and
          pollution control in the Borrower's plants together with
          the provision of pollution monitoring equipment required
          for the purposes of such study;
   (iii)  carrying out of  a  study  to  enable  the upgrading and
          revamping   of   the    Borrower's   existing   training
          facilities, the revision  of existing training programs,
          plant-specific  retraining  programs  together  with the
          provision of training  equipment  such  as blast furnace
          and power plant process simulators;
    (iv)  training of approximately 200 engineers through approved
          training programs at foreign steel plants;
     (v)  carrying out of  a  study  on marketing and distribution
          together  with   provision   of  experimental  equipment
          related to such study for packing and material handling;
          and
    (vi)  carrying out of a  study  on technology upgrading at the
Page  8
          Borrower's alloy steel plant at Durgapur.
               *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
     beginning November 1, 1993
     through   November 1, 2007                       1,665,000
On May 1, 2008                                        1,715,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                           The interest  rate (ex-
                                           pressed as a percentage
                                           per  annum)  applicable
                                           to  the   balance  out-
                                           standing on the Loan on
                                           the  day  of prepayment
                                           multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
Page  9
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Subject  to  the  prior  review  and  approval  of  the Bank,
technical  assistance-related   equipment   involving  proprietary
technology may be procured directly  from the manufacturer of such
equipment or under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the  basis  of  evaluation and comparison of
bids invited  from  at  least  three  qualified suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines  and  in  accordance  with the procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
2.   For items or groups of items  estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $500,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $8  million,  may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for technical assistance-
related equipment estimated to cost  the equivalent of $500,000 or
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall  apply.  Where  payments for such contract
are to be made out  of  the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified  to  ensure  that  the  two  conformed  copies  of the
contract required to be  furnished  to  the  Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
Page  10
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to  assist  the  Borrower  in  the implementation of
Part C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank.  Such  consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank  on  the  basis  of  the  "Guidelines  for  the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
     Subject to any modifications hereof  which may be agreed from
time to time between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall
ensure that Part C  of  the  Project  is carried out in accordance
with, inter alia, the following:
1.   Training Program
     The Borrower shall, in respect  of the training program under
Part C (iv) of the  Project,  furnish  to the Bank for its review,
details  of  the  qualifications   and  job  descriptions  of  the
engineers who would be eligible to take part in such program.
2.   Consultations on Studies
     The Borrower shall  ensure  that  the  Bank is furnished with
copies of the studies carried  out  under  Part C (i), (ii), (iii)
and (v) of the Project  within  one  month of their completion and
submission to  the  Borrower.  The  Bank  and  the  Borrower shall
consult with each other on the recommendations of such studies and
the Borrower  shall  thereafter  implement  the agreed recommenda-
tions.
3.   Alloy Steel Plant Study
     The Borrower shall, in respect of the Alloy Steel Plant study
to be carried out under Part C (vi) of the Project, furnish to the
Bank for its review  the  findings  made  at  the end of the first
phase of such study, such phase to produce, after three months, an
initial survey report.  The  Bank's  involvement in the subsequent
phases of the study shall be based upon such findings.
4.   Quarterly Progress Reports
     Without limitation  to  the  provisions  of  Section 9.07 (a)
(iii) of the  General  Conditions,  the Borrower shall, commencing
April 1,  1988,  furnish  to  the  Bank  quarterly  reports on the
progress of Part C of  the  Project  in a form satisfactory to the
Bank, such reports to be furnished  within one month after the end
Page  11
of each reporting period.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part C of the Project and  to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special  Account   shall   be   made   exclusively   for  eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit into the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  All  such
deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account
under the respective  eligible  Categories,  and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall  have  been justified by the evidence
supporting the  request  for  such  deposit  furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of Article  V  of the General Conditions
               and  paragraph  (a)   of   Section   2.02  of  this
               Agreement; or
Page  12
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to  the  eligible  Categories  for  Part  C  of the
               Project,  minus  the   amount  of  any  outstanding
               special  commitment  entered   into   by  the  Bank
               pursuant to Section 5.02  of the General Conditions
               with respect to  Part  C  of  the Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories for Part C of  the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Bank shall specify by  notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining on
deposit into the Special  Account  as  of  the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
