Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2928 IN
       (Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
                        Dated May 12, 1988
                      IDBI PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 12,  1988 between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA (IDBI).
     WHEREAS: (A) by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between INDIA, acting  by  its  President  (the  Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed  to  lend  to  the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three hundred ten million dollars
($310,000,000), on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that IDBI agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank  as  are  set forth in this Agreement;
and
     (B)  by the IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into
between the  Borrower  and  IDBI  pursuant  to  the  provisions of
Section 3.02 (a)  and  (c)  of  the  Loan  Agreement,  part of the
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be
made available to IDBI on  terms  and conditions set forth in said
IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS IDBI, in  consideration  of  the Bank's entering into
Page  2
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the General  Conditions  (as so defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
                 Management and Operations of IDBI
     Section 2.01. IDBI declares  its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement
and, to this end,  shall  carry  out  Part  A  of the Project and
conduct  its  operations  and  affairs  in  accordance  with sound
administrative, industrial and  financial standards and practices,
under the  supervision  of  qualified  and  experienced management
assisted by competent staff in  adequate numbers and in accordance
with the IDBI Act  and  the  IDBI  Policy, Strategy and Collection
Strategy Statements.
     Section 2.02. (a) IDBI undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, Sub-loans  will  be  made  in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms  and  conditions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  IDBI shall  exercise  its  rights  in  relation  to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Bank and of  IDBI;  (ii)  comply with its obligations under
this Agreement and the  IDBI  Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.03.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and  services  required for Part A of the
Project and to be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. IDBI shall carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.05. IDBI  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the  IDBI  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, IDBI shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of assigning, amending, abrogating or
waiving  the  IDBI  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  or  any provision
thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a) IDBI  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A
of the Project,  the  performance  of  its  obligations under this
Agreement and under the IDBI  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  IDBI shall promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Part A of the Project,  the  accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance  by  IDBI  of  its obligations under this
Agreement and under the IDBI Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
Page  3
9.07 (a) (iii) of  the  General  Conditions, IDBI shall furnish to
the Bank quarterly and semi-annual  reports,  of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank  shall  reasonably request on the progress
of Part A of  the  Project,  such  reports  to be furnished within
three months after the end of each reporting period.
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) IDBI  shall maintain procedures and records
adequate to monitor  and  record  the  progress  of  Part A of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it)  and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of IDBI.
     (b)  IDBI shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each  such  year,  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well as the audit thereof as the Bank
               shall from time to time reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, IDBI
shall: (a) conduct its  operations  and  affairs in such manner as
shall be necessary  to  maintain,  at  all  times, its debt/equity
ratio within the limit referred to  in Section 3.03 of this Agree-
ment; and (b)  if  such  ratio  shall,  for  reasons beyond IDBI's
control, be exceeded, promptly take  all such reasonable action as
shall be necessary or  advisable  to  bring such ratio within such
limit.
     Section 3.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
IDBI shall:
        (i)    not incur or  permit  any  subsidiary  to incur any
               debt if,  after  the  incurring  of  such debt, the
               consolidated debt of IDBI  and all its subsidiaries
               then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
               twelve times the  consolidated  capital and surplus
               of IDBI and all its subsidiaries; and
       (ii)    ensure that at all  times its consolidated internal
               cash generation for  each  year  shall  be at least
               1.2:1 times the  consolidated debt service require-
               ments of its consolidated debt for that year.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt" means any  debt incurred by IDBI or
               any subsidiary maturing  more  than  one year after
               the  date  on  which  it  is  originally  incurred;
               provided, however, that  current repayments of such
               debt due  and  payable  within  one  year  shall be
               excluded therefrom.
Page  4
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms  of  payment,  on  the  date,  and to the
               extent, the amount  of  such  debt  has become out-
               standing pursuant to  such loan contract, agreement
               or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
               on  the  date  the  agreement  providing  for  such
               guarantee has been  entered  into  but  only to the
               extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
        (iii)  The  term  "equity"  means  the  sum  of  the total
               unimpaired paid-up  capital,  retained earnings and
               reserves of IDBI  not  allocated  to cover specific
               liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary  to  value  in  terms  of Rupees, debt
               payable in another  currency,  such valuation shall
               be made on the basis  of the prevailing lawful rate
               of exchange at which such other currency is, at the
               time of such valuation,  obtainable by IDBI for the
               purposes of servicing such  debt or, in the absence
               of such rate, on  the  basis  of a rate of exchange
               acceptable to the Bank.
          (v)  The term "consolidated  debt  of  IDBI  and all its
               subsidiaries" means  the  total  amount  of debt of
               IDBI and all  its  subsidiaries, excluding any debt
               owed by IDBI to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary
               to IDBI or to any other subsidiary.
         (vi)  The term "consolidated capital  and surplus of IDBI
               and its subsidiaries"  means  the  aggregate of the
               total unimpaired paid-up  capital, surplus and free
               reserves of IDBI and  of all its subsidiaries after
               excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent
               equity interests of  IDBI  in  any subsidiary or of
               any  such  subsidiary  in  IDBI  or  in  any  other
               subsidiary.
     Section 3.04. IDBI shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of  any  outstanding  debt of IDBI which would
materially affect IDBI's  ability  to  meet  its financial obliga-
tions.
     Section 3.05. IDBI shall take  such steps satisfactory to the
Bank as shall be necessary to  protect itself against risk of loss
resulting from  changes  in  the  rates  of  exchange  between the
currencies (including Rupees) used in its operations.
     Section 3.06. The Bank and  IDBI  shall from time to time, at
the request of either  party,  exchange views through their repre-
sentatives  with  regard  to  the  administration,  operations and
financial condition of IDBI,  and  IDBI  shall furnish to the Bank
all  such  information  as   the  Bank  shall  reasonably  request
concerning the administration,  operations and financial condition
of IDBI.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of IDBI thereunder shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance  with its terms and
the Bank shall promptly notify IDBI of this event.
Page  5
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General  Conditions applicable to the Loan
Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction
               and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For IDBI:
          Industrial Development Bank of India
          Nariman Bhavan
          227 Vinay K. Shah Marg
          P.O. Box 10020, Bombay 400 021
          India
          Cable address                     Telex:
               INDBANKIND                      011-2193 or
               Bombay                          011-4812
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf  of  IDBI,  may  be  taken  or executed by its
Chairman and Managing Director, or by such other person or persons
as IDBI shall designate in writing,  and IDBI shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  6
                        By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                        INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK OF INDIA
                        By /s/ N. Misra
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
                     and Processing Procedures
1.   Principal  terms  and  conditions  of  IDBI  Sub-loans  shall
provide, inter alia, that:
     (a)  Sub-loans shall bear interest at a rate of 14% per annum
on the principal  amount  withdrawn  and  outstanding from time to
time or such other rate  as made applicable after regular interest
rate reviews.
     (b)  All Sub-loans shall be denominated in Rupees.
     (c)  The aggregate amount of all  Sub-loans made by IDBI to a
single  Investment  Enterprise   shall   not  exceed  $20  million
equivalent either singly or in consortium with ICICI.
     (d)  Repayment periods for Sub-loans  shall be at least three
years but shall not exceed fifteen years including therein a grace
period of not exceeding 3 years.
     (e)  Investment  Projects   shall   be   connected  with  the
establishment,  expansion  and/or   balancing,  modernization  and
replacement proposal of an Investment Enterprise.
2.   No  expenditures  for  goods  or  services  required  for  an
Investment Project shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out of the
proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank  and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than ninety days prior  to  the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Bank  has authorized with-
drawals from the  Loan  Account  and  such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule  in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan. For the  purposes  of  the Loan Agreement and this
Agreement, a  free-limit  Sub-loan  shall  be  a  Sub-loan  for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of  the  Loan  which  shall  not  exceed  the  sum  of  $6,000,000
equivalent, when added to  any  other outstanding amounts financed
or proposed to be financed out  of  the proceeds of the Loan or of
any Prior Loan, the proceeds of  which have been or are being used
for financing goods and  services  directly and materially related
to such Investment Project.
     (c)  Notwithstanding sub-paragraph (b)  above, until IDBI has
made a total of ten Sub-loans,  no Sub-loan made or proposed to be
made  by  IDBI  shall  be  deemed  to  be  a  free-limit Sub-loan,
irrespective of the amount of such Sub-loan.
Page  7
3.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) or  an  Investment  to  the  Bank  for  approval, IDBI shall
furnish to the Bank  an  application,  in form satisfactory to the
Bank,  together  with:  (i)   a   description  of  the  Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan;  (ii)  the  proposed terms and conditions of
the Sub-loan or Investment, including the schedule of amortization
of the Sub-loan or of repayment  of  the  amount of the Loan to be
used for the Investment; and  (iii)  such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by  IDBI  for  authorization  to make with-
drawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan
shall  contain:  (i)  a  summary  description  of  the  Investment
Enterprise and the Investment  Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan; and  (ii)  the  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 1991.
4.   Sub-loans shall be made  on  terms whereby IDBI shall obtain,
by written contract  with  the  Investment  Enterprise or by other
appropriate legal means, rights  adequate to protect the interests
of the Bank and IDBI, including,  in the case of any Sub-loan, the
right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  without limitation to  the  generality of the provisions
of the preceding paragraph  (a), require the Investment Enterprise
to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due regard to
applicable  ecological,   environmental   and   pollution  control
standards;
     (c)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of  the  Loan  shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) such
goods and services shall be  used  exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project;
     (d)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank  shall  so request, such goods, works, plants
and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (e)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan to  the place of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (f)  obtain all such information  as  the  Bank or IDBI shall
reasonably  request  relating   to   the   foregoing  and  to  the
administration, operations and financial  condition of the Invest-
ment Enterprise  and  to  the  benefits  to  be  derived  from the
Investment Project; and
     (g)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds  of the Loan upon failure by such
Page  8
Investment  Enterprise  to  perform   its  obligations  under  its
contract with IDBI.
                            SCHEDULE 2
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:  Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:  Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts estimated to cost  the equivalent of $8,000,000 and
$500,000 each, or less,  in  respect  of Investment Projects under
Part A (i) and equipment under Part A (ii) of the Project, respec-
tively, may be procured in accordance with the standard procedures
of IDBI for such procurement.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $8,000,000  and  $500,000  or  more  in  respect of
Investment Projects under Part  A  (i)  and equipment under Part A
(ii) of the  Project,  respectively,  the  procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant  to  paragraph  4  of  Schedule  4  to the Loan
Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding sub-paragraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a)(ii) of the Loan Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
Page  9
     In order to assist IDBI in  the implementation of Part A (ii)
of the Project,  IDBI  shall  employ  consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such  consultants  shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  the  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
