 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14766

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/23/2015

               Country: Romania
             Project ID: P100638                                                    Appraisal                Actual
         Project Name: Complementing Eu              Project Costs (US$M):                       69.8                 24.4
                         Support For
                         Agricultural
                         Restructuring Proj
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                       65.0                 23.3
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural         Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
          Cofinanciers:                                 Board Approval Date :                               11/27/2007
                                                               Closing Date:             06/30/2013         09/30/2014
          Sector(s):      General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (68%); Central government administration
                          (20%); Sub-national government administration (12%)
         Theme(s):        Rural policies and institutions (29%); Rural markets (29%); Land administration and
                          management (14%); Rural services and infrastructure (14%); Other rural development (14%)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                   Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Katharina Ferl            J. W. Van Holst         Christopher David           IEGPS1
                          Pellekaan               Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) for the “Complementing EU Support for Agricultural Restructuring Project
    (CESAR) states that the Project Development Objective (PDO) was “to facilitate market-based farm restructuring
    through enhancing the ability of farmers, farm family members, and farm workers to manage their assets and
    income” (p. 4).

    According to the Loan Agreement of December 28, 2007 (p. 4) the objective of the project was “to assist the
    Borrower to facilitate market-based farm restructuring through enhancing the ability of farmers, farm family
    members, and farm workers to manage their assets and income”.

    The objectives stated in the Loan Agreement will be used as the basis for this validation.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 03/14/2011

c. Components:

    Component 1: Land Administration [appraisal estimate € 34.01million (US$46.52 million), actual €8.50 million
    (approx. US$10.9), 25% of appraisal estimate ]: This component was to finance technical assistance to complete
    property rights determination and registration of land assets in rural areas through providing legal services for title
   registration, conducting surveys, implementing parcel delimitation, digitalizing legal and cadastral documents and
   upgrading the existing Information Technology (IT) system for registration and cadaster. Also, activities included
   institutional strengthening and capacity building within the National Agency for Cadaster and Land Registration
   (ANCPI) and the Country Offices for Cadaster and Land Registration (OCPIs). The building of regional archiving
   centers and renovating existing offices was also planned.

   Component 2: Socio-Economic Guidance Services to the Agricultural Population [appraisal estimate € 7.76
   million (US$10.5 million), actual €7.58 million (approx. US$9.7 million), 98% of appraisal estimate ]: This
   component was to finance the development and capacity building of independent socio-economic guidance
   service providers to improve the agricultural population’s access to information on agricultural production,
   household, family and social economic relations beyond the farm. Also, this component included conducting
   outreach and community information activities to beneficiaries and establishing information networks between
   socio-economic guidance service providers and other advisory service providers in the agricultural sector.

   Component 3: Policy, Strategy and Management [appraisal estimate € 4.45 million (US$6.05 million), actual
   €2.87 million (approx. US$3.7 million ), 43% of appraisal estimate ]: This component was to finance technical
   assistance to the ANCPI and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) in the area of project
   management, fiduciary, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E). Also, this component was to finance technical
   assistance to the development of an Information System for Agricultural and Forestry (SIAS) and issuing studies
   in different areas including land consolidation and rural physical planning.

   During the restructuring in March 2011 all three components were revised (see section 2d).


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Cost: The CESAR project was estimated to cost €51.36 million (US$ 69.8 million). Actual cost was
   €18.95 million (approx. US$24.4 million), 37% of appraisal estimate. The actual cost was significantly lower due
   to a cancellation of €4.3 million (approx. US$ 5.9 million) on March 14, 2011, the early closing of Component 1,
   which left € 25.3 million (approx.. US$ 36.2 million) unused.

   Financing: The project was financed by a €47.70 million (US$ 65 million) International Bank for Reconstruction
   and Development loan of which €4.3 million (approx. US$ 5.9 million) was cancelled and €25.3 million (approx..
   36.2 million) unused and subsequently cancelled.

   Borrower Contribution : The borrower was to contribute €3.70 million (approx. US$ 5.0 million). Actual
   contribution was €0.95 million (approx. US$1.2 million) due to budget constraints as a result from the global
   financial crisis in 2009.

   Dates: The project was restructured three times, but without changes in the PDO.

   1. On March 14, 2011 the following changes were made which resulted in a substantial reduction in costs:
      The target of PDO indicator 1 (“percentage increase in land transactions in project areas”) was reduced from
       20% to 15% and for PDO indicator 2 (“percentage of agriculture land registered in the National Farm registry
       in project area”) from 85% to 70% to be more realistic for the limited time remaining for project
       implementation.
      Component 1: (a) the targets for several key performance indicators under Component 1 were reduced. (i)
       The new target for systematic registration was reduced from 1.27 million hectares to 0.7 million hectares of
       rural land in 15 judets (jurisdiction or county with a capital town of which there are 41 in Romania) ; (ii) the
       completion of systematic registration was delayed from year two to year four/five of project implementation;
       (iii) due to higher costs for systematic registration, the total amount of funds allocated for systematic
       registration would be used; (b) several planned activities that were not regarded as essential for the
       completion of the systematic land registration were cancelled such as the upgrading and implementation of
       the existing Information Technology (IT) system for registration and cadaster, building of regional archiving
       centers, and renovating existing offices.
      Component 2: (a) all targets under component 2 were rescheduled and substantially reduced to reflect the
       delays in the project implementation and the reduction of the scope of the socio-economic guidance
       activities; (i) the percentage of the agricultural population with access to trained socio-economic guidance
       providers in project areas was reduced from 75% to 65%; (ii) the number of guidance services offices by
       region/county was decreased from 20 to 15; (iii) the number of bidders per contract was decreased from four
       to three; (d) the number of trained and graduated (certified) advisers was decreased from 250 to 80; (iv) the
       number of individuals assisted in project areas decreased from 15,000 to 9,000; and (v) the number of
       individual guidance plans elaborated by advisors with beneficiaries in project areas was decreased from
         10,000 to 4,500; (b) the scope of the initially planned socio-economic guidance activities under component 2
         was reduced; (c) financial support for scaling up the Integrated Agricultural Offices (IAO) was introduced; (d)
         €1.04 million (approx. US$1.4 million) was reallocated to Component 3 to support the institutional reform
         agenda of MARD.
        Component 3: (a) €1.9 million (approx. US$2.6 million) was reallocated to Component 1 for systematic
         registration activities; (b) all other funds were re-designated towards addressing issues which were identified
         during a review of MARD.
        Adaptations to Safeguards policies were made since civil work activities were cancelled under this
         restructuring and OP 4.01 (environment) was no longer triggered. Also, after discussion with the Regional
         Safeguards Coordinator, it was agreed that OP 4.36 (Forests) should no longer be triggered.
        €4.3 million (approx. US$5.9 million) of the IBRD Loan was cancelled.

   2. On June 26, 2013 the closing date for components 2 and 3 was extended from June 30, 2013 to June 30, 2014
   due to uneven implementation progress. Due to the lack of funding from the government for component 1 and
   therefore the likelihood of not achieving its objectives, the closing date for component 1 was not extended and
   €25.3 million (approx. US$ 36.2 million) was unused. This amount was then cancelled on November 19, 2013.

   3. On May 26, 2014, the closing date for components 2 and 3 was extended from June 30, 2014 to September
   30, 2014 in order to allow the review and submission for approval of final deliverables under all consultant
   contracts by the implementing agency to MARD.

   Given that close to 100% of the project's disbursements occurred after the first restructuring when major changes
   were made, IEG decided that a "split" evaluation of the project's outcome is not warranted.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Substantial: The PDO was substantially relevant because, following Romania’s access to EU membership,
   farmers could only benefit from the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) if their farm size was above 1 hectare (see
   PAD, footnote 2, page 2). At appraisal average farm size of the 50 target communes for this project was close to
   0.7 hectare which was typical of the vast majority of holdings in Romania agriculture and the main factor limiting
   rural development. A market-based restructuring of Romania’s small scale farming sector leading to an increase
   in average farm size was therefore needed. However, land sales to facilitate restructuring could only occur if
   farm titles were registered. Hence improving institutions responsible for facilitating land registration was
   necessary to achieve restructuring of small-scale farming, although facilitation was not defined in either the PAD
   or the legal agreement. In parallel to the increased registration of land the project was also aimed at assisting
   farmers to “manage their assets and incomes” to facilitate market-based farm restructuring.

   According to the PAD (paras 12 and 13 ) the PDO was in line with Romania’s draft post-accession strategy (2007
   -2013), the overall National General Cadaster Program, and the National Strategic Plan for Rural Development
   (2007-2013). The project was also in line with the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (2007-2009) at the time of
   appraisal, which aimed “to shift agricultural policy towards completing the land reform process by securing land
   tenure, and promoting efficiency and competitiveness” (PAD, para 8). The Bank’s current Country Partnership
   Strategy (2014-2017) identified that at appraisal less than 50% of real estate rights were registered in cadaster
   records and only 15% of real estate documents were verified and recorded in the digital eTerra system (Country
   Partnership Strategy, p. 54). Therefore, one of the pillars of the Bank’s current Country Partnership Strategy
   focuses on increasing growth and competitiveness by improving the efficiency of agriculture underlining the
   continued relevance of the PDO .

b. Relevance of Design:

   Modest: The causal relationships between activities in the project's components and the PDO were logically
   explained in the PAD, but the results chain was not well reflected in the results matrix in the PAD (p.31). Project
   components designed to strengthen the National Agency for Cadastre and Land Registration (ANCPI), the
   County Offices for Cadaster and Land Registration (OCPIs), socio-economic guidance services to the agricultural
   population (including capacity building for the providers of these services), as well as the provision of outreach
   and community information activities, and the establishment of informational networks between these providers
   and other providers of advisory services in the sector were well defined and relevant to the PDO. Specific
   activities to improve land administration including parcel delimitation, surveys, legal services for title registration,
   digital conversion of legal and cadastral documents and maps, upgrading of the IT systems for OCPIs, and
   building regional offices defined in the PAD were also relevant to the PDO. However, some of these activities
   such as the upgrading of the IT system, building of regional archiving centers and renovating existing offices
   were cancelled during the project restructuring in March 2011 as they were regarded by the Government as not
   essential (Restructuring paper March 2011, p.6). These cancellations seriously undermined the extent to which
   the project’s objectives could be achieved.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The project’s objective was to ”assist the Borrower to facilitate market-based farm restructuring through
   enhancing the ability of farmers, farm family members, and farm workers to manage their assets and income”.

   For the purpose of assessing the project’s achievements, two sub-objectives were defined, namely (a) to assist
   the Borrower to facilitate market-based farm restructuring; and (b) enhancing the ability of farmers, farm family
   members, and farm workers to manage their assets and income.

   (a) To assist the Borrower to facilitate market -based farm restructuring - Substantial

   Outputs:

        By June 2013, 67.2% of communes in the project counties digitized land books, and 71.2% of communes
         digitalized land books by September 2014, not achieving the original target of 100%.
        10 integrated agriculture offices were established and equipped, surpassing the target of four offices.
        75% of landowners, where land surveys were completed, participated in consultations, surpassing the
         original target of at least 50%.
        Registration costs as percentage of property values in project areas decreased from 0.4% in 2008 to 0.15%
         in 2014
        The average time needed to complete the registration of transactions/transfers in the project area decreased
         from 21 days in 2008 to 16.8 days in June 2013 and 16.3 days in September 2014, not achieving the target
         of 15 days.
        While it took on average two days in 2008 to produce a certified copy of a title, it took approximately 1.7 days
         in 2014, surpassing the target of two days. The target for this indicator was achieved.
        By June 2013, 57,049 hectares of rural land in the project area was registered in the land book (when
         component 1 was closed) and 177,795 hectares by September 2014 (when the project closed), which did
         not achieve the original target of 1.27 million hectares nor the revised target of 700,000 hectares.
        73% of land in the project area was registered in the National Farm Registry when the project closed,
         surpassing the revised target of 70%. The original target was 85%.

   Outcomes:

        Land transactions in project areas increased by 49.2% between 2008 and June 2013 (when component 1
         was closed) and by 52.5% between 2008 and September 2014 (when the project closed), both surpassing
         the original target of 20% and the revised target of 15% (ICR, Data Sheet, PDO 1, page vii). It was also a
         substantial improvement on land transactions in the three years before systematic registration of land (ICR,
         page 12).

   (b) Enhancing the ability of farmers , farm family members , and farm workers to manage their assets and
   income - Substantial.

   Outputs:

        More than 75% of rural households in the project area were informed about socio-economic guidance
         services surpassing the revised target of 75%, the original target was 90%.
        22 guidance service offices were established in 16 different project counties, surpassing the revised target of
         15 offices. The original target was 30.
        A handbook for socio-economic guidance based on best practices by the European Union was developed,
         achieving the target.
        275 advisors were trained, surpassing the revised target of 80 advisors. The original target was 300
         advisers.
        25,600 individuals in the project area were assisted with socio-economic guidance services, surpassing the
         original target which was reduced from 25,000 individuals to 9,000.
        13,000 individual guidance plans were developed by counselors with beneficiaries from the project area,
         surpassing the revised target of 4,500 plans. The original target was 25,000.
        98.8% of the eligible agriculture population in project areas had access to support programs, surpassing the
         original target of 75% and the revised target of 60%.
        In 2011 and 2012 some 634 people from the ANCPI, County Offices for Cadaster Registration,
         municipalities and the private sector were trained in different areas including social communication and
         mediation.

    Outcome:

        82% of the agriculture population in the project area evaluated socio-economic guidance providers as useful,
         surpassing the original target of 70% (ICR, Data Sheet, PDO 3, page vii).

5. Efficiency:

    Negligible: The economic analysis of CESAR in the PAD (para 68) assumed that the project will contribute to a
    more effective use and increased absorption of the European Union Common Agriculture Policy (CAP) funds and
    national funds for agriculture. The PAD noted that the analysis assumed that the project’s benefits would result
    from its positive impact on (a) increased property values, (b) improved environment, and (c) reduced land
    transaction costs. Estimating the magnitude of the project's impact on property values and environment is a
    complex undertaking that depends on numerous non project related factors. In similar Bank operations in the
    region no attempt was made to estimate them at project start-up (para 70). The PAD estimated that large scale
    cadaster operations financed by CESAR and implemented by ANCPI would cost $15 per ha compared with $144
    per ha charged by private cadaster services. Hence there was a minimum saving of $129 per ha which for the
    1.07 million ha covered by the project area generated a minimum saving (benefit) by the project of $138 million.
    The PAD also estimated that the internal rates of return for these cost savings (including an estimated $17 million
    for the implementation of cadaster services) were 13% and 21% for 30 and 20 year time horizons (Annex 9, para
    7).

    The PAD also estimated financial benefits to farmers based on an analysis of four CAP farm support programs
    and their revenues resulting from the project's socio-economic guidance and land property registration. The
    estimated financial benefits came to approximately US$167.2 million compared with investment and interest
    costs were estimated at US$78.8 million. On this basis the financial internal rate of return was calculated to be
    68% (PAD, Annex 9, para 14).

    The ICR (p. 37) estimated the economic internal rate of return on the cadaster and registration activities as 7%
    over a 30 year horizon and 10% over a 20 year horizon. In addition, the ICR also estimated a net present value
    of cadaster cost savings of €209,295 (approximately US$290,920) over a 30 year time period and €179,105
    (approximately US$248,955) over a 20 year time period, assuming a very low discount rate of 8%. Contrary to
    assertions in the ICR (page 34), only one of these results was reflected in Table 1 of Annex 3 in the ICR. The
    ICR also estimated that, based on the additional revenues from CAP programs "The financial return on the
    investment is highly negative, with losses in all years through to year 20. The NPV at an 8% discount rate is
    estimated to be EUR -7.0 million over a 20 year horizon" (p. 36).

    Other measures of the project's efficiency include land registrations and the time taken to transact the
    registrations. The ICR concluded that extravillan rural land registered increased, mainly sporadically, from
    470,366 hectares in January 2010 to 2,551,033 hectares in mid-2013 (a 442% increase). This compared with the
    change in the six finalized project communes from 2,105 hectares in 2010 to 21,673 hectares in 2013 (a 929%
    increase) which was a substantially larger percentage increase than for Romania as a whole (ICR, page 35). As
    already noted in Section 4 of this Review, the ICR stated that the average time required for registering a land
    transaction was reduced from 21 days in 2008 to 16.3 days in 2014 but this fell short of the target of 15 days,
    although the ICR suggests that the difference is not statistically significant (page 14).

    The rates of return estimated in the ICR are not only considerably below those estimated in the PAD, they are
    also either very low or negative. While the number of land transaction registrations in the project area increased
    at a much higher rate than in non-project areas, the average time required to complete the registration of
    transactions during project implementation declined by only 22 percent (see Section 4 of this Review). There is
    no evidence in the ICR that suggests even modest overall efficiency of the project's implementation. Efficiency
    is therefore rated negligible.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                    Point Value                 Coverage/Scope*
   Appraisal                       Yes                                      68%                                     66%

   ICR estimate                    Yes                                       7%                                     45%
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

   Close to 100% of the project's disbursements occurred after restructuring. A "split" evaluation of the project's
   outcome was therefore not warranted. The relevance of the project's objective was rated substantial, but the
   relevance of design was rated modest. The project generally met its original and revised PDO indicators and on
   this basis the efficacy with which the market-based restructuring and the socio-economic guidance were
   achieved was rated substantial. On the other hand, there were significant shortcomings in the efficiency with
   which the project was implemented reflected by the very low estimates in the ICR of the economic internal rate of
   return for the cadaster and registration activities and only a 22 percent reduction in the time required to complete
   the registration of land transfer transactions. Efficiency was therefore rated negligible. Overall, the
   achievement had significant shortcomings and the project's outcome was therefore rated moderately
   unsatisfactory.
a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The capacity building of the ANCPI was undermined by the cancellation of the upgrading of the existing IT
   system for registration and cadaster, building of regional archiving centers and renovation of existing offices.
   However, the ICR noted that ANCPI has subsequently become a stronger institution with a clear vision (p. 17). It
   is developing a comprehensive plan for the systematic registration of contracts, which will be financed by a
   potential €250 million EU Structural Fund. In addition, this support will be followed by a Bank project (“Real-
   Estate-Basis for National and EU Policies”), which is intended to strengthen the ANCPI's capacity to improve its
   policy, regulatory and institutional framework. On the other hand activities under the socio-economic guidance
   services component will not be continued by MARD since its agriculture development strategy under the NRDP
   2014 to 2020 will focus on a smaller group of approximately 130,000 commercial small-holder and large scale
   farms. On balance, assuming that market-based restructuring will receive renewed support, risk to development
   outcome is rated moderate.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   This project continued its support for improvements in land administration (General Cadastre Project which
   closed mid-2006. CESAR was designed to complement Romania’s draft post-accession strategy for 2007 to
   2013, the overall National General Cadaster Program, and the National Strategic Plan for Rural Development
   for 2007 to 2013. During appraisal the Bank conducted a review of institutional, legal and administrative
   frameworks and took experience from other countries into account.

   The Bank identified relevant risk factors during preparation, such as the government not providing sufficient
   funds for project implementation. The Bank tried to mitigate this risk by including in the loan a covenant that
   the government will ensure its yearly contributions throughout project implementation. However, the Bank’s
   mitigation effort was not sufficient and activities under components 1 and 3 had to be reduced during the
   project restructuring in March 2011. Also, component 1 had to be closed in June 2013 due to the lack of
   government funding. According to the ICR (p.7) the Bank did not identify the risk of technical shortcomings in
   law no. 7/1996 (cadaster and land registration), which aimed to minimize the risk of land title disputes going to
   court. This led to delays in project implementation. Also, even though the Bank was aware of difficulties
   between the ANCPI and MARD in the past, as stated in the PAD (p.12), the project design did not provide for
   mitigation measures.

   According to the ICR (p.20) the Bank team did not recognize that MARD was not interested in the
   implementation of Component 2 due to the component’s lack of compatibility with MARD’s vision for the
   delivery of agricultural advisory services.

   The Results Framework had several weaknesses (see section 10a).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   According to the ICR (p.19) the Bank team included specialists from different areas. The Bank team
   developed annual procurement plans which were used to track developments. According to the ICR (p.20)
   the Bank supervised financing, disbursement, safeguards and fiduciary aspects well. Also, the Bank worked
   with the government and the ANCPI on building an effective administrative system for land registration and
   shared best practices.

   The Bank team did not provide the MARD with the necessary information to completely understand the
   purpose of the socio-economic guidance providers’ process and how to align it with the MARD’s vision of a
   chambers of agriculture, which led to its discontinuation (ICR, p.20).

   The Bank revised the Results Framework in the March 2011 Project Paper and advised the implementing
   agencies to make additional modifications in April 2013 to ensure that indicators reflected progress towards
   PDOs, but a formal revision was not undertaken by the implementing agencies (ICR, p.10).



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The project experienced implementation delays due to the Government’s administrative difficulties related to
   a public debt ordinance and late approval of the draft law on ratification of the loan agreement at the
   beginning of the project. Due to these delays the land registration and socio-economic guidance could not be
   aligned with the introduction of the European Union's common agriculture policy payments, as originally
   planned. Also, the government experienced a high turnover of staff and ministerial leadership within ANCPI
   and MARD.

   The ICR states that during implementation the Ministry of Public Finance, the Ministry of Administration and
   Interior, the Ministry of Rural Development and Tourism, the General Secretary of the Government, and the
   Ministry of Regional Development and Public Administration were "disengaged from project activities and
   insufficiently aware of their economic and financial importance" (p. 18).

   In March 2011, the project had to be restructured due to delays in the implementation and withdrawal of
   national budgetary funds. In June 2013, the project had to be restructured again due to the government’s
   failure to comply with the Bank’s request for a formal commitment and proof of further financing. Lack of
   budget in the ANCPI had already led to a decrease in rolling out the second round of administrative territorial
   units for systematic registration from 72 additional units to 31 units. According to the ICR (p. 4), the
   government showed a "lack of commitment to provide adequate financing for Component 1 (Land
   Administration)" but expressed a strong interest in the continuation of the implementation of Components 2 (
   Socio-Economic Guidance Services to the Agricultural Population) and Component 3 (Policy, Strategy and
   Management)". The government eventually decided to not release the necessary budget to complete the
   systematic registration process for contracts. Component 1 was therefore closed on June 30, 2013, while
   implementation of Components 2 and 3 continued.


  Government Performance Rating                              Unsatisfactory
b. Implementing Agency Performance:

Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD) and component 3 was implemented by both agencies.

    ANCPI: Moderately Satisfactory

    According to the ICR (p. 20) ANCPI was strongly committed to the implementation of component 1 despite
    challenges in regards to governance, employment conditions, policy failures, and budget limitations. ANCPI
    experienced three changes in governance structure throughout the implementation period. ANCPI
    successfully implemented a legal framework supporting land registration and a process for the national
    systematic registration of agriculture land. Also, capacity within the ANCPI was built, and the institution’s
    vision became clearer through the implementation of this project. However, most targets under component 1
    were not achieved due to reasons beyond ANCPI’s influence.

    MARD: Moderately Unsatisfactory

    MARD experienced a high turn over in leadership and had six different ministers throughout the
    implementation period.

    According to the ICR (p. 21) MARD was committed to the implementation of activities under Component 3,
    which supported the development of integrated agriculture offices and the preparation of the National Rural
    Development Plan. However, MARD decided not to incorporate the approach for socio-economic guidance
    into the National Rural Development Plan for 2014 to 2020.

    In April 2013 the Bank developed a methodological guidance on all indicators included in the Results
    Framework, however, both implementing agencies did not make any changes to their M&E implementation.
    Also, there was little coordination between the two implementing agencies and lessons learned were not
    shared between them.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

    The M&E system was based on a previous Bank project’s M&E system within ANCPI. MARD developed an M&E
    system and incorporated data from socio-economic guidance providers. The proposed data collection methods
    and analysis were appropriate for this project. The M&E design included three surveys, a baseline, a mid-term,
    and an end-of-project survey.

    Both implementing agencies were responsible for monitoring and evaluation activities. MARD was responsible for
    consolidating the results into progress reports on a biannual basis and into evaluation reports on a yearly basis to
    be submitted to the Bank and the project steering committee.

    The objective to “facilitate” farm restructuring was rather vague and weakly defined in the PDO and Intermediate
    Outcome Indicators (IOIs). The Results Framework in the PAD (p. 31) included three PDO indicators and 22
    IOIs. M&E design had several shortcomings including the (a) the three PDO indicators and many of the IOIs
    were weakly linked to the PDO; and (b) the Results Framework included a large number of IOIs that were to be
    tracked on a regular basis. While most indicators were measurable in quantitative terms, most of them measured
    the achievement of outputs rather than outcomes.

b. M&E Implementation:

    As already stated in section 2d, during the restructuring in March 2011, the target values for two PDO indicators
    and several intermediate outcome indicators were reduced to be more realistic for the limited time remaining for
    project implementation.
    According to the ICR (p.9) the proposed baseline, mid-term and end-of-project surveys were not included in the
    project budget and therefore only partially implemented. A social survey was conducted in 2008 during project
    preparation to provide a baseline. The follow up survey, which was supposed to take place in 2013, was not
    conducted due to a shortage of funds for Component 1. Also, according to the ICR (p.10) three IOIs were not
    monitored due to the lack of budget to fund additional surveys. The ICR does not specify which IOIs were
    affected. Also, four IOIs, namely IOI 14 (“guarantee fund established”), IOI 15 (“ANCPI legal charter reviewed”),
    IOI 16 (“ANCPI long-term strategic plan and first business plan developed”), and IOI 17 (“land consolidation
    policy note discussed in the steering committee”) were not tracked since related project activities were not
    implemented.

    According to the ICR (p. 10) the required progress reports were prepared on a quarterly basis and were of good
    quality.

c. M&E Utilization:

    According to the ICR (p. 10) M&E data allowed for tracking of progress towards the PDOs and informed
    decision-making. However, the ICR provided no examples.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The project was rated as environmental category B under OP 4.01 (environment) due to building renovation and
    construction and OP 4.36 (forest) due to positive social and economic benefits of the project on forests. An
    Environmental Management Plan was prepared and disclosed during project preparation.

    During the restructuring in March 2011 the civil work activities under component 1 were canceled, therefore OP
    4.01 was no longer triggered. It was also decided that OP 4.36 should no longer be triggered since the impact of
    the project on forests was mainly indirect. Therefore, a revised Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet was developed
    and disclosed on February 24, 2011.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial Management

    The ICR (p. 20) states that the Bank supervised fiduciary aspects such as project financing and disbursement
    well. Staff for financial management was hired for ANCPI’s project management unit at the beginning of the
    project and staff attended a Bank course to learn about the procedures required by the Bank.

    The ICR does not comment on the adequacy of the project’s institutional financial management arrangements,
    reporting and accounting provisions, internal control procedures, planning and budgeting, flow of funds
    arrangements and external audit reporting.

    Procurement

    The ICR (p.20) states that procurement challenges were quickly addressed by the Bank. Also, annual
    procurement plans were developed to track developments. Procurement staff was hired at the beginning of the
    project and attended a Bank course to learn about procurement procedures required by the Bank.

    The ICR does not comment on the extent to which Bank procurement guidelines were followed, and if there were
    any significant implementation delays due to procurement challenges.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None

d. Other:
None
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                       Outcome: Moderately                  Moderately
                                Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
            Risk to Development Moderate                    Moderate
                       Outcome:

             Bank Performance: Moderately                   Moderately         Quality at entry was rated Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory     Unsatisfactory on the basis of
                                                                               inadequate assessment of project risks,
                                                                               and the lack of recognition that
                                                                               activities in component 2 were not in
                                                                               line with the long-term objectives of
                                                                               MARD.
          Borrower Performance : Moderately                 Moderately
                                 Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory
                 Quality of ICR:                            Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR (p. 23) identifies several lessons, but some were not based on material in the ICR:

     1.    Memoranda of Understanding are necessary to ensure effective collaboration among institutions . In this
           project, there was little coordination between ANCPI and MARD and lessons learned by one implementing
           agency, which could have been useful for the other implementing agency as well, were not shared
           between them.
     2.    During project design , the government’s policies should be carefully evaluated to ensure that the project
           objectives complement /support those policies . In this case, the implementation of the socio-economic
           guidance services were negatively impacted since MARD was not provided with the necessary
           information to understand how these services could be aligned with MARD’s vision of a chambers of
           agriculture.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

   The ICR provides a good overview of project implementation. However, it had several shortcomings: (i) the ICR
   rates the outcomes of the project against components rather than objectives; (ii) the ICR should have provided
   more information on critical areas such as M&E design and utilization, financial management and procurement,
   and how challenges in procurement were addressed by the Bank and the implementing agencies; (iii) some
   lessons learned were not based on material in the ICR. The ICR is nevertheless rated satisfactory but only
   marginally so.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
