Document of
The World Bank                         C: 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/129&-MR C-
Report No. P-3204-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$11.5 MILLION
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR THE
TSIMIRORO HEAVY OIL EXPLORATION PROJECT
October 20, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performuace of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
December 1981                  June 1982
Unit             =   Malagasy Franc (FMG)   =   Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00          =   FMG 278                  =   FMG 375
FMG 1,000        =   US$3.59                  -   US$2.67
FMG 1,000,000   =   US$3,590                  =   US$2,670
(The cost estimates are based on US$1  =  FMG 375)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
GWh       =  Gigawatt hour
kWh       =  kilowatt hour
MW        =  Megawatt
RD        =  Barrels per day
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
OMNIS         -    Office Militaire National pour les Industries Strategiques
EIB            -    European Investment Bank
GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGASCAR
TSIMIRORO HEAVY OIL EXPLORATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiary:           Office Militaire National pour les Industries
Strategiques (OMNIS)
t       Amount:                 SDR 10.7 million (US$11.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Onlending Terms:       The Government would make the proceeds of the credit
available to OMNIS as a grant.
Project
Description:         (i)  Objective:  The project would support the
Government's efforts to evaluate the country's
hydrocarbon potential with the objective of
realizing domestic oil production in the future.
(ii)  Main Project Components:
(a) exploration of the Tsimiroro heavy oil deposit
through a 10-well exploratory drilling program
to determine the characteristics of the
deposit;
(b) engineering study of a pilot plant at
Tsimiroro for testing production of the heavy
oil under enhanced recovery techniques, such
as steam flooding (40 man-months of consultant
services);
(c) feasibility study of upgrading the heavy oil
recovered from Tsimiroro, including selection
of an appropriate upgrading process (13 man-
months of consultant services);
(d) training abroad of about 12 professionals for
about six months each.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uscd by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iii)     Benefits:  The project would establish whether the
characteristics of the Tsimiroro deposit
warrant the installation of pilot facilities
to test production under enhanced recovery
techniques, a necessary stage before
determining the commercial viability of the
deposit. If such facilities are justified,
the engineering and upgrading studies would
provide the basis for planning the pilot
stage. The training component would help
OMNIS to improve further its competence in
petroleum activities.
(iv)      Risks:  There is a risk that the results of
the exploratory drilling for the Tsimiroro
heavy oil would show that further work toward
development of the deposit is not warranted.
Given that this project is only the first step
towards the potential development of the
deposit, this must be considered a high risk
project. However, in view of Madagascar's
present dependence on oil and the existing
information on these deposits, the risks are
acceptable.
Foreign     Local      Total
…---   (US$ million)
Estimated Project Costs:
(A) Tsimiroro Heavy Oil Component
Drill    Contract
D                 , Construction
and Support Equipment                     5.0          .2        5.2
Materials and Supplies                        .6         .7        1.3
Shipping                                    2.2          .1        2.3
Management                                   L. 5        .1        1.6
Totai DriLIing contract                     9.3         1.1
Supervision                                  .4          -          ,4
Laboratory Analysis                          .5          -          .5
Sub-total                             10.2         1.1      11.3



- iii -
Foreign       Local      Total
-------(US$ million)--------
(B) Studies
Engineering for Tsimiroro
Pilot Operation                              1.0          -           1.0
Feasibility Study of Heavy
Oil Upgrading                                 .2          -            .2
Sub-total                                1.2          _           1.2
(C) Training                                              .3           -           .3
Base Cost                                               11.7         1.1        12.8
Physical Contingencies                                   3.4           .3         3.7
Price Contingencies                                      1.4           .1         1.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                16.5          1.5        18.0
Financing Plan
Government                                      -           1.5         1.5
IDA                                           11.5           -         11.5
OPEC Fund                                      5.0           -          5.0
TOTAL                                     16.5          1.5        18.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY       1983       1984   1985        1986
…___------ …(US$ '0000)
Annuai                                  3,000      6,000  2,000          500
Cumulative                              3,000      9,000  11,000      11,500
Rate of Return:          N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               N.A.
Maps:                     IBRD 14787R
IBRD 16323
IBRD 16324






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A TSIMIRORO HEAVY OIL EXPLORATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar of SDR 10.7 million
(US$12.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a project for
the exploration of the Tsimiroro heavy oil accumulation. The proceeds of the
credit would be passed on by the Government to the Office Militaire National
pour les Industries Strategiques (OMNIS) as a grant. The project would be
jointly financed with a US$5 million loan from the OPEC Fund for International
Development on concessionary terms still to be determined.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report entitled "Madagascar - Economic Memorandum" dated November 3,
1981 has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An economic mission
visited Madagascar in March/April 1982 and an updating Economic Memorandum (MAG
82-5) was issued on June 4, 1982. Country data sheets are provided in Annex I
to this report.
3.       Madagascar, with a population of 8.7 million and a per capita GNP of
about US$330 in 1980, is among the poorest countries in the world. It is a
sparsely populated country (about 14 persons per square kilometer) with less
than 20 percent of the population living in urban areas. Although generally
well endowed with natural resources and a variety of soils, there are consider-
able regional variations in ecology and climate. The central plateau, the most
economically advanced region, has a subtropical to temperate climate, the south
is the poorest region with an arid climate and infertile soils, the eastern
region has a tropical climate and although rich agriculturally, crops are
frequently devastated by cyclones. Agriculture accounts for about 35 percent of
GDP; about 85 percent of the national labor force is engaged in agricultural
activity, and agricultural products account for about 80 percent of the
country's export earnings.
4.       Madagascar's development over the past decade has been disappointing.
With a population growth around 2.8 percent per annum, real per capita GDP has
decreased by about 1.5 percent per annum; in 1980 per capita real income was
probably about 20 percent below its 1970 level. Even with sluggish and erratic
development, Madagascar's policies until 1978 had been characterized by cautious



- 2 -
and conservative public finance and balance of payTnents management.  In 1979 and
1980 Government undertook a very large program of public investment with a
marked shift to dependence on external sources for its financing. Investment
outlays (in volume terms) increased by about 13 percent per annum between 1978
and 1980 and the share of investment in GDP which had been around 14 percent
since the early 1970s rose to around 21 percent in 1979 and 1980. The increased
investment thrust and its attendant import needs coincided with almost stagnant
export earnings and a deterioration in terms of trade, so that Madagascar's
balance of payments position deteriorated very sharply in 1979 and 1980.
General Government and state enterprises accounted for virtually all of the
increased investment expenditures so that the budget expenditures and the
overall budget deficits increased dramatically in 1979 and 1980.
5.       Overall output growth has continued to be very erratic over recent
years. Real GDP increased by about 10 percent in 1979, increased by less than 1
percent in 1980 and decreased by about 9 per cent in 1981. The short-lived
spurt of growth in 1979 was due to increased activities associated with the
investment boom and to improved weather conditions benefiting agricultural
production but already in 1980 agricultural and manufacturing production were
adversely affected by inadequate supplies of necessary inputs and raw materials
which became much more acute in 1981.
6.       Agricultural output grew on average by about 1 percent between 1977 and
1980, thus continuing the very sluggish development which has characterized
Madagascar's agriculture since the early 1970s. Output in 1978 was seriously
affected by the prolonged drought conditions which had prevailed since 1976 and
declined by about 6.5 percent. With improved weather conditions in 1979 output
increased by about 7 percent but in 1980 is estimated to have grown by only
about 2.5 percent and preliminary indications are that output in 1981 declined
by about 1.5 percent. Production of rice, the principal staple food, has
virtually stagnated over recent years; estimated production in 1981 was about 7
percent below its 1977 level. Domestic production has failed to keep pace with
domestic needs, especially to satisfy the growing urban population, and imports
of rice have grown rapidly from about 60,000 tons in 1975 to about 200,000 tons
in 1981. Production of coffee, Madagascar's major export commodity, which had
risen steadily during the first half of the 1970s, declined sharply in 1976 and
1977, mainly due to unfavorable weather, and then increased moderately from 1978
to 1980. Production in 1980, about 80,000 tons, was still somewhat below its
mid-1970s level. Production of cloves, Madagascar's second most important
foreign exchange earner, is subject to a four to five year production cycle; the
peak production reached in 1980 was still significantly below the poor level of
1974. Vanilla production dropped sharply between 1978 and 1980 due to the
combined effects of poor maintenance, unfavorable weather and competitition from
synthetic substitutes. Production picked up in 1981 but was still about 35
percent below the 1978 level.
7.       Growth of manufacturing output has continued to be slow and erratic;
real value added in the sector increased by about 13 percent in 1979, decreased
by about 3 percent in 1980 and decreased by about 25 per cent in 1981. Food
processing (including beverages) and textile production are the dominant



- 3 -
activities, accounting respectively for about 35 percent and 21 percent of the
sector's value added. Output of food and beverage industries grew on average by
about 2 percent per annum over the 1977-80 period. Textile production, which
increased by about 9 percent in 1979, decreased by about 5 percent in 1980, in
which year production was affected by reduced raw material supplies and by
machinery maintenance problems. The only industries which have shown a regular
growth of output over recent years were cement, tobacco, leather goods (mainly
shoes) and paper products. The combined share of these industries in total
manufacturing value added in 1979 was just over 15 percent. The manufacturing
sector has been generally operating at a low level of capacity utilisation over
recent years. With increasing scarcities of imported raw materials and spare
parts in 1980 and 1981, the dislocations to production have become increasingly
severe.
8.       Madagascar's fiscal situation has deteriorated dramatically since 1978,
due to sharply rising current expenditures and increased Government spending on
capital investment. The current budget surplus, which used to be substantial,
turned to a deficit as revenues failed to keep pace with the growth of expendi-
tures. Furthermore, as Government intensified its efforts to raise investment
levels and stimulate the economy, public investment expenditure rose from 16
billion FMG in 1977 to 93 billion FMG ($440 million) in 1980. Outlays on the
consumer subsidy for rice increased from about 4 billion FMG in 1975 to nearly
12 billion FMG ($57 million) in 1980. The overall Treasury deficit increased
from about 4 percent of GDP in 1978 to over 18 percent in 1980. While borrowing
from external sources was greatly expanded in both 1979 and 1980, the budget
deficits were financed primarily by borrowing from the Central Bank, which
provided about two thirds of the financing of the 1980 deficit. Preliminary
estimates for 1981 indicate that government expenditures (current and capital)
were substantially cut back and that the overall deficit in 1981 was equivalent
to about 15 per cent of GDP.
9.       Monetary and credit developments over recent years largely reflect the
Government's deficit financing needs. Domestic credit increased from about 126
billion FMG ($536 million) at end of 1977 to about 340 billion FMG ($1,510
million) at end 1980. Most of this expansion was accounted for by Government
borrowing from the Central Bank, whose share of domestic credit rose from about
23 percent in 1977 to about 53 percent in 1980. Despite a significant reduction
in net foreign assets, money supply grew by over 20 percent per annum during the
1977-1980 period. Available price information for Madagascar is fragmentary.
There is a wide-ranging system of controlled prices which appears to have become
inoperative with most goods selling at prices well above control levels. A
price index for low income families shows an acceleration of price increases to
about 18 percent in 1980 and over 30 percent in 1981 compared to about 14
percent in 1979 and an annual average increase of about 4.5 percent from 1975 to
1978.
10.      Madagascar's balance of payments position deteriorated dramatically
over the 1977-80 period. The current account deficit, which had averaged around
FMG 8 billion ($33 million) from 1975 to 1977, rapidly increased to about FMG



130 billion ($613 million) in 1980, i.e., from less than 2 percent of GDP to
over 18 percent of GDP. From 1977 to 1980 the import bill virtually doubled
while export earnings increased by only around 3 percent. The overall balance
which had been in surplus by about FMG 3 billion in 1977 was in deficit by about
FMG 59 billion in 1980. Transactions with the real: of the world have been
financed by a total exhaustion of reserves, an unprecedented increase in foreign
borrowing and by incurring substantial arrears on external payments obligat-
ions. The increased import bill has been the most striking feature of recent
balance of payments developments. Average import prices increased substantially
(over 40 percent) during the 1977-80 period and import volume showed approxima-
tely the same proportionate increase. While nearly all categories of imports
increased, imports of capital goods grew at a partLcularly rapid rate and
accounted for approximately half of the increase in the import bill between 1977
and 1980. The very modest growth in export earnings between 1977 and 1980
reflected continued inertia in export volume and fairly stationary world prices
for Madagascar's principal exports. Export growth continued to be sluggish in
1981 but a significant cut back in imports reduced the current account deficit
to the equivalent of about 13 per cent of GDP.
11.      The development of the Malagasy economy has been constrained over many
years by a number of basic weaknesses, e.g. low productivity in agriculture,
slow growth in major primary exports and inadequate domestic savings. The sharp
deterioration in Madagascar's economic and financial situation in 1979 and 1980
reflects these continuing problems. The significant shifts in government policy
through a greater openness to external finance and, also in pushing vigorously
for a higher level of investment have been accompanied by continued sluggish
export performance and deterioration in the terms of trade. The import bill has
been swollen not only by imports of capital goods but also by a growing import
of consumer goods, especially rice, for which domestic production and distribu-
tion weaknesses are a serious problem. The country is well endowed with natural
resources and the administrative cadres are relatively well trained. A more
effective use of these resources will depend, however, on a lasting correction
of the serious imbalances which exist on both balance of payments and government
budget accounts.
12.      In June 1980 the Government concluded a stand-by agreement with the IMF
which aimed to restore balance of payments and budgetary equilibrium. Some of
the individual policy measures in this program were implemented, e.g. measures
to increase government revenues, but efforts to limit government expenditures
were not successful and the program was suspended. A new stand-by agreement was
concluded in April 1981. This provided SDR 109 million (US$130 million) to be
drawn up to end June 1982. The stand-by agreement placed limits on public
expenditure, government borrowing from the Central Bank and new external borrow-
ing, and entailed a reduction in external payments arrears. Implementation of
the stand-by proceeded successfully up to July 1981, but unanticipated short-
falls in export earnings, due in large measure to weak world coffee prices and a
smaller than anticipated inflow of new capital from international commercial
banks, made it impossible for Madagascar to adhere to the stand-by performance
conditions in the following months. A further Stand-by Agreement was approved



- 5 -
by the IMF Board in July 1982. The agreement covers the period to mid 1983 and
makes available SDR 51 million under the Stand-by together with SDR 22 million
under the compensatory financing facility. In addition to placing limits on
public expenditure, government borrowing from the Central Bank and new external
borrowing, the Stand-by Agreement provided for a devaluation of the Malagasy
Franc, for an increased producer price for rice and for the elimination of the
consumer subsidy on rice. In June 1982 a first Aid Coordination Conference,
chaired by the World Bank, was held in Paris and was successful in mobilizing
new grants and credits from bilateral sources of SDR 60 million to cover the
external financing gap for 1982 which was estimated to remain after taking
account of IMF resources. At the June Aid Coordination Conference the formal
establishment of a Consultative Group was approved and a first meeting of the
group is envisaged for early 1983.
13.      These stabilization measures need to be complemented by measures to
enhance the long-term viability of the economy. A Plan for the period 1981-86
has been prepared. The Plan envisages a much more vigorous effort in export
expansion and an action program for greater self sufficiency in food production
and supply of raw materials. Administrative steps have already been taken to
strengthen regional economic planning and the operations of government
enterprises. Priority is to be attached to a rehabilitation and greater
utilization of the existing capital stock with limited new investment largely
concentrated in production sectors. Government has made substantial progress in
preparing a public investment program for the 1983-85 period which would be a
key element in implementing policies of economic recovery and reform.
Madagascar has formally requested non-project assistance from the World Bank and
discussions have been initiated to identify a program of structural adjustment
and policy reform which such assistance might appropriately support.
14.      With the shift in government policy to a greater reliance on foreign
financing, Madagascar's external public debt has increased substantially over
recent years. Total external debt (outstanding and disbursed) at end 1980
amounted to about $1,035 million, compared to about $245 million at end 1977.
There has been a greater diversification in sources of external financing but
average terms have hardened significantly. Consequently, the debt service ratio
has risen from around 4 per cent in 1977 to about 12 per cent in 1980 and is
likely to be around 30 per cent in 1981. Madagascar now faces a rising debt
servicing burden in the next few years. A Paris Club meeting took place between
April 29-30, 1981, as a result of which Madagascar obtained debt rescheduling of
about $36 million covering the period January 1, 1981 to June 30, 1982.  In July
1982 the Paris Club approved a further rescheduling of maturities falling due in
the period to end June 1983. Approximately $115 million (of which $24 million
short-term) of maturities were rescheduled.
15.      The World Bank group has provided about 45 percent of the concessionary
assistance which Madagascar received between 1975 and 1979. Over the same
period, however, around 40 percent of external public borrowing has been from
non-concessionary sources. Increased external financing on a concessionary



basis will be required to support the Government's economic restructuring and
development efforts and to ensure a continued capacity to service external
debt. Given Madagascar's poverty and current resource constraints, IDA should
continue to contribute to local cost financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
16.      IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$315.95 million, and Bank loans
total US$32.58 million. Since 1975, about 50 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport, 12 percent for electric power, 21 percent for agriculture,
10 percent for industry, technical assistance, water and petroleum, and 7
percent for education. IFC's first investment was in 1977 for the expansion of
a textile mill. In 1980 IFC made a $1.25 million loan for the Bata shoe
manufacturing company in Antananarivo; other projects are under preparation.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1982, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
17.      Bank Group assistance to Madagascar has been concentrated on the key
areas of infrastructure (including urban and social infrastructure), agriculture
and energy. We have begun to lend to the industrial sector with a first US$5
million DFC credit to the Industrial Development BarLk of Madagascar (BNI). In
infrastructure, four projects have been for the construction of all-weather
highway links between the island's different regions and a fifth project for road
maintenance and rehabilitation. There have been proiects for improvina Madagascar's
main port of Toamasina, and to support the railway's modernization efforts.
Urban infrastructure development includes a first water supply and sanitation
project for the capital city of Antananarivo for which a $20.5 million credit
was signed in May 1980. In the social sectors, education has been the major
recipient of Bank assistance with two credits totalling $18.8 million. In addition,
studies for urban development financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing
Agency have led to preparation of a project for urban development. A credit
of SDR 9.4 million for an accounting and audit project was signed in June 1981.
18.      Bank Group lending for agriculture consists of three livestock
development projects, three irrigation projects, two forestry projects and an
agricultural credit project. A $2.3 million technical assistance credit to
prepare projects in the Plain of Antananarivo area was signed in January, 1981,
and a $5.7 million technical assistance for Agriculture Institutions project
was signed in June 1982. We expect agriculture to continue to absorb a large
share of Bank Group lending, in line with Government strategy to expand
agricultural production.  A project to assist the rehabilitation of rice
production in the Lake Alaotra area has been appraised. Further rural
development and crop production projects are being prepared.



- 7 -
19.      Energy projects have also received growing Bank Group attention:  IDA
participated with several co-lenders in the financing of the cost of the large
Andekaleka hydroelectric project, which was successfully completed in June
1982. A $12.5 million credit for petroleum exploration promotion is supporting the
Government's efforts to develop a domestic supply of hydrocarbons and to improve
planning in the energy sector.
20.      In the past, problems have arisen in the execution of several
projects. The main problems encountered included delays, cost overruns,
deficiencies in management and inadequate financial performance of project
agencies. The Morondava irrigation project of June 1972 had to be substantially
reduced, and the Government and the Association have agreed on a plan of action
to de-l with the management and financial problems affecting the project. The
first Village Livestock project was delayed by institutional problems. The
credit was renegotiated in 1977, and since then implementation has been reasonably
satisfactory. The road construction c-mponent of the fourth highway project is
nearly completed and the maintenance studies have been completed, although there
was a delay in the start of the highway maintenance training program. The
Government has agreed that training consultants be employed, and construction of
the training facilities has begun. Construction under the fifth highway project
has begun. Disbursements under the Second Railway Project are almost completed
with a small balance of $0.5 million. However, the railway company is facing
serious financial and organizational problems which require remedial action from
the Government. Disbursement of the remaining credit balance has been
suspended since June 25, 1982 pending government action to correct major deficiencies
affecting the railway's operations.
21.      Since the start of our program in Madagascar, four projects, all of
which included technical assistance, have been completed and audited by the
Operations Evaluation Department. The Audit Report No 1622 of December 1976 on
the Lac Alaotra project concluded that the project was generally successful.
However, the Impact Evnluation Report No 3600 of August 1981 concluded that
earlier assessments of project performance had been overoptimistic, and
that the actlual econom4c rate of return was probably negative. The Audit Report
No 1559 of April 1977 on the Beef Cattle Development Project concluded that the
Project had contributed little to Madagascar.



22.       The Audit Report No 2143 of July 1978 concluded that the Third
Highway project was well justified and had a good rate of return despite sub-
stantial cost overruns. Report No 2299 of December 1978 concluded that the
physical objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were sastisfactorily achieved
but pointed out that the institutional objective was not accomplished during
project implementation because of inadequacies in the staffing of the pOl'L
authority. With the exception of the port project, the technical assistance
components of all four projects were executed satisfactorily.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources, Demand and Supply
23.       Madagascar's major energy resource is its forests, covering some
125,000 km2, but their indiscriminate use is leading to rapid deforestation in
some areas. Madagascar's other energy resources are largely undeveloped.
There is considerable hydro-electric potential, estimated at about 3,500 MW,
but installed capacity has only recently reached about 100 MW. No
hydrocarbons are exploited at present, but during past exploration oil and gas
shows were encountered in the western part of the island, and there are
sizeable deposits of heavy oil and bituminous sandstones. OMNIS is currently
evaluating uranium deposits in the country with the assistance of the Inter-
national Atomic Energy Agency and UNDP financing, al.though the remote location
of the deposits argues against exploitation at this time. The Government,
through consultants, undertook studies in the past to evaluate the feasibility
of developing domestic coal resources. However, the high infrastructure
investments required, the small and distant domestic market and poor export
prospects nave made the outlook discouraging for any development of coal in
the medium term. The country also has some geothermal resources, but
preliminary investigations suggest that temperatures may not be high enough
for electric power generation, and the sources are in remote areas. Renewable
energy sources, such as solar and wind energy, may offer potential in the
long-term, but have not yet been evaluated.
24.       Energy consumption--estimated in 1979 at 2.3 million tons of oil
equivalent or 270 kg per capita--is low, even compared to other developing
countries. Over the past decade consumption has grown by only about one to
two percent p.a., reflective particularly of low economic activity in recent
years. Energy use by sector is broken down as follows: 70 percent households,
15 percent industry, 13 percent transport and 2 perc:ent agriculture. Non-
commercial energy use is dominant. Primary energy use by source is 80 percent
traditional fuels (essentially wood and charcoal, mainly used by households,
even in the cities), 16 percent petroleum (used in industries and transport),
2.5 percent bagasse (used in the northern part of the country for steam and
power generation in sugar refineries), 0.5 percent hydropower and 1 percent
imported steam coal and coke.



25.       Electricity consumption (410 GWH or about 48 kWh per capita in 1979)
accounts for only 2.4 percent of final energy consumption. The only extensive
electric power grid is in the central plateau, the most densely populated
area. Eiectricity is used primarily in industry. Industrial enterprises
outside the central plateau normally generate their own electricity, mostly
with small diesel-run generators. Household use of electricity is limited
essentially to lighting in the cities. Total installed electric power
capacity is now about 220 MW, of which about 44 percent is hydro-based, due to
completion of the Andekaleka hydropower project in June 1982. That project
doubled installed hydropower capacity and should satisfy demand in the greater
Antananarivo-Antsirabe area for the next ten years. The cost of the
Andekaleka project, partly financed by IDA (Credit 817-MAG), reached about
US$150 million. While hydropower represents the most economical source of
electricity for Madagascar, its future development will depend on substantial
growth of the country's industrial base in order to justify the high
investment costs involved.
26.       During the next two decades, Madagascar is expected to continue to
rely heavily on traditional fuel sources, with increasing conversion of wood
to charcoal, which is easier and cheaper to transport. However, increased use
of charcoal should be coupled with a more efficient conversion technique
(improved metal charcoal kilns) to avoid increasing pressure on wood
resources. Petroleum products will remain the major commercial energy source,
primarily due to their crucial use in transportation and machinery opera-
tion. Petroleum products as a percentage of final energy demand are projected
to increase from 25 percent in 1981 to 32 percent by the year 2000, according
to projections of the energy planning study financed under the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Credit (para. 28).
Sector Institutions
27.       A number of government institutions participate in energy policy-
making. The Office Militaire National pour les Industries Strategiques
(OMNIS) is in charge of hydrocarbon and radioactive minerals exploration and
development (para. 35). It is an autonomous institution and reports directly
to the Presidency. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce has responsibility
for (a) regulating exploration and development of coal, lignite and hydro
resources; (b) supervising two state enterprises having energy-related
responsibilities, i.e., JIRAMA (the power and water utility) and SOLIMA (in
charge of petroleum imports, refining, transport and distribution); and (c)
providing for overall energy planning in coordination with OMNIS. The
Ministry of Finance plays a minor role in energy matters by administering fuel
taxation and participating in decisions on public investment. Finally, the
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform has responsibility for
production of traditional fuels, firewood and charcoal, and reforestation
policies.



- 10 -
Energy Planning and Investment Priorities
28.       Formal energy planning in the past has been weak because of the lack
of analytical support for decision-making and reliance on informal coordina-
tion among government agencies concerned with energy matters. The Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Credit (Credit 1016-MAG of May 8, 1980) provided funds
to compile and analyze data on energy resources, prepare energy demand
projections, review sector policies and define priorities for resource
development. The study was carried out by Motor Columbus (Switzerland) and
recommends that the Government give priority to (a) reforestation efforts in
view of the rapid depletion of forest resources in specific areas of the
country and promotion of more efficient charcoal conversion techniques; (b)
the development of domestic hydrocarbons (light and heavy oil) and hydropower,
as the most promising resources to meet future commercial energy needs;
(c) promoting energy conservation and assuring fully economic pricing of
forest products, petroleum products and electricity; and (d) establishing a
formal structure for energy planning and decision-making through a ministerial
level committee making policy decisions. IDA will discuss these recom-
mendations with OMNIS, but since they also concern other departments and
agencies of the Government, their implementation will also be addressed by IDA
in policy discussions with the Government.
29.       The Government's recent major investments in the commercial energy
sector have been consistent with recommendations of the study; they include
the Andekaleka hydropower project (para. 25), promotion of petroleum
exploration and refinery upgrading. Total investment in petroleum exploration
was about US$4 million in 1980, but it should grow substantially over the next
few years as investments by private oil companies cDmmence (para. 44). With
French assistance, SOLIMA is investing US$30 million in upgrading and
secondary processing facilities at the country's only refinery to raise its
present production capacity up to its original design capacity and increase
the yield of lighter products (para. 33).
Energy Prices
30.       In the past, commercial energy pricing policies were determined
iargely by social considerations, resulting in petroleum products and
electricity prices being held at inadequate levels over extended periods.
This deprived state companies operating in the sector of adequate financial
resources. The Government has since taken steps to correct the most glaring
deficiencies of the energy price structure. During 1979-81, it raised
petroleum product prices substantially in line with international petroleum
price increases. Thus, retail prices for most petroleum products are now at
international levels. Due to marked differentials in fuel taxation, gasoline
prices are among the highest in the world, while the price of fuel oil is
still lower than international prices. A comparison of Malagasy retail prices
(1980/81) with average prices from a sample of 56 countries is set out below:



- 11 -
1980 Retail Prices (US$/US Gallon)
Product                Madagascar          International Average
Premium gasoline               4.15                         2.29
Kerosene                        1.90                        1.35
Diesel                          1.85                        1.45
Fuel Oil                       0.90                         1.06
31.       The average price of electricity in Madagascar (104/kWh) is now in
line with international levels. A comprehensive study on electricity tariffs
was carried out under the Andekaleka project and recommended setting tariffs
based on marginal cost, which would reduce the complexity and eliminate the
inequalities of existing tariffs. The Government is presently reviewing the
recommendation of the study for implementation.
32.       Prices for traditional fuels are unregulated, but market distortions
in the wood supply system of the country have created a situation where
producers may not be making a return sufficient to encourage replanting and
other necessary conservation practices. This problem was identified by the
energy planning study (para. 28), and IDA will address them in the context of
forestry sector policy discussions with the Government.
The Petroleum Sector
33.       Supply and Demand.  Madagascar's crude oil imports were close to
530,000 metric tons for the period July 1980-June 1981. Traditionally an
importer of Iraqi crude, the country has been importing from Algeria and Qatar
since the outbreak of the Iran-Iraq war and hopes to diversify its sources to
include other Middle Eastern countries. Crude oil is processed at the
refinery at Toamasina, whose-capacity is 730,000 tons. In its present
configuration, the refinery yields too much of heavy products and not enough
of light products to match domestic demand. Therefore, the country exports
heavy fuel oil (120,000 tons in 1980/81) and imports lighter products--
chiefly gas oil and, to a lesser extent, kerosene and gasoline. Product
imports increased from 4,600 tons in 1975 to 70,000 tons in 1980/81. The
refinery renovation and expansion planned for completion by the end of 1982
(para. 29) will enable the refinery to raise the yield of middle distillates
and light ends by about 25 percent in the first year of operation, thus
reducing the need for imports of oil products. Diesel and fuel oil, used
primarily in power generation and rail transport, presently account for nearly
60 percent of petroleum products consumption, while gasoline accounts for
about 25 percent. Jet and residential fuels (kerosene and butane) account for
the remainder.
34.       Oil imports represent a growing burden on Madagascar's balance of
payments. During the 1973-1981 period when oil product consumption grew at
some three percent p.a., net imports increased from US$7.4 million to an



- 12 -
estimated US$120 million (about 30 percent of total export earnings). While
the volume of petroleum imports is expected to decline in 1982 and to stagnate
through 1985, in value their share of export receipts (which are expected to
decline) is projected to rise to about 40 percent of 1985 export earnings.
35.       The Sector Institution: OMNIS.  OMNIS was established on November 12,
1975 to take charge of Madagascar's economically strategic industries. It is
an autonomous agency headed by the President of the Republic. Policymaking
and general supervision is conducted by a directorate, chaired by the Minister
of Economy and Commerce and including the Director General of OMNIS, depart-
ment directors and representatives of the Presidency of the Republic and
Ministry of Finance and Planning.  The Director General of OMNIS has day-to-
day responsibility for operations of the agency.
36.       OMNIS is responsible for the exploration and development of
petroleum, bituminous sandstones and radioactive minerals as well as the
execution of other strategic projects. It also supervises two state-owned
enterprises--Y,RAOMA, which operates the country's chromite mines, and SECREN,
a ship building and repair enterprise. OMNIS receives annually budgetary
contributions from the profits of these two enterprises. Its hydrocarbon
division conducts all activities related to oil and gas exploration and is in
charge of the implementation of the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project.
37.       OMNIS' professional staff has grown from 34 in 1978 to 101 in 1981
to cope with the increase in activities; the hydrocarbon division has
32 professionals, including 12 mining, chemical and petroleum engineers,
9 geologists and 4 geophysicists. OMNIS presently relies heavily on
expatriate consultants, but it is placing strong emphasis on the training of
its staff through joint work with these consultants and through training
progra-c financ.pd by UNDP, EIB and IDA.
38.       Training financed under the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
through January 1982 includes that of 28 trainees in such fields as
geophysics, exploration geology and petroleum engineering and of four
participants in other relevant seminars. This formal training, together with
on-the-job training provided by the consultants, has resulted in a substantial
increase of knowledge of OMNIS staff on petroleum matters during the past two
years. Intensive training will continue until completion of the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project in 1983. The proposed project would also
provide specialized training in laboratory analysis and testing of heavy oil
samples.
39.       Of OMNIS' total capital expenditures of FMG 1,437 million
(US$7 milLion) in 1980, over 54 percent represented petroleum-related
investment (including research on the bituminous sandstones of Bemolanga).
About 45 percent was for investments in radioactive mineral research and
related equipment, and another one percent of capital expenditures was related
to energy planning efforts. Petroleum's share of OMNIS' capital expenditures
over the next few years is expected to rise substantially. For current
expenditure needs, OMNIS is financed by direct transfers from the Government's



- 13 -
budget; its capital expenditures are financed by allocations of the National
Economic Development Fund (the financing vehicle for capital investment in
public sector enterprises) and external sources. Direct Government transfers
in 1980 totaled about US$6.0 million, while transfers on account of EIB and
IDA credits were US$1.7 million.
40.       Hydrocarbon-related Geology and Exploration History.  Nearly
three quarters of Madagascar consists of an old crystalline core. This
igneous area is flanked by two sedimentary basins which are prospective for
oil and gas. The largest of these is in the west, the Morondava Basin, and
the other is in the north, the Mahajanga Basin. The total sedimentary land
area of these basins is 170,000 km2. Both basins extend offshore under the
Mozambique Channel. The shelf area (0-200 m) is 80,000 km2; the deep water
area (200-2,000 m), which may be found to be prospective in future years,
covers another 50,000 km2. Madagascar has long been known as a country with
prospects for commercial oil or gas discoveries. All the elements for oil
generation and accumulation exist to some degree: thick sedimentary sections,
plentiful structures (mainly fault-related) and surface oil shows in the form
of tar sands and heavy oil indicating the presence of hydrocarbon
sourcebeds. The geology of the region is complicated, however, by the
existence of impermeable igneous dykes which cut across prospective
formations.
41.       Most exploration in the country to date has been carried out in the
Morondava Basin, where the best oil shows have been found. A feature of the
basin, which has attracted oil companies since early in the century, is the
occurrence of widespread and thick deposits of bitumen-saturated sandstone and
heavy oil in the Bemolanga-Tsimiroro area. The reservoir for these deposits
is the Isalo formation of the Karroo series, a widespread sedimentary sequence
of Triassic and Lower Jurassic age and also the oldest sedimentary layer found
in Madagascar. The volume of oil equivalent in place in the deposits known
with certainty can be measured in the billions of barrels, which is sizeable,
but extraction of these hydrocarbons from the reservoir rock is difficult.
The fact that the Isalo formation is presumed to underlie the whole sediment-
covered portion of western and northern Madagascar encouraged foreign oil
companies in the past to move westward and northward toward the coast to
explore for this formation in the subsurface in the hope of finding light
oil. Seismic and drilling programs were undertaken during several periods,
the most recent being the decade 1965-1974 when eight major international oil
companies were active in the area. While favorable stratigraphy and
hydrocarbon shows (both oil and gas) were encountered, no discoveries were
made under the limited drilling which was done; moreover, many of these wells
were drilled prior to the advent of modern seismic techniques (great technical
progress has been made in the last ten years). Hence, only a few wells tested
targeted stratigraphic traps, and some were not drilled sufficiently deep to
test all possible accumulations. By 1975, however, most companies had left
the country, preferring to concentrate funds and manpower on the large
successful finds in the North Sea and Far East than in Madagascar, where no
discoveries had yet been made, costs were high and the political climate had
changed. Yet, it was clear to these explorationists that more work was



- 14 -
demanded before the production potential of the country could be confirmed or
refuted. From 1975 to 1980, no international oil company was involved in
Madagascar as the country was virtually closed to such companies.
42.       Government Strategy in Petroleum.  In the wake of the major oil
price increase in 1979, the Government sought IDA assistance to accelerate
petroleum exploration, originally by helping finance drilling by OMNIS in the
Morondava Basin. In view of the high risk involved and the lack of experi-
enced personnel within OMNIS, the Government agreed with IDA's view that a
more efficient way of accelerating exploration was to attract foreign oil
companies, which have the necessary technical, financial and human
resources. The Government, therefore, decided to entrust exploration of
conventional light oil to foreign oil companies, while having OMNIS study the
heavy oil accumulation at Tsimiroro and the Bemolanga tar sands with a view to
assessing their commercial potential.
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1016-MAG)
43.       To support this Government policy, IDA made a US$12.5 million credit
to the Government of Madagascar in May 1980 for a Pletroleum Exploration
Promotion Project. This was the first such project approved by IDA's Board.
The project's objectives have been (a) to assist the Government in attracting
foreign petroleum companies for exploration and development of petroleum
resources; (b) to further study the economic feasibility of exploiting the
heavy oil deposit of Tsimiroro and the Bemolanga tar sands; and (c) to lay the
basis for energy planning. The project included technical and legal
assistance, geophysical surveys, an energy sector study and studies related to
the Tsimiroro deposit and Bemolanga tar sands. OMNIS has made substantial
progress in implementing the project. Disbursements as of July 1982 were
US$4.4 millioL. Much of the remaining funds are committed for a
reconnaissance seismic survey, LANDSAT interpretation and consultant services
in respect of a second round of bidding for acreage. Progress on the various
components is reviewed below.
44.       Exploration Promotion.  OMNIS has been successful in promoting
exploration by foreign oil companies. With the assistance of legal
consultants (Coudert Freres of France and Gambos of the UK) and the advice of
IDA staff, it prepared a petroleum code and a fiscal framework, which was
enacted in November 1980. In June 1980, OMNIS distributed widely a geological
report prepared by Petroconsultants (Switzerland) and put up four blocks for
exploration contracts. Industry response was good, confirming the
promise of the country's geology. Ten companies made proposals. In
December 1981, OMNIS signed exploration contracts with two major oil
companies, Mobil (US) and Occidental Petroleum (US), covering exploration
acreage of 36,000 km2 offshore and 21,500 km2 onshore respectively. In April
1982, OMNIS signed an exploration contract with Agip (Italy) covering acreage
onshore and offshore of 22,400 km2. Then, in July 1982, OMNIS signed an
exploration contract with AMOCO (US) covering 22,6510 km2 onshore (map 14787R).
Two of the companies have already commenced seismic work.



- 15 -
45.       Meanwhile, OMNIS has contracted GSI (US) to undertake a
reconnaissance seismic survey over the Morombe region, covering the
southwestern part of the Morondava basin and an area not yet taken up by a
private oil company. GSI started work on the 813 km survey in May 1982 and
expects to complete it in October 1982. With the results of the Morombe
survey and the reinterpretation of existing seismic data on both the Morondava
and Mahajanga basins, all financed by IDA, OMNIS plans to launch a second
round of bidding for exploration contracts covering outstanding prospective
acreage. It will, of course, use the legal and fiscal framework which has
evolved successfully from the previous round of negotiations with major oil
companies.
46.       Energy Planning.  In September 1981, Motor Columbus (Switzerland)
submitted a draft report on the energy sector in Madagascar (para. 28), which
was reviewed and discussed between OMNIS and IDA in November 1981. A draft
final report was submitted in May 1982. During negotiations for the proposed
project, OMNIS and IDA discussed the recommendations of the report and further
steps to be taken for their implementation.
47.       Tar Sands Research.  In early 1981, the Government asked IDA to join
with the European Investment Bank (EIB) in financing the study of a bitumen
extraction process for the Bemolanga tar sands. Considerable work financed by
EIB had already been done on the geology of the region and on extraction
processes. In September 1981, IDA agreed to reallocate US$500,000 from the
engineering study of Tsimiroro heavy oil (para. 51) to finance the further
study of a bitumen extraction process jointly with EIB. The Board of IDA was
notified accordingly. OMNIS hired INGECO (an Italian firm which had done
previous work on the process) to study a modified hot water process for
bitumen extraction and the necessary on-site upgrading. These consultants
submitted their draft final report by September 1982. In addition, EIB was
financing a study of the mining and crushing phase, which was also completed
at that time. The studies showed that any development at forecast cost and
price levels and with existing technology, are unlikely to be feasible, since
costs are likely to exceed benefits.
Background on the Tsimiroro Heavy Oil Deposit and Origin of the
Proposed Project
48.       The Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project also included financing
for an assessment of the Tsimiroro heavy oil deposit to investigate the
economic feasibility of pilot production. This large deposit has been known
since the early 1900s, and several oil companies have drilled in the area, the
last one being Chevron in the early 70s. Although valuable stratigraphic and
petrographic data were obtained and a number of heavy oil impregnations were
found as a result of these efforts, insufficient coring and testing were
undertaken to confirm with any certainty the deposit's potential to produce
hydrocarbons in sufficient quantity to justify development. The geology of
Tsimiroro, its exploration history and technical aspects of heavy oil
exploitation are discussed in detail in Annex IV.



- 16 -
49.       There are possibly as much as 4.8 billion barrels of oil-i ri-place in
the Tsimiroro region, of which up to 1 billion would, theoretically, be
recoverable.  Heavy oil is very viscous, with a gravity of less than 20
degrees API. Thus, it must be thermically stimulated, by steam injection or
in-situ combustion, to reduce the viscosity of the oil and thereimy Indtic-
production; there are cases, however, where heavy oil has been produced by
natural flow from the reservoir. Naturally, the characteristics of the
reservoir are crucial in determining whether and by what method the heavy oil
can be produced. The development of heavy oil involves three phases:
(a) initial exploration drilling and subsequent testing of promising
reservoirs to identify zones with the potential for production; (b) pilot
production to test the responsiveness of the oil to thermal recovery methods;
and (c) if justified, expansion of the pilot operation to a commercial
level. Commercial production of heavy oil presently takes place in the U.S.
(particularly in California, Texas and Louisiana), Canada and Venezuela.
50.       Consultant Studies.  Under the Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project, OMNIS hired the D&S Group of Canada (D&S) to carry out a review of
existing data on the Tsimiroro deposit. They concluded in January 1981 that
an extensive exploration program was necessary before considering pilot
production. The program they recommended included the core drilling and
testing of ten wells in potential oil-bearing formations of a sandstone and
shale sequence of the Karroo located throughout the Tsimiroro area. The
objective would be to identify those areas with the potential for production
and to undertake a complete analysis of reservoir piroperties.
51.       D&S was then asked to study the logistics and costs of such a ten-
well exploration program. That study was completed in June 1981 on the
assumption that drilling would be carried out by a drilling contractor. It
concluded that the logistics of the program would be challenging, due to its
speciai nature and the isolation of the area of operations, although not
extraordinary compared to many other exploration projects in the world. All
equipment and materials would be collected outside the country and shipped to
Maintirano, the port closest to Tsimiroro (map 16323), where they would then
be transported to the drilling site, a distance of 140 km across rugged
terrain under poor road conditions. The cost of the program was estimated by
D&S to be about US$12 million (in 1982 prices). Yet, the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project included only US$1.5 million for the Tsimiroro
component. That provision was based on a rough estimate, using the available
information at the time; it underestimated the logistics involved, the number
of wells, the quality of the rig and the tests required. Hence, it became
evident that additional financing would be necessary to evaluate the Tsimiroro
deposit. As of August 1982 about US$1.0 million of the Tsimiroro component
was committed for study of bitumen extraction (US$500,000, para. 47) and
consultants services by D & S (US$500,000 paras. 50 to 52).  The balance would
be transferred to unallocated.
52.       Promotion of Project to the Private Oil Industry.  In view of the
costs and logistics involved, OMNIS decided to try to find foreign partners
with the required experience to help finance and implement the proposed



- 17 -
drilling program (and a potential future pilot project). With the assistance
of D&S, it promoted the project to private oil companies. In September 1981,
D&S, on behalf of OMNIS, advertised the project in international petroleum
magazines and distributed an information package on Tsimiroro to about 90
companies in North America, Europe, Japan and some appropriate developing
countries. Twenty six companies inquired about the project, and twenty-one
companies were given detailed presentations by D&S. Most of these companies
stated that they needed more information on the petrophysical characteristics
of the reservoir, which is exactly the type of information to be collected by
the proposed project.   The deadline for submission of proposals was March
1982; no company made a formal proposal.
53.        This lack of industry interest reflects primarily the lack of good
data on the deposit from former operations, which indicated acceptable
reservoir properties but also possible impediments to efficient exploitation,
such as dykes, clays and low oil saturations in some places; existing data do
not permit abandonment of the deposit nor do they fully endorse
exploitation. Other factors were (a) the recent slowdown in exploration
investment due to uncertainties concerning oil prices, an environment which is
particularly discouraging for new heavy oil exploration; and (b) concern over
the size of the investment and long gestation period to explore and later
develop a relatively little known heavy oil deposit in an unfamiliar
developing country. This industry attitude does not invalidate the project.
It shows that existing data are insufficient to attract private sector
interest at this stage, and further positive data must be established prior to
getting a clear industry response to subsequent phases in development of the
deposit.
54.        The Proposed Project in View of Madagascar's Oil Development
Strategy. The Tsimiroro heavy oil project has to be seen in the light of the
overall strategy for development of the country's hydrocarbon potential. The
Government has successfully launched exploration promotion, and as a direct
result four companies have signed exploration contracts (para. 44).
Therefore, the question arises whether the heavy oil project should be
postponed until the search for conventional oil has been concluded, since a
commercial light oil discovery would reduce the urgency to seek commercial
development of the Tsimiroro deposit. It is unlikely, however, that any
drilling will commence until 1984/85, and drilling could go on until 1988/90
under the agreements signed by OMNIS. Moreover, there is no assurance that
any such drilling would result in commercial discoveries. If a discovery is
made, it would take time to confirm reserves and then, if warranted, develop
the fields. In the meantime, valuable time would be lost in establishing the
potential of the Tsimiroro deposit, particularly in view of the long gestation
period for development of heavy oil (7-10 years). The approach followed by
OMNIS, i.e. promoting exploration by foreign oil companies and simultaneously
undertaking a systematic study of the potential for exploitation of heavy oil
and tar sands, is therefore both rational and prudent at this stage of
knowledge of the country's hydrocarbon potential.
55.        Another question is whether the project should be postponed until



- 18 -
industry interest increases. Given the present lack of data on Taimiroro and
other, better defined exploration prospects worldwide, it is uncertain whether
any private company will be interested in undertaking this exploration project
in the near future, even if the world market situation becomes strong again.
Therefore, it makes sense from a national point of view for Madagascar to go
ahead and complete the exploration phase now, by undertaking the minimum size
drilling program considered prudent, to confirm the potential of its heavy oil
deposit and, hopefully, generate sufficient data to attract needed oil company
participation in a pilot production project. Indeed, OMNIS intends to compile
the results of the drilling program in a report which it would sell to
interested oil companies; this would serve as a basis for again promoting the
Tsimiroro deposit to private industry after the initial exploration stage.
IDA's Role
56.        IDA's role in the petroleum subsector would be (a) to continue to
help Madagascar to accelerate the discovery of hydrocarbons and possible
development of domestic supplies through active promotion of attractive
acreage to foreign oil companies (for this sufficient funds are available from
the Credit 1216-MAG); (b) to assist in investigating the country's known heavy
oil and tar sands resources; and (c) to strengthen OMNIS as an institution
capable of promoting and monitoring hydrocarbon development efficiently. The
proposed project would help finance a continuation of the efforts supported in
the last two years by the Petroleum Exploration Promnotion Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.       The Project was appraised during visits oiE OMNIS reDresentatives
to Washington, September 28 to October 7, 1981, and of Bank staff to
Madagascar, December 7 to 14, 1981. Negotiations were held in
Washington on September 16 and 17, 1982; the Malagasy delegation was led by
Colonel Andrianasolo. A map of-Madagascar showing the project area is attached
(IBRD 16324).
Project Objectives
58.       The project would continue to support the Government's efforts to
establish the economic feasibility of exploiting the already proven Tsimiroro
heavy oil accumulation. At this stage, private sector interest in the project
is low primarily because of lack of reliable data. The project would gather
this data with the intention of attracting private sector interest in a
subsequent pilot project and possibly eventual commercial production. The
project would also continue to support the institutional upgrading of OMNIS
through further training of its professional staff.



- 19 -
Project Description
59.       The proposed project would include: (a) exploration of the Tsimiroro
heavy oil deposit; (b) an engineering study for a future pilot plant at
Tsimiroro; (c) a related study of the feasibility of upgrading the heavy oil,
and (d) training of professionals from OMNIS.
60.       Tsimiroro Exploration.  The Tsimiroro heavy oil exploration program
is the first phase in assessing the feasibility of heavy oil production from
the extensive Tsimiroro deposit. It would consist of drilling and thoroughly
testing ten wells to identify those areas, if any, which have the potential
for primary production or, more likely, enhanced production through steam
flooding or other stimulation techniques. The wells would be drilled to an
average depth of 1,200 feet (400m); the most promising sandstone reservoir
in the Isalo formation is expected to be found at depths of 1,200 feet or less
(Map 3). Given the large Tsimiroro area and erratic distribution of oil
concentrations, the ten well program is considered the minimum reasonable for
identifying those areas with the best potential for production (i.e. where
thick zones of highly impregnated reservoir sands exist). Well locations
would be somewhat flexible, the location of later wells being subject to
change if warranted by the results of earlier wells. IDA would approve the
initial drilling program and any subsequent changes in well locations (Section
2.05(b), Draft Project Agreement). Core samples would be taken at all
potential oil-bearing formations in each well, and the cores would be shipped
to specialized laboratories for a complete analysis of reservoir properties
and fluids. The wells would be logged using conventional electrical logging
methods and equipment. If the preliminary coring and logging results indicate
recovery potential, the wells would be cased and cemented. This would permit
testing of the well's primary production potential and the running of
injectivity and pressure transient tests which wouid give further information
about reservoir characteristics. These same wells could then be used later
for steam injection. The drilling program would be carried out in the dry
season of 1983 (May to Novemrber). D & S would document the resuLts of the
drilling program in a comprehensive report, which would be sold to interested
private oil companies.
61.       Additional Studies and Training.  Two additional studies are
included in the project. If a pilot project for Tsimiroro is justified, its
preparation would require an engineering study that would include plant site
selection, mathematical simulations of thermal recovery techniques and
preliminary facility and process designs. At the same time, the feasibility
and logistics of upgrading the heavy oil under various processes would be
investigated; on-site upgrading is necessary for ease in transport and to
achieve a quality of oil suitable for export or as feedstock for the domestic
refinery. The project, therefore, includes these two studies, but
disbursement for the studies would be subject to IDA's review of the results
of the exploratory drilling (Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3(b)). The
results of these studies would be part of the information package sold to
interested companies. The training component would finance specialised
training abroad for about 12 professionals from OMNIS for about six months



- 20 -
each. The training program has been discussed and agreed with OMNIS, taking
into account the training already carried out and planned under the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project.
Project Implementation
62.       OMNIS, which would enter into a project agreement with IDA, would
hire a drilling contractor to carry out the drilling program, including the
supply of supporting services (such as well services), well materials,
consumables and personnel.  The mobilization effort wouid be significant.  The
exploration program would require the leasing of a dlrilling crew, a small
drilling rig capable of drilling up to 3,000 feet arnd ancillary equipment,
such as a trailer for transporting the rig, bulldozers, trucks and camp
equipment. Materials, such as drilling mud, cement, tubular goods and bits
would be purchased. All equipment and materials would be collected at an
optimum shipping point overseas for packing, crating and shipping to
Maintirano on the island's west coast. Due to inadequate docking facilities
there, a shallow draft vessel would be used to bring the shipment directly to
the beach. It would then be transported by truck the 140 km to Tsimiroro.
Drilling operations would begin within three months of offloading. OMNIS
would supply by truck from Maintirano all fuel required during the program,
estimated at some 4,000 barrels.
63.       Laboratory work would be contracted to specialized firms.  D&S would
remain as a consultant to OMNIS during the project period to supervise the
implementation of the project and to analyze and compile the petrophysical and
geological data generated by the drilling program. OMNIS would probably
contract D&S consultants to carry out the engineering study for the Tsimiroro
pilot operation and contract a separate uonsultaot for the feasibilitv, study
of heavy oil upgrading. Training would be conducted at appropriate petroleum
institutes. During negotiations IDA would obtain assurances from OMNIS
concerning the employment of consultants satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.02,
draft Project Agreement). Proceeds from the sale of data collected during the
project to interested oil companies (para. 60) would be kept in a special
account and used for further petroleum exploration (Section 4.03, draft
Project Agreement).
Project Cost
64.       Total project cost, net of taxes which are not applicable, is
estimated at US$18.0 million equivalent. The cost estimates of the Tsimiroro
heavy oil exploration component are based on April 1982 prices and include
30 percent physical contingencies, given that the exact extent of the drilling
program will be defined as the project progresses and given the risks involved
in an operation of the type proposed, which is likely to be reflected in the
contract price. The consultant services for the drilling program, the



- 21 -
engineering study for the pilot plant and the upgrading study are estimated
to require 26, 65 and 13 man-months respectively. One man-month is estimated
to cost an average of US$15,000 including travel, subsistence and overhead.
This amount is reasonable, taking into account the high level of expertise
required and salaries prevailing in the petroleum industry. One man-month
of training is estimated to cost US$4,200 including travel, subsistence
and tuition; salaries would be paid by OMNIS. The cost estimates include
price contingencies of 8.5 percent for 1982 and 7.5 percent from 1983
through 1985, for foreign and local costs.
Financing Plan
65.       The proposed IDA credit of US$11.5 million would finance 64 percent
of the total project cost; it would be used for foreign exchange expenditures
including indirect foreign exchange costs related to travel expenses for the
project trainees. The Credit would be made to the Government which would pass
on the funds to OMNIS as a grant. The OPEC Fund has agreed to make a
US$5 million loan fortheproject for joint financing, covering 28 percent of the
total project cost. The OPEC loan proposal is expected to be submitted to its
Board in November 1982. A cross effectiveness clause has not been included
in the legal agreements to allow disbursement of IDA funds before effectiveness
of the OPEC loan. However, signature of the OPEC loan would be a condition
of effectiveness (Section 5.01 of draft Credit Agreement). The Government
would finance the full local costs of US$1.5 million, or about eight percent
of the total project cost.
66.       In January 1982, Petrocanada International Assistance Corporation
(PCIAC), which is a newly established development aid institution for the
energy field, also indicated some interest in participating in the project
to an amount of US$1-2 million. PCIAC has been unable to confirm interest
because their 1983/84 budget is still under preparation. Given this uncer-
tainty and the project's time constraints, this project was processed on the
basis that no funds will be available from PCIAC. Should PCIAC still decide
in 1983/84 to participate in some of the financing of the project, OMNIS
would be able to accommodate PCIAC's participation, (for instance for labo-
ratory analysis, studies), and consideration would be given to reducing the
IDA credit.
Procurement and Disbursement
67.       The drilling contractor would be selected following ICB procedures
according to World Bank/IDA guidelines and would be responsible for providing
the drilling rig, crew, camp, equipment, material and services. Consultants



- 22 -
for the supervision of the contractor on behalf of OMNIS,the laboratory work
and studies would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of
consultants and be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(Section 2.02, draft Project Agreement). Given D&S' past involvement with the
project, it is likely and reasonable that OMNIS would select them for
supervision of the project (para. 63). IDA disbursements would be for 70
percent of foreign expenditures except in the case of training where
disbursements  would be    for 70 percent of total expenditures; OPEC
disbursements would be for 30 percent of foreign and total expenditures, respectively.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
68.       At present, OMNIS keeps separate project accounts.  An external
auditor acceptable to OMNIS and the Association is auditing the project's and
OMNIS' accounts annually under the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project.
OMNIS agreed to submit annual reports to the Association not later than five
months after the closing of its fiscal year and submitted them on time in the
past. These arrangements would be maintained (Section 4.02, draft Project
Agreement). OMNIS would also submit quarterly and annual reports on the
implementation of the project in a format acceptable to the Association.
After completion of the project, OMNIS would prepare a report on the execution
of the project.
Environmental Impact
69.       The proposed project comprises a small drilling program which
carries little risk of an adverse environmental impact. All drilling will, of
course, be conducted according to industry-accepted saf'ety procedures.
Project Justification
70.       The proposed 10-well exploration program would be only a preliminary
phase in evaluating the feasibility of heavy oil production at Tsimiroro. It
represents the minimum reasonable program to confirm those areas which have
the potential for production and hopefully generate sufficient positive data
to attract necessary private oil company participation in subsequent phases of
development of the deposit.
71.       Future Phases of Heavy Oil Development.  By about 1985, if the
results of this project warrant it, OMNIS would seek a private partner to
participate with it in a second phase, which would consist of a pilot project
testing enhanced production (most likely through steam flooding). This would
involve an expanded drilling program, purchase of steam generating and pumping
equipment, water treatment facilities, high pressure di'stribution systems and
an oil-gathering system. Financing of a detailed study of the pilot project
is included in the proposed credit if results of the exploration phase justify
it (para. 61). The cost of a pilot project would be US$20-30 million; thus,
it would require the participation of a private oil company, which has the



- 23 -
financial resources and technical experience in heavy oil development. To
finance its share, OMNIS would likely seek a possible third IDA credit.
72.       By about 1987, if the pilot project determined the economic
viability of steam-induced production, OMNIS, in cooperation with
participating oil companies, could proceed to the third phase and expand the
pilot operation to commercial levels. It is unlikely that this would occur,
however, if light oil exploration has been successful or seems very promising
at that point, given that Madagascar's investment budget is rather small
compared to the investments required. The investment costs for commercial
production would vary widely depending on the reservoir characteristics found
and on the size of the project. Traditionally, heavy oil projects have been
conceived on a large multi-billion dollar scale. Lately, however, research
has concentrated on smaller units.  The oil produced would likely be exported
because its quality may not fit the configuration of the domestic refinery.
73.       Economics of Potential Commercial Production.  D&S has run
sensitivity analyses for a 5000 BD project in Tsimiroro by adapting data from
a recently completed study of a similar project in Alberta, Canada (refer to
Annex IV). The presently known reservoir characteristics of the Tsimiroro
deposit are slightly more favorable than those found in Alberta, but the
investment and operating costs to exploit the deposit would be substantially
higher in Madagascar. The production module used for the analysis included
150 wells, central and satellite facilities, full upgrading facilities and a
pipeline to the coast. The cost of the module under Alberta conditions was
estimated at US$290 million in 1982 prices. A number of cases were then run
using different cost factors for converting Alberta costs to Madagascar
costs. Capital costs were increased by 50 percent to 150 percent and
operating costs by 30 percent to 100 percent. Revenues for the upgraded crude
were based on the Bank's projected price per barrel in constant 1981 dollar
terms; this assumes a 2-2.5 percent p.a. real growth rate. The cost stream
was also deflated to constant 1981 dollar terms for the analysis.  The
discounted cash flow rate of'return for these cases ranged from 26 percent to
12 percent. Another variation was run assuming a constant oil price of US$31
per barrel of upgraded crude, where the discounted cash flow rate of return
ranged from 16 percent to 1 percent. In the most realistic case of a 100
percent increase in capital costs, a 30 percent increase in operating costs,
and a real increase in oil prices, the DCF rate of return was a satisfactory
20 percent. Although this was necessarily a preliminary analysis, it
highlights the potential for economically viable commercial production,
petrophysical conditions of the deposit permitting.
74.       Benefits and Risks of this Project.  The primary benefit of the
project would be to determine whether there is the potential for commercial
exploitation of this very large heavy oil deposit (as much as 4.8 billion
barrels of oil-in-place). On the basis of the existing information, the
prospects of commercially tapping Tsimiroro are attractive enough to warrant
the proposed exploratory drilling. This project must be considered a priority
project in the overall economic framework of Madagascar. Although it is not
directly productive, it enables the country to evaluate its hydrocarbon
potential with the ultimate possibility of achieving some domestic oil
production, thus easing the burden to the country of its annual oil imports,



- 24 -
currently valued at US$120 million. Postponing the project would only delay
the necessary acquisition of further data, which, iLf positive, couid be used
to develop needed private company interest in a subsequent stage of pilot
production. That delay could be significant, given the long gestation period
for heavy oil development, if light oil exploration is unsuccessful and th^
country has to rely on the production of heavy oil as its only source of
domestic supplies. The risks associated with the project are that the results
may be negative, i.e., that proceeding to a pilot operation and thereafter to
commercial exploitation of the deposit would not be considered viable. Given
that this project is only the first step towards the potential development of
the deposit, this must be considered a high risk project. Given the present
dependence of Madagascar on imported oil and existing information on the
Tsimiroro heavy oil accumulation, however, the potential benefits outweigh
such risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, the draft Project Agreement
between the Association and OMNIS, and the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section II of Annex III to this
Report.
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of AgreeLa nt of LhIe AssociaLlon.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION:
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Ernest Stern
Attachments
October 20, 1982



-25 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MADAGASCAR                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            587.0                                    MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     369.3                  1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     130.0       190.0     290.0  Ak             238.3                    794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          40.4        72.5      93.8                  70.5                    707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      5474.0      6785.0    8480.0  A
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    10.6         14.1      17.9                  17.5                     27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          15.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            45.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                            9.3        11.6      14.4                  27.7                     55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         15.0        18.0      22.3                  73.7                    130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             41.6        42.8      43.6                  44.8                     46.0
15-64 YRS.                            55.2         53.9      53.1                  52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       3.2         3.3       3.3                   2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  1.8         2.1       2.5/e                 2.6                      2.8
URBAN                                  4.9         5.0       5.1                   6.5                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         46.6        45.2      45.7                  46.9                     46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         27.0        21.7      18.0                  19.3                     15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.0         3.0       3.2                   3.1                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)             89.0        102.0      96.0                  89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      106.0       108.0     115.0                  90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             60.0         60.0      60.0                  52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           18.0        17.0      15.0                  17.8                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         41.0        31.3      25.4                  27.3                    20.2
IHEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        37.2        42.5      46.9                  45.8                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 ,,       177. O/c
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ''        11.0      26.0                  23.9                     27.4
URBAN                                             67.0      76.0                  55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                  .,          1.0      16.0                  18.5                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..        ..                  26.2
URBAN                                   ..        88.0        ..                  63.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..       9.0                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             8901.1      10172.4   10242.3               31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         3105.0      3353.9    3470.2                3674.9                   2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                469.0       354.4     402.3                1238.8                   1028.4
URBAN                                115.0       214.8     239.4                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                                761.0       475.3     517.9                1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          5.8       4.7
URBAN                                              5.3       5.0
RURAL                                              5.9       4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..        ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..         5.0        ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..        ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..        ..



-26 -                                      ANNEX I
Ue 2
TABL  3BA
MA DAM =X   SOCIAL INDICATOil DATA SHIRT
MADAGASCAR                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WLIIHTED AV1W0I11
- MOST RECENT ESBTMATIE
MOST RUCENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE Jb   AFRICA SOUTH Of SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH or SAHALA
EDUCATION
ADJUSIED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                52.0         88.0      94.0                  56.4                    73.7
MALE                 58.0        95.0      100.0                 70.7                     96.8
FEMALE               45.0        81.0       87.0                 50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  4.0         11.0      12.0                  10.0                     16.2
MALE                  5.0         13.0      14.0                 13.6                     25.3
FEMALE                3.0         9.0       10.0                  6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  9.0           9.0        ..                   8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            70.0        65.0      55.0                  46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                         24.0         20.0        ..                  25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..        39.0      50.0                  25.5
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.0          6.8       7.1                   2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        15.0         79.7     127.0                  32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           *.         0.5       1.5                   1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THiOUSAND POPULATION                 8.0          7.8       9.0                   2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  U.5          0.7       0.4                   1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3046.1      3619.9    4321.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  46.9         46.1      45.4                  34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              92.8        90.0      87.4                  80.0                     56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.0          3.0       3.9                   8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                55.6        53.4      51.0                  41.7                     37.2
MALE                                60.7         58.8      56.6                  54.3                     47.1
FEMALE                              50.9         48.2      45.5                  29.2                    27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8          0.9       0.9                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.0/d
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60. 17d.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5. 27id
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.07          .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     150.0                 136.0                   381.2
RURAL                               ..           ..      86.0                  84.5                    156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..     135.0                  99.1                    334.3
RURAL                               ..           ..      86.0                  61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..      50.0                  39.7
RURAL                               ..           ..      50.0                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwime noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1965-66;  /d Population;  /e Recent population growth estimate is 2.82 for 1975-79.
A  The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $350 (at 1978-80 prices) and 8714.0
thousands.
May, 1981



- 27-ANNEX I
Peas 3
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although tthe datasee dron  from  sources.generlly judged the ntntutatOesdrlabe    tsol  also be nored that'they Tay no.t beiter
nstlonal lyoonparI l I   hecaune of the  aco   of sto dardld drfloitti-  an   ooensued bydIl__en  countiesIn-ou_let                             I th  daa   The dot  are. en.e-
thrlrs.. use ful to d-solbe orders of nagoutudr,  oioute trends, and ohn--liere  or-tie salon ditff-enoe  het..n  --utni-
of the eui o               Icer    fnoe o ta  'CptalNrln70  inpor.E   ters  group  har  "tIddle  Inn.e. .tototArth          cd  ladelsttohsnhessI i                     trne
oa-uton effictlas.) .  In the referencel  groop data the anerges are populatIon  -eIghted alith-rt,   mean  for ecoh idiltatn  erd nh.-n only shee
snrty  otfhe.. ortenin. a. group has dat  fo  th't iodioatr.  Stora the  -orerge of --n-roeasogrh.todtca-or   dePed  on the a-ilbia ltly of date
an Isnt ntos   aro uth  ene--tissd in rlaIttog a-eege- of one todiot.                      t  aoter   Thr-aoerg-t uIe  ,nlyoaf t   opaing thevleo
oeirdiloator aaIn    aso..ngI   the .ontoy and referet- groape.
LAND AREA (oheu..and sq.km.)                                                                           rpl  umnclniu    e-ttl   n ,rdrrl-?plto    ttl
T-ts  - TotL1 surfare are  o-prtntug Iadnesan ld Itoatortdorhan,  nd rurel d-nide Bd hy tOter                                                         , rrn doooennh1    potosital bedsl
Agltol.oral1 - Etsiiat    f  glulua   araae  tesyorarIt'y or  pemaetly                                 antubeOnpblren  privar    geerl ad :ptysriatend hs:pitl   ed re,-
fer crops, yasoran  atakhst ad kinthen gtrde     ort  lie fa ll0;17o               aa                 tiiaurocta                 opcaaaeetbtbtn    esnol   rln
by an  u-  one phyn iron.  Etanblieh-en-  yprd-og petnoipaily o-re
GNP PIN  CAPITA (N)- GNP per oaplta  -si-..ss at oretmr    prirn   cl                                    dalr        tn ooIoudd.hRaO1 h-apu-ns  hu--r. lorlods health
nolatad by  ..m  ........o. method an Po-d .oak Atlas (1917-O   basis); 1960                           and sedloal onners. not persan.ntly eefdhaiuro    bsh
1Nt,ad 1909I dam.                                                                                  endi-ru.. nsi-ncot.nos   ncdui    et . ohihtoh offa  to-p an_maar
denro  cod pr.ride a lini-od rang  of sedioa1 fa-tlltta.  Farsais
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PIN CAPITA - annl  onoetion of  os  eoll  negy boat                                    tioal  _poey..e  I.ham  honyiltls iola.de INsprlatal geee                  pinals,
an   igie,ptrlum    aurtgaad   yrognolaeego_e,allo-ad  omihsptllaa  orrshaptlnnsdtias                                                                                               t,ent
nlntnitny       lgem    foa   qunlo    e  onytt;Ih,00.  anC           7     d ISI                      Hsnt .Naiaid hnPitl.nl  ore inoladed only unds    tonl.
date.                                                                                                Adelesitons on   Hospira' Ned - T-otu   m-e- of adnitss..nton- fienharges
Iron hMpitoan dtvudrd by the nombre of beda.
POPOLATION AND VPITAL STATISIICS
Tonal Papua.tton, Mid-tear  thlconands) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970. and 0979                       HOUSINi
data                                                                                               A-erac  Nito  of lanhol  (pornon   ye  hn od)- roo "urban, andtra-
Drban              l P.u.t...raretof, '1totol    Rltin  of urban  to totl  oultIn                      A hou...hold toonst  ofuI       r of o  Inirdiinonar    tne   quater
dtffsmsnt deioitirn   ofor an a..a  sa          Eff-o    -p-bilitty of dat                           aod their sain n-at   A hoarder or lodger say or nay not be iInclded In
among ouetrle   1960,  970, cnd 1979 dana                                                     the  oseod fo-  --ai-i-1n punysen
Population Pro) conione                                                    ~~~~~~~Average nuber of per.e  per.room -  tonal, orha, and rural - Average  a
inn life anPootany at hb-h toormaing utth  -attnyn. per o-ptta mooe-    toen  IIeonirun   frcenl of deeIlins    - ttal, urbsn, andma
1-vrl, and femal  life Inpe nan -Y-bilieing en 77.5 y--rn   The Para-                             Coonmin...uI delng    lt l         etrioty In l'ivgqetrsa
netrrn  fr fsrttlty  rats  lso  hav  three, Ooel Ian... ng deolton  in                   of to-1, orhbn  aed rura  d-limtn  re-p-otr-ly.
Inch  -ootry is then  Ialoe    o  of these nIne  -bi-ntionn  of  -ornlity                     EDUCATION
and frttytedfapojsinppas.AdOu-td EaroIunos, tatto
Snatonr  prlainInsan                    uy y               .u-conrhr  in no grooth  ito-             Plityr sohae-roa   sal  ad rema1e  - Gr .. total, sale  md female _
thebtrnhrece  Isequalth,bd-nshr-te.adelsrothenasrotor. re--e II,,lenofcIllagmscnn he.rtcnaryeIe... 1 .perc.nngs  ef r                                                       Iestt
sao 0onct       hsI   ni-vd only If---r fertility rates delto  no                                Pr imary soolas  ouaIns    osll    nldn  h eI    gdhI
therpcee_ ee   fuIt int tepre,doeitt  rate-,  hee e,oh gsernieysurs hot adj-tnd -frdffern .l.Egb h.f priaty Idu..ati-n; for
of. _se  rplor  itseif neol. Te  ntoayponateds  e                                                    nnrins nith  uiera   d-tino    -nrl..nt say emoned 101 pertont
s-n -td on the basis of the prajerntd ohontr.s. nsof the popuounirnsto  so    puIls are ben- or above the effitit1l ahel ag.
to the yea  20000, and the rate of deoline of f-rtil Ity rateno replac-                           Seo...dary arhooi- totcl  mae  utsls - Cespoted es ab-ve; secondary
sent level.                                                                e~~~~~~~~~~~~~duo-tiocrn.qotreeIt lean fou  years of approved peitary i-et-uttee;
Tea  statinoay popu1nttdn in teahed - The yea   he- onuilntay popolanton                               provides g-nerelIi.veain,ortabrrIigIstenent..s foeP yPpib
noes has been reo.hed.                                                                               usual ly of 102o  17 Years at ege; norespedeno- .--se  Itee ge..eal
Poylato   _een                                                                                             aloded.
Pee so. bin. - Mid-y.a.y.    oat       per square killmeter (100 leo-re) of                          V_otilaelnalet(Dervan t af.. Wsedr)  -Xoatna   ntlnie
totlan; 190        -90ad 1979 data.                                                                Inide   e ta, t        n dnsnrie1, er anhr program   shioh operate1 Ind.ped-
Perso.l.agrlooturellad  -   C      Iued  asahove forgnolorlai..                                Inaadrsnst    fa...ondnry lssnttunire-.
rl;11,1970 and 19798ea                                                                      hui-acbtai  -.ei....ods                   .onar- Tto1nl stnts enrolled in
Po..nlanion Age Neuour  Iperceet)    C hildrsn  (0-14 year), norlkig-age  (15-                            prImary anI    sode   eesdvddbynmeso   snesI   h
hi year), and ret Ired (65 yessad-          vr  asoeeoae           f sid-ye-t pupa-                    .ore.apending    ..s.s
lno;1960. 1970. ssd 1979 dn.Adultlttmoee   (ecn)-Lie--tedn1es  (eble so eand and  -itt.)
Poo_nlatiee Grneth lane  I..r..nt) -i-ia    ~- eol ge-th ret- of tenal  itd-                              Isaper....rags of total nIltt  populatI.on egd 15 yrers and ever.
Poynlanias ironnh Rte (percent) -  ebee-   Ana  gron1thranten  of urban pepo-                CONSUMPTION
latiton  for 19fh,196-70. and  ..9.7-9                                                            P..nsrOrs(e             tosnd prlio)-P..ss.sgee oars ...Pes    o
Crud   tth  avafea  nb .snd) An ..nsa  lire births Per tho..s..d of nid-psat                     osrsNatmgles  ba  sgh  prnna   -nludesabuse.hersan
ClopuBlntoh   1990, 1p 71t  and99dt.nlmr   niln
Crods  en.      asfa   hoad7- Annual Ideatha pee th ....nds of nid-,.ear1 adolRe-ines(  tvrhnu...ed popnlstioel - All types af ..scilver  fey radie
poultion; 1960. 1970,..ed 1979 data.                                                              broadosst  tog         Is public per thb..s.nd of pnpulstin;srden-
irs  pleprdnontin  RItn-Avnrage   nne  ofduberana    illb hea  in,                                  Inesd esoen ie In  osee  edi   srsta stsnn-ttn    ef rale
he   oslrpeun                aIao heyrlnspeetag-Pecfofe-sts  n  in effant; dens foe  ecn  psIe  nant becmrblsie
tiitny ranes  usually five-pear aveta.ges andieg in 1960, 1970, and 1979.                            mast  tariea abolIshed  lirene.ing.
Pasily Pln=ina-Aa..eplotn. An... 1(thb.....de) - datnu-  nanbem  of  -ocpsars                        TV0 tRavers (per th .....nd reenlati-   - TV ....tvses fee Ibr..dnas1t.I
of birnh-.ennrol devcsudrasle   fntna I                     fanily plann.ing reogras.                ge..ealI poblin Per thonedp.n.t.;..ldsuntees    Ireevr
rosIly Panntna-sers (rronni.o mareP..).              aonae  fmridinoutist   Infyers ehn reisteninetI   es  e   s  fet
"ese  of obild-ben-ing age (15-44 yese) e.o-us  bitrtb-nontel  deice  to                           Neesae  CIrnlno   (pee thonsan.d roenlatien)    S hem   the  --ege tIn-
all suriad eme  t  same age group.                                                                   oltios  f "oly general interest ns..sPIPnr, d.f teed esperindin
poblinanton  dend PrImaIly ne earoeding generl  oes   It Is  insder-d
POOD AND NUTRITDION                                                                                       to h  'daiy      if Irspeas at leas.t four tie  asseb
Indes of Pood Pr-duotia  Per Capita (1969-71-1007  - Indn  ef Per oapitcIa.nu..                      Cinem  A-anl Attendao- Pe Capita yet Tear - B..sd em the              oss   f
predon tio    f  l  foo-d omeils                        -1dntln nudass   snd1 fedd                   tilnbtn  sold dating the peer, intlodiog adIsions..  to detsImi  cle-a
Is  nn edrya .basin.                 timacve   primary godn  (a. g.  ugarnae                         nd mbill..its..
iossend of sugr) ibh are edible aed  -ontein   uret  (e.g.-rffas and
teaoreamnudd).  Aggesgate production of  ..o hrou..ney Is based  LnAB00  FDOtC
nainl  vnge  edce   ra  niha   161 -ho, 17,e197                97I    os                     ea   aorPes(huad)- lEenemial.ly atr   pCsn, Iscding
Per i,.n eurelr of eaarns(r __o  ofC. td tdl     lt9     1 redir19nn)    dOtsyaTtd fran           asd      Feresa and     .. unmlyd.btnn ogbnelvs)tdns   e.
energy rqotvclnnn of net food  npplies available  Incosn..nty pe   a -pita                  ~" coelgpopulatIen ef all age.. s ..eitians   In .n.r... mosete  see
per day.      I aotlhl  Iople   cas prtse     .._i does t pdunnion, inporns Iena                   non asparable; 19h6    90  n   97    sa
enpertm, and ah.,g,, In ntook.  en-  sppliten  on-lde anma   ee,seds1em                                     (Eerest -. Pt  Is  aorfee    Ipecntg              f ttsl labor  .erm.
quatini    used in food pro_Isitg,ad leasesI    I               t islna.esur-Allrtoultue reent9-Lobar, feras in farming, feresthy,bntin  ad
sea 'ter    entimatd by FA0 bae  on II  phystinlnail nee dsfee nomlatt-                        Ethn    sPenngeovtalhefrn;1960, 1t970 ned 1979 dats.
viep an d healt h toonsd-rlg  -nnla-ectaltneperanune, body eights~,, nI.duatey ,(ren..t) - Laber feree Es nittg    eseec,sefaratng
and sedsrIuieo   pul Itn  end ebonieg 10 Percen  lnasstadelorty,oerndgssyentget                                                                             nnllbefets   9
houshold Os_e; 1961-hI, 1)70, and 1977 dt.1970 and 1979 data.
Per oceite  oyPPIY of Protein (ar.ns 2erlao --y                 --vl  rr t of Psy caPita           Pa_rninteant   bate (esren)_   tonal, sae,edeml  - Patinielpentn  n
eeilsupply of food Pee day.  Nettsbpply of -food in defined as shove.  It-                         s-tinty ltens  see  -e,pnted a  tent,sle  and fesal  labn- f..ens.
qureetI foeal 1.. rutrtseIIalihbd by USDA provIde fne sinies                                   pereestagea of tonal, sale end female pepulatit"ne  alae  rspeeti,.,Y;
aolloa     of hi gene  ef total proneis yPr day nod 20 grams of atisaI aed                         1960, 1970  ad 1979 d-rs   Tbhen  ate based en tINs psettrtpattsne.s, ts
pus IpoeI,a  ehtoh 10 stin  should heab      a   ett.Thes  snd-                           reflsting age-se   Inruote-  of ebe pnpulsnte-, end long tiss trsnd.  A,
arerlmrh-nthest of 7SgrasnnoftoaprntnandL 2Rnnsef                                         fsess.ttmatnIre  fmenttnlenns
anisa  protein   I anaerg  for the eortd,P proosd by PhI In ths Thirdteot Ienen  laIn  - latin  ef population adse 15 sod h5  nd ee
World Pod Nurrey; 1961-h65  1970ad 1977 daa.t   the ntal labor fron..
Per epina.prnntn suelppyPfrom total and polar -Protein supply of fond de,-
riedfo ia_el  andplssin gen  pe  daY; 1961-65, 1970 and 1)77 dsta.                      INCOME1 DINTIBDL'IDt
Child )agaa 1-6) Mortality late(pee tlheusaud) -  rne  deahs per ehboo..ad in                         enen    of rrtvara IIoosa (both in nash and bind) - Ro-i-d by rteeI
age  group 1_4yas   oridenI   hsaegop  for semt deoeIopingn                            -5 peren, etoh-st 00 p-roes, peerest 20 yrr-t, and pooes  40 p                                  Iret
tries dato dsnivsd fros Iife  tables; 1960, 0970 aed 1979 dana.                                      of hnsbds
LI-fe toEoan-y at  iteth (ye-ra) - Anteage nusbsr of peers of life  renaIng                          The fetooegetiatsat  tr I               pt.   teneyeaore   ef poverty levels,
at birth; 1910, 1970 and 1979 data,                                                                  ad' sheldg heiteeprened ntb  --inaldrb.e  Ps"ln
Infant Mlnraity late  (per h.....ed) - Anu..ul deaths of i.f.t. under are year                       cE.itmad Absolute Proerty Ine-  Level (US$ err npita) - urban sad   -1r
of age Per thenendlie   irhs
Aresi as  aer(ecetn  yaola iths)-                  . totl,u at an     tora   - No-ntritionally  adeqoane dint pls esetialno-forquemnaIse
ly  ("'                                                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~itimated Iee ePoverty Inton   level (US$ e.. lanita) -er.ba  -andrsrl-
easr  uh as that fropotents   b-enholc   spIg , adanet-y  ells) aslRultesevepeosnty ioose leve  is one-third ofavrg peeait
PIenenge  o  the ir  e-p-nttve p.oplatien.             naIra   aren   publI                          earIscs   f  h             oney        rbnlvl  sdrved fre   te era
fe..ntae or standpot loatetd net  -ar  thn 2il .etera frn a heu-  may be                              ee.on  ad hafeeet fe   hIghrY          es  eflvigi  ur-mar1
reasoneOs strss nad ipy tha  the henasaife o  nebern.. I             hs ... l               lat1mand  PauI    tanDae  AbeusPoet  scs   eelfeene      r
do ran have to  pyndoI dispenpoetleen   yarn.   -  of the day to f-hoiog the                          n   na  -Pr  of-pap_anion  (aht  end rurl1) she are ".bseI.t.
family' seater.. neds,ee
Anoeaa-  tanrens1 Ol-asa Ipron of _aelae                   by I tal urhan   ndma   -
pentagse  the in esepeti,e p.pulattou..   tonrt  dispo... Imay isouds
lthinstaIfnih-.
,poelatien ear Physiiean  - Poyalanion dtridsd by  .asber ef pranticlng physi-                                                                                       98
elan ..u..tftd fes   sdloal  cheol an univerity level
.Pepolinerpe P    ur_ r Pro- Pepulatilon dinldd byrushe  of pr-artintg
sale  and fenal  grad acne nurses., Itr_aI In nuse, sod   aIta-  nurses



- 28 -
Pap 4
M-CU - BmO   n=lIC
GPS NATIONAL P&XTM   IN 1979                              ANNUAL RAE OF GRMUI 1/
US$ Mln.         Z              1975-79
GNP at Mariet Prices              2,768.0          100.00             1.5
Gross Ietic Investnant              619.1           22.4              4.6
GCoss n    tic Savirg               281.6           10.2            -17.5
Crreat AccEtt  alance              -434.8          -15.7              -
xports of Gbods, NFS                482.3           17.4             -7.3
Imports of Good , NFS               819.9           29.6              5.4
WIPUT 1AUR POCE AND
pFflUCTVrY IN 1979
Vale  added 2/           lWbor Force 3/         VA Per Worker
US$ ban.                 U B$ Mln                 US$ Kln      z
Aricultwre                          961.4           34.2       3.79      88.8        253.7       38.5
Industry                            551.0           19.6       0.19       4.4      2,900.0    440.2
Services                          1,134.8           40.3       0.29       6.8      3,913.1     594.0
1Urllocated                         165.9 4/         5.9
Total                             2831100.0                    4.27    100.0    -658.8  1-i-f  J
Central Goverment
Pl UBn           % of GP
1979     1980          1979    1977,-79
Current Receipts           114.1    126.3           19.1      20.1
current  pmendlitures      131.8   148.8            21.6      20.5
urraet Deficit             -17.7    -22.5          -2.5       7X.4
Capital Expenitum.          55.0   105.7             9.6       6.1
FbreiRn financirg (net)     30.9    42.3             5.2       2.8
MM, CRDIT and PRICES
1976         1977          1978           1979          1980
(MMllion  GOutstanding at the End of the Period)
Mbney and Qyssi MDney               100.2         122.0        143.0           180.6         207.8
ERck Credit to public sector         19.5          29.0         49.9           100.5        186.0
Bank Credit to state enterpriEs
and private sector                 82.2          95.8        100.7           120.6        139.2
(Peroentage or IndeK Numbers)
Mney and Quasi Moiey as Z of GDP    23.7           26.5         29.8.           30.1          -
GDP Price Deflator (1978 - 100)      88.1          93.7        100.0.8         112.9          -
nnmal percentage changes in
GDe Price Deflator                   11.4           6.4          6.7            12.9          -
Bank Credit to public sectort        58.5          48.7         72.1           100.4         85.1
Bank Credit to State enterprises
and private sector                4.8          16.5          5.1            19.8         15.4
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average echaneW rate prevailing durirg the
period comerei.
1/ Based ax 1978 prices seeries
2/ At market prices
3/ Total labour force
4/ Iaurt duties
February 4, 1982



- 29 -
Annex I
Page 5
MADAGASCAR - TRADE PAYMENT AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYNENTS                                  MERCHANDISE EXPCRTS (AVERAGE 1976-79)
1978   1979   1980 1/                                US$ mln.     %
(US$ MRilon -
Coffee                         156.1      44.8
Vanilla                          27.1       7.8
Cloves                          46.2      13.2
Meat and meat products           9.8        2.8
Exports of Goods, f.o.b.     405.5  411.8  420.7    Fish and shellfish                15.6       4.5
Tbiports of Goods, f.o.b.    404.2  674.1  723.1    Sugar                              7.3       2.1
Resource Balarnce              1.3 -262.3  302.4    Petroleun products                11.2       3.2
Chromite                        10.7        3.1
Services (net)              -144.4 -248.2 -286.8    Other cammDdities                 64.7      18.5
Freight and insurance        -81.1 -137.7 -144.3           Total                     348.7     100.0
Others                       -54.4  -87.9 -102.7
Investnnt income              -8.9  -22.6  -39.8   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Transfers (net)               60.7  70.0  72.9                                     US$ Mln.
Private                        8.4    7.0   7.1
Public                        52.3  63.0  65.8   Public Debt, imcl. guaranteed    1.035
Nan-Giaranteed Private Debt      -
Current account balance      -82.4 -440.5 -516.3    Total Outstanding & Disbursed    1.035
Direct foreign investment     -6.2   -6.6   -6.6    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 4/
Net MLT borrowing:            22.6  145.2  199.2
Disbursements               27.5  154.2    -
Awmrtization                -4.9   -9.0    -       Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   12.4
Other capital (net)2/         59.0  95.9  100.3    Nbn-Guaranteed Private Debt        -
Change in reserves             7.1  206.0  223.4   Total outstanding & Disbursed   12.4
(increase = -)
IRD/IDA LENDING, September 30, 1982
MEID ITEMS                                                                  US$ mllnion
SDR allocation                 -       4.7    4.7                          IBRD    IDA
Foreign assets (net)3/        64.0    -       -
Outstanding &
Disbursed           30.92 167.01.
RATE OF EXCHANGE     1978        1979      1980      Utxdisbursed                 143.39.
Outstanding incl.
US$1.00 = FMG       225.64     212.72    211.30        Uhdisbursed         30.92 310.40
FMG   1 = US$         0.0044     0.0047      .0047
1/ Provisional estimates frcm the Central Bank of
agascar.
2/ Includes SDR allocations, state and private
short-term capital, and errors and anissions.
3/ Net foreign assets of the banking system.
4/ Debt service paynents as % of exports of goods
and services.
February 4, 1982



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1982) 1/
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year   Borrower    Purpose                   Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Eight Credits and Five Loans
have been fully disbursed                              32.58   79.55        --
CR  506-MAG  1974   Madagascar  Village Livestock                   9.60       1.90
CR  641-MAG  1976   Madagascar  Highways IV                        22.00       8.44
CR  663-MAG  1976   Madagascar  Education II                       14.00 2/   4.66
CR  817-MAG  1978   Madagascar  Andekaleka
Hydroelectric                 43.00 3/   7.06
CR  881-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Mangoky - Agriculture!             12.00       3.71
CR  903-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Railways II                        13.00       0.94
CR  938-MAG  1979   Madagascar  Highways V                         24.00      21.18
CR  977-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Industrial Bank - BNI               5.00       4.22
CR 1002-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Water/Sanitation                   20.50      19.72
CR 1016-MAG  1980   Madagascar  Petroleum ExploratiorL             12.50       7.73
CR 1064-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Agriculture Credit                  9.33 5/   8.23
CR 1086-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Plain of Antananarivo T.A.          1.93 5/   1.85
CR 1155-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Accounting and Audit               10.08 5/   9.40
CR 1161-MAG  1981   Madagascar  Forestry II                        17.48 5/  17.48
CR 1211-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Village Livestock II 4/            13.72 5/  13.72
CR 1249-MAG  1982   Madagascar  Agriculture Institutions 4/    5.58 37   5.58
TOTAL                                32.58  313.27    135.82
of which has been repaid           1.80    5.72
TOTAL now outstanding                30.78  307.55
Amount sold
of which has been repaid
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA    30.78  307.55
TOTAL undisbursed                           135.82      135.82
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1.982)
Loan     Equity    Total
(US$ Million)
1977   Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga        11.00      0.29       11.29
1980   Bata - Shoe Manufacturing in
Antananarivo                           1.25        -        1.25
12.54
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
T/ Including a supplemental credit of US$10.0 million of 1980.
4/ Not yet effective.
5/ Computed at the September 30, 1982 exchange rate.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 1, 1982 1/
Credit No 506-MAG:      Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:  US$9.6
million credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
June 17, 1975; Closing date: December 31, 1982
The project encountered serious problems in the initial years and,
principally because of legal and organizational difficulties, little progress
was made. Following significant changes in institutional and management arran-
gements, the credit agreement was extensively amended; the Amended Agreement
became effective September 1, 1977.
The project's main situation is much improved. FAFIFAMA, the principal
project implementing agency, is well-etablished, fully staffed and operational.
implementation of the project's most important component - the development of
veterinary and livestock services for village producers - is proceeding.
After satisfactory growth and performance from 1977-80 FAFIFAMA has been
afflicted by a serious cash shortage and by management shortcomings. Part of
the cash problems have arisen because Government funds intended for the project
have been used to cover marketing losses. Financial management and reporting is
non-existent. General and technical management has deteriorated due to a hiatus
between Directors-General and the unsuitability of certain technical managers.
The animal health component has reached a plateau after initial expansion and
has been constrained by lack of products and equipment and by lack of an
adequate training program. Initial investments, recruitment and training for
expansion of the program under the follow up project are under way. The road
construction and water development services suffer severe financial and
management problems. Actions to solve the financial problems and strengthen
management were worked out with the mission and will be implemented before the
next mission. The Middle West pilot schemes continue to suffer from technical,
financial and management problems and do nothing to demonstrate the
replicability of such schemes. A second phase livestock project was approved by
the Board in February 1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
Credit No 641-MAG:      Fourth Highway Project; US$22.0 million credit of June
23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project assisted the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas with
a high agricultural potential. It also includes traiLning and strengthening of
the country's road maintenance administration. The start of the training
program for personnel in the Ministry of Public Works on highway maintenance has
been delayed due to lack of training facilities. Bids for construction of these
facilities were received and the contract has been awarded to the lowest bidder,
SARD, a local firm. Construction has begun and consultants Louis Berger have
started training 39 local instructors, utilizing some of the existing facilities
and equipment.
As of May 1982, about 75% of the project had been completed; it is
expected to be totally completed by June 30, 1984 or four years behind
schedule. This delay was induced by the then prevailing inefficiency of the
project management team prior to the appointment of the new Minister in January
1982. The Minister has put in place a new management: team, and the project
performance has started to improve. Disbursement which was very slow has also
started to improve following the shortening of administrative procedures.
Despite the delay in implementation, the project is still within estimated costs
and available financing.
Credit No 663-MAG:      Second Education Project; US$14.0 million of December 10,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project is designed to assist the Government in decentralizing the
educational system and to improve the quality of basic education. It comprises
construction, furnishing and equipping of five Regional Education Centers (RECs)
including vehicles for the inspectorate, and a Teach:Lng Materials Production
Center, including related technical assistance. Norway took 50 percent
participation in the project under an agreement signed on December 16, 1977.
Construction work on two of the RECs has been completed and in the
remaining three is fairly advanced. The furniture and equipment for these
centers is in the procurement stage. The Teaching Materials Production Center
has been completed, most of the equipment is in place, and operations have
begun. An expansion of the center for establishing a print shop, to be fully
financed by the Government, is under way. Bids are being sought for equipment
for this shop, which is part of the project. Two ke, technical advisors for the
Center, provided under contract with the Organization for Rehabilitation through
Training (ORT), started their work in the country in September 1977. In
addition, several specialists under the contract have served in Madagascar in
short term specific assignments. In order to ensure ORT assistance during the
initial operations of the printshop, expected to take place in mid-1983, and to



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
complete other project components, in March 1981 the Government requested a
two-year postponement of the Credit Closing Date from December 31, 1981 to
December 31, 1983. In October 1981, the Bank approved a one-year postponement
to December 31, 1982.
Credit No 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$43.0 million credit
of June 19, 1978 (including a Supplementary Credit of
US$10 million of May 8, 1980); Date of Effectiveness:
May 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project would meet the growth in electricity demand until 1992 in
the Antananarivo area and provide for strengthening of JIRAMA, concrete divers-
ion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel, underground power house, tail-
race and access tunnels; two turbines and two generators; electrical and
mechanical equipment; a transmission line to Antananarivo; engineering services;
preliminary investigation and design for a storage reservoir; and technical
assistance and training for JIRAMA staff. The project was successfully completed
in June 1982.
Credit No 881-MAG:      Mangoky Agricultural Development Project; US$12.0 million
credit of May 17, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  March 11,
1980; Closing Date: August 31, 1984
The project supports the development of about 3,700 ha for production
of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families. It will complete an
irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower Mangoky Valley which has
been under development since the early 1960s. These investments are based on a
long-term master plan for the region which aims ultimately to bring about
100,000 ha of land into production. The project will be implemented over a
five-year period amd will comprise: development of irrigation and drainage
networks, and road infrastructure for 3,300 ha including production of concrete
canal segments; improvement of water supply for about 400 ha of traditional rice
fields; consultant services for design and supervision; applied agricultural
research; social infrastructure; training and project preparation for agricul-
ture and rural development projects. IFAD is financing about 25 percent of the
total project cost.
Project implementation has been seriously delayed due to problems with
(i) supply of equipment and spare parts caused by foreign exchange allocations,
and (ii) weak technical management of SAMANGOKY. These factors have had a
negative impact on the progress of civil works, in particular, the manufacture
of concrete canal elements and have resulted in slow payments for works thus
affecting severely SAMANGOKY's financial situation. Completion of civil works
as scheduled has become highly unlikely. To address these difficulties, the



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
joint IDA credit and IFAD loan agreement have been amended to permit
disbursement for foreign exchange expenditures of equipment and spare parts, and
technical supervision has been intensified. Agricultural production has also
been low because of poor management of the irrigation scheme. This further
aggravated the company's precarious financial situation.
A financial audit has been conducted under the PPF for the Agricultural
Institutions Technical Assistance Project which has clarified SAMANGOKY's
financial situation and resulted in the introduction of improved accounting
practices; in addition a financial plan was prepared for the remainder of the
implementation period. IDA staff are currently pursuing a dialogue with the
Government on this plan. Technical assistance is also envisaged to provide
support for improving agricultural management.
Credit No 938-MAG:      Fifth Highway Project; US$24.0 million credit of July 30,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: March 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is intended to arrest the deterioration of the paved highway
network in order to reduce transport costs and, where possible, avoid costly
reconstruction works. It also includes construction of bridges on the
Antsohihy-Ambanja road and provision to increase the maLntenance capacity of the
Ministry of Public Works. Co-financing is provided by a European Economic
Community Special Action Account credit of US$10 million.
As of May 1982, the project was 20% completed andl is scheduled to be
totally completed by June 1984, or about 1 1/2 years behind schedule. The delay
was induced by the then prevailing inefficiency of the project management team
prior to the appointment of the new Minister in January 1982. The Minister has
put in place a new management team, and the project's performance has started to
improve. Disbursement also has improved following the shortening of
administrative procedures. As a result of this delay and further deterioration
of the paved roads, the cost of the project has increased by about 27%.
The Public Works Department is reviewing the equipment list to adjust it
to available financing. Since the Government lacks funds, only about 10%
of budget funds for road maintenance stipulated under the Credit Agreement
has been allocated in FY82.
Credit No 903-MAG:      Second Railway Project; US$13.0 million credit of June
25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 7, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
The objectives of the project are to help the Malagasy railway company
renew and modernize its facilities, improve the reliability and efficiency of
its operations and improve its financial management and accounting methods. Thfi
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique provided US$20.5 million in
co-financing.



- 35 -
ANDTEX II
Page 6 of 9
Following the major difficulties experienced by the Railway in early 1981
(increased derailments, maintenance, procurement and operations planning
problems, resulting in a substantial decrease in carrying capacity) a recovery
program was adopted in May 1981 jointly with the French CCCE that included
short-term technical assistance and credit reallocation.
However, due to the critical financial situation of the railways and
non-compliance with major financial covenants, and although the project was
almost fully disbursed (about $850,000 undisbursed balance), the Association
suspended disbursement in June 1982. Since June a satisfactory financial
recovery program has been drafted and approved by Government, the Railway has
been created as a State Enterprise with financial autonomy, new statutes have
been decreed and a financial director has been appointed. A new organizational
chart has also been approved and is being forwarded to IDA. Remaining steps to
be taken before disbursements can be resumed include agreement of foreign
suppliers on the rescheduling of the railways' debt and a tariff increase, which
has "in principle" been approved by Government.
Credit No 977-MAG:      Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) Project; US$5.0 million credit
of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: February 24,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project supports Madagascar's industrial sector and BNI's crucial
development role by providing BNI with part of its foreign exchange requirements
to finance projects in the artisanal/small-scale and medium-scale enterprise
sectors and by strengthening BNI itself through technical assistance. To date
about US$1.4 million of the credit has been committed for medium- and
large-scale enterprises. However, the pace of commitment of funds for small
scale enterprises is slower, owing to the low ceiling (US$55,000) set for
eligibility under this category..
Credit No 1002-MAG:    Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project; US$20.5
million Credit of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
December 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project will increase access to treated water for the Antananarivo
urban population and improve sanitation conditions. Detailed designs of the
water supply works has been completed and tender documents have been issued.
Detailed design of the sanitation component was completed in May 1982.
Construction work on the water supply component will commence as soon as bid
evaluation is completed and the contract awarded.
Credit No 1016-MAG:    Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project; US$12.5 million
Credit of May 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project supports the Government's efforts to develop a domestic
supply of hydrocarbons and improve planning of the energy sector. Implementa-
tion of the project is progressing satisfactorily. Geological and legal consul-



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
tants were employed to assist the Government in preparing data with a view to
promoting exploration by interested oil companies. Bids from oil companies to
undertake exploration have now been received and four exploration contracts have
been signed with Mobil, Occidental Petroleum, Agip and Amoco. Other studies,
technical assistance, and training provided in the project are proceeding
satisfactorily, including a second round of bidding for exploration acreage and
preparation of the project to study the feasibility of exploiting the
Tsimiroro heavy oil deposits.
Credit No 1065-MAG:    National Bank for Rural Development (BTM) Project;
US$11.5 million Credit of January 7, 1981; Date of
Effectiveness: August 17, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project supports the extension of seasonal, medium-term, and
long-term credit to smallholders through the National Bank for Rural Development
(BTM) for the purchase of improved seeds, pesticides, insecticides, fertilizers,
and small farm equipment. Due to poor repayment records on many loans extended
under the collective guarantee credit scheme (FMR) EITM has suspended the FMR
scheme in many regions. This action has resulted in a significant drop in
lending activity. Consequently, BTM has been able to use only a small amount of
Project funds as it has only marginally exceeded the base period level necessary
to qualify for reimbursement from the IDA Credit. In addition, due to the
scarcity of foreign exchange, few inputs are available in Madagascar. To help
remedy the current situation, BTM has proposed that part of the Credit be used
to finance fertilizer imports destined for smallholders in selected rice growing
areas. These fertilizers would provide farmers with inputs and would support
lending operations directed to individuals rather than through cooperatives.
The details of this proposal have been finalized and approved by the
Association. Fertilizers should be ordered shortly.
Credit No 1086-MAG:    Plain of Antananarivo (Technical Assistance) Project;
US$2.3 million Credit of January 30, 1981; Date of Effec-
tiveness: October 16, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1983.
The project supports the Government's efforts to institute a
multisectoral approach to an integrated flood control and development program
for the Plain of Antananarivo area; it would also contribute to strengthening
the coordinating role of the Directorate General of Planning of the Ministry of
Finance in the development of the Plain of Antananarivo. This would be achieved
through pre-investment studies to define options for flood control programs and
to provide Government with elements for decision-making. A contract has been
awarded and work began in early 1982. Measures have been taken by the
Directorate of Plan to improve Project supervision and inter-Ministerial
coordination of development programs in the Plain.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Credit No 1155-MAG:    Audit and Accounting Project; US$11.5 million Credit of
June 11, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: May 6, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1988.
The project includes measures to develop a suitable legislative frame-
work for the accounting and auditing sector and aims to increse the level of
expertise in these professions through training. Consultants have been retained
to start the design of the training programs. Government legislation providing
for the creation of the training center has been enacted.
The resignation of the Accounting School (CFC) Director due to illness
and his replacement by CEGIR has delayed the project by about one month. We
have reviewed architectural plans to make some modifications to the rented
school premises and have made suggestions about the equipment lists.  It may be
difficult to buy much of the furniture in Madagascar. The CEGIR team has been
in place since June and has established a work program.  However, it will be
difficult to open the school in October as planned although it could open in
early 1983. Current issues concern:
(i) the academic level of students who wish to attend the school.  More
information should be available from the results of the entry exams. The
student level will have an impact on the first year teaching program as a year
of upgrading may be necessary;
(ii) as the CFC is under the Ministry of Economy, there are no special
funds for scholarships as is common in professional shools. Students will be
allowed to address their needs to Government's scholarship services; and
(iii) the performance of the CEGIR team so far has been good. CEGIR
(Canada) has given considerable assistance which, inter alia, allowed for the
rapid replacement of the first CFC director.
Credit No 1161-MAG:      Second Mangoro Forestry Project, US$20.0 million Credit
of October 29, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: July 1,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will continue the reforestation program begun under the first
project, and will assist the Government's efforts to establish a forestry
industrial complex in the Mangoro Valley. Recent studies have shown that forest
yields will be lower than previously estimated.
The project unit has requested consultant assistance to verify these
disappointing results and determine their causes. The plantation programs have
also been scaled down. Studies are currently under way to determine the most
appropriate industrial development for the wood resources available.  They have
already shown that, due to high investment costs and the depressed world market



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
situation for wood products, most export oriented industrial options show poor
financial and economic returns. The Malagasy are concerned that the project
should generate its own foreign exchange, at least to cover the debt service for
the first Mangoro Project (repayments begin in 1984) and some officials still
support the idea of a large TPA pulpmill for which Mangoro's wood resources are
insufficient. In a recent meeting with the Malagasy, FAO/UNDP and the
consultants carrying out the industrial studies, it was agreed that further
studies would examine the options of pelletizing or charcoaling the wood, which
would substitute in part for oil imports, and export of wood chips, e.g., to the
Japanese pulpmill industry. At the request of the Malagasy Government,
consultants are preparing a prospectus for a smaller kraftmill (75,000 TPA)
even though kraftmills are expensive (US$444 million for the 75,000 TPA)
and show low financial and economic rates of return.
Credit No 1211-MAG:   Second Village Livestock Project; US$15.0 million credit
of April 15, 1982; Expected Date of Effectiveness:
February 26, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The Project would support the Government's efforts to increase beef
production and to improve the productivity of the sector through animal health
programs, the provision of veterinary inputs, technical assistance and
research. In Mahajanga province, basic animal health programs would be
continued and extended, and a pilot animal production program, supported by
rural road and water supply components, would be impleamented. Veterinary
supplies and equipment for producing vaccines would be imported; and management
assistance and training for key institutions in the lLvestock sector would be
included. Anticipating effectiveness shortly, recruitment and training of
personnel, construction, and procurement of equipment have been initiated under
the ongoing project.
Credit No 1249-MAG:      Agricultural Institutions Teclnical Assistance
Project; US$5.7 million credit of May 28, 1982;
Expected Date of Effectiveness: February 16, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project aims to assist the Government through technical assistance in
identifying action programs to rehabilitate specific aspects of the agricultural
sector and to foster institution building in the sector and improve investment
planning and policies. To that end, a series of special studies would be
undertaken covering, inter alia, the rice sector and management audits would be
carried out for selected major parastatals in the sector. With funds under the
PPF Government has appointed a consulting firm to initiate some of the studies
and preparation is underway for the start of the remaiLning project activities.
The credit is not yet effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
MADAGASCAR
TSIMIRORO HEAVY OIL EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I   -   Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:            12 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                      Government and IDA
(c)  Initial discussion with IDA:              May 1981
(d)  Appraisal                                 September 1981
(e)  Negotiations completed:                   September 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:            December 1982
Section II  -   Special IDA implementation action:
None
Section III -   Special Conditions:
(a) A condition for effectiveness of the IDA credit would be the
signature of cofinancing (para. 65).
(b) OMNIS would submit to IDA for approval the initial drilling program
and any subsequent proposals for changes in well locations (para. 60).
(c) A condition for disbursing funds for the Tsimiroro pilot plant
engineering study and the upgrading study would be that the results of
the drilling and testing program confirm, to the satisfaction of OMNIS
and the Association, that these further studies are warranted
(para. 61).
(d) The proceeds of the sale of data on the Tsimiroro deposit collected
during project implementation would be kept by OMNIS in a special
account and used for further petroleum exploration (para. 63).



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 8
MADAGASCAR
TSIMIRORO HEAVY OIL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Geological and Technical Aspects
Background on Heavy Oil
1.       The most important deposits of crude oil, those which furnish the
bulk of the world's production, are the free-flowing light oils which are
easily producible and transportable. The "light oils" have specific gravity
ranges of around 30 degrees API up to 46 degrees API on the standard industry
scale (developed by the American Petroleum Institute). It is this group of
crudes which give the most desirable suite of refined products and hence
command the highest prices. In addition there is a large number of producing
operations for middle gravity crudes in the 20 degrees to 30 degrees API
range. A third category of crude oil is "heavy oil"' of less than 20 degrees
API. Locked up in various tight reservoirs around the world are large
undeveloped deposits of such low gravity, high visccosity crude oils and other
bitumens. If successfully tapped, these could contribute significantly to the
world's fuel supply. Some heavy oil fields have in fact been producing oil of
less than 20 degrees API gravity routinely from natural flow and pumping
wells, but because of technical difficulties, lower production rates per well
and higher costs much of the heavy oil has remained in the ground. Also
contributing to this situation are economic conditions: generally the value of
crude oil on the world market decreases by something like 50 cents per barrel
for each lower degree of gravity. Thus, 18 degrees API oil might bring US$10
less per barrel than 38 degrees or 40 degrees API crude.
2.       In recent years, however, new engineering techniques have been
developed which, in combination with the higher prices now in force for crude
oil (as compared to several years ago) permit exploiting commercially a number
of heavy oil deposits which have not, heretofore, been producible by
conventional methods. Among these techniques are various thermal recovery
methods, such as steam injection and in-situ combustion, both of which are
designed to reduce the viscosity of the oil to a movable state capable of
being pumped from the reservoir.
3.       Canada is a leading developer of thermal recovery methods, having
several commercial production projects in operation for 15 degree to 18 degree
API oil and at least two dozen pilot plants. Commercial production of heavy
oil is also taking place in California, Texas, Lousiana and Arkansas.
Venezuela has exceptionally large volumes of heavy crude and has six or more
thermal plants in operation. Elsewhere, Romania and the USSR are producing by
thermal methods.



- 41 -                        ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 8
4.       A typicaL project can be expected to require a preliminary pilot
plant to test production using thermal recovery techniques in order to
demonstrate the technical and economic justification for a full-scale
project. Such a pilot plant would typically cost from US$20 to US$30 million
for the smallest practical plant and require two to three years to get into
operation. If the pilot plant is successful, the fuil-scale production plant
to foLlow would require three to four additionai years to develop.  Thus it
would normally require some seven to ten years from start of initial work in
the field to reach full production rates.
Tsimiroro Heavy Oil
5.       Madagascar has a large known heavy oil deposit at Tsimiroro in the
northeast part of the country (related geologically to the deposit at
Bemolanga where the oil is at the surface in the form of bitumen, or tar
sands)l/. A number of wells previously drilled over the past 60 years have
more or less defined the extent of the deposit, but the data from these wells
are insufficient to determine the potential for commercial development.
Moreover, the prospective sands are erratic and discontinuous, and the area is
cut by igneous dikes. To calculate the amount of oil in place one engineering
firm assumed an area of 440 sq km (less than half of the Tsimiroro horst
area), an average thickness of 25 m of impregnated sand and an oil content by
weight of 4 to 6 percent. This gives an order of magnitude of 1 to 1.5
billion tons (six to nine billion barrels) of heavy oil-in-place. If recovery
should be no more than 10 to 15 percent, there is potential for 500 million to
1 billion barrels recoverable. Another study (by the D&S Group of Calgary)
gave 4.8 billion barrels in-place over the total Tsimiroro area, or 2.8
billion in the "Southern Best" part alone. Of this 2.8 billion in the more
restricted "best" part, they calculate that perhaps 840 milLion barrels would
be recoverable (30 percent) by thermal stimulation. These two estimates are
not far apart. They show that if such production could be established, 75,000
barrels per day could be produced for 30 years. A certain percentage of the
oil produced (perhaps up to 30 percent) would have to be dedicated to steam
generation and other operating requirements.
Geology of the Tsimiroro Area
6.       The rocks of the Tsimiroro area are made up of detrital formations of
the Karroo system, a series of sandstones, siltstones and shales of Permo-
Carboniferous, Triassic, and Early Jurassic age.  This series is very
widespread across southern Africa and in Madagascar represents the oldest
sedimentary formations, lying on the crystalline and metamorphic basement.
Its total thickness reaches 6,000 to 8,000 m, but in the Tsimiroro area of
interest its thickness ranges from about 1,200 to 2,500 m. The formations dip
westward and thick sections of younger sediments overlie the Karroo between
Tsimiroro and the Mozambique Channel.
/ The Tsimiroro deposit is located 270 km WNW of Antananariro and 100 km east
of Maintirano the port of the west coast.



- 42 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 8
7.       The Karroo is divided into a number of different formations.  The
main subdivisions in the Tsimiroro area are, from top to bottom:
-    Clays and sandstones interbedded; discont-inuous; containing poor oii
shows.
-    Makara shale.
-    The Isalo II Formation:  Amboloando sandstone; some clay and shale
beds; cross-bedded; fine to medium grained; best oil shows; lignitic
basal shales.
-    The Isalo I Formation:  Shales, sandstones, conglomerates;
fluviatile deposits; discontinous beds; some oil shows in upper
sands.
-    Sakamena Formation:  Black, hard shale.
8.        The oil shows of particular interest for possible production are
those of the Amboloando sand of the lower part of the Isalo II and the sands
at the top of the Isalo I. The top of the Anboloando sands in this area lies
at a depth ranging from about 75 to 300 m below the surface. The sands are
fine to medium grained, well sorted, with high mica content and kaolin or
calcareous cement. They are in part lenticular, with variegated shale layers
from a few centimeters to a few meters thick. The sands show cross-bedding
characteristic of fluviatiLe deposits, likely braided streams in a widespread
delta plain. The formation thins from NW to SE, showing a probable source of
sediments to the northwest. Near the north end of Tsimiroro, one of the
Chevron wells had nearly 140 m of the Amboloando sandstone formation, whereas
wells to the south have only about 75 m. These are gross thicknesses; the net
sand thickness with oil is probably less than half. Effective porosity is
about 20 percent but often less because of kaolin cement. Permeability is
generally low, perhaps averaging 250 millidarcys, a figure which is quite
satisfactory for light oil production but is too lowq for heavy oil to flow out
freely.
9.        Below the main Amboloando sand, the basal shale is nonprospective
but the underlying sands of the top Isalo I frequently have oil shows of
interest and can be considered a secondary objective.
10.       The source of the oil is unknown.  Various analyses made for, the
nearby Bemolanga tar sands area show that the IsaLo shales themselves are not
source rocks. Tsimiroro is part of the same formation extended laterally and
buried a few hundred meters. Some studies have shown that the underlying
Sakamena has source rock characteristics. Even though specific sourcebeds
cannot be pinpointed, the undisputed abundance of oil in place is proof enough
that they exist or have existed in past geologic time.
11.       StructuralLy, the Tsimiroro area is a long NNW-trending horst block,
i.e., an uplifted zone bounded by faults. The horst is cut by numerous



43                           ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 8
crossfaults which complicate the structure and divide it into panels. There
are at least two culminations, the highest of which is in the southern part of
the structure. The OMNIS seismic survey of 1979 shows that the west flank
dips westward fairly regularly with only minor faulting and undulation, but
the east flank has a more pronounced stair-step aspect down to the east. The
displacement of some faults is over 150 m. Faulting occured early, affecting
the Pre-lsalo sedimentation. These faults were rejuvenated in Isalo I time,
with the Isalo II then being deposited on a peneplained surface. There was
some minor faulting after Isalo II deposition.
12.       The Tuimiroro horst and the surrounding country is cut by a network
of igneous dikes which are impermeable and which might impede oil
production. They were intruded from a subsurface source of molten rock after
the sediments were lithified. The dikes range in thickness from a few
centimeters to several meters and extend laterally for variable distances,
from a few hundred meters to several kilometers. Some dikes appear in wells
but do not reach the surface. Calculations show that in the northern part of
the Tsimiroro horst area, the density of dikes is about 5 km per sq km,
whereas to the south the density is only about 1.7 km per sq km. The area is
thus compartmentalized by these igneous walls, which along with their
metamorphosed contact zones would serve as barriers to fluid migration in any
production operations. Nevertheless, individual panels are large enough to
permit the testing program as proposed.
13.       Wells drilled in the area range in depth from 284 to 1,200 m on the
crest of the horst, with the prospective target formation lying at depths of
75 to about 400 mi.  On the west and east flanks, wells have been drilled to
2,529 m and 2,513 m respectively. The west flank well had no shows
(apparently the only well in the whole area which did not have any shows), and
the east flank well had only minor shows. Some of the best oil shows have
been in structurally high wells, but not every high well has had good shows.
Thus well CDT-1, the area's structurally highest, has weaker and thinner oil
impregnations than BLT-3 situated 3 km west and 140 m downdip. The same
observation applies to TS-1 which has good oil shows in a structurally low
position as contrasted with TS-2 which is higher but with poorer shows. These
variations may be caused by different cementation of the sandstone bed or by
faults separating the wells. The key to the optimum accumulation of oil in
the reservoirs obviously is not yet known. The ten-well program under the
proposed project is designed for further testing near the best shows known so
far and in the thickest Amboloando sand sections.
Tsimiroro Exploration History
14.       The Tsimiroro deposit has been under lease to oil companies most of
the time since 1902.  Here, in an area about 70 km long, siome 35 wells were
drilled between 1909 and 1974. Many of these were only shallow test holes.
Most of the older wells were drilled near surface oil seeps without specific
reference to structural conditions. Later wells, after 1953, were based on
geological and geophysical studies which showed the outlines, if not the
detail, of the subsurface structural conditions.



ANNEX IV
- 44 -                       Page 5 of 8
15.       The first wells were drilled at Folakara, near the center of the
Tsimiroro area, from 1909 to 1913 by the British company, Madagascar Oil
Development Co., Ltd., and drilling was continued until 1917 by the Betsiriry
Proprietary Fields Folakara. Some of the Folakara wells initially produced as
much as nine barrels per day of an oil-water mixture. From 1913 to 1917, the
Sakalava Madagascar Proprietary Fields Ltd. drilled five wells at Moraboaly,
at the southern end of the trend. All these wells were drilled near surface
seepages.
16.       Beginning in 1922 a systematic geological and structural study was
undertaken, first by the Service des Mines and then by the Syndicat d'Etudes
et de Recherches Petrolieres (SERP). This work led to wells Tsimiroro-1 and
Tsimiroro-2 in 1936-37, which found strongly impregnated sandstone beds
between 186 m and 250 m depth which gave an initial flow of 2,500 cubic meters
of gas per day and 400 liters of oil (equal to 87,500 cubic feet of gas per
day and about 2.5 barrels of oil per day). The well is reported to have
continued to pump oil at the rate of three to four barrels per day for several
years. Ten years later, tests produced oil at the rate of one-half barrel per
day for nine months. In 1938 and 1939 four other structures on the trend were
drilled by SERP.
17.       Exploration was interrupted by World War II but resumed in 1946.
During the next two years the Service des Mines in looking for road bitumen
drilled T-3 and T-4, each of which produced some oil but never more than two
barrels per day. In 1948 to 1951, it undertook to dig a vertical shaft 2.2 m
wide on a site near the No. 1 and 2 wells. The shaft was 145 m deep and
penetrated an impregnated zone between 126 m and 135 m depth. A horizontal
gallery 32 m long was dug in this bed for the purpose of draining the oil by
gravity flow into the central pit.  In one month, only about 650 liters of oil
were produced, about one tenth of a barrel per day, along with four times that
much water.
18.       Beginning in 1953, the Societe des Petroles de Madagascar (SPM)
undertook geological and geophysical studies which led to the 1959-60 drilling
of 7 wells: BLT-1, 2 and 3, CD-1, CDM-1 and 2, and MRB-1. ALL of these wells
except BLT-1 had oil shows; some pumped a little oil but always with fresh
water contamination.
19.       In 1974 Chevron, as operator for a group, drilled nine appraisal
wells, called coreholes although only limited coring was done, spread along
the northern two thirds of the Tsimiroro trend. Valuable stratigraphic and
petrographic data were obtained and a number of heavy oil impregnations were
logged, but unfortunately it appears that no tests were made. Thus, the data
are incomplete in terms of establishing the productive potential of the
deposit.
20.       Finally, in 1978 OMNIS undertook a seismic survey for which the
French geophysical company CGG was operator. The grid of about 10 km spacing
was sufficiently close to give a good structural picture of an elongated (N-S)
horst block bounded by and cut by numerous faults, but it was insufficiently
detailed to indicate stratigraphic continuity with any precision.



ANNEX IV
- 45                                  Page 6 of 8
The Proposed Project and Future Stages of Heavy Oil Development
21.       The proposed project consists of the preliminary phase in assessing
the commerciality of this large heavy oil deposit. It would involve the
drilling and testing of ten wells with an average depth of 1,000 feet in the
potential oil-bearing sandstones throughout the Tsimiroro area. The ten-well
program is the minimum reasonable to identify any thick zones of highly
impregnated reservoir. Well locations would be somewhat flexible, and the
location of later wells could be changed depending on results of earlier
wells. All wells will be drilled through the Amboloando sandstone formation
(Isalo II), which is the main horizon of interest and found at depths of 1,200
feet or less. The program calls for the coring of all potential oil-bearing
formations in each well in order to have full representative samples for
complete analyses of the reservoir properties and fluids. The wells would be
logged using conventional electrical logging methods and equipment. If
warranted, the wells would be cased and cemented with special heat resistant
cement so that they could later be used for steam injection. Testing would be
done through perforations in the casing over the zones of interest. Tubing
would be run below the perforated interval to allow for the swabbing and
pumping of the fluids. If feasible, pressure transient tests would be run to
outline reservoir boundaries and obtain in situ transmissibility. The logs
and test data would be sent to laboratories overseas for full analysis to
determine which zones of the deposit, if any, are potentially productive--the
prime objective of this project.
22.       If the results of the project warrant, a subsequent pilot project,
actually testing production under steam flooding, would then be considered.
Again, if the pilot stage was successful, the operation could be expanded to a
commercial level. If produced, the oil would probably be of 15 degree to 17
degree API gravity. Hence it would need to be upgraded for ease in transport
and to achieve a higher quality product, most likely for export.
Economics of Heavy Oil Production
23.       The consultants, D & S, undertook a preliminary analysis of the
economics of heavy oil production in Madagascar by adapting a recent study of
a similar oil project in Alberta, Canada. The analysis assumes: (a) a
drilling program of 156 wells and construction of central and satellite
support and oil-gathering facilities; (b) actual field production of 7500 BD,
which after steam generation and utility demand would yield 5000 BD of crude
for ultimate sale; (c) a 25-year project life with construction and drilling
beginning in 1990; (d) investment in full upgrading facilities (using the H-
oil process to upgrade oil quality); and (e) construction of a pipeline to
Madagascar's west coast. D & S has made assumptions regarding the level of
reserves, oil quality and production potential of Tsimiroro based on its
analysis of existing data. These are outlined in the table below and compared
with the characteristics of the Alberta deposit used in the base study. (In
fact, the characteristics of the Tsimiroro deposit may be slightly more
favorable.) The costs of the production module as adapted to the reservoir
and oil characteristics of Tsimiroro are then estimated and compared with



- 46 -                               ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 8
those of the Alberta project. All cost data in the table below is in mid-1982
US dollars and assumes construction in Alberta.
Table 1
Heavy Oil Mini-Project In-situ Operations
Comparative Factors
Alberta        Tsimiroro*
In-Place Resource, 109 m3                                         2           0.77
Depth Below Surface, m                                          600            300
Gravity,   API                                             13 to 18             14
Viscosity, MPa-s                                    5 x 102 to 104         5 x 103
Pay Thickness, m                                             2 to 8             20
In-Place Reserves/Well, x 1,000 m3                         40 to 80            120
Well Producing Life, Years                                       10               8
Initial Maximum Well Rate
(Thermal Recovery), m3/d                              8 to 10              20
Recoverable Reserves per Well, x 1,000 m3                  20 to 40             60
Production Module:
(a) No of Wells in Mini-project
Field Module                                        50 to 100             156
(b) Mini-project Surface Facility
Sustained Design Rate m3/d                        500 to 1000             800
(c)  Initial Capital, x 106 (US$ 1981)                           48             57
(d)  Unit Capital Investment, x 103 US$/m3/d                     80             71
(e) Annual Operating and Replacement
Well Costs, x 106 (US$ 1981)                                13             15
(f)  Annual Production, x 103 m3                                300            290
(g) Annual Unit Operating and Well
Replacement Costs, US$/m3                                   42             53
(h)  Transportation & Upgrading Cost, $/m3                       60             39
(i)  Manpower No.                                         50 to 100             75
*  Cost figures based on assumption that construction would take place in
Alberta.
24.       The total capital and operating cost of the production module, as
designed for Tsimiroro but based on construction in Alberta, was estimated at
US$290 million (mid-1982 dollars). Revenues from the upgraded crude were
calculated based on the Bank's projected oil prices in constant 1981 dollars
(which assumes a 2-2.5 percent p.a. real growth rate). Then, a sensitivity
analysis was run using different cost factors to convert capital and operating
costs based on construction in Alberta to those based on construction in
Madagascar. The total analysis was done in constant 1981 dollar terms. Nine
cases were run, escalating capital costs by 50 percent, 100 percent and
150 percent and operating costs by 30 percent, 50 percent and 100 percent.
The range of results are summarized below:



ANNEX IV
- 47 -                              Page 8 of 8
Table 2
Capital Cost      Operating Cost             DCF
Case                  Factor             Factor          Rate of Return
1.  (Most Optimistic)             1.5                1.3                  26
2.  (Most Realistic)              2.0                1.3                  20
3.  (Variation on Most            2.0                2.0                  15
Realistic)
4.  (Most Pessimistic)            2.5                2.0                  12
25.       The results of this analysis range from a DCF rate of return of 26
percent for the most optimistic case to 12 percent for the most pessimistic.
Taking the most realistic case, i.e. increasing capital costs by a factor of 2
and operating costs by a factor of 1.3, the rate of return is a satisfactory
20 percent. Another sensitivity analysis was run based on a constant oil
price of US$31 per barrel. In that variation, the DCF rate of return is
acceptable at 16 percent for the most optimistic case, marginal at 10 percent
for the most realistic case, and unacceptably low for the two other cases
(4 percent and 1 percent respectively).
26.       This analysis, though hypothetical at this still early stage in the
development of information on the Tsimiroro deposit, indicates that if the
production potential of the Tsimiroro deposit under enhanced recovery methods
could be established, then the outlook is reasonably favorable that commercial
production would be economically viable.



- 48 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
MADAGASCAR
TSIMIRORO HEAVY OIL EXPLORATION PROJECT
Glossary of Geologic Terms
Source Rock: Those sedimentary rock formations which are either known or
thought to have retained the organic debris which under conditions
of burial (heat, pressure and time) are transformed into either oil
or gas; usually shale (compacted clay) or fine grained carbonate
(limestone).
Reservoir Rock: Those rock formations which have retained after burial
sufficient porosity and permeability (pore! space connections) to
contain fluids; either oil, gas or water.
lrap: A barrier to the migration of fluids through a reservoir rock; may
result from structural movement or lateral change in reservoir
characteristics.
Reef: A build-up of carbonate rocks (limestone or dlolomite) consisting of a
particular assemblage of organic skeletal material formed in warm,
nonturbid seas; following burial forms a unique type of reservoir
and trap.
Diapir, diapiric: A flowage of plastic sedimentary rocks, usually salt or
undercompacted shales (those which retain a high fraction of
formation water relative to depth of burial), caused by an inversion
in the specific gravity of rocks with depth (light below heavy);
diapiric relates to structuring developed when diapirs are present
or to the cause of the diapir, i.e., diapiric shale.
Facies: Descriptive of sedimentary rocks of a common composition deposited in
a particular manner; may apply to both general and/or specific
conditions of deposition.
Anticline: A term indicating a discrete positive (high) closure, usually an
upward arching of sediments caused by compressional forces within
the earth; often used to denote any type of positive closure which
may be the result of drape over buried topography or residual
structure bounded by areas of negative closure (syncline); with
regional or nondiscrete postive closures, the term arch is more
common.



ANNEX V
Page z o
- 49
Horst (Horst Block): A fault bounded structurally high block in which
movement involved crystalline basement rock as well as overlying
sedimentary rocks.
Graben (trough): A fault bounded structurally low block in which movement
involves crystalline basement rock as well as overlying sedimentary
rocks; grabens are normally associated with and adjacent to horsts.
Rift: Similar to graben except used on a more regional scale such as rift
system when associated grabens and minor intervening horsts are
included in the overall rift (system).
Unconformity: A surface of divergence in the attitude between an underlying
and overlying sequence of sedimentary rocks caused by structural
movement and/or a change in the character of the depositional
environment of the overlying sediments or involving a hiatus in
deposition and a period of erosion of the underlying sediments.
Transgression: The invasion of the sea (introducing a marine environment of
deposition) over an existing sub-aerial surface caused either by
subsidence or a worldwide rise in sea level; sediments deposited
during transgression are called a transgressive facies and tend to
be widespread in extent.
Progradation: The deposition of sediments in a seaward direction and
outbuilding of shoreline, ultimately resulting in nonmarine
sediments overlying marine, due to worldwide fall in sea level),
rapid influx of sediments into a static sea level, or at a rate
exceeding a rise in sea level.
Intrusive: A crystalline igeneous rock injected in a fluid phase into
preexisting rocks, either igeneous, metamorphic or sedimentary.
Dike: An intrusive body of crystalline rock whose geometry is tabular with a
vertical or near vertical attitude, i.e., if the preexisting rock is
sedimentary, cuts across bedding planes.
Sill: An intrusive body of crystailine rock whose geometry is tabular with a
horizontal or near horizontal attitude, i.e. if preexisting stock is
sedimentary is parallel to bedding planes.
Play: A grouping of petroleum prospects in which the type of trap as well as
age and composition of reservoir and source rocks (independently)
are believed to be common; synonomous with "trend" if and when
prospects become productive fields.
Show: A positive indication of the presence of oil and/or gas either in the
subsurface (wells) or at the surface from seeps, notes from surface
samples, drill cuttings, subsurface cores or fluid recovery; shows
may vary widely both quantitatively and qualitatively.



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
- 50 -
Karroo: A thick, generally nonmarine sedimentary rock sequence found in the
sub-Sahara of Africa ranging in age from the Paleozoic Carboniferous
through Mesozoic Triassic and into the Mesozoic Lower Jurassic;
precise age determination often difficult and thus lumped into
general term "Karroo".
Paleozoic: The system of sedimentary rock occupying the early ages of the
geologic time scale comprising the Cambrian, Ordovician, Devonian,
Silurian, Carboniferous and Permian Periods; the Paleozoic system is
typified by an invertebrate fauna but witnessed the evolution of
fish and near the shore primitive reptiles as well and a flora
evolving through algae, ferns and primative conifers; the pre-
Cambrian system, consisting principally of nonsedimentary rocks and
occasionally sedimentary rocks deficient in fossils, underlies the
Paleozoic.
Mesozoic: The system of sedimentary rocks occupying the middle ages of the
geologic time scale, comprising the Triassic, Jurassic and
Cretaceous Periods; the Mesozoic system is typified by a repetition
of fauna and a coniferous flora which overlies the older Paleozoic
system and underlies the Cenozoic system (Tertiary, Quartenary and
Recent).



IRFoD  14787R
MADAGASCAR
PETROLEUM EXPlORATION
A3 p annen
'     ' A-aa C-one-
I    J  One-de-t.i Petroteum Coeceesar
Mebil O'l Corcession                                                                                       :
0      heavy Oil and Tar Soeds D.p-sitT   -                                                     t
*       Wells With Gas Tents                                                 He,l-eiltt            ,rE
.-Th   Bas.as                                                                   -r 
-      h6ojor Faults lineamnents                                            $'in; 
CKrnea Trend
j ,or-ic Treed
SrtCnenoainoae Trend                               .                           ,- -                              e    0
N Nctinnol Capitol
0    Manor Towns
__    Rivers                                                          ,, ,in         
eAenmfTnnsi   ,                                  - ,  - c    IZa   MAHAJANGA   SASiN
f:~ ~~~~y  50  75 -                tOl  -Il  - -n -                                                                                    , n-nfff
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
;  t0;;  r;=            i<8B BEMOLANGA                        1-   n ;30        
f  ffAV-A'/>iLr S........... '- X*iMz ....TSIMIRORO /.-  lfC caro ;05   
: SMazXamE./qu< .~~~~-:.- .- osraood,dy' y 
C h a n rz\.V|                                                                                                     N D /tA N
0 0:; MOROS : :LX / / 5 0 : 00; 0 \ ~0 C f A IV 
-ACt?  .'  ,          (-   I-t- 0
}X    )   /  -       -_AkX  ,<7         Flonolontsoc o              /  /     t   0   3       i                         X   0
'C"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI
tiff   n.                                                                                   T0121 <-:,     AA 10    i;ff   f
24'   .  '    <                                               ;:         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A nneeAIR              $A r
t                 BEMOLANGA                                                                     ACOR.>.        4           ec
:   < "Y 0 f,                U   Sg- TSMRR -= :latai






IBRD 16323
4'70                     T  e,-yAPR L 1982
44o0                     To Beyo/omrop       44030 BFRL13
MADAGASCAR
TSIMIRORO PROJECT AREA
1]7'30'      f\ffi)         _    ~<                                                    D                        REGIONAL  SETTING
,Tambohorona>                           r ,~     
~~~~~~~~Jb~~~~~~~~~~~7
Tar Sand Area
MAINTIRANO\
9;             t      )Beantantanana                                                                                        Berov,no
KILOM\PTERSTE'P 
Wo9  Pass' sas  hssas forslrr't 
ff,030'   +   X                  _           \                    t ~~~~~~~~~~~rolect Areag4(a1°0
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' I    BRD /632 6Mrbol   
SAn 0550 Ve50~COnn at SATssancAloko
Asa~ ~  ~ reo Inoolk wton A is aeo
Apundanan                          -3sans, onAsnaNSALOVA s
KILOMETERS                    S        
0       10      20       30            \J\~
TN  ~         ' -\ P i by I                                                                                                       ANKAVANDRA
An ns 9SS,f9,s 00 5/55pmasmdnvtSAn  C \p K                                                                                  J)sb
th,i --Wi. ta  M],ih t ttdtt-e                  t\ 
btrZ 6shw  ir ht r~ att\                                   S                                                                          I 
Woa.d 8aS and ifts ff;sa    Cap. anb
soagsnnt an Sata! status af ' -
van tsmern o or anv endnrsersatt                                   \                    
;   44-00' W                     F                   \\                                                       +                                 9
TANZANIA                                   a rd:00
rMA~W
n,9; M Wo  *,  >                                                                                       - - Main Roads
o/         oZ 44oyi    Antonnnor/na o                                                                        Selected Secondary Roads
.    Selected Cities and Towns
- R,vers
- Swamps
International Boundaries
4430      J To do/n Sr fs,bma               450                       M/anoor,vozo-      L930'






To Ma,nt,rcnro                             /                           MADAGASCAR
TSIMIRORO AREA REGIONAL STRUCTURE
AND WELL LOCATIONS
1~524
-6;   Old Exploration Wells
-18000        01                            /\ .           H\    \+GH                                      Suggested New Exploration
LOW                                                                                     _ (  0\  L  HIGH   StrucluraIly High
LOW       SIGH                       .                           .0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LW   StNucturally Low
OOWNIIIROWN SIDE
..........Major Faults
.   15S19  \            . . '                           UPTHROWN SIDE
\        o4                                                        Dip Direction
Seismic Lines
TSl]                                                       Ro-ads
0                                                                               - '-    International Boundaries
122
HIGH
-/H   . . - '        I              IOW
H
0              .,,.              HIG                                                                       1 .  )8101
H
MTS1      B               , DI
,)A                                        OIRSTRWP
OW1~~~.               .0~LW
f f          W         JJJ  \    \iX    \ t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~      ~~~~CP053S Belo#  
( /oIaka 5.6ol *kara             4 3
KILOMETERS                        \                             +3
0    2   4    6   8   10  12
18°20                                            \LT2                                                                           18'20'A
WVorl dROk S iOdU   ekoIvSSOO   TOO       4          .                  5  K  
t00000nvemlence Sfofl00e ralden n       ' \        5LT31 
44'50'        ..              .   Oe   Oe
heioi d\uV.\      f     C MRK
0.0gneal mt     c                      Zg      TS2 4             -
f.-~~~~~ \                                           TSi/\. 
(, 4- _.    ~    [  COMOROS                                          _-/(
_ALAWI                     50                  18b30                                          /               / 18°30
>.-   ,ec,d TcM   A41apnaritvor                                                              /
+ ./   .    X ':,@   ;                                             /  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M30  ;Ms 
1,   ;    nT                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MRB1¢h 
,   ,'    /                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ma/robooly  M5
To Ankosandro
I                                                                                I
45°00'                                  45°10'
DIAGRAMMATIC CROSS-SECTION ALONG SEISMIC PROFILE TS 106
THROUGH WELLS AS SHOWN
°   I    2    3    4     5
KILOMETERS
NO SHOWS                  ZONE OF BEST OIL SHOWS                      ZONE OF POOR TO WEAK OIL SHOWS
A                                            _B ~                                          
DEPTH ALT1 LT3                                      CDT         I           BLT2                FlF42EPT
METERS)                                                                                             METERS)
Zff.t#I                     __________ft tf++ __ b1+t   ++_4-                                      METRE
0 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
1000                         -- -       I-io
-f - - -- - -                    ,+ ,-.,---,--  - - -  - - -     15650+FORMATION+- OC)-00
CRYSTALIELuuiR
2000- ~~~~~~~-2000 > M
3000- +…                                FAULTS                                                                         3000   c _
+    +
__     s+  +~  +~  ++  ++  +~  +~  +  ++  +s  ++  +-  ++  +4  +4  +  ++  ++  ++  -z  ++  ++  ++  +  _+  ++  +_  -+  ++  ++  +(. _



