Do_uunt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Rapt Ne. 5997
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO: TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1553-ME)
December 27, 1985
Operations Evaluation Department
|hE dwwme kw a rsu*eld db&Mkthu and ma be andi by rwdpemt ony in the perfomance of
their .Ufd.I duk.. lb. emutnt ia ow a hedrwie be didoiod withou Worl Rank sntosIzathm..



ABBREVIATIONS
ANAGSA    -     National Farm and Livestock Insurance Agency
BANRURAL  -     National Rural Credit Bank
CIFTROH   -     Center for Forestry Research in The Humid Tropics
CPNH      -     Commission of National Water Resources Plan
FIRA      -     Agricultural Trust
FIRCO     -     Shared Risk Trust
INIA      -     National Crop Research Institute
INIF      -     National Forestry Research Institute
INIP      -     National Livestock Research Institute
NAFINSA   -     Nacional Financiera S.A.
PRODERITH -     Integrated Rural Development Program for the Humid Tropics
PRONASE   -     National Seed Production Corporation
SARH      -     Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
SCS       -     Soil Conservation Service (US)



FOI OLmCIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO: TROPICAL AGRICULTURE DEVELIPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1553-ME)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface  ***** **********         .........      ....................    i
Basic Data Sbeet  *e        .............................................    ti
Evaluation Summary  *i................ *      ..........................   ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT: OVERVIEW
I.  Introduction ****.*..*.*****.*..******.*........*.*.*. *          v
II.  Project Formulation .6         ..............................     v
III.  Implementation ....* ......* ..........................    vi
IV.  Economic and Agricultural Impact           ........................    ix
V.  Institutional Performance **.*....*       * ..*...*.***...   ix
VI.  Bank Performance ..s        ...... ......g.......g .........      x
VII.  Conclusions and Lessons Learned          i.........................  i
Tables ........................................  xiii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT .........................,                     1
Introduction ........o.................................             2
I. General Background
1.1   The Agricultural Sector in Mexico         .................  6
1.2   The Humid Tropics  .* ..............................       9
1.2.1 Characteristics of Agriculture and Stockraising ...    11
II. Integrated Rural Development Strategy in Mexico's
Humid Tropics
2.1   Conceptual Framework ...........  ....................   13
2.2   The Integrated Rural Development Program for the
Humid Tropics ....................................    15
2.2.1   System of Operations  *............................   17
2.2.2   Organization and Functioning ... ..................   21
III. Implementation and Results
3.1   Planning    ....................................    23
3.2   Research .....................................   27
3.3   Infrastructure                   .....                     30
3.4   Organization .......................................    31
3.5   Credit .......................... 0... *0.00....   33
3.6   Rural Communication System ............................   34
3.7   Training                          .................o37
Thdosumm   ha aU- d I dibbfAo and mawy be ud by nxma oly in epe onrms  of
esi oJMi dut.. IlB comtu  may mat ohwwa be d_lad wibout Woddank autboitism.



IV.  Results by Project  ,            4
4.1  Acapetahua Project, Chiapas            ........................    39
4.2  Tantoan-Santa Clara Project, Tamaulipas ............          42
4.3  Atoyac Valley Project, Veracruz ....................          44
4.4  Tizimin Project, Yucatan            ...........................    47
4.5  Zapotal Project, Tabasco            ...........................    50
4.6  Tesechoacan Project, Veracruz .....        .................  53
V. Economic and Social Evaluation
5.1  Impact on Production *      ..............****........    54
5.1.1  Agriculture **..........   ...............*** ........    54
5.2  Social Impact *..........................*    57
5.3  Institutional Impact *        ..............................  60
5.4  Economic Analysis ....    ..............................      61
Conclusion       ...................................................    62
Map: IBRD No. 13209



- ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ - 
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO: TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(WAN 1553-ME)
PREFACE
This is the project completion report (PCR) for the Mexico Tropical
Agricultural Development Project, for which Loan 1553-ME was approved on
April 25, 1978, for the sum of US$56.0 million.  The project was completed
and the loan fully disbursed in April 1985.
This report was prepared by the Borrower.   In addition, an over-
view was prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office,
based on the PCR, the Appraisal Report (No. 1864B-ME) of April 3, 1978, and
the President's Report (No. P-2287-ME) of April 12, 1978. All correspondence
with the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and reports as contained In rele-
vant Bank files have also been consulted. A field visit to the project area
was undertaken in January 1985. The draft report was sent to the Borrower
for comment on October 25, 1985; however, none were received.
The valuable assistance provided to those who prepared this report
by the Government of Mexico is gratefully acknowledged.
The project has not been subjected to an audit by the Operations
Evaluation Department.



- ii -
PROJECT COWPLZTION REPORT
MEXICO: TROPICAL ACRICUILTURE ZVEOWPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1553-ME)
BASIC DATA SHEET
REY PROJECT DATA
Initial                Actual or            Actual as Z of
Estlm_te           Estimated Actual       Appralsl Eutimate
Total Project Cost (USS mlllon)         149.0                134.9                     91
Loan Amount (USS million)                56.0                 55.8
Date of Board Approval                    -                 4/25n8
Date of Effectiveness                     -                 1/12/79
Dete Physical Componentu Completed        -                 6/30/81
Proportlon then completed (Z)           -                   80
Closing Date                            12/31/83            6/30/84
Economlc Performance (ERR 2)              17Z                 18Z
Direct Benef1clarles (families)          3,000               8,800                    290
Total Beneficiaries (farm famIlles)   40,000                32,000                     80
CUILATIVE DISBDRSEMENTS
Fn79    FY8o    FY11    FY82    FY83    F84    FY85
Appraisal eStimaLe (USS million)           2.1    11.3    231    37. 2    49.5    56.0    56.0
Actual (USS =illion)                      -        6.0    12.0    23.0    31.0    54.5    56.0
Actual as 2 of Appralisl estlmte           0      53       52      62      63       97     100
MISSION DATA
Month/   No. of      Staffdays  Specializations  Performance              Types of
Misdion                  Year    Persons    ln Field   Represented /a    Rating  /b Trend /c  Problems /d
Identification             6/75       4            40           a.b,c
Preparatlon                12n/6(3)   1             4           a,b,c
Appraisal                  8/77       6                          a,b
SUBTOTAL                             44
Supervision  I             10/78      2            11            a,b               I          I          NA
Supervision  II            6/79        1            5             c                1          1          0
Supervislon  III           11/79       1           14             a                1          1          0
Supervlslon  IV            10/80       2           18            *,b               2          1          F
Supervision  V             11/81      2            11            a,b               2          1          F
Supervision VI             7/82       2            11            a,b               2          1          FP
Supervision  VII           5/83        1           11             a                2          1          FP
Supervision  VIII          3/84        1           18             a                2          1          FP
SUBTOTAL                            143
TOTAL                                        187
OTHER PROJECT DATA                                           FOLIOW-ON PROJECT
Borrower                       NAFINSA                       Name: PROIERITH II
Executlng Agency               SASH                          Loan No.:  NA
Fiscal Year                    January 1 - December 31       Loan Amount:  NA
Date Board Approval: est. 3/86
Name of Currency (abbreviation) Nexican Peso (NexS)
Currency Exchange Rate
Appraisal Year Average    US$1.00 -Nex$23
Intervening Years Average USS1 .00 -NexS50
Completion Year Average   USS1.00 -MlexS168
/a   a - agriculturallst; b - agricultural economist; c - engineer.
/b   I - problem-free or minor problems; 2 - Moderate problem  and 3 - Major problem.
T7-  1 - Improvlng; 2 - Stationary; 3 - Deteriorating.
7T[  F - Financial; M - Managerial; T - Technical; P - Political. 0 - Other.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NMEXICO TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1553-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
In the early 1970s, the Mexican Government began to shift its
agricultural development priorities to rainfed areas which comprised 75% of
the cropped land and 85Z of the farms. Part of this shift involved the
development of its tropical lowlands which were estimated to contain about
3.5 million hectares of unused or underutilized land of high agricultural
potential. The Tropical Agricultural Development Project (PRODERITH I) was
an attempt to test development strategies for this area.
Objectives
About 3,000 families were to benefit directly from the project,
with an additional 40,000 families to receive extension service support. The
project was to be administered by a Technical Committee comprising all
implementing agencies. Components included: (a) development of six pilot
project areas through infrastructure and credit support; (b) agricultural
research; (c) intensive agricultural extension services; (d) training and
technical assistance; and (e) planning of future development programs for the
tropics. The total project cost was estimated at US$149.0 million and the
Bank loan of US$56.0 million became effective in January 1979.
Implementation Experience
Despite a slow start and serious budget constraints in 1982-84,
project implementation was good and coordination excellent. The project
successfully tested engineering techniques, agricultural production systems
and farmer organization methods which can now be replicated in the areas
surrounding the pilot projects. Drainage works and construction of roads and
flood control dikes were completed on schedule. The research and
agricultural extension services performed reasonably well. The credit
program was disbLrsed quickly, but not according to the original objectives
of the project. The revised project cost is estimated at US$134.9 million
(90% of appraisal estimates).
Results
The project resulted in increased (340Z) crop area harvested,
increased yields and improved access to markets. The overall incremental
production is estimated at about 50X over pre-project levels. Although there
is considerable variation between pilot projects, the overall economic rate
of return has been estimated at 18% (17% at appraisal). Indirect benefits
include improvement in health, educational and nutritional status of
beneficiaries.



- iv-
The project success was due in part to sound, continuous management
supported by a highly motivated young cadre of field personnel who had grown
and gained experience on the job, and in part to the Bank's creative role at
appraisal and responsiveness and continuity during supervision.
Sustainability
Three main factors contribute to good prospect for project
sustainability: (a) the institutional system built under the project has
proven efficient and satisfactory, (b) a follow-on project is expected to
consolidate the results of this first project and (c) the Government's
support of the project has been and remains strong.
Findings and Lessons
(a) Contrary to other rural development projects in Mexico (PIDER I,
and Papaloapan Rural Development, audited in 1983 and 1985
respectively), the project was designed as a pilot project and
carefully prepared. The fact that a feasibility study was carried
out for all pilot sub-projects (two of them had been completed
before project appraisal) confirms OED findings that adequate and
thorough preparation is essential for projects of this nature;
(b) the project was realistic in scope and implemented by several
agencies of the same Ministry, with a management and coordination
system which proved excellent;
tc) infrastructure, extension and social packages developed under the
project proved replicable;
Cd) the high level of extension coverage used in the pilot areas helped
introducing quickly new agricultural technologies;
Ce) Bank performance was particularly good: the experimental nature
and the risks of the project were clearly recognized at appraisal;
Bank supervision and continuity of staff on supervision were good;
(f) on the basis of the project's success, plans have been prepared to
develop an additional one million hectares in the tropical
lowlands; the Bank appraised a second-phase project in mid-1985.



-v -
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1553-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT: OVERVIEW
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      This memorandum provides an overview of the Goveranent of Mexico's
project completion report on the Tropical Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1553-ME). A fully revised completion report has not been prepared
since OED and the LAC Region have agreed that the borrower's report is
acceptable as the primary document for audit. However, a field review was
carried out by LCPAC in January/February 1985 which largely confirmed the
results of the borrower's completion report. The following overview,
therefore, summarizes the report's conclusions and analyses project
performance by: (i) describing the project background at appraisal;
(ii) reviewing project formulation; (iii) reviewing implementation;
(iv) discussing economic and agricultural impact; (v) discussing
institutional performance; (vi) discussing Bank performance; and
(vii) summarizing lessons learned and recommendations for future projects of
this type.
Project Background
1.02      In the early 1970s, the Mexican Government began to shift its
agricultural development priorities from irrigated to rainfed areas which
comprised 75Z of the cropped land and 85% of the farms. Part of this shift
involved the development of its tropical lowlands which were estimated to
contain about 3.5 million hectares of unused or underutilized land of high
agricultural potential.l/ The Tropical Agricultural Development Project
CPRODERETH I) was an attempt to test development strategies for this area.
1I. PROJECT FORMULATION
2.01      Project formulation was lengthy but effective.  Identification to
appraisal took two years (1975-77) and the preparation report was prepared
by the National Water Planning Commission (CPNH) with Bank and UNDP
assistance. Bank participation totalled 10 staff weeks. Despite this
effort, considerable work was still required by the six man appraisal team
which visited Mexico in August 1977, and processing to Board approval took
an additional 106 staff weeks. There were, however, no major problems
encountered in processing the appraisal report.
Objectives and Description
2.02      The main project objective was to intensify and increase
agricultural production in Mexico's tropical lowlands. About 3,000 families
I/   This estimate has recently been raised to 7.0 million ha of medium to
high potential land.



-vi -
were to benefit directly with an additional 40,000 families to receive
extension service support. The project was to be administered by a Technical
Committee comprising all implementing agencies and was to be coordinated by a
unit in CPNH called PRODERITH. Components included: (i) development of six
pilot project areas to test administrative, technical and socioeconomic
packages (two pilot areas had been studied by appraisal, Tesechoacan and
Zapotal, and four others were approved by the Bank over the first two years
of implementation; Acapetahua, Tantoan, Atoyac and Tizimin);
(ii) agricultural research; (iii) intersive agricultural extension services;
(iv) training and technical assistance; and (v) planning of future
development programs for the tropics. The total project cost was estimated
at US$149.0 million and the Bank loan of US$56.0 million financed 38% of
total costs.
III. IHPLEMENTATION
3.01      Despite a slow start, and serious budget constraints between
1982-84, project implementation was good and coordination excellent. The
project successfully tested engineering techifiques, agricultural production
systems and farmer organization systems which can now be replicated in the
areas surrounding the pilot projects. The completion report details the
physical accomplishments by component and the main results are summarized
below.
Pilot Projects
3.02      The pilot projects component was a success since physical progress
in four of the six areas was good (Acapetahua, Tantoan, Tizimin and to a
lesser extent Atoyac) and only two pilot areas failed to achieve their goals
(Tesechoacan and Zapotal). However, one of these (Zapotal) began to show
some improvement in 1984 and may yet be successful. The other (Tesechoacan)
suffered serious local political and social problems and was cancelled in
1983. However, even in this project, conditions have begun to change and in
1985, PRODERITH re-established limited extension services to the area.
3.03      The infrastructure program in the pilot areas (27% of total costs)
has made a major contribution to development of water management techniques
in the tropical lowlands of Mexico. PRODERITH estimates that about 113,000
ha have benefitted and 8,500 new jobs have been generated. Drainage works
and access road construction achieved 80-100% of targets, depending on the
pilot area, and construction of flood control dykes exceeded targets. The
drainage program started slowly due to a lack of experience and delayed the
early impact of other on-farm activities such as credit and extension.
However, despite these delays, after 1981 drainage construction progressed
rapidly to meet its original five year goal in about three years.
Unfortunately operation and maintenance of these small scale drainage works
did not receive high priority until 1981/82 when a Bank mission recommended
immediate action. As a result, a contract was signed in 1982 with the USDA
Soil Conservation Service which proved very successful in establishing
criteria for drainage infrastructure design, operation and maintenance.
3.04      The credit program (40% of total costs) disbursed quickly but not
according to the original development objectives of the project. By early



- vii -
1982, the loan category for credit had been fully committed and Government
had requested reallocation of funds to expand the component. However, before
agreeing to this reallocation, the Bank requested an in-depth study of the
project's credit activities which in mid-1983 revealed the following:
(i) credit had been used for purposes other than on-farm development in
support of the project's major infrastructure program which actually started
in 1981; (ii) although the objective was to finance loans in the pilot areas,
promoted by PRODERITH, only 18% of loans (10% of value) had been proposed
this way by the end of 1981; and (iii) only about 42Z of the loans had been
made even in the combined (pilot and expansion) areas since FIRA had been
unable to disaggregate the project area from its larger administrative units
which were based on municipalities. Despite these problems, the Bank
eventually agreed in 1983 to officially permit additional financing of credit
to borrowers in the expansion areas as well as the pilot areas. The reasons
given for this agreement were: (i) FIRA had agreed to follow procedures which
supported the objectives of the project; (ii) coordination between FIRA and
PRODERITH had shown marked improvement since 1982; (iii) extension services
had already begun to work in the expansion areas; (v) excellent progress had
been made on reducing arrears in the pilot communities (from 95% to 5% of the
communities); and (vi) the Bank wanted to increase disbursements under its
loans to help Mexico through a difficult economic period and credit
activities traditionally disbursed rapidly.
Research
3.05      Given the inherent difficulties in establishing and strengthening
research in a new agricultural zone, the project has made an important
contribution. The basic infrastructure is now largely in place: three new
centers have been constructed, three existing ones have been upgraded and
three others are still under construction. Furthermore, although research
continues to have a strong commodity orientation, the three research
institutes for agriculture, livestock and forestry (INIA, INIP and INIF) have
now agreed to work more closely together on a systems, or whole farm,
approach to research to better serve the traditional mixed farming economy of
the lowland tropics. An importantfirst step in this direction of improved
coordination was the construction of a combined research center at
Humanguillo in Tabasco for all three research institutes. More recently, the
research institutes have also begun to work more closely with the extension
services, however there is still considerable scope to improve the transfer
of technology to the farm level.
Extension Services
3.06      After a very slow start due to a lack of tropical experience,
extension services have developed into an effective program. The basic
approach used is that a PRODERITH team of extension staff, with technical,
social and economic expertize, prepare a local development plan for a group
of communities.2/ Farmers and community members participate in this process
and productive and non-productive (social) investment requirements are
included in the plan. Once priorities have been defined, PRODERITH helps
coordinate the agencies providing support in infrastructure, credit,
extension, health, water supply. By 1983, the extension program claimed that
32 local development plans had been prepared, 946 production groups
established, 663 audio visual programs generated, and 185 communities and
28,300 families had participated.
2/   The program is an adaptation of the  Plan Puebla- approach initiated in
1967.



- viii -
3.07      Production oriented extension support in the pilot areas is
intensive (1 extensionist: about 100 families or 650 ha). However,
experience indicates that this density is not required indefinitely and
PRODERITH teams are able to move on to other areas and leave behind a density
of co-erage more in line with normal Mexican levels (1:350 farmers) without
causing a decline in production. Although this high density coverage is
expensive, PRODERITH estimates that with support from the project's highly
successful rural communications program of audio visual cassettes, the unit
cost of expanding the extension program out of the pilot areas is reduced.
3.08      Although social programs were not considered important at
appraisal, the PRODERITH concept of focusing on the entire needs of a
conumunity, including social aspects, has been particularly successful.
PRODERITH reports that about 38% of pilot area families have participated in
the agricultural and social programs and in the more recently settled Tantoan
area, participation has reached about 50%. The result has been an increase
in direct support to entire family groups, including women and children.
Training and Technical Assistance
3.09      Training of PRODERITH extension teams has been particularly
successful, and many of the early professional trainees have remained with
the project throughout implementation. Between 1979-83, about 500
professionals received formal, followed by in-service, training.
3.10      Technical assistance was also an effective part of the project's
development effort. Consultancies were signed with: (i) FAO to provide mass
media assistance which has been extremely successful and is now widely used
by SARH in its general programs; and (ii) the USDA Soil Conservation Service
which has made a major contribution to SARH's approach to soil conservation
and drainage construction and maintenance in the tropical lowlands. Both
groups have also effectively trained counterparts.
Planning
3.11      Using experiences gained irn the pilot projects, CPNH's planning
unit has carried out detailed feasibility studies on about 650,000 ha of the
tropical lowlands which represent an area of influence of about 3.0 million
ha. From these, a plan has been prepared to develop the entirE humid tropics
by the year 2,000. From this, the Bank has already agreed to finance works
under Chiapas .4gricultural Development Project and is about to appraise
a PRODERITh II project.
Disbursements and Project Cost
3.12      Despite considerable budgetary constraints between 1982-84 and a
major devaluation of the Mexican currency, the US$56.0 million loan was
completely disbursed by April 1986, in part due to the Bank's agreement in
1983 to finance works in the expansion area of Tantoan (after the Tesechoacan
project was cancelled) and to reallocate funds to the credit component.
3.13      The revised project cost is estimated at US$134.9 million (90% of
appraisal estimates). However, despite this apparent closeness in overall



- ix -
estimates, appraisal values on the costs of individual components varied
widely from appraisal estimates. These results are not unexpected given the
pilot nature of the project and the fact that the appraisal was based on only
two of six feasibility studies which eventually comprised the project.
Procurement
3.14      SARH followed Its normal procedures for procurement under Bank
projects which are currently the topic of critical review within the Bank.
Although there was actually no ICB under rhe project due to the size and type
of works carried out, SARH did split contracts into small sizes and in the
initial years awarded many of these through negotiated purchase for which
detailed information was not provided to the Bank. This procedure changed in
1981 after repeated Bank concerns that the aggregate limit for direct
contracting (30% of total) would be quickly reached. Thereafter contracts
were awarded through local competitive bidding procedures.
Progress Reporting and Auditing
3.15      Progress reports were satisfactory and monitoring and evaluation
procedures under the project worked well. Three audit reports were submitted
for 1979-81, 1982 and 1983.
Adherance to, and Changes in, Loan Conditions
3.16      Two covenants on operation and maintenance and procurement limits
were not adequately adhered to, and there were five amendments to the loan
agreement during implementation. Details are given in Table 5.
IV. ECONOMIC AND AGRICULTURAL IMPACT
4.01      Although there was considerable variarton between pilot projects,
the overall economic and agricultural impact has been substantial and the
economic rate of return has been estimated at 182. Direct economic benefits
to farmers include: (i) increased crop area harvested (from 20,000 ha to
68,400 ha); (ii) increased yields; and (iii) improvement in farmers' ability
to cope with the vagaries of a tropical lowland environment through improved
drainage and other technology provided by the extension services. Indirect
benefits isclude: (i) the development of access roads; (ii) improvement in
health, educational and nutritional status; (iii) improved farmer
organization through the establishment of 946 production and marketing
groups; and (iv) in Tizimin and Tantoan, there is evidence of reduced and/or
slightly reversed rural to urban migration. Furthermore, since project
beneficiaries were mainly ejidatarios and small private farmers, the project
has supported Government's rural development objective of increasing real
income and services to the poorer segment of the population.
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
5.01      CPNH and PRODERITH performed well as did the Project Technical
Committee which met regularly during implementation. Even SARH
infrastructure and extension departments, which in initial years were



- x -
reluctant to participate, strongly supported the project after 1981.
Two positive aspects also arose from the medium/long term credit component:
(i) FIRA developed a more technical approach to its lending and began to work
more with extension staff on loan formulation and supervision; and (ii) SARH
accepted the need to include medium/lona term credit in its development
programs.
5.02      Despite this overall good institutional performance, one
organizational problem remains: the administrative role of PRODERITH at the
SARH district level. During implementation the pilot projects either formed
part of an SARH rainfed district or in some instances overlapped into two
rainfr-: di3tricts. This caused occasional conflicts in lines of
responsibility. Two possible solutions are now being considered for the
PRODERITH II project:(i) to convert PRODERITH areas into PRODERITH districts
with the same administrative responsibilities as normal SARH districts; or
(ii) to make tie PRODERITH areas special units within the regulations
governing districts. In the latter case, the PRODERITH resident engineer
would manage special units within several districts and would report directly
to the SARH state representative.
V1. BANK PERFORMANCE
Formulation
6.01      Given the experimental nature of the project and the inherent
problems of predicting results from a pilot program, Bank performance is
considered to have been good during formulation. In particular, the
appraisal made a major contribution to project design and demonstrated sound
judgment on the development needs of the tropical lowlands.  Although the two
initial pilot projects did not fully anticipate problems of land tenure,
producer debt, farmer resistance to Government-sponsored programs, and the
lack of institutional support to such programs in the region, these problems
were largely overcome during review and implementation of the four pilot
projects which were approved after appraisal.
Supervi sia_
6.02      Overall Bank supt'rvision performance was good.  Continuity of stafr
on supervision was goo%. with the eight supervision missions being split
between two division staff members. During early implementation supervision
missions pushed for strong coordination between agencies and aggressively
pursued loan agreement conditions on limits for direct negotiations of
contracts and eligibility of subloans rediscounted by FIRA. The Bank was
also responsive to Government requests to explore possibilities to use
undisbursed funds when it became apparent that the cost of the infrastructure
program would be below estimates and that som- loan proceeds might have to be
cancelled.
6.03      On the credit component, although the Bank's decision to permit
lending to the expansior areas was appropriate, FIRA should have been
requested to make good on amounts previously disbursed outside the expansion
areas before continuing to receive additional loan proceeds. This was not
Jane and reflects the Bank's desire to maintain high lewels of disbursements
to Mexico during a difficult economic period.



- xi -
6.04      On cost recovery, although supervision missions did not enforce the
need to prepare a socioeconomic study, this was not a critical problem since
(a) no major irrigation works were eventually constructed under the project;
(b) drainage works were mostly small scale; (c) farmers themselves appeared
to be carrying out some maintenance on drains; and (d) the USDA Soil
Conservation Service consultants were studying various options on how to
implement an operation and maintenance program.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01      The project was a success.  This was due in part to sound,
continuous management supported by a highly motivated young cadre of field
personnel who had grown and gained experience on the job, and in part to the
Bank's creative role at appraisal and responsiveness and continuity duriug
supervision.
7.02      The following lessons were learned which can be divided into two
categories: (a) successful aspects; and (b) aspecrs in need of improvement or
change:
(a) Successful Aspects:
(i) infrastructure, extension and social packages developed under the
project were replicable;
(ii)  project management and coordination was excellent and this in turn
greatly helped implementation;
(iii) initial high levels of extension coverage used in the pilot areas
(about 1 extension worker:100 farmers) helped gain experience and
acceptance of new technology;
(iv)  the approach to extension is compatible with the on-going
countrywide move towards strengthening extension services in
Mexico; and
(v) well-focused, properly selected consultant support directed at
priority programs was sucessful (especially in soil conservation
and rural communications).
(b)  Aspects in Need of Improvement or Change:
(i) marketing constraints should have received greater importance in
the long term planning of local development schemes;
(ii)  SARH procedures on design, contracting and supervision of
infrastructure works in arid/semi-arid irrigated areas need
adjustment in order to work effectively under lowland tropic
conditions;
(iii) the small credit component could not be effectively controlled to
ensure that funds were provided for on-farm development activities



- xii -
in support of the project's infrastructure program. Consequently,
a free standing credit project would have been a more appropriate
vehicle for such general credit supply; and
(iv) research and extension in the Mexican tropics need to focus more on
a systems, or whole farm approach, which integrates crop, livestock
and forestry activities.
Next Steps
7.03      The PRODERITH concept is now ready to move into an expansion phase
around the pilot areas. This is appropriate given the good performance of
the pilot projects and the fact that: (i) institutional coordination is
working well; (ii) the responsibilities for operations have been
decentralized to the state level; (iii) there is a nucleus of trained staff
in place; (iv) the importance and method of establishing farmer organization
has been accepted at the field level; (iv) research and extension have begun
working more closely together; and (vi) plans have already been prepared to
develop an additional one million hectares in the tropical lowlands.
Consequently, the Bank has agreed to appraise a second phase project in
mid-1985. This PRODERITI II project would also include a component to
establish additional pilot projects to test the concept in new areas. This
would carry on the process of studying new areas before entering into full
scale development programs.
May 31, 1985



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1553-ME)
COMPLETION REPORT: OVERVIEW
Project Cost
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual Estimate        Actual/Appraisal
Local       Foreign        Total              (Total)                   (2)
---------------…-- (USS milLion) --------
I.     Pilot Projects                                   30.4          26.4         58.8                 90.2                  153
as   Area development and infrastructure        18.5          15.2         33.7                 36.6  a/             109
b.   Credit                                     1109          11.2         23.1                 53.6  1/             232
II.    Research                                          25.8          7.9         33.7                 29.9                   89
a.   Buildings, vehicles, and equipment          6.9           3.0          9.9                 12.7                 128
b.   Technical services                          0.4           3.5          3.9                  -  
co   Salaries and operating costs               18.5           1.4         19.9                 17.2                  86
111.   Extension                                         14.5           1.7        16.2                  14.8                  92
a.   Buildings, vehicles and equipment           1.9           1.5          3.4                  N.A. c/               -
b.   Salaries and operating costs               12.6           0.2         12.8                 14.R                 116
LV.    Total Base Costs                                 70.7          36.0        106.7                                         -
V.     Physical Contingencies                             5.5           4.7         10.2
VI.    Price Contingencies                               21.3          10.8        32.1                   -                     -
VIL.   Total Costs                                       97.5          51.5       149.0                 134.9                  91  d/
a/  Includes building and equipment for extension.
5/  FIRA estimate.
c/  Included In area development all infrastructure.
d/  NB: Only four of the six pilot projects were ultimately developed to a level ctose to appraisal estimates.  Consequently, based on a
comparison of weighted average of actual vs projectd targets, there has been a cost overrun of about 302.
t:J
I-.



- xiv -                           Table 2
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT: OVERVIEW
Disbursement
Loan Category                            Estimate                 Actual
--- (US$ Millions)---
Pilot Projects
1. (a) Civil works and equipment                  14.2                     27.04
(b) Consulting services                         0.5                      1.36
2. Subloans                                       11.3                     14.76
Research
3. Civil works, equipment, furniture for
research stations
(a) INIA                                        1.6                      1.09
(b) INIP and INCAFOR                            1.0                      0.75
4. Vehicles and farm/scientific equipment
(a) INIA and INIP                               1.5                      0.78
(b) INCAFOR                                     0.4                      0.02
5. Scholarships, salaries, library services    1.9                          0.74
Extension
6. Civil works, equipment, furniture for
training center                              0.7                       0.85
7. Salaries                                        6.0                      7.67
8. Vehicles, equipment and materials               1.3                      0.94
9. Unallocated                                    15.6                      -
Total                                     56.0                     56.0



Table 3
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1553-ME)
Completion Report: Overview of Loan Agreement Conditions
A. Condition Not Met
Guarantee Agreement           Scope of Covenant                 Comment
Section 3.12                 Carry out socioeconomic    Large scale irrigation
study on ability of         was dropped from project
beneficiaries to cover      (Tesechoacan), and
part of investment and      drainage works were
all of O&N costs of         mostly small scale
irrigation and drainage    on-farm works which were
works within six months    only recently completed.
of completion of works.    No action was considered
necessary given the
status of construction of
works and level of
drainage maintenance
carried out by farmers.
Schedule 2                   Procurement limits on       SARK adherence to
direct negotiations,        standard Bank covenants
force account, and          such as these continues
prior Bank Review.          to be very weak.
B. Amendments
August 1979                  Civil works
reimbursement % raised
from 49% to 52% to
permit reimbursement
against guarantee
payment.
February 1981                To permit currency
pooling.
April 1981                   To create a civil works
Subcategoy 1(b) to
permit either 100%
financing of foreign
costs or 52% financing
of local costs for
consultants.
November 1982                Agreement to allow
subloan category to be
used for area of
expansion and not only
pilot areas.
December 1983                Extension of closing
date from December 31,
1983 to June 30, 1984.



- 1 -
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 1553-ME)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
June 1985
N



-2-
INTRODUCTION
The first phase of the Integrated Rural Development Program for the
Humid Tropics (PRODERITH) was begun in 1978, with the objectives of increasing
agricultural, livestock and forest production in the region, raising the
standard of living of the families benefited, and promoting the efficient and
rational use of the resources of the tropics.
In this first phase the program called for three basic components:
a regional component to strengthen research and training in the tropics, six
integrated rural development projects covering 54,000 ha and benefiting 3,500
producers, and a technical assistance program for 500,000 ha in the immediate
areas of influence of the six projects.
The program brought together a work plan for development in tropical
areas with a comprehensive approach, a specific methodology for the planning
of soil conservation and drainage areas, and technical services in support of
rural development. It sponsored regional and local training and introduced a
rural communication system. It also promoted the organization of farmers and
their communities in self-managing ':nits by means of local development plans,
institutional coordination through the national and project technical
committees, and a number of joint actions.
The activities of integral rural development in the tropics during
1978-84 provide a firm foundation for expansion in the agricultural areas
initially covered, and at the same time are a practical contribution to the
implementation of the basic strategies of the National Development Plan in the
humid tropics, particularly within the context of the Plan for the Southeast.
This d ument gives a detailed picture of the results and
conclusions of fx years of work in which varied elements have yielded
benefits and provided experience.
SUMMARY
The Integrated Rural Development Program for the Humid Tropics was
devised to test the technical, economic and social feasibility of investment
projects for integral rural development on the tropical coastal plains of
Mexico.
To implement the system of coordination adopted, a Central Technical
Committee was instituted for the program, with responsibility for selecting
projects, approving plans, programs and budgets, and reviewing appraisal
reports. Many sector agencies are represented on the Committee, whose
Technical Secretary is the Executive Director of the Commission of the
National Water Resources Plan.
At the same time, the PRODERITH General Coordination office was
established as the technical team responsible for implementing the specific
mechanisms of coordination, providing planning and technical support for
projects, maintaining technical relations with international organizations,
and evaluating and monitoring operations.



-3-
-    Planning
Panoramic studies were carried out for 19 agricultural projects on
the coastal plains of the Gulf and Southeast Regions, directly covering
650,000 ha representative of 2.7 million ha. Feasibility studies were also
performed for intensive or compact project areas covering a total of
210,000 ha, and other such studies in the expansion areas, for a total of
836,000 ha. With the incorporation of prior studies, the Chiapas Coast
Regional Project was prepared as part of the Chiapas Agricultural Development
Program, which includes the Tapachula, Huixtla, Acapetahua and Margaritas
projects for a total of 242,000 ha. Studies and designs were prepared and
experimented projects were undertaken in the areas of plot drainage, soil
conservation and agricultural mechanization.
To afford a framework for PRODERITH, a full study of the tropical
zones in the region was done. This study makes up the 1983-2000 Indicative
Plan, which is to incorporate the second and subsequent phases of the program.
-    Evaluation and Monitoring
To provide timely reports with monthly, semiannual and annual
frequency and for the period 1978-84 on all components of the program, an
information analysis system was designed yielding a continuous flow of data on
the production performance of the representative farms, as a basis for
technical support services. There are follow-up procedures to obtain data for
subsequent decisions on implementation, and timely information on the
productive and social impact of the actions taken, which have alreddy been
documented.
-    Cooperating institutions
There have been an average of two supervision and evaluation
missions from the World Bank each year, resulting in favorable reports.
Strong links of technical cooperation are maintained with FAO in the critical
areas of development in the tropics, and specifically in rural communication.
There is also technological exchange witn the Soil Conservation Service of the
United States Department of Agriculture for the management of soil, water and
pastures in humid tropical conditions.
-    Credit
To surmount the problems of delinquent loans which hinder the
productive development of the areas concerned, two FIRA-BANRURAL-SARH-
PRODERITH agreements were signed. They were renewed to bring them up to date
in accordance with prevailing conditions, and to include ANAGSA. In support
of these agreements, local credit committees were formed in the project areas
and one at the national level. Their objective is to expedite the flow of
financing for the efficient use of infrastructure and the introduction of
appropriate technological innovations to expand areas of production.
Fixed capital credit under the program discounted Mex$950.4 million
(constant 1979 pesos). The initial estimate of Mex$530 million to cover needs
over a five-year period was exhausted within the first three years, making an



-4-
increase necessary. Credit has been provided for 900 productive projects; it
has been used to purchase machinery, vehicles and livestock and to install
facilities for stockraising and cultivation of perennial crops such as cacao,
shade trees, etc.
-    Research and training
Agreement was reached among INIA, INIP and INIF to operate the
centers established by the program in Huimanguillo, Tabasco, Costa de Chiapas
and Veracruz, doubling the tropical research facilities available. There are
200 research projects under way. whose findings are being tested at the local
level after verification by the technical assistance services.
Under the program of formal and hands-on training, six teams were
formed during the period 1979-83, with over 500 high-level professionals in
fields related to development. Three international seminars were held.
-    Infrastructure
One of the most important components of the program is that of
infrastructure, since it accounts for nearly 60Z of the total investment for
1979-84. A major contribution has been to facilitate the definition of proper
water management in the humid tropics.  With respect to the estab'ished
targets, advance has exceeded 1001 in roads, drains, soil improvement and plot
drainage. These works provided 8.500 new jobs and income on over 100,000 ha
in their areas of influence.
Two projects were carried out by three integrated research centers;
the Regional Center for Education, Training and Research for Agricultural
Development in the Humid Tropics (CRECIDATH); and four local project bases.
-    Plot drainage and soil conservation
Under this program drainage components were set up on the eiidos of
Matamoros and Colombia within the Acapetahua, Chiapas project, totaling
810 ha. A soil conservation program was begun on the Santa Clara eiido with
160 ha in the TantoAn project (Tamaulipas). Also started were plot drainage
projects at Mozambique (200 ha) in Valle de Atoyac, Veracruz and Palo Mulato
in Zapotal, Tabasco, with 600 ha. The stockraising components being developed
are located on the ejidos of El Olimpico, Tamps.; San Miguel, Ver.; Paso de la
Mina, Tab.; San Luis Tzutuc, Yuc.; and Roberto Barrios. Chis. In mechanization
and soil management, seven separate components were programmed in the various
projects, and these are now in various stages of advance.
-    Technical support services for integral rural development
Accomplishments to date include the drafting of 30 local development
plans, formation of 946 production groups, and 663 audio-visual field training
programs. In addition, direct technical assistance has been provided to
30,000 farmers with 98,000 ha of crop land and 54,400 head of livestock. In
the area of family development, 8,801 families were served by nutrition and
health programs, 48 UAIMC's were organized and 1,941 persons were successfully
trained in literacy programs.



-5-
-    Rural communication
The program established a system of communication which fosters
participation, contributes to continuing feedback in the institutional
operating structure, and keeps producers and field technicians continuously up
to date. During those six years a video library with 661 titles was formed;
audio-visual educational programs in the field totaled 218,000 man/hours.
exceeding the goal.
-    Production and social impact
With regard to production, the potential of tropical lands has been
confirmed, as well as the capability of farmers to respond to institutional
incentives for development. The results in terms of production in all
PRODERITH projects are encouraging.
Overall, production of basic grains rose by 57% with respect to
1979, that of cash crops by 173% and that of perennial crops by 30%; the gains
were 24% in meat and 36% in milk. Apparent profits for 1973 totaled
Mex$377.4 million at 1979 prices; the figure for 1979 was Mex$218.9 million.
As a result of local organization and interagency coordination, the
population has access to new services: health, housing, electricity, potable
water and others, which are available to those living in the project areas and
are helping to demonstrate new possibilities, encouraging people to remain in
their places of origin. The program has served 185 communities with 28,000
families benefited. Over 100 family development projects are under way, 48
agroindustrial units for rural women have been established, and almost 2,000
persons have been made literate. Over 30,000 new jobs have been generated,
and the real net income of the farmers served has risen by 72% compared to
their situation in 1978.
-    Economic analysis
Comparing the production results with the investment made by the
program gives a rate of return of 19%, as against the 13% calculated in the
feasibility studies. This points to the effectiveness and potential of
investment projects for the integral development of the country's tropical
regions.
-    Outlook
The project completed its first phase in 1984. It has operated with
a continuous refinement of institutional coordination. It is decentralized
with each project the responsibility of the local office of the Secretariat.
Coordination has also been intersectoral in support of each project, befitting
its specific features.
The program has a basic core of technicians with suitable
preparation. The organization of farmers and their acceptance of the
procedures established ensure the continuity of the development that has been
begun.



- 6 -
Research protocols are available which will make it possible to deal
systematically with the technical problems of production.
As regards specific planning, there is a portfolio of projects which
will allow expansion of the coverage of the program and provide access to
larger areas in accordance with the strategy of phased development. The
methodology already tested will be foLlowed, and activities will be
intensified and broadened on a total of one million hectares on the coast of
Chiapas, in the Panuco river watershed, central Veracruz, the plains of
Tabasco and the YucatAn peninsula, where the program already has acquired
experience. In summary, with the completion of the initial phase of PRODERITH
a firm foundation has been laid to conquer the principal agricultural frontier
of Mexico.
1.1       The Agricultural Sector in Mexico
Mexico has a land area of approximately 200 million ha. Of that
total, 18.9 million are being used at present for agriculture, with
5.2 million ha under irrigation and 13.7 million ha devoted to rainfed
farming. In 1980, 50% of the total value of production was generated on areas
with an irrigation and drainage infrastructure, and the other 50% on rainfed
areas. Agricultural production with irrigation comprises the irrigation
districts with major irrigation works, rural development irrigation units with
small-scale irrigation works, and specific irrigated areas.
In 1980 a total of 17 million ha was cropped, producing 6% of the
country's gross domestic product (GDP) for that year and 71% of GDP for the
sector of agriculture, forestry and fishing.
Until the mid-1960s Mexico's agricultural sector was expanding by
nearly 5% a year. Owing to a number of factors, the rate then began to fall,
averaging 0.8% a year for 1966-77. Since 1966 there has been a decreasing
trend in the area planted, which could have been offset only by an in.provement
in yields and in the composition of crops. Mexico's food self-sufficiency
came to an end during the period between 1969 and 1977; maize and bean imports
rose to unprecedented levels. Imports of maize increased from 17,000 tons in
1971 to 2.6 million tons in 1975. The net balance of agricultural trade,
which financed 25% of the nation's total imports in 1965, became a marginal
source of earnings and in some years was even negative. Agricultural prices
rose faster than prices for the economy as a whole, especially during 1970-77.
The shift of labor out of the agricultural sector was significant,
becoming an obstacle to development because these workers could not be
absorbed elsewhere. Migration to urban areas meant rising social costs.
A classification of producers based on the 1970 1/ census shows that
of a total of 2.9 million rural producers, 2.2 million fall in the category of
campesinos; that is, they use primarily family labor and fewer than 25 days of
paid labor per unit of production per year. Among the rest, the study
identifies 0.3 million members of collective or "mixed" ejidos who do not fall
into the classification; and 0.3 million "farmers," 85% of whom are classified
as "transitional" in the sense that each unit contracts paid labor for 25 to
500 days per year; the other 15% make up the category of "agricultural
1/   TN:  Footnote missing.



- 7 -
entrepreneurs." In 1970, this 15% classified as entrepreneurs, witi 20X of
the arable land, accounted for 33% of the total value of production. In
absolute terms they represent 1.8% of the total number of producers
considered. The campesino group produced about 402 of agricultural GDP in
1970, with 872 of the units and 572 of the arable land. 2/
The development of the agricultural sector in Mexico has shown an
increasing differentiation, to the point that it has a bipolar structure. At
one extreme is a multitude of small units operating below the subsistence
level, in the sense that their production is insufficient to feed the family
unit; at the other end is a small number of large agricultural enterprises.
The former, with 562 of the units and 11% of the arable land, generated 122 of
total agricultural output in 1970. The large enterprises accounted for only
0.32 of the number of producers and occupied 92 of the arable land, but
generated over 172 of total product.
The policy instruments used to develop the agricultural sector -
prices, subsidies and public investment - have not yielded the results
sought, with some exceptions. The impact of the rise in prices has not been
sufficient, especially in recent years with high and variable rates of
inflation. Subsidies and transfers, which amounted to nearly 20Z of
agricultural sector output in 1981, lost their efficacy in being channeled
through credits and inputs that much of the rural population does not use.
Public investment lost some of its impact because it was not complemented by
private investment in farm improvements; in general, such improvements were
not made because of factors related to land tenure and to the agricultural
policy in effect.
Faced with the inequities in development and the need to generate
employment, income and staple products, there was a general irrationality in
the management of available natural resources. In the case of renewable
resources, a disregard for the conditions of reproduction; in the case of
nonrenewable resources, the absence of a resource management policy geared to
domestic uses and the international context.
Natural resources are utilized improperly. Between 2 and 3 million
hectares with crop potential are devoted to beef cattle. Land whose use is
limited to stockraising or fruit growing is gradually worn out by rainfed
farming. Stockraising offers a potential for intensification that is not
exploited to a significant degree. An appreciable area of the Lerma river and
Valle de Mexico watersheds has already undergone severe erosion. The humid
tropics, which contain a major part of the potential areas for expansion of
the agricultural frontier, are in a precarious and difficult situation with
regard to resources, and efforts must be redoubled to recast the institutional
mechanisms of development.
At the end of 1982 Mexico was in a period marked as one of the most
critical in its modern history. Conditions at that time were startling:
2/ CPNH-CEPAL, Agricultural Producers.



-8-
the rate of open unemployment had reached approximately 8Z; in several sectors
there was a contraction of productive activity; foreign exchange was scarce
and there was a significant increase in its domestic price; inflation had
risen to record levels, which threatened to become chronic; there was a
contraction of national income and private savings; the public sector showed
deficits and inconsistencies between the prices charged by enterprises and the
rate of inflation, as well as budgetary transfers which operated as implicit
subsidies; an unfavorable international situation brought high interest rates,
a narrowing of financial markets, and an adverse movement of oil prices.
In that context the 1983-88 Administration is committed to putting
the economy back in order, and at the same time to initiating the required
structural change.
The reordering of the economy is being implemented through the
Programa Inmediato de Reordenaci6n Econ6mica (PIRE) to correct the
macroeconomic imbalances that translate into inflation, foreign exchange
instability and the shrinking employment. The program calls for two types of
measures. The first entail an effort to stabilize demand in order to correct
imbalances, through austerity in public expenditure and adjustments in taxes,
prices and tariffs. The second are aimed at equity in the distribution of the
social costs of adjustment, a rapid recovery of economic activity,
reorientation of the public investment program, moderation in profits and
wages, programs to protect employment and basic supplies, support for the
productive plant so as ;.o maintain employment, and restructuring of the
financial system so that it will respond to the country's priorities.
The structural change from 1984 onward is being implemented through
the Development Financing Program and under the guidelines of the National
Development Plan and the medium-term sectoral programs. Five general aims
have been established: to strengthen the guiding role of the State; to
preserve, mobilize and plan the nation's development potential; to advance
toward an egalitarian society; to bring about stable, self-sustaining and
efficient economic development; and to foster the decentralization of national
life.
These two strategic orientations provide the agriculture and
forestry sector with the framework for its program. Greater efficiency in the
irrigation districts and the economic revitalization of rainfed farming areas
are key elements. Others include thet progressive expansion -- within present
constraints and the basic orientation uf the strategy for structural change --
of Mexico's agricultural fronLier, and the transformation of stockraising into
an intensive and semi-intensive bystem, with the twofold purpose of freeing
land for crops and increasing its productivity so as to effectively meet the
country's needs for meat and milk.
Food self-sufficiency, fundamental to national sovereignty, is to be
attained in terms of food consumption, production and distribution. To that
end, the National Food Program for 1984-88 (PRONAL) calls for a transformation
in the area of nutrition and diet.
The setting of standards and the satisfaction of food consumption
requirements that will ensure the full development of the abilities and



potential of every Mexican are laid down as the sale prerogative and priority
objective of the Nation. This means the free and scvereign choice of
standards, taking into account the needs, traditions, preferences and customs
of the population, as well as available resources and technology and
production possibilities. It also implies an independent capability to ensure
satisfaction of the real minin. m needs of the entire population with their own
resources. Further, it assumes Lechnological self-determination in the
production, processing and distribution of required foods.
This sovereignty in the area of food also means that all of the
people must be assured access to the foods that will allow their full
development, physical as well as mental. The supply of foods essential for
that purpose must be obtained by mobilizing all required domestic resources,
especially those that entail the active participation of society, and they
must be based equitably among all social groups. It is not enough to produce
a sufficient quantity of basic foods; it is necessary to ensure their
management and distribution by correcting the distortions and waste that now
exist.
PRONAL is aimed at the development of domestic food production,
especially in rainfed areas but without neglecting irrigated lands, together
with an increase in the productivity of the food industry and in the
efficiency of marketing.
1.2       The Humid Tropics in National Development
According to the regional division made by the Commission of the
National Water Resources Plan, the humid tropics are located in the eastern
and southern parts of Mexico. With an area of 46 million ha, they represent
23% of the national territory.
The humid tropical lands are in the Gulf and southeast regioin along
the coast of the Gulf of Mexico from the Panuco river to the Yucatan
peninsula. On the Pacific side they extend from the La Arena river in Oaxaca
to the Guatemala border. This region includes the watersheds of the Panuco,
Papaloapan, Coat2acoalcos, Grijalva, Usumacinta, Verde and Tehuantepec rivers,
to mention some of the most important ones.
In 1980 this vast area had a population of 16.2 million, 24% of the
national total. Of the regional population, 54% were urban. Of the remaining
7.4 million making up the rural communities, 52% were below the subsistence
level, 42% at the subsistence level, and 6% commercial farmers. 3/
Average annual precipitation is 1,716 mm, while total availability
is 293 billion m3 under natural conditior. , i.e. two thirds of the national
total. 4/  The characteristic climate is humid with high temperatures for
eight months and moderate temperatures for the other four months. Because
there is no frost, pests and diseases reproduce and multiply rapidly,
attacking plants and animals as well as man.
3/   PRODERITH, General Work Program.  Central Document, 1978.
4/   SARH, National Water Resources Plan, 1981.



- 10 -
Soils suitable for farming and stockraising but subject to flooding
at present can be reclaimed and offer potential for agriculture.
The tropics also have energy potential from both petroleum and
hydroelectric resources, the largest in the country.
There is a critical situation in the humid tropics with alterations
of the ecology caused by the pressure of man on natural resources.
Traditional farming techniques and methods are inefficient in an environment
that has been changed by that process; they can no longer support the growing
population and are aggravating the damage that has already been done. Despite
its manifest suitability for cropping, some land is being used -- and
inadequately -- for extensive stockraising, which limits its productive
capacity and adversely affects the ecosystem.
In general, the rains from June to September inundate vast areas
lacking drainage and protection against river floods which there is little
hope of controlling, except on the Grijalva river where the Malpaso, Chicoasen
and La Angostura dams have been built.
Imbalances among the productive sectors are found at both the
national and regional levels. They discourage initiative and limit the
capacity for work, as demonstrated by the following:
The region is among the most backward in the country in terms of
development, despite the expansion of its industrial and extractive
operations, which accounted for 30% of Mexico's GDP in 1980, greatly exceeding
the 11.7% of 1960. The agricultural sector showed an opposite trend: its
contribution to GDP was 42.5% in 1960 and 31% in 1980. The services sector
also grew, from 14.3% in 1960 to 24.5% in 1980. Within the humid tropics GDP
showed a similar trend in the growth of secondary (1960, 31%; 1980, 45%) and
tertiary activities (1960, 32%; 1980, 44%), expanding appreciably in contrast
to primary activity which contributed only 11% in 1980 compared to 37% in
1960. It must be added that the agricultural sector has 50% of the total
economically active population of the region; this means that income
distribution is unfavorable to the rural population, which has seen a
continuous decline in its standard ot living. Because that population does
not receive the resources it needs as part of the wealth generated in the
region, it is unable to meet the region's demand for food -- the supply of
which has declined and the local price of which has risen -- and to help stem
imports of grain at the national level. 5/
As for education, the illiteracy rate continues to be among the
highest in the country (32% of the population over 10 years of age is
illiterate). In health the situation is no better; there are problems of
malnutrition, aggravated by climatic conditions, and a proliferation of
endemic diseases.
Proper housing, as well as the basic urban services of potable water
and sewerage, are virtually nonexistent in rural communities. According to
the 1970 population census, 70% of dwellings in the humid tropics lacked
sanitary facilities and 50% had only one room.
5/   PRODERITH, General Work Program, Central Document, 1978.



- 11 -
In 1970 the humid tropics had 2,476,262 people speaking indigenous
languages, with 70% also speaking Spanish. While this, strictly speaking,
cannot be considered as a limitation to reaching a given standard of living,
it does imply an isolation which reinforces the dependency of those concerned,
and that fact has an impact on their living conditions.
It must be recognized that the low standard of living, as expressed
by the indicators mentioned, is due largely to the nature and conditions which
govern the natural processes of production in the humid tropics, as well as to
their place in the country's economic development.
1.2.L     Characteristics of agriculture and stockraising
There are two outstanding features of agricultural development in
the tropics: the encroachment of stockraising onto land devoted to farming.
and the decline in comparative yields per unit of area. Over the last decade
the area used for stockraising expanded by 80X.
In recent years commercial agriculture in the humid tropics has
expanded greatly. This has caused a differentiation in terms of production
which in turn leads to differences in modernization depending on the type of
production unit, subregion and product involved. At the same time, a small
percentage of producers have tightened their control and manipulation of a
large share of the productive resources, bringing about a polarization between
commercial farming and traditional campesino agriculture. Indicators of
differentiation can be found within these categories, especially as regards
technological levels.
Traditional agriculture for its part is characterized by a
functional integration of househoLd and productive activities, and takes place
on family units. Its hallmark is the reproduction of their living and working
conditions, prevented as they are by economic constraints from generating
storable surpluses. The shrinking of the productive capacity of the resources
on which these traditional economies depend, and the loss of control of their
relationships with the physical, social and economic environment, have an
adverse impact on that reproductive capacity which in past times characterized
and sustained them.
The principal agricultural frontier of Mexico is located in the
humid tropics. Recent estimates by the Commission of the National Water
Resources Plan indicate that the 3.6 million ha estimated in 1975 should
actually be 7.5 million ha with high and moderate potential but underutilized
at present. Most of the latter are found on the coastal plains of the Gulf of
Mexico and the south Pacific.
The statistical data show that in 1980 the humid tropics accounted
for over 25% of national production of maize, 34% of rice, 13% of beans, 65%
of sugar, 100% of cacao and sisal, 65% of honey, and 20% of wood. 6/
6/   SARH, Mexico, various sources.



- 12 -
In the stockraising subsector the humid tropics had over one third
of the country's cattle, over one fifth of its swine and poultry.  The
prospects for raising swine and poultry are of twofold importance: they are
an abundant source of protein, and because of the type of operation, they do
not compete for space with other agricultural activities but rather complement
them.
rn addition, fishing both on the coast and in internal waters is
favored by the presence of species with high commercial value. The outlook
for large scale aquaculture is also excellent.
The potential and the actual stand in stark contrast in the humid
tropics as in the rest of the country. Opportunities for expanding the
agriculture and forestry sector will depend on the rate at which producLivity
is increased -- especially in rainfed farming areas - and on the viability
and efficiency of the processes by which the agricultural frontier is expanded.
In recent decades the public sector has shown a mounting concern
with the exploitation of the region's agricultural and forest resources.
Programs and institutions, spurred by the known potential, have received
financial support to bring substantial areas of high and medium quality land
into production.
During one of the phases of policy on Mexico's hydroagricultural
resources, "commissions" were formed for the large watersheds. The ones for
the Papaloapan, Panuco and Grijalva rivers have operated in the humid tropical
region, and have launched a number of projects of varying scale aimed at
improving agricultural production and productivity.
Moreover, certain special programs have had an impact on various
aspects of rural development. They include PIDER, PLANAT, COPLAMAR, and the
Chontalpa and Balancan-Tenosique plans.
Various agencies are or have been involved in the development of
specific products: TABAMEX, CONADECA, AZUCAR, S.A., FIDEHULE, CONAFRUT,
INMECAFE and Fideicomisos Ganaderos, among others.
On the whole, social and economic costs have been high as attempts
were made to overcome the numerous obstacles. The expected results have not
always been achieved in the utilization of natural resources or in raising the
income of the target population.
The study made in early 1978 on institutional constraints to
furthering agricultural and rural development in the tropics revealed the lack
of proven experience that would be replicable in continuing and fully
integrated development measures; the lack of research that could provide
support -- both from the technical standpoint and in the social and economic
context -- for upgrading the production systems in use in this region; the
scarcity of human resources to directly undertake the complex and specialized
tasks required to deal with the problems; and the absence of tested strategies
and methods of rural development in the region. Added to this was the problem



- 13 -
in obtaining plans and information which, consistent with the country's
possibilities and constraints and in a framework of multisectoral integration
-- could ensure a more appropriate and efficient allocation of investment
resources for agricultural and rural development in the tropics.
Present social and economic conditions demand a national commitment
to ensure the progressive and rational utilization of the potential of the
humid tropics to produce the food and raw materials required by the nation.
A refined policy framework and a national development strategy do
exist. There is also a system of planning that, with the force of law, takes
an intersectoral approach to be implemented through the mandatory involvement
of the public sector in harmony with the social and private sectors. The
system also provides for coordination with federal agencies. But above all,
the political decision has been made to correct the serious mistakes made in
the occupation and utilization of the lands of the humid tropics, to protect
their environment, and to foster rational and appropriate ways of utilizing
their resources.
2.1       Conceptual Framework
The concept of development embodies an iterative social process of
learning, bargaining, application, critique and correction of the events that
affect a society and enable it, to the extent that it pursues that path
consciously, to assume greater control of the physical, socioeconomic,
political and institutional environment. Some of its characteristics are that
it is a planned, systematic, continuous and controllable process; it
formulates objectives; translates them into concrete goals and action programs
that clearly specify the resources to be used; and finally, evaluates the
results of the various stages of the process to provide feedback for the next
cycle.
Development is comprehensive or integral when it considers all
sectors of the economy involved at the local, regional and national levels,
together with their interactions and reciprocal linkages. But in addition,
comprehensiveness means the manifestation and continuation of a socially
articulated view, formulated in a participatory manner, shared in full, and
capable of guiding decisions at all levels of implementation and of productive
and social change. In other words, integral development presupposes the
formulation of a unified set of policies, guided by an encompassing approach
focused on people, their relationships, conditions and aspirations. Therefore
-- and taking into account the State's function as regulator of systems in
each sector -- there is a need for deliberate government action in the
process, so as to provide balance in the terms of trade between sectors,
investment decisions, use of technology, and the formulation and application
of legal instruments.
The development sought is called integral because the process
initiated is a function of many objectives subject to conditions of risk. It
is related to the overall development of the country and works cohesively
against the physical, socioeconomic and technical constraints that hinder the
development of the productive capacity of a given region.



- 14 -
In this context government guidance is essential in the formulation
and implementation of a strategy of integrated rural development in general,
and that of the tropics in particular.
The problems of a rural development strategy do not lie solely in
the design of plans consistent with it. They also appear in the
implementation of the strategy, in which technical impediments are coupled
with those of a political nature.
Nevertheless, plans must be drawn up 4n order to avoid measures
which, concentrating on the short term, repeat efforts and lead only to
substitution of the managerial and execution capacity of the producers
themselves.
In this regard, the State must keep the following in mind:
-    Integral development calls for a multisectoral approach in order to
overcome present constraints.
-    A rational process must be instituted, consistent with the
priorities of the aspects identified in the analysis. This should
be followed by a ranking of priorities with respect to actions and
investments, compatible with the availability of resources.
-    Preference should be given to economic activities, especially
agriculture.
-    Because not all obstacles to development are found in the rural
tropical environment itself -- some belonging to other economic,
social and geographic sectors -- the development programs formulated
must include identification of the latter and of the measures
required to deal with them.
-    Development is possible in terms of a large number of variables
related to human beings, their needs and values. Thus, action must
be taken within an integrated framework.
-    The necessary participation of the beneficiaries demands a precise
and flexible methodology, calling for major efforts in education and
training.
-    Given the constraints of the tropical environment and its medium and
long-run importance, it is essential to ensure the effectiveness of
immediate measures. In this connection, there must be assurance of
the technical, economical and social feasibility of action proposed
at the farm, community and project levels.
-    Compatibility of objectives, actions and results can be achieved
through three basic elements: planning; the institutional structure
which acts through its four characteristic avenues; and the full,
conscious and informed participation of the beneficiaries at all
stages of development programs and projects.



- L5 -
2.2       The InteRrated Rural Development Program for the Humid Tropics
The national effort in response to priorities for food production,
employment generation, resource conservation and social welfare involves a
variety of actions. Their implications, and the evaluation of the nation's
productive potential, provided the framework for an integrated rural
development strategy for the humid tropics of Mexico, which has been put into
effect through the Integrated RuraL Development Program for the Humid Tropics
(PRODERITH) since 1978.
The objectives of PRODERITH were established within the framework of
the National Agricultural and Forestry Plan prepared by SARH. Subsequently,
they were brought into line with other more general instruments of Mexico's
development planning. In particular, PRODERITH called for the theoretical and
practical formulation of a rural development strategy for the humid tropics,
through a process of constant interaction to strengthen the nation's
capability for gradual and coordinated incorporation of underutilized areas.
The institutional background for the preparation of PRODERITH has
been provided by the indications and conclusions of the National Water
Resources Plan (1975); the basic elements of reporting, analysis and
formulation of that plan, together with others of SARH, as a reference point
for rural development planning for the tropics; the activities and basic and
applied research programs of the Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones
Agricolas, Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones Pecuarias and Instituto
Nacional de Investigaciones Forestales; the training and application of
methodology by the former Direcci6n General de Producci6n y Extensi6n
Agricola; and the technical contribution of the Colegio de Posgraduados of
Chapingo to the technical assistance programs under the Puebla Plan; in
general, the experience of SARH in the construction, operation and maintenance
of hydroagricultural infrastructure, in the training of producers, in social
and production organization, and in regional and local planning; as well as
other regional development experience acquired through rural development
programs of varying scale such as the Chontalpa Agroindustrial Complex.
To augment the body of Mexican experience in this field, an
international technical corporation agreement was signed with the United
Nations Development Program and FAO, relating to the most important aspects of
development in the tropics. An agreemient also was concluded for participation
by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the financing
of the program, in the amount of US$56 million.
PRODERITH went into operation in 1979, setting up all of its
field-level components so as to make a contribution to the overall development
of the humid tropics through development of the rural environment. Its
original objectives were:
-    To increase farm, livestock and forest production through the
efficient and rational use of natural resources.
-    To raise the standard of living of producers in the tropics and
their families by reinforcing their productive base and the
capability of each community to manage its relationships with the
other sectors of society which take part in production, processing
and marketing.



- 16 -
-    To prevent the degradation of the region's natural resources.
To those ends, the strategy designed called for progressive and
coordinated action, including measures for planning and promoting the
integrated development of 500,000 ha.
On that area, intensive and inLegrated measures are under way in
connection with hydroagricultural infrastructure, credit, technical
assistance, organization and communication. Another priority area has been
the strengthening of research for the region, especially in farming,
stockraising and forestry, as related to the objectives of integrated rural
development. Activities also have sought to bolster the technical assistance
services available to producers; to have the beneficiary prnulation take an
active part in the development process; and to conserve and improve access to
natural resources.
The strategy of the program is to achieve objectives gradually
through projects of limited scale, while obtaining a deeper knowledge of the
region which will afford a better orientation and basis for studies, research
and tests. The general lines of this strategy are:
-    To implement projects in stages in order to minimize risks of
failure and shorten payout periods.
-    To foster the coordinated participation of those public sector
agencies which are charged with carrying out the actions required to
overcome the present obstacles to developmenc, so as to unify
guidelines and actions during that process.
-    To follow a "below to above" approach which alters the rigid
formulas of the traditional system of project planning, evaluation
and implementation, and which ensures the participation of the
community and enables it to engender its own development as the
process advances.
-    To institute and strengthen self-managed rural enterprises capable
of governing their relations with the physical, socioeconomic,
political and institutional environment, with the members of the
community, and with other communities and social and economic
sectors involved in the processes that affect the community.
-    To determine and propose the conditions for active participation by
the State, making it possible to regulate interfaces between
production systems and the social and economic sectors. and to
reconcile local, state and regional interests and those of the
nation.
-    To act with priority in homogeneous areas that are currently
underutilized and offer high and medium potential for production.
-    To establish a system of action that joins the programs of research,
terhnical assistance and credit with the knowledge and experience
gained.



- 17 -
As stated, PRODERITH seeks a process of development "from below to
above," in which, through continuous negotiations, rural communities can
become the determining factor in their own development. Institutional action,
which begins with an analysis of the conditions under which the development
sought is feasible, nurtures and promotes the social capability of the
producers to design and carry out the necessary measures in the form of a
local program.
In that connection, the relationship between the community and the
agencies involved has been a dynamic one; it fosters the capacity of the
producer to use the resources available to him rationally and independently,
and limits the role of the State to one of agent and channel for the external
inputs required to eliminate obstacles to development. Thus, it may be
feasible to replace swollen bureaucratic mechanisms with the local capacity
for work, planning, execution and control. In the last of these aspects, the
information provided by agency recommendations and the training of field
technicians are instruments of great value for the strategies of the program.
The following medium-term goals were established in the first phase
of the program covering the period 1978-83:
-    To increase the incomes of 3,500 producers in six integrated rural
development projects, quadrupling their 1978 level.
-    To bring about a 50% increase over the 1978 income level of 2,000
producers on 500 ha.
-    To devise and put into effect a metnodology of integrated rural
development for the humid tropics of Mexico.
-    To institutionalize the process of integral rural development within
the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources.
-    To train 500 specialists in various strategic fields.
The implementation of the PRODERITH activities aimed at eliminating
the physical, technological and socioeconomic impediments to the development
of the region had three basic components:
-    Six intensive integrated rural development projects on 54,000 ha.
-    Technical assistance services for 500,000 ha.
-    Strengthening of installed capacity for research in farming,
stockraising and forestry in the tropics.
2.2.1     System of Operation
Intensive integrated rural development projects
The design of these intensive projects responds to the need for a
new approach in the institutional promotion of rural development in the
Mexican tropics.



- 18 -
The components were designed within a specific development strategy
ranging from the experimental level to implementation on a large scale. By no
means has this approach involved setting up experimental fields or
demonstration plots. The basic concern has been to establish commercial
production units that would indicate the feasibility of given land use
patterns, provide experience in problems of water resource control, and
introduce a transitional strategy that takes into account the present forms of
organization and production in the various types of rural settings, and allows
for its transformation into other strategies compatible with the innovations
of all kinds inherent in rural development.
One guiding principle has been that in deciding upon the location of
the project it was necessary to have the formal participation of the
population directly involved. To this end, a system of communication was
instituted with channels permitting a flow between that population and the
development agency concerned.
Each project has also made provision for an intensive program of
technical assistance. The goal here was the adoption -- or if applicable the
generation -- and subsequent more efficient application of farming,
stockraising and forestry technology by producers.
One major contribution was the success achieved, in the program's
production units, in redefining the relationships between those units and
their external concexts, comprising government agencies, farmers'
organizations and the various types of markets. Experience shows that
campesino organizations can fail if the conditions of their incorporation in
the external framework result in incompatibility or conflicts that ultimately
undermine the internal organization.
In suimmary, the planning effort has been aimed at devising and
putting into practice all of the elements required for integrated rural
development, having regard to the interests and perceptions or the
beneficiaries, and with the informed participation of all.
In the ececution of the projects there have been distinct phases
which are defined from two standpoints. The first is related to the size of
the project. Initially, the aim was that projects be of a size such tnat
their complete design and extension to larger areas would be feasible. The
other criterion relates to the development of each project in itself,
irrespective of size. At the outset the aim was to introduce the
infrastructure works and technological changes necessary for a progressive
step-up in production in each project area. This would permit a rapid
increase in production, and would enable the producer, in repeating his
experience, to assimilate the changes required in the organization of
production to obtain a greater return on investment.
Furthermore, this methodology places the initial scenario of rural
development in its proper setting, with characteristics representative of the
area covered. In this smaller setting, varying from 5,000 to 18,000 ha, an
intensive rural development project is undertaken. In a second phase the area



- 19 -
of expansion is determined on the basis of available studies, current programs
of the Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources, and input from other
national and state government agencies.
In this connection, the contributions from the Commission of the
National Water Resources Plan are valuable for decisions on the hydro-
agricultural development of the area, based on physical and socioeconomic
studies of its potential.
The physical indicators analyzed include precipitation, total
runoff, available runoff, level areas, soil suitable for agriculture,
availability of underground water, potential pollution, flood damage, need for
drainage, need for irrigation and risk of erosion. They gave precise data on
both resources and the problems that hinder their utilization.
In another aspect, the analysis of socioeconomic conditions provided
a picture of social conditions, level of development, demographic growth,
quantity and quality of services, and degree of marginalization. It shed
light on aspects related to product exchange and agricultural and industrial
employment, all in relation to the instruments of regional planning for major
studies in the priority areas established.
These large-scale studies allowed choices among alternative methods
of implementation, through the analysis of plans and selection of sites for
intensive projects. The whole cycle of studies was integrated with specific
activities, together making up a substantial contribution to defining the area
of expansion of the intensive project.
At the same time in this phase, direct contacts were initiated with
the producers of the area under study. The establishment of channels of
communication to report on program activities, as well as initial promotion,
sought mainly to incorporate those variables associated with the perceptions
and outlook of producers in the socioeconomic analysis, and was a first step
toward tapping the potential of the community to undertake its own
development. When the location of an intensive project was determined its
local headquarters was established as a base for the final studies and
services of the program.
Technical assistance services
The underlying premise is that agricultural development is an
expression of the human, social and technical development of farmers. On this
basis, the experience acquired in technical assistance programs elsewhere in
the country and the information available from international sources indicate
that the leading problems are those of organization and human resources.
The central requirements for implementation of the technical
assistance service were a permanent training program, recruitment and
additional training of personnel, and specialization of functions within the
agency itself -- together ensuring the ability to understand multidisciplinary
integration and to practice it in the field.



- 20 -
This was augmented by local experts or technicians on the team, to
expand coverage and ensure that the service provided is consistent with local
socioeconomic realities.
The extension service of the program operates in two different
settings: the area of the intensive project, and its area of expansion. The
organization devised for the initial period of implementation and the one
envisaged for subsequent phases guarantee uniform action in procedures,
monitoring and evaluation that takes account of the differences between the
two.
One feature of the technical assistance service and of the
information communicated has been continuous contact with the production and
social conditions of producers in the intensive project areas and the
expansion areas.
In the intensive areas the informational function, like that of
program promotion, contributes to a continuous updating of the internal
analysis of the community of producers, which emphasizes general problems and
those of production and technology. This internal analysis within the
communities is a major contribution to the formulation of the local
development program.
The information/contact persons (after establishment of the
appropriate production system or systems for the community and its local
groups) maintain ongoing technical contacts with the farmers' groups and rural
enterprises as they are formed. In setting up self-managing enterprises,
these contact persons must turn over control so that - without disparaging
the importance of their work - they provide an opportunity for the enterprise
personnel themselves to take part in obtaining inputs and the necessary
information.
In the expansion areas the information/contact persons, by taking
part in the analysis of the current traditional technology, help the
techniques used by farmers to have better yields and generate more income and
employment. Their recommendations on agronomic research reinforce the ability
of local producers to realize the goals of the program.
The informational personnel of the technical assistance service have
been trained to use modern methods of communication and information, to
operate in the field, and to help prepare additional audio-visual materials
for specific activities.
Applied research
Research is seen as the essential basis for any regional development
activity, affording alternative solutions to the problems of agricultural
production and productivity. Clearly, however, research by itself does not
resolve the sweeping and complex problems of development. It is therefore
necessary to establish the means required for transferring the results of
research to rural producers and making their application possible.



- 21 -
The leading instrument o. the PRODERITH technical assistance service
has been a method of operation that provides a flexible and rapid link between
that service and the centers of basic applied research. Through that link,
recommendations for technological innovation in the form of full-scale schemes
are obtained. These, having been seen by the producer, can be transformed
into concrete proposals for production systems that take account of the
specific potential for acceptance and implementation by the producer himself
and suitability to his physical and economic-social situation.
Research at project level complements that performed on experimental
fields; its aim is to convert the technological plans generated by the
research centers into proposals for production systems at the site of the
intensive project. The generation of technologies which are appropriate for
the ecological, social and economic conditions of each developing community,
and each type of producer, has been one of the most significant hoped-for
results. During the transition of the local economies it can provide, over
time, contributions and tested experience for the expansion areas.
In those areas, nonetheless, agronomic research has specific
functions which begin simultaneously with program activities in the intensive
area itself. The latter activities have meant a step-up in institutional
action, and in many cases the construction and operation of a major
hydroagricultural and service infrastructure, whose immediate result is a
change in the conditions of production in situ. Over a considerable period of
time the expansion areas have been the setting for a development process which
minimizes institutional involvement and maximizes local producers' capability
for improving traditional technology in the use of their own resources and
achieving substantial increases in farm incomes and rural employment. Thus,
agronomic research in the expansion areas starts with an analysis of the
traditional technology, incorporates the research findings of INIA, INIP and
INIF, and supports extension activities with specific recommendations aimed at
production and socioeconomic gains.
On-farm applied research is conducted with a procedure that stres-es
the education of producers, with their direct participation and their own
labor.
Within this scheme, it was believed that the results of research --
both that performed at the experimental centers and that of the technical
assistance service -- could be put into practice quickly. To facilitate the
communication of those findings to producers, the service has relied on the
PRODERITH Communication System for Rural Development.
2.2.2     Organization and functioning
The execution of the program required the establishment of a
structure consonant with the objectives sought and ensuring compliance with
loan contract 1553-ME with the World Bank. That contract calls for the
formation of (i) a Central Technical Committee with the participation of
Federal Government central departments, decentralized agencies, public
enterprises, and financial and credit institutions concerned with the
country's rural development; and (ii) a working group capable of ensuring the
proper execution of the program.



- 22 -
To that end, the executive authority made the Commission of the
National Water Resources Plan responsible for carrying out the necessary
actions and procedures for the functioning of the Committee and the formation
of the working group.
The Committee's functions include project selection, approval of
plans, programs and budgets, determination of strategies and approval of
evaluation reports. In all of those aspects the Secretary of .he Committee 7/
himself acts through administrative and technical recommendations based on the
evaluation reports.
The working context for the group responsible for compliance with
commitments and goals is the PRODERITH General Coordination office within the
Commission of the National Water Resources Plan. Its functions include
coordinating program activities; maintaining contact and providing information
to international technical assistance agencies; planning, programming,
budgeting, supervision, monitoring and evaluation; designing methodology and
work systems appropriate for the region, and the like. The internal
organization of this General Coordination at the central level consists of a
directorate general, two area directorates, eight departmental headquarters,
and a technical staff of about 40. At this level and as part of the
international support for the program, technicians have been assigned by the
United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the Soil Conservation
Service of the United States Government, and international cooperation
agencies.
The operational side of the program at the regional level is
incorporated in the organizational structure of SARH, and in the central
government agencies. Through the state bureaus, works, services and other
activities are directed by two local representatives, one for infrastructure
and another for projects, in five states. The local project headquarters has
various units: planning and evaluation, support and methodology, and at least
four field units.
This organization has evolved into the present system of operation
known as technical support services for integrated rural development. The
evolution has been based on t:e results achieved, Lraining, methodology
generation and testing, social and production impact, and gradual
familiarization with and mastering of the physical environment.
In order to deal with the problems particular to the humid tropics
of Mexico concurrently and consistently, these services have been formed with
technical personnel who work as an organic and multidisciplinary entity. They
have been assigned to planning and evaluation, support and methodology units.
Paralleling that organization, the works and water resources infrastructure
units operate in the field, coordinated with and supporting the development
process.
On the national level planning for the sector has laid down the
general guidelines which, coupled with the regional analysis, made it possible
to obtain an initial version of the indicative plan for the tropics and to
carry out the planning for the first phase of PRODERITH.
7/   Executive Dizector of CPNH.



- 23 -
The frames of reference by crop and product have afforded the basis
for a specific program of research in farming, stockraising and forestry, and
an assessment of the needs for training.
Technical assistance, directly linked to research, brings together
technological know-how and field experien'e for the optimum utilization of
resources.
Interdisciplinary support and methodology serve the areas of rural
organization, credit, family development and rural communication.
The infrastructure, on the basis of the feasibility studies,
initially provides for the design and construction of works and subsequently
for their operation and maintenance.
The presence of a local office in the community is a catalyst for
joint programs of information, training and org_nization, with the aim of
forming a local development plan embodying the comitments of both parties.
The system of evaluation provides feedback to the PRODERITH
Coordination office for preparation of a new version of the indicative plan,
and allows any needed action to be taken.
Through regional planning, this work system facilitates the linkage
between the guidelines of national planning and local expectations and demands.
CHAPTER 3: IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
3.i       Planning
PRODERITH has expended considerable effort in the preparation of
plans, studies, projects and budgets so as to have technical and economic data
on the humid tropics in Mexico and to tarry out tie overall planning of the
program and its components for implementation ir tages I and 2.
The purpose of planning the integrated rural development of the
humid tropics is to introduce a systematic and effective process to improve
the living conditions of farmers by making the best use possible of natural,
human, economic and financial resources in the development of the rural sector
in that region.
The planning process involves three phases for the long, medium and
short terms.
Phase 1
Phase 1 includes long-term regional planning, which was the basis
for the adoption in 1977-78 of the frame of reference and regional analysis.
This phase used secondary statistics and data, large-scale maps
showing the potential and balances of natural resources, data on population
changes and on the supply and demand for agricultural products, among other
parameters.



- 24 -
Based on the 1981 National Water Resources Plan (CPNH-81), an
Agricultural Development Plan for the Humid Tropics was formulated for the
coastal plains of the Gulf Zone and the Southeast, with a view to setting out
in full detail the frame of reference for PRODERITH. Following on this work,
the indicative plan for 1983-2000 (PIDATH) was formulated for the second and
subsequent stages of the program.
In 1981 the data taken from the various regions of the humid tropics
and studies conducted at different levels were used to put together a package
of L9 agricultural projects for the coastal plains of the Gulf Zone and
Southeast.
In 1983, those projects were ranked on the basis of technical,
socioeconomic and other indicators derived from the package itself and the
criteria and guidelines of the National DeveLopment Plan.
In accordance with the 1981 National Water Resources Plan, the
target for the Gulf Zone and Southeast is to bring 5,200,000 ha into
agricultural production. Feasibility studies have provided information on the
natural resources of 1,280,500 ha, i.e. 24.6% of the agricultural frontier of
the humid tropics. Moreover, a number of large-scale studies have shed light
on the parameters affecting the agricultural and socioeconomic development of
374,800 ha, or 7.2% of that frontier. rn sum, the program has provided
reliable data for 31.8Z of the potential area to be brought into agricultural
production.
Phase 2
Based on development notential, projects were selected during
phase 2, following the identification of areas of some 100,000 ha, from among
which 12 sites varying between 15,000 and 60,000 ha and covering a total of
480,000 ha were selected for study in 1978. They became the focus of
reconnaissance and large-scale studies which ultimately determined the
possible pilot areas for the program.
After further analysis, six sites were selected and the local
offices (residencias) for an equal number of stage one projects were set up.
Priority was given to basic studies on topography, agrology, climate, water
resources, water table levels and drainage, in addition "o those of a
socioeconomic nature. The findings were used for the preliminary engineering
designs and detailed appraisals, in terms of feasibility, in Tantoan
(Tamaulipas), Acapetahua (Chiapas), Tizmin (Yucatan), Atoyac (Veracruz),
Tesechoacan (Veracruz) 8/ and Zapotal (Tabasco). 9/
8/   The feasibility of development in this region was studied by SRH and
later, in 1975-76, by SARH; to select the pilot regions for the program
in 1977-78, PRODERITH therefore carried out additional design studies.
9/   Idem.



- 25 -
The information provided by the studies was used in formulating
program objectives and components; estimating targets for each project;
calculating timetables and deciding on the activities to be carried out, as
well as implementing information and monitoring mechanisms, and action
strategies, investments and benefits.
During this phase, large-scale studies were done in other regions to
provide more information on the humid tropics, along with others to examine
the possibility of expanding the projects 10/ to an additional 159,830 ha
in Tecolutla, Acayucan and Bajo Uxpanapa in the state of Veracruz and Reforma,
Palenque and Arriaga in the state of Chiapas. For the design of the second
stage of the program, between 1980 and 1983 feasibility studies were carried
out for 1,273,000 ha.
Phase 3
Planning in phase 3 consisted of formulating the development plan
for each pilot project (1978-80) and laying the groundwork for the second
stage, making possible a feedback process, the incorporation of baseline data
and the preparation of a four-project portfolio for the second stage of
PRODERITH.
At the same time, with a view to assisting the Chiapas Plan in
relation to the Chiapas Agricultural Development Project, 11/ the components
of the Costa de Chiapas regional project, covering varicus areas, were drawn
up.
Planning for each project included interagency coordination for the
construction of production infrastructure from the final drawings for civil
works, major and secondary infrastructure and, at the farm level. plot
drainage and soil conservation; planning also included the adoption of targets
for production, social infrastructure and technical assistance and education
services, as well as the strategies for contacting and communicating with the
potential beneficiaries of each integrated rural development project.
Civil works. Final drawings were prepared for three integrated
research centers; Regional Center for Education, Training and Research for
Agricultural Development in the Humid Tropics; 12/ and those associated with
four Local project bases, including offices and rural training centers.
Water infrastructure. The key components of project infrastructure
are normally drainage systems and roads. The Program Coordination office has
been particularly important in identifying, and in some cases solving,
specific problems related to final designs and the preparation of annual
programs.
10/ Activities carried between 1980 and 1982.
11/ PRODACH.
12/ CRECIDATH.



- 26 -
Plot drainage and soil conservation. Projects with an experimental
component in plot drainage, soil conservation and farm mechanization were
studied, designed and put into effect along with the preparation of related
manuals. Specifically, designs were produced for the plot drainage units in
Mozambique (200 ha) in the Valle de Atoyac (Veracruz) project and the Zapotal
(Tabasco) project for the Palo Mula'.o sector of the Zapotal ejido covering 600
ha. The drainage units were started up on a total of 810 ha on the eiidos of
Matamoros and Colombia in the Acapetahua (Chiapas) project. The soil
conservation unit for the Santa Clara ejido covering 160 ha of the TantoAn
(Tamaulipas) project was designed and put into service.
Pasture management. In order to tap soil potential and promote
stockfarming, development programs for the El Olimpico stockraising units
(Tamaulipas), San Miguel (Veracruz), Paso de la Mina (Tabasco), San Luis
Tzuctuc (Yucatan) and Roberto Barrios (Chiapas) were prepared with a view to
reconciling pasture resources with herd size and type of livestock; the design
of the herd development program and necessary livestock facilities and
infrastructure were also considered.
Mechanization and soil management. Three units were planned in this
aspect, one with zero plowing, another with minimal plowing and a third using
animal traction and green manure in Atoyac (Veracruz). For the Tantoan
(Tamaulipas) project, a soil conservation and management and livestock unit
was planned for the Divisi6n del Norte ejido. In Acapetahua (Chiapas) a
minimal plowing unit was planned along with the use of low-ho.:sepower
soil-breaking equipment. In Zapotal (Tabasco) a perennial rice/maize unit was
planned for implementation once the plot drainage system is completed, along
with a yucca production unit to supplement swine-raising operations.
The implementation of the production units means that integrated
rural development is being systematically prt into practice; since one goal is
better economic balance it includes, besides technical assistance and rural
extension, benefits to farmers and the timely and direct supply of both direct
and indirect inputs so that production targets can be met.
Among the aspects involved in the planning process, training and
organization were key to proper implementation, monitoring and operation of
the units, since true farmer participation and self-management mean solvency
and profitability.
Planning of drainage works. For the olanning of infrastructure in
the basin of the Ixcualco (Veracruz) river, the coast of Chiapas and the Pujal
Coy II Project, the engineering and drainage team carried out various works
and facilitated initial coordination with the local offices of the Directorate
General of Large-Scale Irrigation 13/ in order to standardize the criteria
used in the design of drainage and water control works. In this regard, a
group of advisors from the Soil Conservation Service 14/ provided technical
assistance in the formulation of various alternatives.
13/ Attached to SARH
14/ A U.S. Government agency



- 27 -
For water resource planning, the integrated rural development
program has produced manuals and methodological guides for the drainage, soil
conservation, farm machinery, pasture management and stockraising units; on an
experimental basis, the implementation of the program made it possible to
generate data so that the specifications of drain performance could be
s tandardized.
Experience and limitations of the planning process. The planning
process included technical assistance for 500,000 ha; crop, livestock and
forestry research; promotion of social services; training; infrastructure
construction; farmer organization; rural communication; experience in carrying
out development projects tailored to the humid tropics and, specifically, in
water management and control, plot drainage and the dissemination of
technology to increase production; and the joint efforts of various
institutions both in the agro-livestock sector in Mexico and international
organizations including the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organi-
zation 15/ and the World Bank. 16/
Initial planning required that a series of definitions be prepared
within a conceptual framework with general parameters in accordance with the
levels of institutional coordination, in terms of project location and
relationship to the rainfed farming districts established by SARH, and that a
competent team be recruited.
Even though the most important aspects were defined, the shortage of
technicians with training and experience in development of the humid tropics
was a constraint at the outset; it was therefore necessary to train analysts,
researchers. supervisors, soil conservation and rural communications
specialists, etc.
When the program started, the design of the drainage infrastructure
suffered from a lack of systematized criteria for analysis and projection,
owing to the conditions peculiar to the rainfed areas of the humid tropics.
This led to the establishment of a design and supervision unit.
Project implementation is progressing on schedule, although the
-raitage and soil management activities have not been completed, as in some
cases the construction phase is still under way.
3.2       Research
With a view to promoting the use of the most appropriate technology
for production, PRODERITH included the construction and operation of
integrated research centers and experimental stockraising and forestry fields;
support to existing operations; training of researchers for those centers; and
specific research programs for various crops, forest species, meat and milk
production and water use and management. All of this was in response to the
needs identified through technical assistance in considering solutions to
foreseeable problems and broadening the potential of production lines deemed
to be of interest from the local as well as regional and national standpoints.
15/ FAO.
16/ IBRD.



- 28 -
The focus of research, was on training and the improvement of
physical and human infrastructure in the tropical regions of Mexico and on the
formulation of multi-disciplinary research programs and mechanisms for the
interagency coordination of research.
From 1978 to 1984, PRODERITH's contribution was mainly in the
bringing on board of researchers in various disciplines; the establishment of
mechanisms for coordination among research units in the sector; headway
towards a deeper understanding of technical and production problems in each
region; orientation of research and lastly, setting the stage for the advent
of the most appropriate mechanisms for interaction between research and
farmers, which will enrich the technical innovation process in tropical areas.
Within its ambit, PRODERITH formulated the concept of integrating
research for development, which guided the construction and opening of the
integrated centers of Huimanguillo (Tabasco), Costa de Chiapas and Papaloapan
(Veracruz). These centers, of which the Huimanguillo one is most advanced in
terms of construction and equipment, operate under a joint agreement between
INIA, INIP and INIF.
As a first step toward the coordinated participation of farmers, an
agreement was signed to formahize the establishment and operation of the
bureau to support crop, livestock and forestry research in the state of
Tabasco.
Also noteworthy are the operations of five stockraising and forestry
camps originally proposed and support to the Experimental Stockraising Center
of Paso del Toro (Veracruz) and the San Felipe Bacalar Forestry Center
(Quintana Roo).
As regards training during this period, 118 researchers were
recruited for the centers; 105 research projects were started and 47 more
involving various disciplines now receive assistance.
In this respect, the proposed projects and the studies done relate
to the production of rice, pulses, oilseeds, yucca, forage crops, cacao,
rubber and spices; drainage water, use and management; meat and milk
productioE, in the tropics; and meat and milk from sheep and goats.
Furthermore, the forestry programs focus on multiple uses of soil, hedges,
fence posts and tropical woods.
Research in the humid tropics has satisfactorily met the general
objectives set at the start of the program. The original target of providing
Mex$227.3 million for research, in the form of fields, buildings and
equipment, was surpassed, with Mex$518.9 million expended for the above as
well as operating expenses, fellowships and the like.
Crop Research
The National Crop Research Institute 171 has experimental fields at
Las Huastecas, Cotaxtla (Veracruz), El Palmar (Veracruz), the central valleys
17/ INIA.



- 29 -
of Oaxaca, the coastal and isthmus regions of Chiapas, Rosario Izapa
(Chiapas), Uxmal (Yucatan), Edzna (Campinas), the henequen region (Yucatan)
and Chetumal (Quintana Roo), among others. Experiments and studies are
performed at the fields on the major food crops and native and introduced
forage crops. PRODERTIH has assisted these programs and financed new research
centers to make possible the establishment of a broad-based agricultural
research system based on INIA's experience in both the tropics and other
ecological areas. The results show the adoption of improved plant stock and
more efficient production practices in many instances of forage and other
crops. These initial results were used to identify specific areas for the
introduction of new plant stock and input management techniques. New
genotypes were created, production practices improved further and studieb
conducted on the most appropriate and profitable production systems in terms
of time, space and available resources.
Livestock research
Livestock production in the tropicb and subtropics of Mexico has
undergone constant development owing to the conversion of primary forests or
areas of secondary growth into pastureland with induced or introduced spec;es
that are suitabie for grazing.
In order to improve the use of the resources available in the
tropics for stockraising, techniques that help overcome the constraints on
productivity must be promoted. Such constraints would include diseases which
directly affect the reproductive process and distribution, lack of a
continuing disease prevention program, the effects of climate, poor-quality
forage crops and extensive grazing practices.
Livestock research in the tropics involves coordination with the
National Livestock Research Institute 18/ and focuses on various aspects:
-    Milk production in the tropics, headquartered at the Paso del Toro
(Veracruz) Experimental Stockraising Center, calls for the
establishment of other experimental centers at Pichucalco (Chiapas),
Balancan (Tabasco) and Campeche (Campinas). In addition, support is
provided by the existing centers at Aldama (Tamaulipas), Hueytamalco
(Puebla), Matias Romero (Oaxaca), Tizimin (Yucatan), Coahuayana
(Michoacan), Acapulco (Guerrero), and El Vardininio and El Macho in
Nayarit:
-    Meat production in the tropics, also headquartered at the Paso del
Toro center, includes the new experimental centers of Huixtla and
Arriaga (Chiapas) and Balanca.n (Tabasco):
-    Sheep and goat production, headquartered at the Experimental
Stockraising Center in Mococha (YucatAn), will continue at the
centers at Balancan, Pichucalco and Campeche, with assistance from
the Paso del Toro, Hueytamalco, Tizimin, El Vardiniao, Ajuchitan
(Guerrero), Corbo (Sonoro), and Tulancingo (Hidalgo) centers.
L8/ INIP.



- 30 -
Forestry research
Under the program, the National Forestry Research Institute 19/ uses
experimental fields in the tropics to develop systems for multipurpose use of
the soil.
The new techniques are to be transferred to the farmers so that,
continuing their traditional uses of resources or farm machinery, they can
establish fast-growing tree plantations, enabling them to supply industrial
complexes facing a severe raw materials shortage.
Systematic crop, livestock and forestry research based on the
concept of multiple use of the soil has high priority and includes resource
conservation and optimization of production. The development and testing of
the necessary technology is the central objective for the humid tropics.
The experimental forestry fields at El Tormento (Campinas) and San
Felipe Bacalar (Quintana Roo) and the experimental areas of CArdenas
(Tabasco), and Santa Ana (Chiapas), which conduct research on barbasco (great
mullein), were joined with the Center for Forestry Research in the Humid
Tropics 20/ in order to strengthen its activities. Its catchment area covers
the states of Tabasco, Campeche and Quintana Roo and the Lacandona Forest.
Soil studies have been made in nurseries to identify the best
substratum for plant development, depending on the characteristics of the
species, for final transplanting. The research has involved such species as
melina, teak, cedar, mahogany and macullis. Likewise, experiments are being
conducted on the durability of fence posts made from tropical species so that
those with greatest resistance to pests and disease can be selected. With a
view to obtaining fence material, one experiment involved 25 tropical species
which were treated with root stimulants. In addition, in the area of
Huimanguillo (Tabasco), research was begun on the establishment and management
of windbreaks.
Since 1979 the College of Tropical Agriculture has been
participating in program research on milk production, fattening systems on the
Tabasco plain, bancales and chontal camellones (plots). Of these projects,
only the intensive fattening of young bulls has yielded practical results for
implementation; however, this project urgently needs to be evaluated from a
financial standpoint, so that its dissemination and extension in Tabasco,
Yucatan and Chiapas can be promoted.
With a view to structuring the integrated analysis of beef cattle
raising in the Mexican tropics, the College of Tropical Agriculture is
coordinating its work in conjunction with PRODERITH, INIA, INIP, and the
Autonomous Universities of Chapingo, YucatAn, Chiapas and Tabasco.
3.3       Infrastructure for Rural Development
One of the most important components of PRODERITH is infrastructure,
which has accounted for nearly 30% of investment in this first stage. The
aspect of proper water management in the humid tropics has been significant.
19/ INIF.
20/ CIFTROH.



- 31 -
Infrastructure development seeks to fulfilL physical requirements
for agro-livestock activities in accordance with the farmers' financial
capacity. It also seeks to improve overland communications and marketing and
to provide facilities which directly or indirectly support production and the
farmer, all of which taken together will reduce the risks arising in
agricultural development.
Program infrastructure works include roads, drainage channels, soil
improvement and conservation, riverbed alignment, storage facilities, well
drilling, irrigation and plot drainage. This component also includes the work
of the research centers and the construction of service buildings.
The infrastructure works were begun in late 1978 in the pilot
projects of Zapotal (Tabasco) and Tesechoacin (Veracruz); in 1979 in
Tantoan-Santa Clara (Tamaulipas) and Tizimin (Yucatan); and 1980 in Acapetahua
(Chiapas) and Atoyac (Veracruz).
Some projects 21/ have exceeded 100% of goals. In others, progress
has been slower, owing primarily to the greater complexity of physical and
socioeconomic aspects and involvement of the executing agencies, as in the
case of Zapotal and Tesechoacan.
In the first stage, 623.6 km of roads, 382 km of drainage channels,
two large structures and three training and service centers were built and
28,923 ha underwent soil improvement. As a whole, the works represent 153% of
targets in the feasibility studies; 85% of targets regarding the infra-
structure needed for research on the humid tropics and at PRODERITH camps were
met. Overall, targets were exceeded by 120% for this component. The
infrastructure works directly or indirectly benefited 113.300 ha.
At the outset, there was a delay in execution caused by changes to
the final engineering designs, an unduly drawn out contracting process, the
tardy authorization of budgets and the preference of contractors in some
states for work in the energy sector. In addition, because the projects and
investments were small-scale, this limited interest on the part of both
institutions and contractors. Investment in this program from 1978 to 1984
was Mex$4,866 million at current prices.
3.4       Organization and Technical Assistance
Integrated ruraL development aims at raising the standard of living
of rural people and increasing organized grass-roots participation of rural
communities in shaping their development and protecting their own interests.
This means changes in the agricultural. stockraising, forestry and fishery
production structure and the strengthening of its integration with industry
and trade, based on greater and equity efficiency. It also demands
modernization of the relationships between production, the legal framework and
social organization in the countryside and between the rural population and
the rest of the country.
21/ Acapetahua and Tantoan-Santa Clara.



- 32 -
In the case of the Integrated Rural Development Program for the
Humid Tropics, organization and technical assistance at first did not receive
all the acceptance expected; only after steady and continuous contact with
farmers was the expected social penetration possible. Because of
tradition-steeped social and economic obstacles, opposition to institutional
action had to be overcome as regards obtaining support of an organizational
nature with a view to improving production and as regards training and
appropriate agricultural extension. The technical assistance originally
planned to increase production had to be supplemented with promotion of social
services so as to overcome resistance in the project areas.
The object of grass-roots organization and technical assistance was
to provide a minimum level of well-being, through an increase in
production-productivity, based on the use of appropriate technology for the
specific problems and conditions of the tropics and on the integration of the
pertinent production systems, from planning through to processing and
marketing, within an organized framework.
Technical assistance was provided in accordance with a scheme
calling for grass-roots participation in drawing up the local development
plan, which oversees and meshes the institutional work with the overall needs
identified, in which the institutional role is to coordinate services while
the community provides organized, locally managed labor to meet its needs.
This participatory approach emerged as a response to the impact .f
the proposed technology to foster agro-livestock production, social
advancement and group organization, in all of which training and
communications have played a key role, to the extent that at present
two-thirds of the beneficiaries are involved in their own development. The
results are encouraging and have the potential for expansion; the benefits are
being reaped by 185 communities and are the fruit of 33 local development
plans, with 28,314 families benefiting directly.
By the end of the first stage of the program, services for technical
assistance and support to rural development had evolved into the Technical
Support Services for Integrated Rural Development (SETADRI), for the
organization of institutional participation in direct contact with farmers,
their families and communities. These are field units able to interact with
the demands and needs of the beneficiaries - formulated in local development
plans -- within a multi-faceted approach centered on enhanced production and
social betterment. In general, these field units include middle-level
stockraising, farming or forestry technicians and social workers. Each field
unit serves a permanent group of farmers through explicit commitments made by
both the base agencies and the program's evaluation and monitoring systems for
which they can be held accountable. A variable number of field units,
depending on the geographic and demographic characteristics of each project
area, are coordinated by the local project headquarters. The services also
have a multi-disciplinary experienced and high-level core called the support
and methodology unit which is able to provide ongoing advisory assistance for
the activities and needs of the field units. This small and highly versatile
team offers continuous in-service training for technical personnel in direct
contact with farmers and their families, and takes part in informational and
training activities for farmers.



-33 -
All activities involving the rural community are considered part of
the internal organization process, and the support and methodology unit
promotes this in terms of the local development plans. Credit, rural admini-
stration, communications, organization, family oevelopment, and experimental
activities are some of the specific disciplines found among the staff of the
support and methodology unit.
In addition, a planning and evaluation unit assists in drawing up
annual work plans of each local project office and in the implementation of the
PRODERITH monitoring and evaluation system. The annual work plans are based on
the local development programs for each community and are coordinated by the
field units with the target communities and farmer groups.
The local project office performs general supervision of activities
in the project area and thanks to the planning and evaluation unit is able to
continuously improve coordination between the local development plans and the
overall development scheme for the project area. It also oversees the estab-
lishment of the necessary mechanisms for coordination with other institutions
or specific programs affecting its catchment area, especially as concerns the
health, education, electrification and cultural aspects. With the gradual
establishment of the local project offices and the strengthening of the parti-
cipatory capacity and organized demand of rural communities, such activities
have served to support the central goal promoted by PRODERITH, i.e. produc-
tion and social development. Similarly, the local project offices coordinate
program activities with planning and development at the municipal level, and
have had major achievements in revitalizing the municipalities in the areas
served.
3.5       Credit
The credit program run by the Agricultural Trusts 22/ in the PRODERITH
areas, funded partially by Loan 1553-ME from the World Bank, 23/ was started in
May 1979 based on a discount and disbursement plan to be implemented over a
five-year period and with discounts totalling Mex$259.9 million, equivalent to
US$11.3 million. 24/
This component was to supplement the financing of production in the
PRODERITH development projects; to make technological development feasible,
using the credit to support production and in particular technical assistance;
to ensure maximum efficiency of credit and technical assistance personnel,
settling of overdue accounts and prompt processing and flexibility of credit
instruments for more effective lending; to improve and redirect credit admini-
stration; and to draw on experience to improve all aspects related to this
component.
The implementation of the program required the conclusion of an
agreement to coordinate the financing of works in the project areas. That
agreement was signed in 1978 by FIRA and SARH. Subsequently, in 1981, another
agreement was signed by the National Rural Credit Bank to enlist the partici-
pation of the public banking sector so that operations could be stepped up in
the project pilot areas.
22/ FIRAs.
23/ IBRD.
24/ At the exchange rate of Mex$23 = US$1.



- 34 -
A recurring problem involves the eiidos which borrow from the public
banking system. Income shortfalls and failure to repay result in overdue
accounts, which are at times difficult to collect; this creates a vicious
circle from one season to the next, since it makes it difficult to obtain a
new loan, even when the borrowers represent only some members of the eiido.
This is the case with the beneficiary eijido members of PRODERITH and
one way of improving the situation is the formulation of a request which
brings in 60% of the eiido members not involved in the previous loan.
Essentially, the application should be supported by an evaluation showing the
feasibility of the production activity for which the credit has been granted.
To this end, a sound policy should be instituted to avoid, to the extent
possible, borrowing with excessive risk.
One problem is the need to open new lines of credit. Both fixed and
working capital loans are at present unable to meet the targets set for
certain PRODERITH actions, since new implementation procedures require that
lending ceilings be raised so as to achieve equity in technical assistance,
organization and construction of irrigation works and roads.
If the constraints described above are to be overcome; changes must
be made in the criteria appli'ed by the lending institutions; the FIRA-
BANRURAL-ANAGSA-SARH agreement is therefore a key instrument for improving
coordination and streamlining procedures, with the possibility of cpen
participation by the agencies involved in order to eliminate current stumbling
blocks. Independently, the coordination procedures established between the
technical and administrative personnel of PRODERITH and FIRA have improved
performance and led to the timely and broad-based implementation of the credit
component of the ?rogram. This made it possible to meet the demand for
financing in the PRODERITH project areas, which was much higher than
originally estimated. In 1983 the discounting program for fixed capital loans
in PRODERITH project areas totaled Mex$554 million. Under this program, the
local project offices have a total of 106 eiido projects for an estimated
Mex$341.7 million. The initial achievements of the program showed a decline
in 1983 in the area benefited by working capital credit, which is a sign of
the progress, albeit slow, in achieving the targets for fixed capital credit,
unlike what occurred from 1979 to 1982. In 1983 discounts by FIRA amounted to
Mex$147.56 million; the FIRA-SARH-BANRURAL agreement was renewed, with the
inclusion of ANAGSA (National Farm and Livestock Insurance Agency).
3.6       Rural Communication System
The scarcity of properly trained workers in the various disciplines
of rural development in the tropics was a major obstacle to the implementation
of PRODERITH, which required a set of actions to communicate its main features
and accomplishments broadly at the national and state levels.
Since the start of the preliminary and preparatory work for the
program, activities to enhance communications for rural development have been
carried out. These rapidly evolved into the Rural Communication System, a
service for participating institutions and offices, and rural target groups.
Given the characteristics of PRODERITH, it was concluded that a
means capable of covering the initial geographic area had to be adopted; in



- 35 -
addition, the primary means was to be audiovisual. An analysis of various
means of communication led to the conclusion that educational video 25/
satisfactorily met the requirements.
In the first stage of the program, the system sought to generate and
test a methodology for integrated rural development in the humid tropics of
Mexico; to promote the organized, active and informed participation of farmers
and their families; to contribute to technical innovation and the management
of businesses and rural economies, strengthening their autonomy in decision-
making; to support, on an ongoing basis, training for technicians in integrated
rural development for the humid tropics in Mexico; and to support the necessary
institutional coordination for the implementation and growth of PRODERITH.
To this end, the original targets were to:
-    Start up and operate a rural communication system in accordance with
the needs of PRODERITH;
-    Produce 350 audiovisual educational units;
-    Carry out 200,000 man-hours of field implementation by those units.
For this last target, certain basic strategies had to be establimaed
to permit continuous adjustments, the achievement of objectives and the
regulation of operations in accordance with the overall growth of PRODERITH
itself. These included:
-    Self-sufficiency in the production of informational, training and/or
analysis materials for the various target groups;
-    Progressive transfer of the use of the products of the system to
program technicians working in direct contact with the farmers and
their families;
-    Participation by system users in all phases of its operation;
-    Non-specialization of system personnel proper;
-    Continuous evaluation;
-    On-the-job training;
-    Development in stages.
Based on PRODERITH's organization and work system, the Rural
Communication System has established an internal organization consistent with
the requirements of the production, implementation and evaluation phases and
an assurance that the system will be fine-tuned to the guidelines, criteria
and hierarchies of the overall operation of the program which it serves.
25/ Video signal for use on closed-circuit TV.



- 36 -
A central unit is responsible for training its own staff and users;
audiovisual and graphic production; files; implementation; storage of
equipment and materials; maintenance and technical cesign; publications;
distribution of equipment and products; and evaluation. The central mnit is
linked directly, for technical functions per se, with rural communication
satellite offices at each local project office, where they are attached to the
support and methodology unit and the local project director. The satellite
offices are responsible within their terms of reference for production, 26/
implementation, first-line maintenance, evaluation and training. 27/
The system has three central components without which activities
could not be carried out: its own staff, methodology, and equipment. The
staff simultaneously make the other components viable and serve as the
linchpin for the system with the rest of its activities and PRODERITH
personnel. Methodology, first presented as a hypothesis and continuously
improved through experience, includes the system in general and the specific
aspects of basic field and academic research in the production of
communication materials, training of its own staff and evaluation. Equipment
includes all electronic devices and equipment for processing and reproducing
educational video, photo-documentary materials and the like.
PRODERITH's Rural Communication System is designed for government
workers, technicians, farmers and their families directly involved in its
activities, generating various products.
Audiovisual educational units consisting of an audiovisual program,
a notebook for the participant and a teaching aid. these elements are fused
with the spoken language and practice in a session where they are used to
promote an exchange of ideas and knowledge among participants to stimulate new
ideas and concepts for the social or production practice sessions.
Audiovisual programs for the presentation of techniques, information
and various messages.
Publications related to methodology, training, programming and
research.
Discussions within the rural communities for the formulation of
local development plans and the generation, testing and use of new practices
and procedures.
In 1978-84 the system produced a total of 452 educational video
programs; 16 public exhibits with visual materials; specific uses of the
audiovisual materials produced during a total 268,000 man-hours for 117,000
26/ Except as regards the issuance of educational videos which is done
solely, for economy of scale, by the central unit.
27/ Especially training for program field technicians in the use of
equipment, methodology and other instruments.



- 37 -
participants in 6,000 group sessions. X total of 16 short courses and
seminars were held for 150 participants, representing a total of 3,816
man-hours of in-service training.
The goal of autonomy in operations and implementation for the
primary medium of the system has proven its usefulness as well as its
flexibility and strength for conditions which are difficult from the climatic
and environmental standpoints. However, field personnel must be given
portable equipment that is easier to handle, more economical in energy
consumption and lighter in weight than that now used.
The strategy for the problem of understaffing was appropriate. The
rural communication technicians were trained on the basis of the overriding
concept of rural development in addition to having been trained in specific
activities for audiovisual production.
The capacity for central preparation of these materials was
expanded, as was the availability of equipment to the satellite offices, which
are now in a position to take on the second stage of the program.
3.7       Training
The initial study which identified the shoktage of trained personnel
to help develop the humid tropics by attacking its major obstacles also found
that the country did not have academic institutions to train such te;chnicians,
especially as regards the methodology and approach proposed by PRODERITH,
which require a change in the design of development programs.
PRODERITH therefore sponsored, beginning in 1976, a training program
involving the crop. livestock and forestry research institutions, the College
of Tropical Agriculture and the Post-Graduate School at Chapingo, as well as
the Commission of the National Water Resources Plan.
The training program included fellowships at local and foreign
institutions for technical, master's and doctoral level studies.
International consultants were valuable in proposing alternatives for specific
aspects such as planning, research and implementation of technical programs,
and these aspects were taken over by their local counterparts.
The study visits and trips were also part of the training, designed
to yield specific information at centers, institutions and related programs,
as well as short courses which have helped solve immediate problems relatively
rapidly and have reached greater numbers.
Lastly, PRODERITH training enables its personnel to learn from
experience through in-service training, including visits by the staff of the
General Coordination unit to projects; seminars attended by technicians of
different levels from the SETADRI units and an exchange of experience between
technicians and farmers, carried out within the same framework as the
strategic activities for technical, production and social development and
evaluation.



- 38 -
The results of 1978-84 operations are as follows:
Agreements were concluded with the United Nations, FAO, Winrock
Foundation, U.S. Soil Conservation Service and ECTI (France).
The College of Tropical Agriculture provided training at various
academic levels in specialties such as tropical soil and planting, ecology,
silviculture, pests and tropical forest management.
A new program trained six teams of the twelve planned, with a total
of 500 professiona± exr.ension workers in the Post-Graduate School at Chapingo.
Three new training centers were the site of the local project
offices for Zapotal, Tizimin and Acapetahua and CRECIDATH, which since 1983
has held courses and seminars for technicians and farmers.
PRODERITH's trainirng program has helped technicians and specialists
working directly in the field and at research center>.
In summary, 185 man-years of training and 115 man-years of
consulting services were provided. This experience is vital primarily in
terms of progress in agro-livestock development and assistance to SARH in the
humid tropics.



- 39 -
CHAPTER 4
RESULTS BY PROJECT
4.1       ACAPETAHUA PROJECT, CHIAPAS
The Acapetahua project is located on the coastal plain of the state
of Chiapas, in an area comprising the municipalities of Escuintla, Acapetahua,
Acacoyahua and Mapastepec. The total area is 67,000 ha, and this includes the
intensive zone (5,000 ha), which contains all the biotic, physical and
socioeconomic features found in the larger area.    I
The 1979 diagnostic study showed that agriculture in the region
suffered from many adverse factors, principally the following: floods in
areas lacking surface infrastructure; a lack of land communications; the
inexperience of farmers in the use of inputs; traditional cultivation methods;
a lack of sufficient and timely credit; inadequate and excessively specialized
technical assistance, such as that provided by Tabaccos Mexicanos S.A. 28/ and
Comisi6n Nacional del Cacao S.A. 29/; and the use of land with agricultural
potential for extensive stockraising.  As regards social aspects, the
population had little access to the essentials for its well-being, and was
predominately undernourished and illiterate.
In contrast, the region's physical geography is very suitable for
agro-livestock development, and so PRODERITH decided to construct drainage
works and roads there, strengthen research in the region, expand the area
under cultivation, diversify production by introducing crops with a high
commercial value such as cacao, watermelons, bananas and tobacco, increase
rice, maize and bean output, introduce fruit trees, soybeans and sugarcane,
anu provide support for the population in managing services and improving ita
diet, health, housing and education.
Results 1979-83
In the intensive zone, 93 km of roads, 126 km of drainage works
(including 88 km of ditches), and a 5-km access road were built, plot drainage
works were constructed over an area of 810 ha and were connected to the main
works, thus incorporating areas previously subject to the problems listed
above. The total area benefited by these works is 12,000 ha.
The PRODERITH staff organized and trained workers to use the
infrastructure and financing provided, mainly for the production of staple
grains. This made it possible to purchase inputs and improve cultivation
28/ TABAMEX.
29/ CON.ADECA.



- 40 -
techniques, i.e. by altering seed density in order to prevent crops being
beaten down. As a result, average yields of 3 tons/ha of maize and
3.1 tons/ha of rice were obtained in the best year. 30/ By way of comparison,
yields in 1979 were 1.80 tons/ha and 2.45 tons/ha respectively.
As part of the integrated rural development activities, the
technical staff prepared project studies for obtaining fixed capital loans for
cacao planting and the purchase of agricultural macIinery.
The results were successful, because the area planted with cacao was
doubled, and from 1979 to 1982 the area under mechanized cultivation increased
from 3,129 ha to 9,175 ha, totaling 73S of the area in production. Working
capital loans made possible the use of fertilizers on staple crops over an
area seven times greater than when the project was launched. 31/
The Chiapas Coast Integrated Center is now in operation,
strengthening agricultural research in the region and training research
workers. It has established research programs, and particularly important
among these is the INIA maize production program. A technological package for
tne various agro-systems was devised as a result of the four years of studies,
and implementation of this package raised profits from agricultural output
from Mex$43 million in 1979 to Mex$84 million in 1982. 32/
The Acapetahua project added 8,000 ha to the area under cultivation
by clearing land, constructing irrigation works and converting land use from
stockraising to crop farming, which expanded from 792 ha in 1979 to 16,134 ha
in 1983.
Two of the plot-drainage units have been completed and two more have
reached different stages of advance. They demonstrate the advantages of such
works, a special feature of which is that they promote organized participation
by the farmers, who have selected crops according to soil conditions,
eliminated boundaries and relocated their stockraising activities. The
Katamoros I unit 33/ yields 3.5 tons/ha of maize and up to 4 tons/ha of rice.
By using the drainage works as canals for pumping water from the El Zapote
River and using sprinklers for irrigation, watermelons and tobacco have been
grown, with yields of 18 tons/ha and 1.30 tons/ha respectively. Currently,
cacao is being grown as an additional crop.
To guard against ecological degeneration and erosion, units have
been installed for carrying out various tests with machinery and other
alternative methods, i.e. without plowing, with a minimum of plowing, using
30/ 1982.
31/ 1979.
32/ At 1979 prices.
33/ In operation since 1982. Area 157 ha.



- 41 -
chemical preparations, and employing various cropping methods. In addition,
they are used for training staff and farmers in conservation and cultivation
practices, and in the proper use of inputs and machinery. Advisers from
SCS 34t supervise these operations.
l
Technical assistance for stockraising is being intensified so that
extensive systems of operation can be gradually converted to semi-intensive
methods, the main aim being to introduce a planning system that is based on
inventories of resources and increases the efficiency of enclosed pasture
rotation, establishes and maintains meadows containing grasses appropriate to
the area, draws up schedules for preventive health measures, institutes the
use of control cards, and provides food supplements when the rivers are low.
Thanks to improved milking systems, disease control (e.g. as
applied to mastitis) and food supplements, the output of meat and milk was
raised slightly. Such measures also helped increase the stocking rate from
1.83 head of cattle/ha to 2.10 on ejidos and from 1.88 head of cattle/ha to
2.50 on smallholdings. The greatest increases in meat output are from the
smallholdings, whereas the ejidos are clearly more interested in milk
production.
Marketing using current available outlets improved considerably,
particularly as regards fruit and albu _t1:. This was especially true of milk
during the rainy season, when considerable amounts are sold to the Nestle
Company and, to a lesser degree, to local cheese producers.
The aim of social development during the first stage was to raise
the standard of living of the target population. In 18 communities, food and
health assistance was provided for 2,430 families. The participation of women
has been a key factor in these activities. 13 agribusiness units controlled
by women have been formally established, contributing to family income through
productive activities such as the cultivation of staple grains, stockraising,
manufacture of maize grinders, etc. In order to supplement food intake, 627
family orchards and kitchen gardens were established, 1,040 family packages
were distributed, and 60 training sessions were held on improving the
preparation and conservation of food. As regards education, 44 literacy
groups were formed and the classroom construction has been arranged. A bus is
now providing passenger service between Acacoyahua and Las Garzas. In
addition, 22 local development plans have been organized, and are at different
stages of implementation. The Uni6n de Ejidos del Tr6pico Himedo deL
Soconusco has been formed to deal with credit and marketing problems. It has
established a register, and has compared experiences with similar
organizations in the region and in the southern of Tamaulipas.
Limiting Factors
Tne foundations have been laid for developing the region, and
organizational and technical obstacles to development have been overcome. The
aims defined can, therefore, be achieved, but PRODERITH's attempts to promote
production and maintain the rate of progress are being affected by factors
such as the inadequate supply of credit and the high price, scarcity and
inefficient distribution of inputs.
34/ The United States Soil Conservation Service.



- 42 -
4.2       TANTOAN-SANTA CLARA PROJECT, TAMAULIPAS
The project is situated in the lower basin of the Panuco River, in
the southern part of the state of Tamaulipas. The location is typical of a
region covering 700,000 ha and containing homogeneous ecological conditions.
The area of the intensive zone is 18,000 ha, and the initial expansion area
covers 27,000 ha.
The diagnostic study identified the following problems in the
project region: an inefficient structure of production and low relative
standard of living of the rural population, caused by unpredictable rainfall,
predominantly clay soils, erosion affecting 202 of the area, inadequate
surface drainage, and difficult access due to the lack of roads. Technical
problems included the prevailing unsuitable pattern of crops, inappropriate
land use and management, poor quality of inputs, shortage - and deficient use
-- of machinery, inefficient allocation and management of credit, and
marketing practices characterized by a dependence on intermediaries resulting
from inadequate storage capacity. Social and economic problems included low
income (actually declining in real terms) and a lack of basic services for the
rural population, which showed some degree of marginalization.
Results 1979-83
During this period works were constructed benefiting 18,000 ha.
Currently, there are 86 km of roads, 66 km of main drainage works, and soil
conservation works over an area of 160 ha. In addition, 2,000 ha were
cleared, and storage facilities with a total capacity of 14,500 tons were
installed.
In parallel with the Tantoan-Santa Clara project, the
infrastructure, of the Pujal-Coy II project was constructed serving
25,000 ha. It contains 233 km of roads and 137 km of drainage works, and
25,000 ha of land were cleared. A settlement program is under way, and new
population centers have recently been established, although they still lack
services and are in their initial stages.
As was to be expected, the erratic rainfall pattern was a
determining factor in the results. Increases in output and profits were
irregular. In 1980 and 1983 output rose, whereas there was a marked decline
in 1981 when a prolonged drought affected the region and the country as a
whole.
Fixed and working capital loans totaling Mex$541 million were
granted to 100 farm units operated by 468 farmers. So far during the program,
an average of more than 802 of working capital loans has been recovered.
Although it has not been possible to reduce the volume of arrears, the debts
of 10 eiidos have been examined and various options have been prepared.



- 43 -
The crop pattern pronosed for the project comprises seven products:
soybeans, safflower, maize, sesame, sorghum, beans and sunflowers, together
with grasses for grazing. Experiments in sesame and sunflower cultivation did
not lead to full-scale produrtion. An attempt was made to introduce bean
cultivation by sowing them as a small proportion of the crop total, but they
proved unsuitable because of Local temperatures. The farmers selected four
crops currently cultivated (sorghum, saFflower, soybeans and -- on a smaller
scale -- maize) because they involve the least risk of loss.
The main changes in the area's agriculture have been in the
distribution of crops, which were -- to a considerable degree -- adjusted to
potential soil use, and improvements in production technology, mainly as
regards soil preparation, seed disinfection, soybean inoculation, expansion of
fallow land, and pest control.
In 1983, agricultural output achieved the original targets, since
safflower yields and output produced a profit. 35/ Maize output projections
were exceeded, because the area cultivated was 47Z larger than planned,
although yields did not rise owing to a lack of seed suitable for the area.
This caused farmers to lose interest in the commercial production of maize.
The expected yield of sorghum is 2.7 tons/ha. From 1979 to 1983, 8,000 ha
were brought under cultivation.
Currently, a soil conservation unit is providing technical
assistance for the Santa Clara eiido.
The organized participation of the population in the substantial
improvement of health, education and housing has led to striking social
progress. Similarly, a considerable degree of organization has been achieved
by women, who have established 14 groups: eight women's agribusiness units
concerned with cultivation and services in 12 current projects, with two more
projects currently being started. In addition, a permanent campaign to change
dietary habits is in operation.
As regards the management of services, electricity has already been
provided for nine communities, and will shortly be installed in another four.
In addition, a two-stage drinking-water project was launched in 1983.
The program's rural communication system has played a decisive role
in establishing permanent contact with producers and their families, affording
the means for an open dialogue that enabled 13 local development plans to be
prepared. During this pe-iod 51 audio-visual instruction units were produced,
and these have been used in 610 group sessions.
In addition to progress in the organization of the communities, a
significant measure was the action of local project offices in establishing
and legally recognizing 17 eiidos constituting the Uni6n de Ejidos Camino a La
Liberaci6n del Campesino. This organization has enabled the region's
producers to extend the grain storage facility, put in a gas station, purchase
a threshing machine to control harvesting costs, etc.
35/ See Statistical Annex.



- 44 -
The project has provided an infrastructure to support production and
raise the socioeconomic conditions of the communities, strengthening their
management capacity, improving their standard of living and raising the
consciousness of producers so that water and land resources can be used more
rationally, avoiding degeneration of those resources and conseouent declines
ii: productivity.
Basic studies could now be done on planning, development based on
water management, soil conservation, and innovations compatible with existing
systems of production. Potentially, this project could be transformed and
expanded to whatever degree is desired and permitted by the makers of
development policy.
Limiting Factors
As regards agricultural production, soybean cultivation was
uneconomic because the guaranteed price was too low. The area of cultivated
pasture was maintained at 2,334 ha and the target of an estimated 5,930 ha was
not achieved, for the following reasons: the exclusion of projects combining
mixed farms and stockraising centers that had not become fully operational
because the producers' organizational structure was not fully in place; land
tenure problems; and a scarcity of personnel trained in pasture planning, use
and management.
In response to these problems, staff from the U.S. Department of
Agriculture and PRODERITH cooperated on the dual-purpose dairy component for
the "El Olimpico" ejido and on various other matters such as studies for the
recovery of pasture land, review of soil types and management, restructuring
of the livestock project, and water supply to the following eiidos: "Los
Dorados," "Divisi6n del Norte," "Felipe Angeles" and "El Refugio."
4.3       ATOYAC VALLEY PROJECT, VERACRUZ
This is situated at the center of the coastal plain of the state of
Veracruz, only 12 km from the port of that name. It has an area of 72,494 ha
in the municipalities of Jamapa, Medellin de Bravo and Manlio Fabio
Altamirano. The area of the intensive zone is 13,713 ha, where socioeconomic
conditions, production techniques, water supply and soil quality 36/ are
favorable for crop and livestock development.
Agricultural production in the area includes a varied range of
crops. A considerable area is devoted to staples, whereas the pineapples and
mangoes produced owe their importance to their high profitability. The
pineapple and livestock zone is located in the project's extension area, and
mangoes are produced in various places, but the largest area lies within the
intensive zone. Mangoes occupy about 702 of the total area of fruit-tree
cultivation, and the remaining 30% consists of citrus trees, nanches (golden
spoon), avocados, plums and bananas.
36/ More than 50% of the area has a high or intermediate productive capacity.



- 45 -
In 1979, diagnostic studies of the region showed that production had been
considerably affected by floods, strong winds and the ineffectiveness of
existing credit services. Eiido parcels were characterized by fragmentation,
64% of eiidos were in debt to banks, yields were low in comparison with the
area's potential, the use of fertilizer, improved seed and pesticides was very
limited, there were serious problems in the use of agricultural machinery, the
technical assistance provided by the rainfed agriculture district consisted
merely of statistical monitoring of crop patterns and, during the rainy
season, the few staff ceased work because most of the communities became
inaccessible. At irregular intervals, fruit growers received technical
assistance in pest control, and there were no mechanisms for disseminating the
technology produced by the area's research centers 37/ to the farmers.
Results 1980-1983
When the project was launched in 1980, immediate attempts were made
to use the state government's incentives for the production of staples as farm
credits, resulting in an increase in the area of maize cultivation. This
caused changes in the pattern of agriculture: previously it had been one of
subsistence farming, but now opportunities existed for marketing grain
surpluses.
PRODERITH technical services have integrated and intensified their
activities at each eiido, in accordance with the program designed to meet
their needs. The main achievement as to production was to improve cultivation
practices for staple crops and fruit trees, especially mangoes. As a result,
maize yields rose from 1.78 tonstha in 1979 to 2 tons/ha in 1983. Completion
of the 11-km Medellin-La Esperanza road provided access to the ejidos.
The volume and yields of cash crops also increased 38/. Pineapple
and papaya output played a substantial part in these increases, yielding 40
and 35 tons/ha respectively.
Infrastructure works to support farming and stockraising consisted
of 66.6 km of roads, 18 km of drainage works (i.e. more than lOOZ of the
target), clearing of 900 ha for agriculture, and plot drainage works totaling
200 ha 39/.
The project has benefited from fixed capital loans for crop farming
and stockraising. In 1978 only 15 eiidos had received them, but currently
there are 45 beneficiaries. The loans have been used mainly for the
mechanization of agriculture, the establishment of mango plantations and
stockraising.
37/ Cotaxtla and La Posta.
38/ Output rose from 47,690 tons iil 1979 to 68,231 tons in 1982.
39/ These last two items suffered time overruns of from 50% to 80% because of
delays in the awarding of contracts.



- 46 -
As regards stockraising, the project increased productivity by
implementing animal health programs and providing direct veterinary assistance
and advice on feeding, resulting in steady increases in milk and meat yields
per hectare. The project established an 84-ha livestock unit on an area that
was overgrown and flooded for much of the year. Increases are reflected in
profits per hectare, which rose from Mex$298 in 1979 to Mex$442 in 1983 40/ on
eiidos, and from Mex$2,094 to Mex 2,787 on smallholdings.
This project is assisted by the Soil Conservation Service of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Among the technological innovations that have had a particular
impact on farmers are those related to mango cultivation. Plantation
improvement by grafting was demonstrated to producers on strategic eiidos, in
cooperation with the Cotaxtla experimental area. Audio-visual programs
designed to support dissemination of this technique made a valuable
contribution to the training of 40 farmers. Considerable efforts were also
devoted to fruit tree fertilization. In this case, acceptance was
satisfactory and the process is being increasingly employed.
The use of growth regulators such as potassium nitrate was
demonstrated to participating farmers, with excellent results.
Sweet potatoes, like papayas, are becoming increasingly important
because of the prospects for improving cultivation methods. The
reconmmendations contained in the technology package produced by the Cotaxtla
experimental area (with specific reference to fertilization) will raise yields
of sweet potatoes from 8 to 12 tons/ha and of papayas from 15 to 60 tons/ha.
The aim of establishing a soil multiuse component (i.e. combining
agriculture, forestry and pasture) is to satisfy the needs of typical local
families. The unit's area is 0.5 ha and it contains a fruit-growing nursery,
melliferous plants, livestock-supporting forest species, subunits for
producing and breeding aquacultural species, windbreaks, beekeeping and
compost, organic fertilizer and animal protein production.
The purpose of the soil conservation and mechanization unit 41/ is
to prevent soil degeneration, appraise machinery and techniques requiring
minimum energy consumption, and establish a herbarium and a parcel containing
green material and another using systems with no plowing.
The services for upgrading the community and the family established
productive projects to be operated by the women in the target population, such
as bakeries, the production of spices and maize grinders, etc. The
distribution of poultry packages is helping improve the family diet and raise
40/ Estimated: at 1979 prices.
41.' Established with assistance from the Soil Conservation Service.



- 47 -
income through the sale of chickens. Food packaging, using agricultural
surpluses, 42/ 3nd the processing of milk into byproducts that were formerly
not usable, are diversifying the diet of rural families, making it richer in
nutrients and allowing a portion of the family income to be saved.
Currently, and in addition to the above activities, campaigns have
been started and consolidated in 23 communiLies for raising health standards,
improving the environment, and purifying and conserving water.
The rural household promoters have used the communication system at
all stages of their work in the communities and in their contacts with the
supervisory institutions. Overall, from 1980 to 1982, 20,486 man-hours of
audio-visual presentations were made to 9,205 participants.
4.4       TIZIMIN PROJECT, YUCATAN
The project area is located in the northeastern part of the state of
Yucatan. 43/ The area of the first stage was 125,775 ha, including an
intensive zone of 8,100 ha on the Tixcancal ejido. It is situated in the
municipalities of Tizimin, Calotmul, Temoz6n and Chemax. There are 25
community settlements in the area and 32 smallholdings. The population is
13,202.
The physical geography of the area is characterized by basal
limestone overlaid by strata of soils with infiltration rates ranging from 40
to 77 cm per hour. Another feature of the region is the lack of surface
runoff to form rivers or streams.  Instead, there are underground streams and
water deposits which interconnect through fissures and other openings,
sometimes appearing at the surface in the form of cenotes (pools).
In 1978, PRODERITH studies identified the following problems in the
area: low output from the local slash-and-burn cultivation methods, as a
result of the failure to use inputs, 44/ the presence of pests and
degeneration of the vegetation, the effects of weeds, the lack of storage
facilities and land communications, credit shortages or restrictions, the
dearth of applied research and institutional participation, and the very
limited level of technical assistance.
When the project began in 1979, agro-livestock operations were based
on livestock units belonging to eiidos, irrigation units, and the
diversification of the Maya-type orchard/vegetable garden. Of the 73.52 of
the ejido land that was communal, 5Z was used for agriculture, 4.52 for
livestock and 64% had not been cleared. There were cultivated pastures on all
42/ Tomatoes, peppers and fruit.
43/ Near the boundary with the state of Quintana Roo.
44/ Fertilizers, insecticides, he;bicit'es, etc.



- 48 -
smallholdings 45/. Beekeeping was an important and well-established activity
among producers, who used traditional methods and exercised little control
over the marketing of their output, which -- because of a lack of collection
centers and farmers' marketing associations -- they passed over to
intermediaries.
Results 1979-83
Support infrastructure consisted of construction of 123 km of roads,
which provided communications for practically all the Maya communities,
together with small-scale irrigation works, honey storage facilities, and the
training center, which also serves as the local project oftice and poultry
collection center. 25,000 ha have been benefited.
Innovations for modernizing production 46/ were initially concerned
-ith maize cultivation, and consisted of introducing the use of fertilizers
1 pest controls on demonstration plots. As the results became known, these
_.hods spread, making it possible later to introduce herbicides and land clea
ring by farmers.
Maize output increased in all respects. In 1979 the area under
cultivation was 6,543 ha, with an average yield of 0.530 tons/ha, whereas in
1983 the area cultivated was 19,965 ha and the yield was 0.628 tons/ha; this
represented a fourfold gain over the first year. The highest yield was in
1981, resulting from a combination of favorable rainfall and appropriate use
of production incentives.
The availability of financing for rainfed maize cultivation,
fertilized by using digging sticks, contributed to widespread adoption of
these methods.
in 1982, yields on plots using fertilizers rose from 1.05 to
1.6 tons/ha. Currently, 43% of producers receiving direct technical
assistance use fertilizers on their lands.
The use of improved seed and seed dressing helped raise
productivity, since originally the farmers had been unaware of these methods.
Their introduction was supported by the National Seed Production
Corporation 47/. Later, the PRODERITH rural communication system used its
audio-visual methods to report on the success of these activities, which were
also supported by the Shared Risk Trust 48/ through its promotion of seed
disinfection, thus contributing to the treatment, since 1981, of 40.8 tons of
Mexican seed per year.
45/ 26.5X.
46/ Introduced in cooperation with CIAPY (fucatin Peninsula Agricultural
Research Center).
47/  PRONASE.
48/ FIRCO.



- 49 -
As regards beans -- and taking into consideration only the Tzama and
Jamapa species -- the area cultivated increased by 1,300 ha from 1979 to 1983,
while the maximum average yield (in 1982) was 0.47 tons/ha.
Some of the technological innovations are still at the experimental
stage, and the results, tested in certain areas farmed by producers organized
into small groups, as in the case of maize grown together with beans and
pumpkins by the slash-and-burn method (TN: Original sentence not
completed.]. The producers' purpose was to observe the increases in output
for these crops and facilitate adoption of the necessary agricultural methods.
The "compact areas" constitute another aspect of modernization. In
these, technological innovations are joined with traditional methods. The
processes consist of: construction of depressions in the ground to gather
rainwater for the application of pre-emergent herbicides as an alternative
method of weed control, seed selection anld disinfection, and pest and disease
control.
Seven irrigation units sponsored by PRODERITH are now in operation,
their purpose being to maintain permanent cropping on small areas. Intensive
soil use is intended to strengthen the traditional crop 49/ by incorporating
organic material, growing other crops in conjunction with it (tomatoes and
peppers), and simultaneously sowing different types of crops. The units offer
a wide range of possibilities, because they are a permanent source of income
and a sound way of utilizing internal and external resources, and provide an
opportunity for progress in the use of more advanced forms of organization
such as cooperatives and other types of association.
Technical assistance for beekeeping consisted of training producers
in the best methods of managing their apiaries, including such matters as
artificial feeding outside the main flowering periods, diversification (i.e.
into wax production), artificial queens, pollen and royal jelly, prevention
and control of diseases, etc. About 40,000 lippia plants are being
cultivated, but technical support has been directed primarily toward the
organization and operation of five centers for gathering and marketing honey.
From 1979 to 1983, support for livestock operations was focused on
six of the 19 stockraising units occupying a total area of 5,155 ha.
Currently, there are programs for pasture rehabilitation, relocation of
fences, the introduction of grasses for cutting and reproduction, and soil
management. Stocking has been increased from 4 to 8 units per ha. Total cost
of production was Mex$1l million in 1979 and Mex$7 million in 1983, when there
was a book profit of Mex$13.4 million.
In cooperation with the National Institute of Livestock Research and
the Advanced School of Tropical Agriculture, a dairy unit with 21 head of
cattle has been established, as well as an intensive fattening unit with 30
head of cattle and a sheep unit with 43 animals. An additional sheep unit,
together with two poultry farms and one pig farm, are currently being
established.
49/ Maize.



- 50 -
According to Maya family tradition, women are engaged mainly in
household tasks, and therefore they make a valuable contribution by organizing
the collective orchards/vegetable gardens and henhouses, preparing food, and
seeing to home health care. From 1980, the role of women was integrated into
production by means of the rural women's agribusiniess units. A very important
aspect of these activities has been the steadily increasing participation of
rural women in the communities' decision making. 876 families from 20
communities participate in health and nutrition programs. Intensive
primary-level and adult literacy courses are organized through the Secretariat
of Public Education.
As may be seen, in its first stage the project has succeeded in
establishing a relationship with the Maya communities, and the consolidation
of the procedures now established will provide for technical assistance, rural
communications and the training of skilled workers and producers.
4.5       ZAPOTAL PROJECT, TABASCO
The Zapotal project is located in the municipalities of Huimanguillo
and Cardenas and covers a total area of 107,000 ha, with an intensive zone of
4,500 ha beside the Chontalpa agricultural complex. It includes the Rainfed
Agriculture District II special unit.
The whole of the intensive zone consists of the "Zapotal" ejido,
divided into two sections, Palo Mulato and San Miguel. The former has
1,335 ha. constituting 30Z of the total area, with 127 eiido members. San
Miguel makes up the remaining area and has 191 members.
The project area has been designated a local, regional and national
priority zone in accordance with the various criteria applied. It is
extremely complex and heterogeneous as regards its physical geography and its
technical and social features, and because of its unfavorable position
vis-a-vis the other sectors of the economy.
At the inception of the project iv 1978, the problems were typical
of the southeastern region of Mexico: a lack of surface drainage over 72Z of
the area, obstruction of natural watercourses because of the construction of
roads and other works in the expansion of the oil industry, little
modernization in stockraising (which is predominantly extensive),
irregularities in the tenure of agricultural land, and the effects of the
regional agricultural crisis, aggravated in the 1970s by increased industrial
activity in the area. Agra-livestock development was being hindered by all
these factors, together with an inadequate knowledge of the environment, this
resulting in recommendations that were inappropriate because they took no
account of the social problems caused by the expansion of the oil industry and
the lack of acceptance by farmers owing to the institutional model applied in
the Chontalpa Plan.
As a pilot project, the Zapotal operation confirmed these
difficulties, validated strategies and generated methudologies and results
that might be applied in an integrated manner elsewhere on the plain. The
results are comparable to those obtained in other experimental projects which



- 51 -
could not be applied to larger areas. The experience acquired in this case
indicates that it would be appropriate to reconsider the implementation of
plans and projects over large areas of the state.
In contrast to other programs designed essentially to provide
financing in support of conventional activities, PRODERITH has developed
evolving and self-regulating systems for planning integrated development and
thus putting its investment to optimal use.
The need to overcome rejection by the producers was a fundamental
challenge, requiring the efficient operation of a rural communication system
for informing and training people by means of a model for negotiating
development issues that provided for the use of incentives in order to gain
the farmers' participation through local development plans.
90Z of tne infrastructure works in the intensive project have been
completed, the surface drainage network is now 20.6 km and the branches and
headers directly benefit 1,335 ha occupied by 236 fa.nilies and 3,000 ha in the
proiect expansion area. In addition, the plot drainage component provides
irrigation for 200 ha. It has not been possible to evaluate the results of
this infrastructure because the drainage system has not yet been completed
(the discharge structures and 18.7 km of roads have yet to be built);
nevertheless, the initial effects can be seen in the higher areas, where
farmers have improved their pastures and expanded the area of cacao production
from 56.7 ha to 107.5 ha; the area of cacao cultivated under shade trees has
increased from 2.5 ha to 16 ha.
Technical assistance benefited 3,500 farmers distributed over
2,500 ha of land planted with maize, rice, cacao and coconuts, doubling the
area used in 1979. Cacao yields rose from b.6 to 0.8 tons/ha.
3,000 tons of meat (value = Mex$150 million) were obtained from a
total of 44,000 head of livestock. Six demonstration units for raising '!attle
by using molasses-urea supplements and free grazing have been established, as
an avenue toward semi-intensive stockraising.
Promotion of fish farming has included the organization of eight
groups provided with ponds to enable them to develop appropriate technologies,
carry out training and produce fish for their own consumption. Six ponds
without cages and two with cages are currently being tested. The farmers
themselves are responsible for continuing and developing production.
Tn addition, 43,000 trees were distributed, to be used initially to
provide shade and wood for fence posts, and later as lumber. As a result of
tests and demonstrations, yields of 3.4 tons/ha of maize and 0.9 tons/ha of
cacao have been obtained.
Using the results obtained by the Integrated Research Center in
Huimanguillo and the Advanced School of Tropical Agriculture, the project has
become responsible for developing appropriate technologies for controlling
mancha negra (black pod) and cacao pests.



- 52 -
The chicken-fattening projects using regional byproducts are highly
satisfactory and the intensive and semi-intensive pig and cattle production
units are currently being established in accordance with the technical and
financial feasibility studies. A more substantial role for the project in the
concerns of the consultative group of the Huimanguillo Integrated Research
Center will enable the research requiremencs identified during field work to
be met effectively.
Six local developnm-nt plans have served to increase the farmers'
organized participation, enhance their negotiating capability control their
production and raise their standard of living. Thanks to the methodology
developed, 86 production groups have been formed, the representatives of which
manage technical assistance services. 56 of these groups have received
agricultural and livestock loans totaling Mex$130 million, and they have
formed a cacao-growers association with 80 members and an eiido members'
livestock association. 47 other groups have been formed to raise the
standards of living of families, and 25 committees to manage community
services.
The PRODERITH rural communication system has provided support for
information dissemination, analytical studies and training by means of audio-
visual courses. 957 sessions have been held, an average of one every two days
for five years. Training has beea strengthened through demonstration units
and plots, and by the Zapotal Training and Services Center. Although
construction of the center has not yet been completed, 30 training sessions
for skilled workers and six courses in improving cacao cultivation and
stockraising have been provided there for farmers and women.
As regards family development, 1,200 women have been trained in
basic health care, together with nutrition. education and clothing. Of these,
14 are group representatives and pass on        information they receive to their
own communities. This leads to greater pa. :cipation by women, and enhances
the effectiveness of the training, which has also been supported by the
provision of 168 ramily orchards/vegetable gardens and 8,000 poultry.
Some of these successful results have been applied outside the
project's area of influence. For example, Rainfed Agriculture District II has
applied maize fertilization methods developed in the project to its own
savanna-land cultivation, and has obtained yields of 2 tons/ha instead of the
usual 1 ton/ha. In addition, SARH offices in the state have used the
communication system to support their programs, and have thus broadened the
participation of farmers and raised training standards. The mayor of
guimanguillo ard the island and relief channel projects have requested
information on the working procedures used by PRODERITH, based on a strategy
of local planning and participation.
Limiting Factors
In the intensive area less progress has been achieved than expected,
because the problems of the internal division of the eiido were not properly
studied. This has aggravated the difficulty of obtaining credit.
Consequently, the degree of participation by producers and the stage reached
in inLrastructure works are not such as to bring about substantial gains in
output.



- 53 -
4.6       TESECHOACAN PROJECT, VERACRUZ
The project (area = 138,000 ha) is located in the lower basin of the
Papaloapan river, between the banks of the Tesechoacan and Obispo rivers. The
pilot project area is 4,400 ha, and it includes the eiidos of Tesechoacan,
Arroyo de la Cruz and Curazao, together with smallholdings.
The project has undergone three stages, and these illustrate its
orientation, problems and results. The first stage was carried out totally by
the Papaloapan Commission. The National Water Resources Plan Commission
participated in the second stage, the purpose being to continue work on the
project; however, the experience gained could not be properly used to achieve
further progress.
In the third stage (March 1981 to 1982) the general project office
was dissolved and technical assistance and infrastructure services were
withdrawn. Finally, the project was temporarily suspended because of budget
cuts. However, from 1983 onward the departments resumed their efforts to
continue the project.
The main accomplishments were that a regulator dike was built (and
its stability established), construction of the collecting drain progressed to
about 40Z, compensation was paid for property other than land to those
affected by the works, and the local producers accepted the project.
As regards agricultural development, an experimental site was
established and had some success in maize, bean and pepper cultivation.
Certain isolated but significant increases in output illustrate the project's
potential. Stockraisers improved, quantitatively and qualitatively, their
performance in the prevention and control of the main animal diseases. As
regards the organization of producers, one ejido was induced to base its
management on a local development plan, and the resulting form of organization
is being extended to surrounding eiidos.
The project area is typical of the physical, technological and
socioeconomic conditions found on 500,000 ha of the lower Papaloapan basin.
The larger-scale planning studies undertaken by CPNH for the Papaloapan
Commission show the importance and necessity of undertaking projects in this
region. The rural development experience gained would enable the area's
potential to be developed and greater savings to be realized using the
large-scale infrastructure works now under construction.
In light of the experience of the "Vicente Guerrero" 50/ ejido,
support for livestock production will be feasible only if the population
itself participates in the project, and if the infrastructure works proposed
for 1984 are resumed. Meanwhile, technical services teams for integrated
rural development support in the area are again being formed and the
feasibility and socioeconomic studies are being updated as a means of
determining the project's overall policy, its scope and the most appropriate
soil uses.
50/ El Aguacate.



- 54 -
CHAPTER 5
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL EVALUATION
5.1       IMPACT ON PRODUCTION
As part of its projects, PRODERITH constructed irrigation works and
a road infrastructure. It applied advanced and appropriate technology tn
production processes, proposed changes in patterns of soil use, and promoted
local organizational systems for improving communications within each
community and encouraging the participation of the rural population in
improving the efficiency of agro-livestock activities. Similarly, it improved
coordination with the organizations responsible for promoting and supporting
these activities in the humid tropics of Mexico.
From the beginning, the economic appraisal of the program called for
an information system capable of gathering a region's agro-livestock
statistics and the results at farm level from 1979 to 1983.
This infozmation system required a qualitative and quantitative
analysis to be performed by experts in each aspect of the program:
agriculture, forestry, stockraising, credit, research, etc.
Information on progress in each project, unit and aspect of
production was collated so that activities could be evaluated and the book
profit and cost-benefit ratio per crop, per group, per project and for the
program as a whole determined. The information system included data on areas
treated with fertilizer and cultivated with mechanical aids, and the results
from the demonstration and technology test plots and from the plot drainage
units.
Annual estimates per unit were calculated at 1979 prices (the base
year, and the most stable financially) so that the program's impact could be
ascertained.
5.1.1     Agriculture
The evaluation showed disparities between projects. In general,
maximum profits were obtained in 1981 and 1982, except for the Tantoan project
where output was affected by drought. The results for each project show that,
from the second year of implementation, profits increased by more than 50%
compared with the base year.
This performance was due to a combination of government policy,
which encouraged the production of staple grains, and favorable rainfall in
Chiapas, Veracruz and Tamaulipas. Excessive rainfall at the Tabasco project
caused losses in staples but not in cacao output. At the Tizimin project in
Yucatan. lower income from maize and beans was offset by gains from
beekeeping.



- 55 -
The final two cases required more technical assistance because of
the problems posed by their special features. These were Zapotal, which
suffered because of the excess of water in the area and institutional
failures, and Tizimin, where difficulties arose because of the low
technological level of the Maya communities. (See the pertinent section of
this report).
Expectations for 1983 were good because infrastructure construction
had advanced to 90%, the technical services units had tightened their contacts
with the communities and had a better understanding of their problems,
technical proposals app-opriate for the project areas had been written for
most crops, and institutional action had been taken on local, regional and
national problems. In addition, a considerable number of audio-visual
instructional units were being used to reinforce training and relations among
institutions, and between the institutions and the communities. Nevertheless,
in spite of intensive efforts to maintain and raise the standards already
attained, obstacles arose in the form of the country's critical problems,
farmers' uncertainties, and inadequate capitalization in rural areas, which
restricted the scope for dealing with these difficulties. Consequently,
although total profits rose gradually, productivity in 1983 declined at
different rates in the various projects, except for Tantoan which exceeded its
1982 performance because of favorable rainfall, the amount of credit available
and the high rate of return on the crops that the farmers financed directly.
Staples
When the program was launched most of the areas included the
cultivation of staple grains for the rural families' own use. During
execution the Acapetahua project produced average maize yields of over
3 tons/ha. In subsequent periods .xceeding its own 1979 performance and those
of the rainfed area and the state as a whole.
Incentives bolstered output, producing surpluses that were marketed
and raised farmers' incomes.
The volume of sLaples rose overall by 57% from 1979 to 1983. In
1982 the increase was 90%. Performances differed from area to area:
Acapetahua doubled output during the second year of execution and practically
maintained this level throughout the period, tripling it in 1982; Atoyac's
output ranged from 11,000 tons to 19,000 tons; Tantoan exceeded its 1979
output sixfold; Tizimin's output increased yearly from 3,407 tons in 1979 to
13,000 tons in 1983; Zapotal's output -- in spite of a slow rate of
infrastructure building -- rose from 267 tons in 1979 to 3,047 tons in 1983.
On all projects the value of total output and output per ha
increased considerably. Nevertheless, production costs rose faster, so that
income could not keep up the pace. Because of this, and the setbacks suffered
in 1983, Tizimin and Atoyac suffered apparent losses that were even greater
than in 1979.



- 56 -
Market Crops
There were noteworthy successes in this category. Such crops are
produced in the Acapetahua, Atoyac and Tantoan projects. In comparison with
1979, by 1983 output was up 139% in Acapetahua, 11% in Atoyac and 364% in
Tantoan. In spite of the considerable percentage difference between the
latter two projects, in absolute terms they had similar volumes of production
(over 50,000 tons).
In Acapetahua the most significant crop (for increase in area
cultivated and hence volume of output) was watermelon. Prices rose, as did
profits from the crop. Tobacco remained steady, and sesame cultivation was
abandoned because of low guarantee prices and marketing problems. In Atoyac,
pineapples, papayas and -- to a lesser degree -- tomatoes contributed
substantially to the results. Tantoan-Santa Clara devoted most of its land to
sorghum and saftlower, which contributed equally to the profits generated in
1983. Soybean cultivation, which was potentially more profitable, declined
because of its high production costs and low guarantee price. This crop is
also more sensitive to climate and was affected by the long drought in 1981
and 1982. In general, from 1979 to 1983 output rose by 173%, and profits by
79%, representing a Mex$179 million contribution to GDP.
Perennial Crops
These are grown mainly in Acapet,hua, Atoyac and Zapotal. Important
activities were undertaken, such as improv%!ments in cultivation methods, pest
and disease control, and species improvement by grafting. In addition, the
area devoted to such crops was expanded by means of fixed capital loans. As a
result, mango, cacao and avocado output and productivity increased. This
growth was interrupted in 1981 by such natural phenomena as the eruption of
El Chinchonal -- which spread ash over a wide area, including the whole state
of Tabasco and parts of Oaxaca, Chiapas and Veracruz -- and the 1982 south
winds, which afflicted mainly Veracruz and Tabasco. Also, the new cultivated
areas will not come into production until later.
Nevertheless, the program's support to farmers shows up somewhat in
the gains both in total output (30%) and in profits (31%). To boost these
promising activities, studies have begun on the marketing and agri-business
processing of the main crops. A cacao processing plant has been installed in
Zapotal, Tabasco, and will help reduce costs. It will be managed by the cacao
planters' association itself.
The above is an overview of the most important agricultural
activities, by year and type of crop. Although the targets for the patterns
of soil use in the first-stage intensive zones were not achieved, it is
expected that they will be when the projects reach maturity in subsequent
years, and when all the infrastructure works have been completed.
Stockraising
Initial activities were concerned with animal health. Questions of
management and the rationalization of production were dealt with in greater



- 57 -
detail from 1983, with technical assistance provided by experts from the
U.S. Soil Conservation Service. The capability of units operating in the
field was also strengthened.
Grcups of stockraisers were organized, and courses and practical
training sessions were provided enabling the producers themselves to learn to
handle and apply vaccineb, use registers and health cards, carry out
vaccination drives following established schedules, and set up supplies of
veterinary drugs in each community.
Through the use of fixed capital loans, pastures were developed on
land suitable for livestock, and leguminous fodder crops were introduced for
use as feed during periods of low water. Land use was improved by controlling
weeds and properly rotating enclosed pastures. Output was further increased
by means of genetic improvements, consisting of the selection of breeding
stock and stud animals, in accordance with production needs.
The impact of these activities is reflected, from 1980 onward, in the
increases in milk and meat output obtained in all projects, on both eiidos and
smallholdings.
The cost-benefit ratios for all projects were satisfactory; those
for Acapetahua and Tantoan in 1980 and 1981 were particularly good.
5.2       SOCIAL IMPACT
The evaluation of PRODERITH's social impact takes account of the
participation of the rural population in general, and also the participation
of women and rises in standards of living through work with families.
Planning is a tool which enables the community to deploy its
internal forces and, through community participation, overcome economic and
social problems, controlling development to a greater degree. The table of
participation indicators shows the relationship between the planning and
scheduling mechanisms used in the communities and the levels of participation
and organization achieved. The communities referred to in the columns include
all eiides, agricultural settlements and agricultural communities receiving
PRODERITH assistance in the first stage. The next column shows the local
development plans prepared; to these must be added the plan for the "Vicente
Guerrero" eiido, making a total of 33.
These local development plans, which can be renewed each year,
identify each community's productive and social activities. They are based on
consultation and various forms of participaLion by farmers and their
families. In 1983 all the communities receiving assistance prepared such
programs, and in 32 communities they were approved and formally discussed in
meetings with the farmers.
The degree of participation shown in the table ("good," "fair,"
"limited") is the result of the technical staff's subjective judgment of the
communities' response to their proposals and support. This response is
conditioned by the nature, history and size of the community and the extent to
which its internal interests, resources, etc. are articulated, and by the type



- 58 -
of assistance offered (i.e. quant4ty and quality of personnel and resources).
In general, limited participation by a community is due to its large relative
size, difficult access, and the existence of internal problems, all of which
lead to a lower level of external support.
In addition to its productive activities, PRODERITH supports social
progress as an aspect of the rural economy.
When PRODERITH began its activities, the members of the communities
tended to work as individuals, and to be reluctant to engage in group
efforts. No data are available on these indicators at the beginning of the
program, and it is therefore impossible to make comparisons in order to
measure the program's impact in addition to all the other implementation
problems. Nevertheless, a correlation can be seen between a community's level
of participation and the number of groups organized in each project.
Tantoan had the largest proportion of communities with a high level
of participation, and the largest proportion of groups organized per
commnity. However, in absolute terms it had the smallest number of
communities receiving assistance during the first stage. Tizimin is in second
place for participation and organization, and its results (as percentages) are
very similar to those of Zapotal. Its advantage was that the Maya communities
have kept their tradition of working in groups, in contrast to the Zapotal
project which had to overcome the reluctance stemming from a series of
unfortunate experiences.
Acapetahua, like Tantoan, has a high percentage of ejidos with a
good level of participation. However, the assistance provided to 301 of its
ejidos was inadequate, and this is reflected in the limited level of
participation.
Atoyac contains the greatest number of communities, and
proportionately the lowest figure recorded in the "good" category for
participation. The number of groups organized was also low.
Participation was good in 42.1% of communities, fair in 46.5Z, and
limited in 11.41. The average number of groups organized was 5 per community.
As regards the 33 local development plans, the degree to which
partic:pation was promoted depended on the extent to which they were key
factors in each project strategy.
Participation is good in 841 of the communitics having a local
development plan, and in the rest of these it is classified as fair. In
communities where such development plans have been undertaken, participation
has not been "limited." 301 of communities with good participation have
responded to those planning and programming procedures that called for action
by the population.
The number of organized groups per community with a local
development plan (10) is higher than the general average (5).



- 59 -
As regards organization and participation, standards depended partly
on the selection criteria applied to the communities (although in certain
cases these were not determining factors) and on the intensity with which
action was pursued on their various problems. However, the results also
depended, possibly to a decisive extent, on the effectiveness of the
methodology developed during program implementation.
An assessment has also been made of the ways in which the
communities' internal interests were articulated and how their management
organizations operated. Ttis is referred to as the "level of organization,"
and is classified (going from best to worst) in categories A, B and C.
As regards the 33 local plans, nine communities show a level of
organization in category A, meaning that the community has an advanced level
of self-management, with considerable participation by farmers organized in
commissions, committees, groups or delegations with an integrated system of
operation. They have increased their capacity for internal nanagement and for
dealing with government institutions, and have reduced their dependence on
outside personnel. The need at this stage is for a higher standard of
assistance from the Technical Support Services for Integrated Rural
Development, and more advanced special training for the various groups and
committees.
Organizationi in eight other communities falls into category B, which
means that it is acceptable but still requires considerable assistance from
outside to consolidate the processes of self-management. The communities have
commissions with formally defined responsibilities and these commissions are
beginning to assume responsibilities delegated to them by their teidos.
Organization in nine communities falls into category C. The groups
have not been able to function properly because the activities proposed are
inconsistent and impracticable. and articulating and negotiating courses of
action within the communities is difficult.
In the eight communities still preparing their local development
plans, groups have been established and the responsibilities of the
commissions have been assigned. Local plans are gradually being worked out,
but have yet to be formalized in a document.
In practice, the promotion of participation by the rural population,
which was one of the program's main strategies, has been effective.
Nevertheless, these indicators must be further developed and other more
precise ones must be added so that progress and problems can be analyzed more
objectively. The effects of the participation by the rural population on the
efficiency of the outside specialists' work and the degree of community
control and auitonomy in their own development must be quantified and evaluated
in greater detail.
In spite of their limitations, these basic indicators do provide
some information on PRODERITH's social effects in promoting rural
development. They also help redefine program priorities and strategies so
that progress can be more rapid.



- 60 -
Family Development
Family development activities contributed to raising families'
standard of living and promoting women's participation in community
development. The range of action on health, nutrition, education, housing,
and liroductive projects for women -- and on the organization of women in
UAIMCs -- was strengthened and extended, and promotion and provision of advice
on the management of community services such as drinking water supply,
electrification, and the like were also increased.
Steady progress has been made on the subprogram. 33% of families
were receiving assistance in 1981, and this rose to 38% in 1982. Although the
percentage remained the same in 1983, the number of families increased in
absolute terms owing, mainly to expansion or the areas covered by the Tantoan
and Tizimin projects.  The number of familits qualifying for assistance
incieased by more than 50% in the Tantoan project, and by about 30% in the
Tizimin project.
Over the last year. the number of families receiving assistance
increased by 37% in the Tantoan project and 15% in the Tizimin project. In
the other projects there was no significant change from the previous year.
As regards operations, when PRODERITH began its activities the
subprogram for family development was implemented almost exclusively by women
social workers. Currently, now that the technical support services (SETADRI)
are being organized, all specialists in field units are gradually assuming
increased responsibility for supporting such activities.
The wide range of activities, the differing stages of progress
achieved in each, and the nature of the subprogram itself make it difficult to
devise procedures for objectively evaluating and monitoring the process.
Nevertheless, an instrument has now been designed, and will provide a means
for measuring the quality of the results, which largely constitute the
program's social impact.
In 1983 and 1984, family development was intended to consolidate
progress already made, the aim being to have the rural families continue the
process by engaging in a form of participation offering scope for their
initiatives. Stress has been placed on production for on-farm consumption
(i.e. orchard/vegetable gardens and packages). Further research has been done
on these questions, and on the operation of the committees and groups
organized for managing community services (e.g. health committees). Efforts
have also been devoted to the coordination of institutions, by arranging and
operating joint programs with other institutions for the greater benefit of
the communities.
5.3       INSTITUTIONAL IMPACT
One of PRODERITH's strategies is to coordinate the various public
sector agencies and departments responsible for removing obstacles to rural
development in the area. To this end, the General Coordination office of the
program and the technical committees (both central and local) were established.



- 61 -
The agencies engaged in this work are responsible for various
aspects of agricultural, stockraising and forestry research, training for
specialists and farmers, integrated technical assistance, procurement and
supervision in the construction of works and infrastructure, credit
arrangements and recovery of Loans, farm insurance, and assessment of program
and budget performance rates. They are also responsible for disbursing
external loans and ensuring that the funds are properly applied, as provided
in the Contract and Agreement with IBRD.
In fields other than agriculture, stockraising and forestry, program
execution was assisted by other institutions, particularly those specializing
in public health, education, environmental conservation, and the construction
of housing, schools, medical facilities and public works related to water
supply, drainage and electricity.
As a result of planning and institutional coordination, the
PRODERITH projects were incorporated in the various state development plans,
and are now part of them. At the end of the first stage, institutional
coordinacion under the program had been achieved. It is intersectoral in
form, and execution is decentralized.
The Technical Committee has been working throughout the period of
operations. Nineteen meetings have been held to select projects, approve
plans, programs and budgets, and receive evaluation reports and propose
corrective measures.
5.4       ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Program investment from 1978 to 1983 has been divided into two major
categories: investment in pilot projects, and investment in research and
training centers. Only investments in projects were taken into account in the
economic analysis, because they are more closely related to agricultural
production. The following factors were included in the analysis: costs of
civil works (consisting of infrastructure costs in the intensive zones and
indirect costs), studies and construction of planning camps, technical
assistance, and conservation and maintenance of works.
Both income and costs were calculated at 1979 prices, because it was
the first year of execution and the most financially stable year in the
execution period. In the calculation of income, crop farming was assumed to
account for about 75,000 ha and stockraising for about 50,000 ha, representing
the total area of the intensive zones and expansion areas of the six projects
which made up the first stage. Data for the Tesechoacan project are available
only for 1979 and 1980; they were used in the evaluation.
Cumulative income for the period was Mex$1,949 million. Up to 1983
an estimated 28,000 families living in PRODERITH areas had received benefits.
Income doubled between 1978 and 1983, and statistics indicate that the
program's internal rate of return for the whole of the 15-year period was
19.24Z. This compares with the estimated IRR calculated in the feasibility
studies for this stage (13Z), and demonstrates the validity of investment
projects for the integrated development of Mexico's tropical regions.



- 62 -
CONCLUSION
PRODERITH has achieved the following main objectives: it has proved
its technical, economic and social feasibility in investment project
execution; it has established mechanisms for inter-agency cooperation and
coordination for the purpose of increasing agricultural output in the region;
it has been a catalyst for farmers in the management of their own affairs; it
has instituted structural change through participatory and coherent methods
that have enabled the factors limiting development to be overcome and
standards of living and working conditions to be improved -- all of this
through concerted planning at the local, subregional and regional levels.
The PRODERITH experience has made it possible to integrate and
analyze a specific methodology for achieving sustained and efficient rural
development in the tropics. Its most notable innovations have been the
formation of a team specializing in research, the establishment of a network
of centers for planning and executing projects in tropical areas, the design
and implementation of a planning system and expeditious procedures for
managing services and activities, the gaining of technical skill and
experience in the development and execution of irrigation works, so as to
improve the control and optimum use of water and soil resources, the
establishment of training and rural communication systems to promote
demonstrations of new applied technology, and the dissemination of rural
development among producers and specialists.
Output in the six projects has vindicated the plans made for those
regions, since, in several cases, estimated outputs and yields have been
exceeded.
In the social aspect, although there is still much to be done,
changes have been initiated in the attitudes of farmers and their families
about their problems and ways of solving them, and this has been achieved
through organization, negotiations between the various parties, and the
communities' own informed participation in raising their standard of living.
Evaluation of PRODERITH's achievements reveals the limiting factors
faced during the first stage of its execution. In order to deal with these,
the following measures are essential:
-    strengthening the mechanisms and instruments of inter-agency
coordination;
-    increasing the authority of the program's General Coordination
office and the local project offices, so that they will become fully
responsible for carrying out policies and activities;
-    obtaining greater acceptance by farmers of the practical
applications of research;



- 63 -
improving systems for disseminating technical information from the
research centers, so that farmers will adopt the technologies
developed, thus establishing a means of experimentation and feedback;
expanding technical assistance, training and the rural communication
system, so as to assist in the formation of technical support teams
with enhanced capability and training;
eliminating anomalies in the design of certain overscale irrigation
works.



aZb>ao                                                                                          MEXICO
'\fi;Tropical Agricultural Dev('
t  ^  t                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PILOT PROJECTS & P1101-
CurroAaal                                                            0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prapmsd shin tot 
U    Pilot prolecb
rL.7  Pilot projectsr ar
1    Agricultural aepi 
Tropical low lands
I Existing dams a'
Q Planned damsitus
Paa 99ii! %l.                                                                                Rivers
Main roads
Secondary roads
Rai lroads
\Nautla                                                                       Stat. baundaries
;I'.                                                                                                                   l /    eS  \  *-- Internaiional boui _
r   uu s.u.                    ta                                                                                      50 oOG
KCILOMETERS
JALAPA                                        X                                       MILES
Jose Cordel
E.           <                                  ERACRUZ
Papalo                         MZNATITL Al&orsdo
1QCV  1   /                                                                ' San.E-~C
~~~~~~~~i                              _
T-er ~   ~     oaicreYUO7    ~- 
I IA44 AMP ~ ~ ~   ~     ~     ~     oI~(fod                               MAP' 
16¢~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ct  -.Sm C2o lola
VI'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
~'.fltJ~PrJP  Niruoutul                                      Juccuttt
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tka'ee                                                                                            : " 
abp
_'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oA PA"w§lb_' r                                            -A



IBRD 13209
-3 *t                                                   - *oAliuaIqiv ism
ment Project                                                                           .                                             ,
OREAS                                                                                                                                                  Lr
: 1 P ilot prowl                                                                                 P      hr N            - 
m flunnce                                                           -                                                            r<t0 Tizmom
-    '  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fIUSflC6                                                                                    T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~izgmin
a1d stations
-d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M Rhb                                           MRDA  V\/
~vernmnflt-
I  f   Munz : tT~~~icul
150
CAMPECE          
100
) ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~°C~~~~~~~orilbo
Puero
champolonJ                            Chunchintok;* 
DEO CARMEN,               C     A      M      P     _    '                                      ' F               ,|          Y
ISIAN =                           IAi              ;        
Concobchcr    .
Lf/AHERMWOSA!    ). /1//
e.TootoEsc                                                      o.
-.   r ^N                                                                                                              I
1)AMkrt,                                                                                                    I    B       I
CHICO.VGEAI
DAMSPF             -[
"   , sobol debls C osos                               N
~~~~~~',*                                                                                  I
EZ                                                                     '
_dAl,--)SYlJIA   \                                                  s-.                                          I                                     6
DAJV AAJ      \                                                                                              r   .D-   -              -
Of 5fEvR ).
I om.ton                                                                                                               . -,AT
V. . . .'. . *...           ..    .~~~V.
(o \      '            .  _   ._,_,                                 -.,-.                 {L
.4~t  ud1l                                                                             33...,.3....  .3... A..                                            -   
t ~~~~~~~~I                                                                           -'- .       ."'.                               V.. .r  .
a         Mot02nelo_//                                                                          v..3                                                         ; .
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.Dd  T..   -                                                     -*   /3.4~   -.  _
.



