Document of
The Woi ld Bank
FOR OFF1I(AL USE ONLY
Report No. 1864b-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MEXICO
April 3, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and the Carribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed Mitbout World Bank autborizatifn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1              Mex$23.0
Mex$l             US$0.04
Mex$1 million =   US$43,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)            =   10,000 m2   2.47 acres
-1 kilompter (km)      2       0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )  =   0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)           =   2.20 pounds
1 liter (1)               -   0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton   =   0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
BNCR       - National Bank for Rural Credit
CIAPY      - Center of Agricultural Research of the Yucatan Peninsula
CIASE      - Center of Agricultural Research of the Southeast
CIAT       - Tropical Agriculture Research Center
CINIM*T    - International Center for Improvement of Maize and Wheat
CPNH       - Naticn IWTater Plan Commission
CSAT       - College of Tropical Agriculture
DGGI       - General Directorate of Large Scale Irrigation
DGDR       - General Directorate of Irrigation Districts
DT         - Rainfed Districts
FIRA       - Agriculture Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
INCA         National Institute for Training of Farm,ers
INCAFOR    - General Directorate of Forestry Research and Training
INIA       - National Institute for Crop Research
INIP       - National Institute for Livestock Research
PLAMEPA    - On-farm Improvement Plan in Irrigation Districts
PLANPA     - Papaloapan Plan--for Agriculture Extension
DPAE       - Department of Production and Agriculture Extension (within SARH)
PRONDAAT     National Program of Agricultural Development in Rainfed Areas
SAR        - Former Ministry of Agriculture
SARH       - Ministry of Agriculture and Hidraulic Resources
SOFE       - Sub-department for Organization and Development of Ejidos within SRA
SRA        - Ministry of Agrarian Reform
SRH        - Former Ministry of Hidraulic Resources
UNDP       - United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF MEXICO
FISCAL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DrIVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR      ............................   1
A.  General .       .........................                1
B. Agriculture in the Tropics .....................          2
II.   INSTITUTIONAL 'LSPECTS OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
IN THE TROPICS      ...................................    5
III.   THE PROJECT ................      .......................   10
A. Brief Description .......................                10
B.  The Project Area ...............................        11
C. Detailed Features      ............................ .14
D.  Project Costs      ................................ .   19
E.  Financing .    ......................................   19
F.  Procurement      ....................................   20
E. Disbursements       ................................ .   21
IV.   ORGANIZATION MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ..........22
V.   TECHNICAL FEATURES      .................................   29
A.  Civil Works      ....................................   29
B.  Agricultural Production ........................        30
C.  Technical Services     .............................    31
D.  Extension     ......................................    36
VI.   DEMAND AND MARKETING ASPECTS .........................      36
VII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..................................       40
VIII.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS      .................................    41
IX.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED ........................      48
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Mexico in August/September 1977. The mission comprised Messrs. R. Milford,
J. Roman, B. Kanchanalak and J. Cordeu (YP), (IJ3RD) and N. Shaw and D. T. Myren
(Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   A Background to Agricultural and Livestock Research in the Tropics
2.   Supporting Tables and Charts
3.   Related Documents and Data in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 13209
IBRD 13210



I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General
Resource Base
1.01      Mexico has a land area of nearly 200 million ha, about 70 million ha
of which is classified as rangeland, around 35 million ha is considered suit-
able for cropping, and about 45 million ha is suitable for forestry. The
remaining areas are either too dry, too poorly drained or too steep for any
form of agriculture. At present, about 17 to 20 millionr ha of the country's
35 million ha of potentially arable land is cropped each year. Mexico has
about 5 million ha under irrigation, which accounts for about 60% of the
country's annual crop output, and it is estimated that an additional 5 million
ha could be dsveloped with water control including drainage and flood control
as well as irrigation. Irrigation development has traditionally received
highest priority and the largest share of public expenditure in the agricul-
tural sector, with very little being invested in improving rainfed agriculture,
although the rainfed areas comprise about 75% of the total cropped area of
Mexico and represent about 85% of the country's farm enterprises.
Development
1.02      Prior to the mid-1960s, Mexico's agricultural sector was a dynamic
part of the country's economy growing at a rate of about 5% a year. Then,
abruptly, in 1965, the rate plummeted to about 1% a year and has stayed there
ever since. The seriousness of this fall is clear particularly when viewed
in the perspective of Mexico's rapidly expanding population, which has in-
creased at about 3.5% per annum over the past 10 years and stand now at
60 million. 1/ As a result, Mexico has been unable to produce enough food to
satisfy local demand and, since about 1970, the country has become increas-
ingly dependent upon imported food grains (mainly maize, wheat and beans);
feed grains (mainly sorghum); oil seeds; and powdered milk. In an attempt to
deal with the situation, Government has placed the highest priority on
increasing agricultural output, an emphasis that is warranted also because
agriculture is still the most important source of income and employment for
Mexico's rural population of about 20 million. Over three mlllion families
depend upon agriculture for their livelihood and represent about 40% of the
country's labor force. These people comprise three distinct groups of nearly
equal size, (i) those who work on land owned by others; (ii) private land
holders; and (iii) ejidatarios 2/. About 40% of the rural families 1.0 million
private farmers and about 1.2 million landless families. About 40% of the
rural families have incomes of less than US$1,800 per year. The rural pro-
duction and income distribution is, moreover, skewed, following the pattern of
intensity of land use. It is estimated that about 5% of all farms supply
1/   Preliminary data indicate that the rate of population increase may be
declining slowly and that the figure for 1977 may be around 3.2%.
2/   Ejidatarios are members of an ejido, which is a form of group land
tenure based on usufruct.



about 50% of agricultural market sales, while 80% contribute about 16%. At
the current rate of growth, the sector is unable to generate sufficient -
and income to prevent an ever-increasing urban migration. Although improving
the agricultural sector alone cannot solve all of Mexico's employment/income
distribution problems; it can, nevertheless make a major contribution to
raising 1lving standards in rural areas and in reducing urban migration.
1.03      As a first step toward coordinating its efforts to increasing agri-
cultural output, the newly elected Government merged the Secretariats of
Water Resources (SRH) and Agriculture and Livestock (SAG) into one Secretariat
of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH). It also issued a presidential
decree creating Rainfed Districts (DT) along lines similar to those which
cover existing irrigation districts to provide a mechanism for channeling
development support to rainfed agriculture. The chances for bringing about
increases in production would be considerably enhanced by technical services,
coupled with an efficient use of credit, improved marketing facilities and
infrastructure, particularly as applied to a greater part of the country's
small individual farmers and ejidatarios who together account for at least 65%
to 70% of the country's agricultural land. Much of the Bank's current lending
to Mexico for agriculture has been directed to helping this important subsector,
mainly through on-going rural development projects and a series of agricultural
and livestock credit projects. 1/
1.04      Besides increasing output from presently cultivated areas, Mexico
must also try to bring as much of its potentially arable but unused land into
production as quickly as possible. In this regard, it is estimated that, in
addition to increasing productivity from existing areas, Mexico needs to
cultivate 200,000 ha of new land each year if it is to regain the momentum of
pre 1965 years (para K 02). Recent studies by the National Water Plan
Commission (CPNH) estimate that Mexico has about 6.3 million ha of unused or
underutilized land which could easily be brought into intensive production
quickly. Of this, an area of about 3.6 million ha (60%) is located in the
tropical lowlands.
B. Agricultuire in the Tropics
1.05      The tropical lands of Mexico are located on the Gulf Coast and
southeast region of the country (see map IBRD 13209). Within these regions
there are some 27.4 million ha of flat lands (46% of all the flat lands in the
country) with an annual rainfall ranging from 1,000 to 6,000 mm. About 13.6
million ha are located on predominantly shallow calcarious soils on the
Yucatan Peninsula, and the remaining 13.8 million ha on the Gulf Coast and
onL the Pacific Coast of Chiapas and Oaxaca. Studies by CPNH have shown that
within these areas there are about 8.3 million ha of arable lands with medium
to high agricultural potential, of which about 3.6 million ha is virtually
unused (para 1.04). Because of the generally high and reliable rainfall, the
arable areas identified in the region have considerable potential for intensive
production. In many places, cropping intensities greater than 100% are
1/   Loans 1053-ME, 1111-ME, 1462-ME, 430-ME, 610-ME, 747-ME, 910-ME, and
1217-ME.



-3-
easible without irrigation while in others only modest supplementary irri-
gation systems would be required. The fertile lands are located mainly on the
coastal flood plains of the four main Gulf Coast rivers--the Panuco, the
Papaloapan, the Coatzacoalcos and the Grijalva-Usumacinta and to a lesser
extent on the Pacific Coast of Chiapas and the Yucatan Peninsula.   More than
60% is in the hands of ejidatarios or small private farmers, the holdings
averaging 8 ha per ejido family and upwards of 20 to 30 ha per small private
farmer. Most families are at subsistence levels.
1.06      To date, the main developments in the region have been on the
Tropical Gulf Coast where until recently, three river basin commissions were
in charge of development: the Papaloapan Commission since 1947, the
Grijalva Commission since 1951 and the Panuco Commission since 1959, with
the Minister of SARH the president of each of the commissions. In 1977 the
Grijalva Commission was dissolved.
1.07      Achievements during the first 30 years of existence of the Papaloapan
Commission included main and penetration roads totalling 2,000 km; flood con-
trol works; and rural development in the form of agricultural extension, roads,
schools, health services, domestic water supplies, malaria control and some
colonization schemes. Funds were drastically reduced after 1959, causing a
decline in the rate of development, although agricultural production continued
to rise because of benefits derived from earlier investments. In 1975, the
Commission, with Bank assistance (Loan 1053-ME), initiated a rural development
project directed at improving socio-economic conditions of the ejidatarios and
small farmers in the basin. Agricultural output of the zone is mainly from
175,000 ha of sugarcane, with low yields however, due to impeded drainage.
Maize is grown on about 300,000 ha but yields are low at about 0.7 ton/ha
except in those areas that receive technical services and inputs, where
yields run to 3 ton/ha. The total cropped area in tne Papaloapan lowlands is
about 600,000 ha, but, with most of the remainder of about 2 million ha
devoted to extensive animal husbandry, output is only a small fraction of the
potential. The commission has also been active in promoting industrial
development to take advantage of the power generated by the Miguel Aleman dam
and in recent years a paper mill, a sugar plant and numerous canning plants
have been established in the basin.
1.08      In the Grijalva-Usumacinta coastal lowlands, the "Plan Chontalpa",
a 75,000-ha development based on drainage, was constructed from 1966 to 1971
with Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) assistance but it met with mixed
success. Besides drainage and roads, the project included: housing, domestic
water supply, electrification, schools and health centers. Despite the
drainage improvements, agricultural production was less than expected because
of institutional and manpower constraints. In hindsight it appears that
the drainage and road systems were constructed too rapidly and the social
infrastructure was over-elaborate. For example, the housing provided might
better have been of a local, self-help rather than an imported type, ill-suited
to the local environment. La Chontalpa has nevertheless demonstrated that
drainage is feasible in that part of Mexico and that high-value, high yielding
crops can be obtained with proper cultural practices.



4-
1.09      Tn the Panuco coastal plain, hurricanes occur irregularly every few
years and cause serious damage from flooding. Because of lower rair1fall,
conventional irrigation is needed in Panuco as compared with the other three
river systems of the Gulf Coast. In 1974, the Panuco Commission began con-
struction of a first-stage irrigation project (area 137,000 ha) with Bank
assistance (Loan 969-ME). A considerably larger second-stage project covering
250,000 ha is planned, which would, besides irrigation, deal with a complex
flood problem that affects much of the coastal plain, including the port city
of Tampico.
1.10      CPNH has identified 2.4 million ha of fertile lands out of the
3.6 million ha of virtually unused lands located in the region (para 1.04) as
having greatest potential for medium-term development. Most of these lands,
located in the four Gulf Coast river basins (para 1.05) with small areas
on the Pacific Coast of Chiapas and the Yucatan Peninsula, are presently unfit
for cropping because of poor drainage or susceptibility to flooding and are
being used mainly for extensive ranching. With basic drainage infrastructure,
roads and in some cases, supplementary irrigation, much of the area could
become almost as productive as many of the country's large-scale irrigation
areas but at considerably less cost per ha. These humid tropical lands are
moreover better suited for crops with high water requirements such as sugar and
rice than the irrigated arid areas of the northern and central Pacific regions.
Government has given priority to developing its humid tropics and has charged
CPNH with responsibility for drawing up a development strategy and prepare
specific projects to implement it. The recent discovery of large reserves of
oil and gas in the region has given added imDetus to this work. The influx of
population to the area has improved local marketing prospects for food crops,
new road networks have opend up large areas for development, and health,
education and other social services have been improved.
Present Land 'U'se in the Humid Tropics
1.11      The main characteristics of the present agro-livestock system in the
Mexican humid tropics is extensive land use with low yields and a generally
low level of farm management, processing, marketing and agricultural services
(extension, research, and to a lesser extent, credit). Livestock production,
both from beef and dual-pupose beef/milk operations, is the most widespread
activjity in the Panuco, Papaloapan and Grijalva-Usumacinta basins at the
present time. About 7 million head, or about 25% of the national herd, are
located in the humid tropics, which is one of the most important areas produc-
ing beef for Mexico City. Within the 4.7 million ha of the lands of medium
to high agricultural potential now being used (para 1.05), both extensive
ranching and cropping are carried out, the main crops are: corn (60%), beans
(14%), sugar (14%), rice (4%), and cocoa (4%), with small areas in crops such
as fruits and vegetables, bananas, rubber, coffee, and pineapples. Although
average yields are generally low with maize less than, 1 ton/ha, beans less
than 0.3 tons/ha, sugar less than 50 tons/ha and rice less than 1.5 tons/ ha,
available information shows that these can be increased considerably given the
right technical, infrastructural and managerial inputs. As the region is
moreover suitable for intensive animal production (particularly using grass-
legume pasture mixtures), a wide range of development packages can be evolved
to take account of small ecological and socio-economic aifferences within the
zone.



-5-
Socio-Economic Problems in the Tropics
1.12      The most important socio-economic problems for agricultural develop-
ment in the tropics relate to the lands held under ejido tenure, which consti-
tute 60% of the arable or potentially arable lands in the area. Under the law
ejido lands are allocated to groups of "ejidatarios", but, each ejidatario is
given use rights over a specific parcel within the ejido (around 8 ha in the
tropics) so land is generally exploited individually. This system of exploita-
tion has created obstacles for converting ejidatarios from their present subsis-
tence agriculture to one which is production/profit oriented. More recently,
the Government has decided that, in all new ejidos, land will be allocated and
worked in A truly collective way with no individual plots allocated to farmers,
except for the establishment of small gardens for home consumption. This new
system, which permits the ejidos to take advantage of the economies of scale
and central administration, has already been introduced in the new ejidos in
Panuco and other parts of the country.   These have been successful when
adequate provision has been made for credit, physical inputs, social anrd
management services with an improvement in the socio-economic status of the
individual ejidatario families. In such ejidos the general assembly has
accepted the responsibility for planning, execution and management of the
productive operations of the unit. The assembly under the leadership of its
head elected by the ejido is empowered to obtain credit for on-farm development
and to allocate work responsibilities to ejidatario members who are paid on
the basis of work done. The profits are distributed among all members. How-
eve-, to take this approach in the existing ejidos would call for considerable
modifications in land use rights and social structure, which would likely take
some time. Under the project, collective management would be introduced wherever
possible (paras 4.07 and 4.08).
II.   INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS OF AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT IN THE TROPICS
The National Water Plan Commission
2.01      CPNH, a semi-autonomous commission established in 1976 under the
general umbrella of SARH, has been assigned a key role in Mexico's tropical
agricultural development program. One of the main proposals of CPNH (drawn up
in collaboration with Government, the Bank and UNDP) was that greater emphasis
be given to developing agriculture in the humid tropics.   CPNH has published
27 reference reports prepared by a group of technical specialists, economists
and sociologists, which provided basic data for the formulation of a long-term
(1975-2000) agricultural development strategy for the humid tropics. The
strategy involves (a) phased area-development programs based on the initial
development of pilot project areas (about 4,000 ha each) to determine the
infrastructure cum socio-economic packages suitable for developing a larger
"area of influence" of 50,000 to 150,000 ha, and (b) the strengthening of the
key institutions involved in tropical agricultural development while providing
a mechanism for better coordination of their activities. Using its own staff
and consultants, the agency has completed feasibility studies for two pilot



6-
project areas and is carrying out studies for four others, and, in
collaboration with the various entities involved, it has prepared a plan for
concurrent improvement of agricultural services in the humid tropics.
Initially, these plans envisage improving mainly the extension and research
services for the region, with empahsis on the areas of influence of the pilot
projects.
Extension Organizations
2.02      The SARH Department of Production and Agricultural Extension (DPAE)
is the public body responsible for extension in Mexico. Until the 1970's
its services were directed mainly to irrigation areas, generally neglecting
the large number of low income farmers, particularly those in rainfed areas.
In the early 1970s, two positive steps were taken to improve the quality of
service for creating: (a) the On-farm Improvement Plan (PLAMEPA), addressed
to irrigation districts within SRH; and (b) the National Program of Agricul-
tural Development in Rainfed Areas (PRONDAAT) within SAG. PLAMEPA emphasizes
better use of water by providing advice on land levelling and other on-farm
works, complete technological packages, and demonstrations, through applied
research, while PRONDAAT, which is based on the experience derived from the
maize cultivation improvement "Plan Puebla", is supported by the Graduate
School of the National Agricultural University at Chapingo. In essence, under
the PRONDAAT approach, the extension agent is given a broader development role
by directly involving him in the organization of small farmer associations,
produce marketing, and provision of inputs and credit. The program is
supported by intensive field trials designed to produce appropriate technical
packages for individual ecological zones.
2.03      Existing services are, however, unable to provide adequate
assistance to an estimated 4 million farmers cultivating..over 15 million ha.
There are about 5,200 extensionists in SARH and about 2,200 in the agricul-
tural credit system (para 2.11)--about one per 550 farmers. In the humid
tropics, the ratio is less than one SARH extension worker for 1,000 farmers
and the service offered is generally poor. A notable exception (para 2.08) to
this is in the Papaloapan basin, where, under the Papaloapan Commission, and
financed by Bank Loan 1053-ME, "Plan Papaloapan" (PLANPA) technicians are
providing a PRONDAAT-type service to the ejidatarios in the rainfed areas
of the basin. PLAMEPA also operates in the Papaloapan basin in the Rio
Blanco irrigation district, with coordination between the two achieved through
a technical coordinator. Using experience gained in the Papaloapan basin, it
should be possible to establish an effective extension service in the humid
tropics based on the PLANPA-PLAMEPA system.
Research
2.04      Research on crops, livestock and forestry is carried out by semi-
autonomous SARH agencies:  the National Institute for Crop Research (INIA); the
National Institute for Livestock Research (INIP); and the General Directorate for
Forestry Research and Training (INCAFOR). Until recently, INIA's work has been
directed largely toward irrigated crop development and to the higher rainfall



-7-
areas, and its work in collaboration with the Centro Internacione.l para
Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo (CIMMYT) in wheat and, to a lesser extent,
maize breeding, i-s well known internationally (Annex 1). The institute has
been allocated more funds in recent years and has been able to expand its
research staff and improve the scope and caliber of its work. In 1977, its
total budget was about US$20.5 million and its staff included 650 fulltime pro-
fessicnals, of which 40 were P,.Ds, 130 MScs, and 480 BS graduates.  In August
1977, significant organizational changes were made within INIA that were designed
to tie its work more closely with the production needs of the country. It has
delegated more responsibility to its regional centers and adopted a multi-
disciplinary team approach, with units working on specific commodities or
production-oriented problems. While these are important improvements, there is
still a need to upgrade the academic standards of staff, strengthen the research
effort in rainfed areas, integrate individual research findings into technolog-
ical packages for specific ecological regions, and improve interaction with the
extension services. Most of INIA's research for the humid tropics is done by
the Center of Agriculture Research for the Southeast (CIASE), located in
Veracruz, and by the Center of Agricultural Research of the Peninsula (CIAPY),
located in Yucatan. However, except for maize, there is a paucity of pro-
ductive research data on almost all crops suitable to the area.
2.05      INIP's earlier work was concentrated on genetics, veterinary
medicine, and preventive vaccines, but today it is placing greater emphasis
on animal production management problems, including pasture management and
stocking-rate studies, both of which are crucial for Mexico's livestock
industry. Research is currently organized by disciplines; however, following
INIA's example, INIP is now changing to a production-research orientation.
INIP's staff in 1977 totalled 163 professionals, including eight PhDs, 30 MScs,
90 BSs and 35 BS degree candidates who were scheduled to graduate in 1977.
The institute has its headquarters in Mexico City and there are 16 experi-
mental centers located through the country, six of them in the tropics. Its
budget in 1977 was about US$5.2 million, with about 50% of its resources
devoted to aspects of cattle health and productin in the tropics. As with
INIA, there is a need to upgrade academic standards of staff and to augment
research capability.
2.06      INCAFOR, which forms part of the Forestry Sub-secretariate of SARH,
was recently formed from the National Forestry Research Institute which was
founded in 1960, with headquarters in Mexico City. Field research is carried
out mainly at six experimental stations, two of which are in arid, two in
temperate and two in tropical areas, but most of the institute's efforts
are concentrated in the temperate pine forest regions. Its total annual
budget in 1977 was about US$9 million, of which about US$1.7 million was
spent on staff training. Currently, out of a total of 118 professional staff,
only three have PhDs and 11 have MScs. The paucity of trained staff is
particularly evident in its tropical program in which there are only three
staff members with bachelor's degrees located at the two tropical experimental
stations. Clearly it would be unwise to consider increasing forest research
in the tropics without first providing for more trained end experienced
staff.



-8-
The Papaloapan Commission
2.07      The Papaloapan Commission, a semi-autonomous institution within
SARH, was established in 1947 to promote development of the important
Papaloaparn basin.  The Vocal Ejecutivo, the offici.al representative of SARH,
is responsible for executing policies approved by the Minister of Agriculture
and Hydraulic Resources, and the annual appropriation for the Commission
appears as a separate appropriation in the SARH budget.   As mentioned in
paragraph 1.07, the Commission has greatly assisted development of thle basin
and was one of the first entities to promote rural development in Mexico.
Among its achievements, one of the most important affecting agricultural
production, has been the establishment of effective extension services for
both raiuifed PLANPA and irrigated PLAMEPA areas, particularly for the smaller
land holders and ejidatarios. The Commission has as an objective the
ultimate merging of the two services into one unit.
The College of Tropical Agriculture (CSAT)
2.08       .ocated at Cardenas in the state of Tabasco, CSAT was established
in 1969 as a center for postgraduate training, specializing in tropical
agricultural-livestock production, but, in 1973, it enlarged its program to
provide undergraduate training. In 1977, the student body consisted of 41
students working towards master's degrees and 418 undergraduates. The college
faculty of 80 professionals consists of three PhDs, 20 MScs and 57 BScs.
2.09      CSAT's undergraduate training programs are in line with the needs
of Mexico's tropical region and some 30% of the time is devoted to agro-social
practices, which permit the students to have direct contact with farmers
through studies on all aspects of the farm enterprise. The college has
assigned particular importance to providing advanced training to its own staff,
by sending members to other institutions (some in other countries) to take
advanced courses and by bringing visiting professors, both national and
international, to its own campus. However, there is a need to accelerate
further the training program if the staff is to cope with the proposed expan-
sion in the student body, which is projected to double within five years.
Agricultural Lending Institutions
2.10      Mexico has a well structured and experienced agricultural credit
system, involving both public and private lending institutions, but the great-
est proportion of institutional credit in Mexico is handled by the main public
bank, Banco Nacional de Credito Rural (BNCR). BNCR was found in 1975 through
the amalgamation of three agricultural public banks to consolidate the lending
activities of the predominantly small holder and ejidetario clientele with
wnich all of these banks operated. In 1976, more than 90% of its portfolio of
Mex$ 25,000 million was for short-term crop loans. Almost all long-term
credit is channelled through special developmernt funds within the general
administrative framework of the Agricultural Trust Fund of the Bank oF Mexico
(FIRA).  Commencing in 1965, FIRA has been responsible for administering five
Bank agricultural credit loans, totaling US$400 million, and under its control,
long- and medium-term lending has been well managed and sub-borrowers have



-9-
generally benefited from their investments. A feature of long-term agricul-
tural credit operations in Mexico is the level of technical support provided
through more than 2,000 technicians employed by FIRA and BNCR and the private
banks. FIRA has considerable experience in operating long-term credit in the
low income producers subsector. In 1976 it rediscounted US$73 million, or 50%
of its total portfolio for the subsector. FIRA staff has also taken the
initiative in developing new production packages based on technology developed
within as well as without Mexico. It has established 13 demonstration centers
throughout the country and promoted these new packages through its on-farm
lending operations. Both FIRA and BNCR have three regional headquarters
serving the tropics and, together, they have perhaps a longer and wider
experience in tropical agro-livestock production at the farm level than any of
the other public institutions.
2.11      While credit institutions have an important role to play in speeding
up development in Mexico's tropical areas, there is a ne:d for closer coordi-
nation between them and the other public institutions involved in the area,
particularly with SARH extension and research activities. A closer involve-
ment of the extension service with the credit institutions would be especially
useful to ensure more comprehensive follow-up supervision of sub-borrowers,
thereby enabling them to make the most effective use of their loans.
State Governments
2.12      Although the initiative and most of the resources for developing
agriculture in Mexico's tropics rest with the Central Government through its
various agencies, successful implementation of any program would be difficult
without the support of the various State Governments involved. Also, State
Government policies are important in determining overall development stragegies,
especially those policies concerning highly sensitive land tenure and agrarian
reform issues. Central Governemnt planners envisaged that considerable
changes in land use rights will be necessary to ensure equitable opportunities
for the relatively large undeveloped rural population in the region, but
experience has shown that the full support of the State Governments, is
important in the iaiplementation of the necessary agrarian reform actions that
will bring about these changes.
Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (SRA)
2.13      In any development strategy for Mexico's tropical regions, the
involvement of SRA is essential since its staff is needed to assist farmers
to organize themselves and to clarify land use rights before any on-farm
Improvement programs are put into effect. Since most of the plans for devel-
oping the region deal mainly with ejidos, most of the field involvement of SRA
in these plans would be through SRA's Sub-department for Organization and
Development of Ejidos (SOFE). The SOFE staff serve in multi-disciplinary
teams that ensure that the ejidatarios are deeply involved in detailed plan-
ning of new investments. They also educate and convince ejidatarios of the
need to work collectively and to see that all can share benefits equally.
SOFE's long-term goal is to transform each ejido's general assembly into a



- 10 -
planning body that can implement economic programs (in accordance with the new
agrarian reform law) by offering ejidatarios incentive in the form of infra-
structure such as roads , drainage and irrigation works and social facilities
linked to well identified possibilities for increasing production and on-farm
incomes though technically supervised credit and management services. In
addition to this, direct effects of enhancing the ejidatarios socio-economic
status most programs create employment (on- and off-farm) for members of the
ejidatarios' families.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      The project would be part of a long-range program for intensifying
agricultural production in the tropical lowlands of Mexico. It would be
carried out over a five-year period and would consist of three major compo-
nents: (a) development of six pilot projects of about 4,000 ha each;
(b) support for improvement and expansion of the existing agricultural and
livestock research in the tropics; (c) strengthening and improving the agri-
cultural extension service in the tropics with emphasis in the 660,000 ha
area of influence of the pilot projects. Some 3,000 families would be direct
beneficiaries of the pilot projects and some 40,000 additional ones would
receive assistance from the extension service. SARH would have overall
responsibility for project execution with actual execution by several of its
departments (para 4.01), SRA and FIRA. A technical committee chaired by
CPNH would formulate operational plans which would be carried out by a Project
Unit in CPNH. Identification of the project was one of the results of the
National Water Plan Studies, carried out between 1972 and 1975, by CNPH with
Bank and UNDP assistance. FAO and consultants assisted CPNH to prepare the
feasibility studies.
B. The Project Area
3.02      The project would be implemented in the tropical lowlands on the
Gulf Coast and Southeast regions of Mexico (see map IBRD 13209) comprising the
lower Panuco, Papaloapan, Coatzacoalcos and Grijalva-Usumacinta River basins
on the Gulf; the Yucatan Peninsula; and the coastal lands on the Pacific Coast
of Chiapas and Oaxaca. The project's total area of influence would be about
27.4 million ha (para 1.05) located in the states of Tamaulipas, Veracruz,
Oaxaca, Tabasco, Chiapas, Campeche Yucatan and Quintana Roo. The area is
served by good surface, air and maritime communications to major cities. The
"Circuito del Golfo" road and the Southeast railway run along the shoreline of
the Gulf and link the region with the national highway and railway networks.
Likewise, the "Troncal del Pacifico" road runs along the Pacific Coast of
Chiapas and connects with the Circuito del Golfo road through the Trans
Isthmic road, which runs across the Tehuantepec Isthmus. The recently built
Ciudad Aleman to Sayula road transects the fertile lands of the Papaloapan



- 11 -
oasin and interlinks it with the Grijalva-Usumacinta basin. The Veracruz and
Coa.zacoalcos ports handle most of the Mexican goods and oil imports and
exporLS.
Climate
3.03      The climate is humid and semi-humid tropical.   Mean monthly tempera-
tures vary from 25 C in December-January to 30 0C in April-May.  Annual rainfall
in the Gulf increases north-south from 800 mm in the northern part of the
Panuco basin to 1,500 mm in the lower Papaloapan basin to 3,000 mm in the
Grijalva-Usumacinta basin. In the Panuco and Papaloapan basins, about 85%
of the rainfall occurs during June-October compared to 65% in the Grijalva-
Usumacinta basin. Supplementary irrigation is therefore needed for dry-season
cropping in Panuco and some parts of Papaloapan. Otherwise, except for flood-
ing and water-logging, there are no major climatic constraints for pasture and
perennial crops. In the smaller Pacific coastal plain, annual rainfall ranges
from 1,000 mm to 2,000 mm toward the east; in the western portion, where rain-
fall is around 1,200 mm, the full development potential cannot be achieved
without supplementary irrigation. Another major climatic constraint is the
relatively high wind (40 to 100 km/hr) during the growing season, capable of
inflicting frequent damage to crops. In the Yucatan Peninsula, rainfall ranges
from 500 mm in the north to 1,300 mm at the Guatemalan border.
Topography
3.04      Topography is of two types:   (a) rolling foothills with slopes
of less than 2.5% and located inland; and (b) the flat lands of the lower
deltas where the river channels are shallow and sometimes higher than the
swamps behind the natural river levees resulting in frequent flooding at the
confluence of the lower tributaries.
3.05      Several existing dams provide partial protection against flooding
in the lower deltas. In the Papaloapan basin, the Miguel Aleman dam controls
the Tonto River, a main tributary of the Papaloapan, while the Cerro de Oro
dam, now under construction, will control the Santo Domingo River, another
main tributary of the Papaloapan. Along the Grijalva River, two existing
dams (Malpaso and La Angostura), built mainly for power generation, have
reduced floods in the lower delta, and two high dams in the planning stage
(the Chicogan on the Grijalva River and Istantun on the Tacotalpa River) will
further mitigate flood problems in addition to the generation of more power.
Adequate flood protection will ultimatel.y require many kilometers of embank-
ments in addition to the dams--a matter requiring further study. Besides
flood protection surface drainage facilities are needed to remove excess
rainfall in the rainy season. All of the pilot projects to be developed under
the project would be outside the main flood zones.
Agricultural Potential
3.06      Studies carried out by CPNH have revealed that, within the lowlands,
there are 8.4 million ha with medium to high agricultural potential (see Map
IBRD 13209), of which 44% is virtually unused and the remaining 56% is devoted



- 12 -
mainly to extensive cattle ranching.   The main constraints for development of
intensive agriculture are: (a) frequent flooding and poor drainage on much of
the flat, fertile soils; (b) lack of data on many aspects of agricultural
production; (c) lack of support services, particularly a well integrated
extension service; and (d) generally inefficient farmers' organization and
on-farm management. Within this area, CPNH has chosen 2.4 million ha that
would be brought into intensive agricultural production over the remaining
part of this century (para 1.05). About 2.1 million ha are located in the
coastal areas of the Gulf (760,000 ha in the Panuco, 846,000 in the Papalcapan,
and 492,000 in the Grijalva-Usumacinta River Basins), with the remaining
300,000 on the Pacific Coast of Chiapas and Oaxaca and the Yucatan Peninsula.
Pilot Project Areas
3.07      In its strategy for development of the humid and semi-humid tropics,
Government has decided to phase development and test techniques before
embarking on large-scale programs. To this end, CPNH had identified 23 pilot
project areas, ranging from 2,000 to 6,000 ha as being representative of
ecological and social conditions prevailing in surrounding areas, and in whicb
development strategies can be tested. Under the proposed project, six pilot
projects of about 4,000 ha each would be implemented, of which two, Zapotal and
Tesechoacan, have already been chosen and feasibility studies completed, while
studies for selection of the remaining four are underway based on the following
criteria: (a) the pilot area must be ecologically representative of a surround-
ing area sufficiently large to warrant a future development program in which
economies of scale can be adopted; (b) the status of the farmers in the pilot
area regarding land tenure and income distribution should also be representa-
tive of a much larger surrounding area; (c) the areas should possess good
potential for intensifying land use and increasing crops agricultural produc-
tion; and (d) in some instances, the suitability of the pilot area for crops
new to the region would be considered.
3.08      The Zapotal Pilot Project: This pilot project covering 4,500 ha
in the Tonala River basin between the Zanapa and the San Fernando Rivers,
is adjacent to the Chontalita project in Tabasco state (see Maps IBRD 13209
and 13210) and is representative of 120,000 ha of surrounding lands which is
crossed by main highway 180, which links it with Villahermosa (80 km) and the
rest of the country. The southeast railways station, La Chontalpa, is 30 km
from the area. Some 2,519 inhabitants, or 407 families, presently live in the
area, most of whom are ejidatarios or rural workers. In the homogenous
surrounding lands, about 12,000 ejidatario families and 3,000 small farmers
would eventually benefit in the succeeding stages of development which would
follow from the pilot project.
3.09      The area has an elevation of 4 m above sea level and a general ground
slope of 0.25% towards the sea, The soils are alluvial, deep, heavy textured
and with poor surface drainage. The climate is hot and humid, with an annual
rainfall of 2,260 mm and a minimum monthly precipitation of about 125 mm from
January to May.  The average temperature is 250C, with minimum and maximum
temperatures of 220 and 28 C, respectively. The soil and ecological conditions
make the area suitable for pasture, coconiut and annual crops. At present,



- 13 -
cattle are grazed on about 50% of the land at a carrying capacity ranging from
0.5 AU/ha otn natural grasses to 1.4 on improved pasture. Corn, rice and
beans, mainly for home consumption, are grown on 25% of the land, and pro-
duction yields are 760, 2,000 and 600 kg/ha, respectively. The remaining 25%
is unused.
3.10      Although the entire Zapotal area constitutes one ejido--r.amed for
the area--there are organizational problems relating to land use rights within
the ejido. Illegal negotiations for land use rights and land lease practices
have led to illegal posession of land and conflicts in possession within the
ejido. Although no farm holdings are excessively large by Mexican standards,
land use per ejidatario is unevenly distributed. Out of the 407 ejidatarios,
40% farm less than 5 ha and account for only 22% of the land, holdings greater
than 25 ha occupy 9% and account for 38% of the area, Under the project, the
Government would revise ownership rights within the framework of the agrarian
reform law to ensure more even distribution of land among ejidatarios
(para 4.07).
3.11      The Tesechoacan Pilot Project.  The pilot project covers 4,400 ha
located in the Papaloapan basin between the Tesechoacan and Obispo Rivers in
the jurisdiction of the Papaloapan Commission in Veracruz state (see Maps
IBRD 13209, 13210). It is representative of about 140,000 ha of surrounding
lands in the basin and is connected with Ciudad Aleman (Papaloapan Commission
headquarters), the Veracruz port in the Gulf, and the rest of the country by
the paved roads and railways. The population is 3,000 or 435 families, who
would become project beneficiaries. Ninety percent are ejidatarios and
the other 10% are laborers on private farms. With full development in the
future of the 140,000 ha represented by the pilot project some 12,000
ejidatario families and 2,000 small farmers could eventually benefit.
3.12      The area has an elevation of 10 m above sea level and most of it is
flat, with slopes of less than 1%, interspersed with small, but slightly high
rolling areas. The soils are deep and heavy with poor surface and internal
drainage. The area has a semihumid, hot climate. The annual average rainfall
is 1,500 mm, with mean monthly minimum precipitations of 30 mm from January
to May.  The average monthly temperature is 26 0C. Although an earth embank-
ment along the left bank of the Tesechoacan River protects the area from
flooding, poor surface drainage and runoff from the upper lands cause water-
logging in the wet season.
3.13      Soil conditions are suitable for growing a variety of annual crops,
fruit trees and pasture. Many farmers are acquainted with modern agricultural
techniques and use machinery and fertilizers; however, the risks of losses due
to waterlogging in the wet season and water shortages in the dry season have
made them reluctant to intensify agricultural practices or to increase areas
under cropping. Land use patterns in the ejidos differ from those in the
private properties. In the ejidos, 42% of the land is in annual crops, namely,
rice, corn and beans, with yields up to 3.0, 2.5, and 1.5 tons/ha, respec-
tively; 2% in fruit trees, mainly mango; 30% in pasture lands under a very low
grazing intensity; and 20% unused. On private farms, 80% of the land is used
for extensive cattle ranching and, in the remaining 20%, there are some mango
orchards, scattered areas of annual crops, and fallow.



- 14 -
3.14      Both ejido and private property are found in the pilot project area.
Three ejidos occupy 67% of the area, and 19 private holdings, the remaining
33%. In two ejidos, land is exploited in indiviidual holdings, while in the
third, the farmers participate in a collective exploitation but hold rights to
individual plots. The average land per ejidatario is about 10 ha for the
three ejidos. Private farms range in size from 10 to 400 ha; 26% of private
farms are larger than 100 ha and account for 65% of the private land. Under
the project, some private land would be purchased by the Government and
converted into ejidos under the agrarian reform law.
3.15      Four Remaining Pilot Projects.   At present, CPNH is conducting
studies in nine areas identified as possible locations for the remaining four
pilot projects. They are: Tempoal and Tantuan-Sta. Clara in the Panuco basin;
Playa Vicente in the Papaloapan basin; Tacotalpa in the Grijalva-Usumacinta
basin; Huixtla on the Pacific Coast of Chiapas; Ostuta in the Pacific Coast of
Oaxaca; and Ukum Cancabcheck, Tizimin and Chunchintok in the Yucatan Peninsula.
The pilot projects selected would be about 4,000 ha each and would represent
some 400,000 ha of surrounding lands. Prior to negotiations CPNH presented
the Bank with the basic general studies on the above areas in which pilot project
areas have been defined based mainly on available socio-economic, ecological,
technical and land tenure information. Final selection will be made by the
Project Technical Committee (para. 4.01), after which CPNH will proceed with
detailed feasibility studies which will be submitted for Bank approval.
C. Detailed Features
Pilot Projects
3.16      The pilot projects would be used as testing grounds to develop
administrative, technical and socio-economic packages for future application
in the region. These packages would be aimed at introducing engineering
techniques, agricultural, production systems, and farmers' organization systems
that, although not new to Mexico, have not been consistently applied in
the tropics and, when they have, rarely as one package.
3.17      Implementation of the six pilot projects would bring into agricul-
tural production about 23,800 ha and would directly benefit about 3,000
farmers, mainly ejidatarios. In all areas, the project would aim at:
(a) improving physical conditions of the areas by constructing drainage
works, feeder roads, administrative facilities, and, appropriate works for
supplementary irrigation; (b) clarifying land use rights and restructuring of
land tenure within the ejidos and, when appropriate, purchasing private land
to enlarge the ejidos or incorporation of private farmers into the project
within the framework of the agrarian reform and water laws; (c) organizing
and training of ejidatarios to induce them to undertake collective-type devel-
opment; (d) providing agricultural extension services to develop technical
packages and to bring about agricultural development in the areas; (e) estab-
lishing agro-industries; (f) providing long-term credit for on-farm develop-
ment, fixed investments and livestock; and (g) establishing an operation and
maintenance service for the works and purchase of the necessary equipment.



- 15 -
Area Development and Infrastructure.   Development plans for the two
pilot projects--Zapotal and Tesechoacan--have been prepared and evaluated and
are describea below, and detailed development plans for the remaining four are
being prepared. A condition of disbursement for these four pilot projects
would be that the feasibility studies done by CPNH had been approved by the
Bank.
3.19      Civil Works.  Drainage works would be the main item financed under
the civil works program. The design of the works would be such as to remove
surface run off from the pilot areas within three days following heavy rain.
The project would also include construction of internal roads and adminis-
trative buildings. Civil works for the first two pilot projects would include
65 km of main drains, 38 km of secondary and minor drains, 60 km of main and
45 km of minor internal roads, and administrative buildings. Since the
Tesechoacan area is subject to flooding from runoff from higher surrounding
areas and there is no efficient outlet to evacuate excess water, civil works
for this pilot area would also include a local watershed flood control dike,
an 8 km outlet drain to the river and improvement of 12 km of the river flood
protection embankment parallel to the Tesechoacan River. The watershed flood
control dike and the outlet drain would directly benefit 30,000 ha, inclusive
of the 4,400 of the pilot project. Supplementary irrigation would also be
provided for 2,100 ha including a pumping station on the left bank of the
Tsechoacan River, 13 km of main canals, 1] km of secondary canals, control
structures and on-farm leveling and ditches to meet the demands for year-round
cultivation during the dry season. Under the project, funds would also be
made available to purchase operation and maintenance equipment.
3.20      On-Farm Development.  Long-term credit would be provided to about
3,000 farmers for on-farm development. Investment would be mainly in:
land and pasture development, machinery and equipment, construction, breeding
cattle, and planting operations and materials. Long-term credit would be
channeled to the farmers through FIRA, BNCR and priv ate banks (para 2.11),
which would provide local counterpart funds. Interest rates, repayment
terms, and rediscounting arrangements would be 11% to 16% for low income sub-
borrowers and 16% to 17% for other subborrowers and would correspond to those
applicable under other Bank loans to Mexico for agricultural credit. Short-
term operational credit would be made available through BNCR and FIRA (through
the private banks) and would not be reimbursable from the loan. The amount
of development credit required for the first two pilot projects would be
US$6.3 million to be invested in four years, with a further US$12.3 million
for the additional four pilot projects.
3.21      Agro industry.  In one of the four additional pilot projects, a
trial oilpalm plantation of 1,000 to 2,000 ha would be established under
collective ejidal management, together with an oilpalm mill that could process
seven to 10 fresh fruit bunches (FFB) per hour. Since local experience in
growing and processing oilpalm is limited, provision would be made initially
for expatriate management services to run the plantation and factory until
local personnel were able to take over. Mexico is currently a net importer of
vegetable oils, and successful development of oilpalm on the Gulf Coast could
go a long way toward meeting local demand (para 6.04). Establishment of the
plantation and mill would be financed through agricultural credit rediscounted



16 -
plantation and mill would be financed through agricultural credit rediscounted
by FIRA. A condition of disbursement for the oil palm plantation and mill
would be that the Bank had appraised this component as part of a pilot project.
CPNH ha-. yet to finalize the place to locate the mill and plantation in the
State of Tabasco. Feasibility studies for presentation to the Bank are ex-
pected to be ready by September 1978.
Research
3.22      Although the existing information and technological base is adequate,
initial momentum in the development of viable agro-livetock programs could not
be sustained without a substantial increase in agricultural/livestock research
efforts, particularly those of a production-oriented nature. Under the project,
these efforts would be strengthened, mainly through increased assistance to
INIA and INIP. Some assistance would also be given to INCAFOR to help prepare
a viable research program for the tropics and to CSAT to help train its teach-
ing staff.  The project would thus provide:  development costs of new facilities
such as land and buildings for four new research stations (US$6.1 million);
vehicles and farm equipment to increase field research programs (US$103 million);
and scientific equipment, chemicals, library and office equipment to ensure
proper support of the production-oriented r --arch program (US$1.9 million);
30 man-years of visiting research specialists and consultants (US$2.1); 88.5
man-years of scholarships (including 34.0 man-years for CSAT) for higher train-
ing of staff both at local and overseas institutes (US$1.6 million); contract-
ing services for special analysis and servicing equipment (US$0.1 million);
improved library services for CSAT (US$0.2 million); and funds to cover opera-
tional costs, including incremental salaries for new research and support
staff (US$12.7 million), and general operational expenses (US$7.1 million).
At negotiations Government presented a plan for closer integration of a number
of research programs of INIA, INIP and INCAFOR incorporating elements which
had been appraised as individual programs. This proposal respresents an
improvement in the organization and management of research and while it was
agreed that this should be part of the project, approval for disbursement
for the changed portions of the research component of the project would depend
upon the results of Bank appraisal to be carried out during an early super-
vision mission.
3.23      The Assistance to INIA would be provided for research on (a) manage-
ment and use of water, with particular emphasis on drainage and the control of
the soil/water regime; (b) field and tree-crops rice, beans soybeans and
cassava and coconut, oilpalm, spices and rubber (no support would be given for
maize, the region's most important food crop, because the existing program is
considered adequate); and (c) improved pastures and forage production directed
at increasing milk and meat production; (details of these programs are in
paras 5.10 to 5.12). In order to give effect to these programs, assistance
would be provided to establish four new INIA experiment stations, specifically
to cover important ecological areas in the region not covered by the existing
12 stations operating within the administrative control of either CIASE
or CIAPY (para 2.04), which are responsible for the coordination of research
programs at all research locations within their respective areas of influence
(para 5.13).
3.24      The project would also help strengthen the INIP research related
to the production of beef, milk, sheep and goats in the tropics. These
programs are: (a) production systems based on pasture; (b) arnimal nutrition;



17 -
(c) breed improvement; (d) reproductive efficiency; (e) reproductive diseases,
and (f) tick-borne diseases (details of these programs are shown in paras 5.15
to 5.20).
3.25      Because INCAFOR research program on tropical forests is small and
limited by the availability of experienced staff with suitable post-graduate
training (para 2.06), the project would provide scholarships for staff
training and for visiting research specialists to advise on the formulation of
a program for research in tropical forestry based upon studies on: multiple
use of soils; tropical silviculture; and wood technology.
3.26      Regarding CSAT, the Government has provided considerable sums of
money in recent years for post-graduate training of Mexican scientists in
other countries. To help CSAT upgrade its staff so that more of this training
can be provided in Mexico in the future, the project would finance scholarships
for CSAT staff to achieve masters and doctorate levels (mainly outside Mexico)
and funds would also be provided to build up a scientific library at the
college.
Extension Services
3.27      Under the proposed project, basic institutional and human resource
infrastructure would be provided to achieve the long-term objective of a
comprehensive and effective extension service for Tropical Mexico. It would
be based on the PRONDAAT approach (para 2.03) and, specifically, would provide
for intensive coverage of the pilot project areas (about one extension officer
per 30 to 40 families) to be developed under the project and expansion to the
broader area of influence of each pilot project, in which coverage would be
about one officer per 150 families. Extension services for the Tesechoacan
Pilot Project and its area of influence would be provided by PLANPA and
financed by the Papaloapan Commission. Excluding that part financed by the
Papaloapan Commission, the project would provide for: (a) salaries of five
extension teams (US$2.2 million), each to comprise about 17 professionals, 60
field assistants and 21 support staff; (b) purchase and operation of vehicles
(US$0.3 million); and (c) materials and equipment (US$0.2 million).
3.28      A Tropical Center for Extension and Training would also be estab-
lished and operated by DPAE under the project and provision would be made for
(a) land and buildings (US$1.4 million); (b) machinery and equipment (US$2.2
million); and (c) salaries for seven professional and 25 support staff (US$0.7
million). The main objective of the school would be to train extension workers
specifically for work in the Mexican tropics and it would be modeled on the
PRONDAAT training center in Puebla.
D. Project Costs
3.29      Project costs are estimated at US$149.0 million, including a foreign
exchange component of US$51.5 million, or 35%. Basic cost of the three major
project components, based on mid-1977 prices, is estimated at US$106.7 million,



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost SUmary
----------Mex $ 000        ---           ----------US$ Million----------        % of       %/ Foreign
Item                                 Local        Foreign        Total         Local     Foreign      Total      Base Cost     Exchange
1. PILOT PROJECTS
1.1 Area Development and Infrastructure
Civil Works                                          287,385       294,952       582,337      12,495      12,824      25,319         24            51
Engineering and Supervision                          116,449          -          116,449       5,063        -         5,063          5             -
O8d Equipment                                          4,968        44,781        49,749         216       1,947       2,163          2            90
06M During Construction                               17,986         8,372        26,358         782         364       1,146          1            32
Subtotal 1,1                                         426,788       348,105       774,893      1a],Sq(t   15,135      33,691         32            45
1.2 On-farm Development                                    255,829       171,120      426,949      11,123       7,440      18,563         17            40
1.3 Agroindustries                                          17,526        87,469       104,995        762       3,803       4,565          4            83
Subtotal Pilot Projects                              700,143       606,694     1,306,837      30,441     26,378      56,819         53            46
2. RESEARCH
2.1 Investment Costs
Civil Works and Office Equipment                      92,170        12,603       104,773      4,017         548       4 555          4             12
Vehicles, Farm Information and Documentetion
Equipment                                       17,945        17,945        35,890         780         780       1,560          1           50
Scientific Equipment and Chemical Reagents             8,224        26,363        34,587         358       1,146      1,504           1            76
Aircraft                                                -           12,000        12,000        -            522         522          1           100
Land                                                  40,000          -           40,000       1,739        -          1,739          2             0
Subtotal 2.1                                         156,339        68,911       227,250       6,884      2,996       9,880           9            30
2.2 Technical Services Costs
Research Specialists                                   7,173        40,644        47,817        312       1,767       2,079          2             85
Scholarships                                            -           36,816        36,816        -         1,601       1,601           2           100
Special Analyses & Servicing Equipment                 1,736           744         2,480          75          32        107           -           30
Library Services (CSAT)                                  460         4,140         4,600          20         180        200           -            90
Subtotal 2.2                                           9,369        82,344        91,713        407       3,580       3,987          4             90
2.3 Operational Costs
Incremental Salaries                                 292,825          -          292,825     12,732         -        12,732         12             -
Other Operational Costs                              131,580        32,895       164,475       5,721       1,430       7,151          7            20
Subtotal 2.3                                         424,405        32,895       457,300     18,453       1,430      19,883          19             7
Subtotal Research                                    592,113       :84,150       776,263     25,744       8,006      33,750         32             24
3. EXTENSION
3.1 Investment Costs
Buildings and Office Equipment
(training center)                              26,245         4,705        30,980      1,141          205      1,346           1            15
Vehicles, fars Information and Documentation
Equipment                                       9,403        10,837        20,240         409         471         880          1            54
Scientific Equipment and Materials                     7,875        18,375        26,250         342         799       1,141          1            70
Land                                                   1,000          -            1,000          44        -             44          -            -
Subtotal 3.1                                          44,523        33,917        78,840       1,936      1,475       3,411           3           43
3.2 Operational Costs
Increment of Salaries of Extensionists, Trainers
and Administrative Staff                      278,024          -          278,024      12,088        -         12,088         11             0
Operation and Maintenance of EquipmLnc and
Vehicles                                       10,756         4,609        15,365         468         200         668          1            30
Subtotal 3.2                                         288,780         4,609       293,389      12,556         200      12,756         12             2
Subtotal Extension                                   333,303        38,526       371,829      14,492       1,675      16,167         15            10
TOTAL BASE COST                                          1,625,594       829,380     2,454,974      70,678     36,060      106,738        100            34
4. PHYSICAL COtITIlGtErICIES                                 126,385       107,433       233,818      5,495       4,671      10,166
5. PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                                                                21,526      10,752      32,078
TOTAL                                                                                               97,499     51,483      148,982



- 19 -
physical contingencies at US$10.2 million, and price contingencies at US$32.1
million. Out of the total costs, the pilot projects account for 53% (civil
works, 32%; on-farm development, 17%; and agroindustries; 4%); the research
program, 32%; and the extension program, 15%.
3.30      For the Zapotal and Tacotalpa pilot projects, area and on-farm
development costs were estimated on the basis of existing engineering plans
and proposed cropping patterns. For the additional pilqt project costs per
ha were assumed averaging the costs of the two first pilot projects. The cost
of civil works includes a 20% provision for administration, engineering and
supervision. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 20% for infra-
structure works and 10% for on-farm investments and investment costs for the
research and extension components.   Price contingencies have been estimated
by compounding the following rates for both local and foreign costs: for
drainage and irrigation works, 9% in 1978 and 1979 and 8% thereafter; for
other investments, 7.5% in 1978 and 1979 and 7% thereafter. These are based
on Bank forecasts for international inflation and it has been assumed that the
rate of internal inflation would be matched by parallel modifications in the
rate of exchange. Project costs are detailed in Annex 2, Tables I to 19
and are summarized below.
E. Financing
3.31      Project financing would be shared by the Bank, the Government and
the farmers as shown below:



- 20 -
Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
Project Component                      Government              IBRD           Total
Amount        %      Amount       %
1. Pilot Projects
Area development and.
Infrastructure                   18.5      55.1       15.2      44.9      33.7
On-farm development                11.0 /1    60.0       7.5      40.0       18.5
Agroindustry                        0.8       17.0       3.8      83.0        4.6
Sub-total Pilot Projects           30.3      53.3       26.5      46.7      56.8
2. Research
Investment costs                    5.8      59.6        4.1      40.4       9.9
Technical services                  0.1        2.5       3.9      97.5       4.0
Operational costs                  19.8      i00.O         -         -       19.8
Sub-total Research                 25.7      76.3        8.0      23.7      33.7
3. Extension
Investment costs                    1.5      47.1        1.9      52.9       3.4
Operational costs                   8.5      67.2        4.3      32.8      12.8
Sub-total Extension                10.0      61.7        6.2      38.3      16.2
Total Base Cost                       66.5      62.3       40.7      37.7     106.7
Physical Contingencies                 5.5      53.9        4.7      46.1      10.2
Price Contingencies                   21.0      67.0       10.6      33.0      32.1
TOTAL                                 93.0      62.4       56.0      37.6     149.0
/1   Includes US$1.2 million participation of the pilot projects' farmers, 5%
of on-farm development investments, and US$1.7 million, or 10% of long-
term agriculture credit, provided by participating banks.
The proposed Bank loan of US$56.0 million would cover US$51.7 million foreign
exchange costs, plus US$4.3 million local costs of the extension component, or
30% of the local cost of that component.   The loan would be to Nacional
Financiera (NAFINSA), which would channel fuiids to the various participating
agencies and institutions responsible for project execution through the
Project Unit (para 4.03).   The Government wouild finance US$88.9 million
the farmers of the pilot projects, US$1.7 million, or 5% of on-farm invest-
ments and the participating banks US$2.4 million or 10% of agricultural long-
term loans.
F. Procurement
3.32      Civil works would total US$30 million with the largest single con-
tract about US$2.0 million. Because of the size and location of the several



- 21 -
works included in the project, it is expected that construction contracts
would not be big enough to attract non-Mexican bidders. Moreover, Mexico
has a well-developed and competent construction industry capable of executing
the works at competitive international costs. Tractors and equipment for on-
farm development would total US$9.0 million and would be purchased directly
by the farmers from local suppliers, considering local availability of spare
parts and service, a practice applied in the agricultural credit loans to
Mexico. Other goods, including operation and maintenance equipment, vehicles,
chemical reagents, farm, scientific, office and information and documentation
equipment, would total US$8.0 million. These would be purchased by several
agencies in small quantities in accordance with implementation requirements.
Most of the equipment would be purchased from local suppliers that otherwise
offer a wide range of international brands, provide adequate service, and
sufficient supplies of spare parts. Thus, procurement procedures would be
as follows: Contracts for construction of civil works would be procured
following local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
However, to encourage competition and to facilitate Bank supervision, no less
than 70% of the civil i.orks and buildings would be constructed under contracts
having an estimated value of US$500,000 or more and procured under public
competitive bidding advertized in newspapers of national circulation and
allowing no less than 30 days between invitation and submission of bid dates.
The remaining 30% could be done through contracts awarded without public
bidding or by force account. Except for goods for on-farm development
financed through agricultural credit, contracts for supply of goods exceeding
US$250,000 equivalent would be procured through International Competitive
Bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines; when appropriate, bidcing
documents should include assurances of adequate local supply of spare parts
and service. Contracts for less than that amount could be procured under
local procedures. Number and size of tenders for procurement of goods would
be agreed upon periodically between the Bank and the executing agencies.
G. Disbursements
3.33      The bank would reimburse at the rate of 49% for:   (a) pilot project
costs for civil works, on-farm credit and agro-industries, exclusive of operation
and maintenance expenses during construction and 50% of the engineering and
supervision expenses of the civil works (about 10% of the total cost of civil
works); (b) research costs for all investments and technical services except
land; (c) extension costs for all investment and operational investments
except land. Disbursements would be made against normal documentation except
for on-farm investments, and works by force account, salaries and operating
expenses for Lhe extension service, which would be made against statements of
expenditure duly certified by the implementing departments and agencies.
3.34      The estimated schedule of disbursements assuming the date of effective-
ness to be July 1978 would be as follows:



- 22
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of Bank Loan
Bank Fiscal Year        Cumulative            Balance
and Semester       Amount Disbursed         of Loan
1979
Dec. 31, 1978            500                55,500
June 30, 1979          2,120               53,880
1980
Dec. 31, 1979          6,120                49,880
June 30, 1978         11,270               44,730
1981
Dec. 31, 1980         16,420                39,580
June 30, 1981         23,110               32,890
1982
Dec. 31, 1981         30,810                25,190
June 30, 1982         37,180                18,820
1983
Dec. 31, 1982         43,550                12,450
June 30, 1983 /1      49,500                6,500
1984
Dec. 31, 1983 /2      56,000                 0,000
/1   Estimated completion date.
/2   Estimated closing date.
IV. ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Technical Committee
4.01      Overall responsibility for project execution would rest with SARH
with actual implementation by the several SARH departments and agencies,
SRA and FIRA. SARH's departments and agencies include the General
Directorates of Large Scale Irrigation (DGGI) and Irrigation Districts (DGDR);
DPAE anci Chapingo Post Graduate School of Agriculture; the research institutes
INIA, INIP, INCAFOR, the Papaloapan Commission. Representatives of the
implemnenting departments and agencies would form a Technical Committee which
would define project strategy and priorities. The Committee would be chaired
by the Vocal Ejecutivo of CPNH, which would act as the executing arm of the
Committee. CPNH would then be responsible for overall project coordination
and supervision.



- 23
Prolect Unit
4.02      A Project Unit has been formed with CPNH from the staff groups who
had responsibility for Project preparation. Under the Project this unit
would be responsible for day-to-day coordination, supervision, monitoring,
and evaluation of the project in accordance with the plans approved by the
Technical Committee. In this context, an important flnction would be to draw
up in collaboration with the participating SARH department and agencies,
annual plans, which, once adopted by the Technical Committee and approved
by SARH, w.ould be submitted to the Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting
(SPP) for inclusion in the national budget. Each of the participating depart-
ments and agencies would be responsible for the day-to-day execution of a
specific part of the project, under terms of reference or operating agreements
which have been drawn up and agreed to by the agencies concerned. Assurances
have been given that the Project Unit, in cooperation with the participating
agencies, would furnish the Bank with a completion report prepared in
accordance with guidelines which the Bank might reasonably recommend. The
project would be implemented over five years according to the schedule shown
in IBRD Chart 18620.
Pilot Projects
4.03      The state representative of SARH would be responsible for overall
direction and coordination of the pilot project activities within his state
except for those pilot projects to be executed within the administrative
area of the Papaloapan Commission where the Vocal Ejecutivo of the Commission
would have this responsibility. Each pilot project would be supported by a
small staff and a local technical committee either already in existence or
to be established concurrent with the establishment of the pilot projects.
The terms of reference of the committee and its responsibilities would be in
accordance with Mexico's normal practices for irrigation, drainage and
rainfed agricultural districts. The committee would include representatives
of the farmers, the state government and the various SARH and non-SARH bodies
concerned and it would be chaired by the SARH state respresentatives or his
representative except in the Papaloapan basin where the Vocal Ejecutivo or his
representative would be chairman. The committee would make observations and
recommendations on overall organization and implementation of the pilot project
and would review annual budgets before they are submitted to the Project
Coordinating Committc- through CPNH. Actual execution of the various components
would be carried out by resident offices of SARH departments and other agencies.
Overall implementation of the Tesechoacan pilot project and any others that
eventually fall within the domain of the Papaloapan Commission, however, would
be the responsibility of that Commission, which would undertake execution of
those components that in other pilot projects would be executed by the several
field offices of the SARH departments.
4.04      Drainage, Irrigation and Other Infrastructure Works.  Implementation
of the infrastructure component would be the responsibility of DGGI, and the
Papaloapan Commission for those pilot projects in the Papalcapan basin. Final
designs of the works would be made by DGGI staff or consultants, and construc-
tion would be carried out mainly by private contractors, although minor works,



- 24 -
could be done under force account. Preparation of bidding documents and
procurement would be carried out by DGGI and the Papaloapan Commission.
4.05      Construction of drainage works in the first two pilot projects would
begin in late 1978 and would take two years. Construction of irrigation works
in Tesechoacan would not start before the project's third year depending on
farmers' response to the drainage phase. Final designs of the remaining four
pilot projects completed in 1978 and construction would begin in 1979, with
completion in two years.
4.06      Agrarian Reform.  Two types of agrarian reform actions would be
carried out in the pilot projects, namely: (a) clarification of land use
rights in the ejidos (para 3.10) and (b) purchase of privately owned land to
be converted into ejidos (para 3.14).   SARH would establish land tenure
resident oLfice in each pilot project to implement these actions. This
office would, in accordance with SRA, carry out topographical surveys,
study land use rights and ownership titles, negotiate with ejidatarios and
private farmers and present to SRA, through SARH, final proposals for admin-
istrative and legal actions. No legal problems are foreseen in implementing
the proposed land reform actions, but social and political problems are likely
to arise. To overcome them, strong support from the State Governments would
be necessary and would be ensured through their membership in the pilot
project advisory committee (para 4.03). Land reform actions already have
started and were reviewed during negotiations.
4.07      Organization of Farmers.  Under the project, ejidatarios would be
organized to operate and manage their land more effectively. This would
generally involve eit'her working with groups of ejidatarios within an ejido as
one productive unit or with all of the ejido members as a whole where the
management would be on a collective basis. The legal framework within which
this would be done is clearly defined under the Agrarian Reform Law, but
efforts to encourage closer cooperation between individual ejidatarios have so
far met with only limited success. Since conditions in each pilot project and
individual ejidos differ, three different approaches are envisaged: (a) in
ejidos where individual holdings are predominant, farmers would be encouraged
to form groups which would be viable commercial units, the size to approximate
those of the crop modules drawn up for the project (para 5.06); (b) in ejidos
like Tesechoacan where group farming is already practiced, efforts would be
made to strengthen the existing organization, to ensure farmers' participation
in management and decision making, and to encourage the incorporation of
individual holdings into collectives; and (c) in former privately owned land
purchased under the project, collective ejidos would be established with no
individual holdings assigned to the ejidatarios.
4.08      Organization of farmers would be a continuing process carried
out mainly by the extension service. During the first project year, a spe-
cific effort would be made to promote farmers participation and organization,
a'ad, to this end, an office responsible for farmers organization would be



- 25 -
established in each pilot project. The office would be made up of CPNH
staff supported by the Instituto de Capacitacion Agraria (INCA) and assisted
by a UNDP/FAO 1/ team of technicians. It would work in close cooperation
with the extension service and the agrarian reform office, with its main
flinctions being to: (a) inform the farmers about the pilot projects'
objectives, technical features, and proposed land tenure and organizational
arrangements; (b) promote participation of farmers in the pilot projects'
committ3es; (c) assist pilot projects' management in selecting farmers for new
ejidos; (d) promote collective-type exploitations; and (e) train the farmers
in organizational matters and managerial skills. The office, would work
through meetings and workshops, using printed and audio-visual materials.
4.09      ODeration and Maintenance of the Works.   Once civil works are
completed, the pilot projects would operate as drainage or irrigation
districts according to the water law regulations. Operation and maintenance
of the districts would then be the responsibility of the DGDR. It is
envisaged that the pilot project directors and the advisory committees would
become the district's manager and directive committee.
4.10.     Cost Recovery of Drainage and Irrigation Works.   The 1971 water
law requires SARH to carry out socio-ecosnomic studies to determine appropriate
charges for the services rendered in irrigation and drainage districts in
consultation with SRA and the directive committee of each district. Such
charges must take intQ account recovery of part of the investments and the
necessary expenses to provide adequate administration, operation and main-
tenance services. In the irrigation districts, water charges should take into
account volume of water needed, the area irrigated and the crop grown. The
law also requires that charges be reviewed periodically to update them on the
basis of socio-economic studies. However, there is no consistency in the way
charges are determined within the 140 irrigation districts directly ad-
ministered by SARH and few charges are related to value of water. Also,
regardless of the type of charges, very few are adequate to cover operation
and maintenance charges, let alone capital repayment, and, until the end of
1977, no efforts had been made to revise water charges periodically. The
Mexican Government has been increasingly aware of the need to address itself
to raising water charges, and has set a short-term goal of achieving self-
sufficiency for operation and maintenance costs in all districts by 1982.
During negotiations, assurances would therefore be obtained that the Govern-
ment would: (a) charge and collect fees to cover all the operation and
maintenance costs and a reasonable amount of the investments on the basis
of the ability of the beneficiaries to pay and the need to maintain an
incentive for them to make best use of infrastructure; (b) determine project
charges for recuperation of infrastructure costs based upon socio-economic
studies, which would be carried out within the next 12 months of completion
of the civil works in each pilot project; (c) promptly give the Bank an
opportunity to comment on conclusions and recommendations of the socio-
economic studies after each is completed; and (d) periodically review such
studies with the view to update these charges when appropriate.
1/   Mexico has concluded negotiations for the continuation of an UNDP/FAO
assistance program which has been working with CPNH on pilot project
feasibility studies,



- 26 -
4.11      All assistance for research under the project would be channeled
through the existing national institutions, INIA, INIP, INCAFOR and CSAT
(paras 2.05 and 2.09). The new organizational arrangements recenitly made
effective through INIA to emphasize production-oriented commodity research
programs would be supported under the project. In essence, this approach
involves setting up a multidisciplinary research team for each commodity
program, to tackle the broad spectrum of research needed to solve the many
problems relating to increased production and to integrate findings into
existing farming systems or use them as the basis for a new farming system.
The teams would be attached to either CIASE in Veracruz or CIAPY In Yucatan.
Almost all of them would be located in the region at experimental stations
appropriate ot the particular commodity with which they are concerned. Each
commodity program would be directed by the head of the appropriate unit within
the INIA Division of Technology Development, and a coordinator for each
program would be located at CIASE and CIAPY. The programs would be subject to
the INIA system of review by regional project committees and by the INIA
Division of Applied Research.' This division would also maintain close contact
with the extension organization to be established under the project to ensure
that research is closely related to the production problems of the region.
4.12      INIP also has adopted this production-oriented approach, set up
multidisciplinary teams and established a unit equivalent to the INIA Division
of Applied Research to be responsible for reviewing the programs and main-
taining close contact with the extension program. The head of the respective
units would control the research programs financed under the project, while
responsibility for overall direction and coordination would rest with the
Subdirector and the Director General.
4.13      A high degree of coordination between the INIA forage program
(para 5.10) and the INIP program for production systems based on pasture
(para 5.14) would be required to avoid duplication and to ensure a free
interchange of information. The Directors General of INIA and INIP have
established a small working group, comprising three representatives from both
institutions. This group is to meet at least once every three months.
4.14      Arrangements for selection of the visiting research scientists
and consultants and for allocation of scholarships for higher training of
the staffs of INIA, INIP, INCAFOR and CSAT will be the responsibility of
the individual institutions. INIA's and 1NIP's research programs financed
under the project, including a breakdown of each program by experiment station
location and their proposals for visiting research scientists and scholarships,
would be presented to the Bank for comment. INCAFOR and CSAT would also
submit their programs for visiting scientists and/or scholarships. Annex 2,
Tables 12 to 17 give the proposed financing and phasing for the INIA, INIP,
INCAFOR and CSAT programs.
Extension
4.15      Execution of the extension component of the project would be the
responsibility of DPAE, which would be assisted by PRONDAAT and the Chapingo



- 27 -
Post Graduate College. It would be modeled along the lines of the existing
PRONDAAT and PLANPA extension services and be linked to agricultural research
through the Division of Applied Research in INIA and the equivalent unit
in INIP (para 4.12). Detailed proposals for recruiting and training staff
for the initial phase of the extension program were discussed at negotiations
when assurances were also given that during the execution of the project DPAE
would submit its plans regularly for Bank comment.
4.16      Field activities would be carried out by five DPAE resident offices
plus PLANPA (para 4.17), each to be responsible for a pilot area with a zone
of influence of around 100,000 ha. Each office with a coordinator reporting
to DPAE, would be made up of three operational teams, namely: Research (field
trials), Extension Techniques (Divulgacion), and Evaluation. Every resident
office would have 17 graduates (agronomists, zootechnists, veterinarians and
economists) assisted by 17 graduates (agronomists, zootechnists, veterinarians
and economists) and 60 professional extensionists, sub professional extension-
ists ("peritos"), secretaries, and laborers.  Annex 2 Tables 18 and 19 provide
details on each office and make up of the various teams. Graduates and
"peritos" would receive four months of intensive training before joining
the teams.
4.17      Based upon existing technological information, the research teams
would develop technological packages of various agricultural activities in
the field and test and demonstrate them at farm level. The divulgacion teams
would then promote the packages in collaboration with the organization of
farmers (para 4.08), taking into account existing office for the socio-economic
conditions in the pilot areas, and assist farmers in organization, procurement
of credit and inputs, production and marketing. Finally, the evaluation teams
would study results and feed their findings back to the research groups and
project management. Extension activities in the Tesechoacan pilot project
would be carried out by PLANPA as part of the ongoing rural development
project.
4.18      The Tropical Center for Extension Training to be established under
the project would be modeled after the PRONDAAT National Training Center in
Puebla, with its director reporting to DPAE. The Center would serve as the
headquarters for extension in Mexico's Tropical Gulf Coast and Southeast and
would provide formal training to professional and subprofessional staff from
both the extension services and other institutions Involved in development of
the region (mainly participating banks). It would also train farmers in on-
farm waniagement, accounting and record-keeping and, in collaboration with
CSAT would given practical training and demonstrations at its 40 ha site.
4.19      The Center will be located in Tabasco state near CSAT and the
proposed INIA experimental station at Huimanguillo (para 5.12). Construction
of the Center is expected to begin in 1979 and be finished in about two years.
Operations would start in 1980 and in the meantime, extension staff would be
trained at the PRONDAAT Center in Puebla.
Accounts and Audits
4.20      The participating agencies--SARH, the Papaloapan Commission, FIRA,
INIA, INIP, INCAFOR and CSAT--would keep separate accounts for the various



- 28 -
project components. CPNH, in turn, would keep a consolidated account for the
overall project. All accounts would be audited annually according to Mexican
law and following procedures accisptable to the Bank. At negotiations assur-
ances would be obtained that: (a) the participating agencies would keep
separate accounts as mentioned above; and (b) the Government, through CPNH,
would promptly furnish the Bank with an audited report of the project accounts
together with the corresponding balance sheet for each year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.21      The CPNH Project Unit would be responsible for the monitoring and
evaluation of all the activities related to the execution of the pilot
projects and to the investments and physical development of the research and
extension programs. It would also coordinate and supervise the activities
of those research and extension agencies who would be responsible for the
monitoring and evaluation of their own respective programs under the project.
For this purpose, the Project Unit would set up a special monitoring and
evaluation group with the assistance of UNDP/FAO. In collaboration with
the participating agencies, this group would establish and operate a manage-
ment information system for: (a) reporting physical progress of project
activities; (b) evaluating the impact of these activities on an on-going
basis and; (c) identifying shortcomings in performance in a timely manner.
The staff of the Tropical Center for Extension Training would be responsible
for monitoring and evaluation of the extension program basing its work on
the recent Bank working paper prepared by Cernea and Tipping 1/ in which
focus would be upon: (a) visits; (b) recommendations (adoption of); and
(c) yields. The activities of this group would also include monitoring and
evaluation of those recommendations given to the extension group by the
research agencies. Regarding the activities of the research agencies, which
includes a number of separate programs, the present INIA and INIP annual
internal peer system of review by regional project committees (para 4.11) is
adequate to insure the quality, relevance and productivity of ;he work. A
periodic external review committee would be developed to interact with the
annual internal review committee.
4.22      Semi-annual progress reports from the mpnagement to the bank, would
include the findings and recommendations of the special group. In addition,
the Bank would receive a copy of the special group's annual report to CPNH
management in which it outlined its accomplishments in relation to its tasks
for the year be forwarded to the Bank within two months of the close of each
fiscal year. A monitorirng and evaluation group within the project unit would
be responsible for reporting, monitoring and ongoing evaluation.
1/ A System for Monitoring and Evaluating Agricultural Extension Projects
World Bank Staff Working Paper 272, December 1977.



- 29 -
V. TECHNICAL FEATURES
A. Civil Works
Drainage
5.01      Flood peaks, as calculated using the McMath's formula for overland
flow for a 10-year storm rainfall, are 20 l/s/ha for Tesechoacan and 30 1/s/ha
for Zapotal. The proposed drainage systems would be capable of removing the
surface runoff of a 10-year rain in three days. To achieve this, the systems
have been designed with a maximum drainage capacity of 8 1/s/ha for Tesechoacan
and 8.3 1/s/ha for Zapotal with a drain network density of 10 and 13.3 m/ha,
respectively. Minor drains and outlets would be designed during project con-
struction and would cost about 20% of the cost of major drains. On-farm drains
would be part of on-farm development.
Irrigation.
5.02      Water Requirements.  Water requirement calculations are presented in
Annex 2, Table 7. The supplementary irrigation scheme in the Tesechoacan
project covers an area of 2,100 ha which would be devoted to annual crops--
rice, corn and soybeans. Expected irrigated areas and water consumptive use,
calculated with the Blaney-Criddle formula, are:
Crops               Dry Season             Wet Season
ha        mm           ha        mm
Corn                 800       445            -         -
Rice                 300     1,079          1,300     1,573
Soybean              400       350            -         -
5.03      Effective rainfall is negligible in the dry season and 1,068 mm in
the wet season.  Overall irrigatioe efficiency3is estimated at 65%.  Thus,
water requirement would Ve:   11 Mm  Sr 7,300 m /ha for an area of 1,500 ha in
the dry season and 10 Mm or 7,770 m /ha for an area of 1,300 ha in the
wet season.  Based upon the rainfall data for the period 1960-1974, peak
demand would be 3,000 m /ha/month in March or April every year, and in the
period September-November for 11 out of 15 years.
5.04      Pumping Capacity and Riverflow.  Pumping station has been designed
to take peak capacity assuming an operation period of 15 hours/day, 30 days
per month. The Tesechoacan river's lowest flow at the pumping station is
about 20 m /sec and water quality is good for irrigation.



- 30 -
Roa as
5X05      Roads would be built along the drainage canals 1 m above the surface
by using soil from the drainage excavations. They would link the farms with
the highway networks and would also serve as operation and maintenance routes.
The roads would be of two classes: (a) main roads, which would be built along
the main drains with a 5 m gravelled roadway, costing around Mex$ 400,000 per
km (US$17,400), inclusive of bridges and culverts; and (b) minor roads, which
would be built mainly along the secondary and minor drains with a 3 m gravelled
roadway, costing around Mex$ 187,000 per km (US$8,000).
B. Agricultural Production
5.06      Modules have been prepared for each of the production activities
in the project including dual-purpose livestock, annual crops, mango, sugar,
and coconut (Annex 2, Tables 20 to 34). The modules--which reflect expected
socio-economic, technical changes, management improvements and the economies
of scale needed to optimise farmers' incomes--are illustrative of the expected
production levels and the financial viability of each activity within a group-
farming operation. Each group-farming operation would include a number of
production activities which in aggregate determines the cropping pattern.
Thus, rather than determining individual cash flows for each module, a cash
flow for the cropping pattern adopted in a particular group-farming operation
should be calculated in order to show the effect of the investment-cumr-module
mix on individual participating farmers. The cropping patterns proposed
for the Zapotal and Tesechoacan pilot projects represent a best current
judgement regarding the likely distribution of the various production
activities as based on: socio-economic studies relating to present land use
and experience of farmers within the pilot projects, soils and micro-
topographical information, and proven technology and management systems that
have increased productivity. These cropping patterns are shown in Annex 2
Table 3.5 together with estimates of cropping intensities. The cash flows for
the group-farming operations in these two pilot projects are shown in Annex 2
Tables 36 and 37.
5.07      The dual-purpose livestock modules of 150 ha was based on FIRA's
successful development on ejido C-41 in the Chontalpa drainage development
project (near the proposed Zapotal pilot project) and on the INIP experience
at Paso del Toro research station near Veracruz. The key elements of both
programs are the improved pastures of African Star grass and the legume
Leucaena leucocephala and crosses of local Bos indicus cattle adapted to
tropical conditions with high milk production Bos taurus breeds (mostly
Friesian and Brown Swiss from the temperate regions). Production assumptions
at full development are: average carrying capacity, three animal units per
ha; average annual milk production, 1,800 litres per head; and total annual
sales, 192 head. The annual crop module for rice, maize and soybean assumes
an average area of 50 ha, which from experience in the Papaloapan Basin, is
the area that optimizes the investment in a tractor, implements and harvester.



- 31 -
Yield assumptions are: rainfed rice, 4 tons; irrigated rice, 5 tons; rainfed
maize, 3.5 tons; irrigated maize, 4 tons; rainfed soybean, 1.5 tons; irrigated
soybean, 2.0 tons per ha (based on the PLANPA/PLAMEPA experience, with ejidos
given credit and adequate technical supervision). The mango module of 5 ha
is based on experiences in the Papaloapan basin. Yields at full development
are estimated at 18 tons/ha. The sugar module is based on plantations of
500 ha, located at Zapotal, near an existing mill; the average yield estimate
of 120 tons/ha is based on local experience with well-managed cane grown in
the vicinity of the pilot project areas. The coconut module is based on
plantations of new planting of 50 ha; hybrid seed would be used throughout,
and yields at full development are estimated at 10 tons/ha; the module assumes
that 80% of the area would be sown annually to maize from years 1 to 3 and
60% from years 4 to 6, with an average yield of 2.5 tons/ha.
C. Research
5.08      Information on production and the current status of research for
the specific commodity programs that would be supported under the project
are given in Annex 1. The programs cover a wide range of crops and animal
production activities, many of which are traditional to the region. Also
included however are programs for crops that presently are relatively unknown
in the region but which have considerable potential for development in the
future based upon experience in countries with similar ecological conditions.
By expanding the range of crops available for commercial exploitation,
the region's farmers would have greater flexibility in deciding on how to
develop their land most effectively and economically.
5.09      Water Use and Management.  The program is concerned with research in
tropical areas with the objective of achieving optimum control of the soil
moisture regime for different crops. It would backstop the various crop
research and the extension programs. The program has the following main
aspects:
(a)  studies of major soils to determine the physical and
chemical characteristics which influence soil-water
relations;
(b)  studies of the drainage characteristics of major soils
in the areas of the pilot projects;
(c)  tillage systems suitable for soils with poor internal
drainage characteristics and for soils in which moisture
conservation is important;
(d)  design of on-farm structures to control the water regime;
and
(e) water needs of important crops.



- 32 -
INIA Research Programs
5.10      Field and Tree Crop.   Each of the activities of the program would
include: (a) varietal improvements, including suitability for different soil
and climatic environments; (b) improving agronomic practices; (c) development
of suitable crop rotations; (d) fertilizer requirements, taking into account
plant/soil interactions and maintenance of soil fertility; (e) plant protection
against diseases and insect pests; (f) product utilization, including
processing, quality control and storage; and (g) economics of production and
marketing. Specific research activities for individual crops are summarized
below:
(a) Rice. Large components of the research program are
designed to study pathological aspects of rice blast
disease and breeding and selecting for resistance.
Pathological studies would be made at the various
experimental stations, coordinated by a specialist
pathologist to be located at Chapingo. Cost of
establishing a central pathology laboratory at
Chapingo are included in the project. Initial results
with resistant varieties obtained from the International
Rice Research Institute in the Philippines have been
variable, suggesting that it will be necessary to breed
new varieties with suitable horizontal resistance for
Mexican conditions. In addition, varieties will be
needed to cover the range from rainfed area with 1,200
to 1,500 mm rain annually to area with irrigation or
with rainfall of 2,000 to 3,000 mm. In this work the
experience gained at the International Center for
Tropical Agricultural Research (CIAT) in Colombia
will be most valuable.
(b) Beans and Soybeans. The main requirements with soybeans
are (a) to select varieties suited to the humid tropical
environment, with particular reference to climatic effects
on flowering and production; and (b) to determine planting
times that will give maximum production. This program
should take full advantage of established varieties and
advanced generation germplasm pools at the various inter-
national agencies and in other tropical countries (e.g.,
Northern Australia and Brazil). In the case of beans,
an important objective is to collect and catalogue the great
range of native beans currently grown by farmers with a
view to selecting varieties which combine high yield,
disease resistence, good cooking qualities and desirable
seed color. For both crops, control of insects, diseases
and weeds is also iuportant.
(c) Cassava. The major objective for cassava is to develop
production systems in which the crop is grown primarily



- 33 -
as a source of animal feed. The research program will
therefore be closely coordinated with the Forage Program.
However, research is needed on varietal selection, agro-
nomic practices, crop protection and methods of harvesting
and conserving the crop. A large collection of world
varieties obtained from CIAT provides a good basis for
this work.
(d) Oilpalm and Coconut. For both of these crops, research
must start from the basis of introducing material from
areas elsewhere in the world and studying the general
techniques of planting, growing and harvesting the crop.
Much of this would be a matter of taking proveni practices
from elsewhere and testing them under Mexican conditions.
More fundamental research would become necessary only when
specific local problems have been identified. Particular
attention would be given to the study of production systems
in which annual crops or forage would be grown in conjunction
with the perennial tree crop.
(e) Spices and Rubber. Experiments at "El Palmar" Veracruz
have shown that black pepper, cinnamon and cloves will
grow well in high rainfall parts of the humid tropics.
The research objective is to study these crops in greater
detail to determine whether they can be produced econo-
mically in Mexico. Rubber is already grown commercially
but yields are lower than in major producing countries
elsewhere. The overall research objective is to increase
production by a combination of better varieties and improved
cultural practices and to extend research to examine pro-
duction possibilities in Tabasco and Chiapas.
5.11      Forage Crops.  The program is designed to enlarge the staff and
facilities of the INIA Forage Unit to permit rapid expansion of research in
the humid tropical areas of Mexico. The research would be directed to milk
and meat with a view to increasing production per hectare and per animal,
reducing costs per unit of product as well as the risks associated with
traditional production systems. The program has five broad research
activities:
(a) evaluation of species and varieties of grasses and legumes,
including native collections as well as those introduced
from other tropical countries;
(b) genetic improvements of selected species;
(c) seed production, including seed testing;
(d) management studies, includiuig fertilizer requirements
seeding rates, Rhizobium inoculation, compatibility of
mixtures of grasses and legumes, and stocking rates; and



- 34 -
(e)  productioii 8yste8 in which forages are evaluated in
terms of milk or meat production.
5.12      Development of Four New INIA Experimental Stations.   The objective
is to assist in establishing four new experimental stations specifically con-
cerned with research for the area which are to be included in the development
phase of the project. Even though there are 12 stations.now operating under
the contract CIASE and CIAPY, the CIASE station is the only one in the flat-
lands of the humid tropics, and there are none in the areas requiring drainage
in Veracruz, Tabasco or Chiapas. The selected sites are at Huimanguillo in
the Grijalva-Usumacinta Basin in Tabasco, Huixtla in coastal southern Chiapas,
a site in the Papaloapan Basin in southern Veracruz, and at Tempoal in the
Panuco Basin in northern Veracruz. While they are under a coordinated research
approach, all of these are in the lowland tropics and they sample district
ecological regions. The Huimanguillo site is close enough to the site of GSAT
near Cardenas to permit continuing collaboration between INIA and CSAT. It is
also adjacent to a broad belt of low rolling hills with acid red soils which
offer considerable potential for rainfed agriculture. The stations at
Huimanguillo and Huixtla would be started in project year 1, and the other two
in the second year.
5.13      Technical Services to Strengthen INIA's Research Capability. The
project would help IINIA increase its research capability on the selected crops
and research programs and activities. This would involve appoinl:ment of new
professional staff, plus assistants; employment of short-term research
specialists as advisors and training staff outside Mexico; and provision of
additional laboratories, farm constructions, scientific equipment, farm
equipment, vehicles and two aircraft. Operational costs are estimated on the
basis of the standard INIA Research Module, while includes the costs of
salaries for a graduate scientist, plus assistant, and of operations and
overhead. Details of costs and project phasing are given in Annex 2
Tables 12 to 17.
INIP Research Programs
5.14      Pasture Based Production Systems.  The main research activities
would be studies on:
(a) factors which influence the growth, persistence and
nutritive value of pasture grasses and legumes, with em-
phasis on fertilizers (both major and trace elements),
Rhizobium requirements of legumes, stocking rates and
grazing management;
(b) compatibility of mixtures of grasses and legume and of
management effects on proportions of species; and
(c) production systems for milk and meat production in which
improved pastures are used and supplemented where necessary
with other forages, conserved feeds or concentrates; it
would also evaluate and utilize production practices arising
froni other programs.



- 35 -
5.15      Animal Nutrition.   The main research activities would be studies
on:
(a)  levels of essential minerals in feeds and in soils in cattle
producing regions leading to an assessment of areas of
deliciency or surplus in relation to animal performance;
(b) nutritive value of bagasse, henequen and other agricultural
by-producLs with a view to their use in milk or meat produc-
tion systems; and
(c)  factors affecting rumen fermentation in cattle receiving
fibrous feeds available in Mexico.
5.16      Animal Improvement Program, The main research activities would be:
(a) Comparison of crosses between local zebu-type cattle and
improved breeds to determine the most suitable type for
Mexican tropics; and
(b) development of economical commercial breeding systems to
achieve the desired cross-bred animals.
5.17      Reproductive Efficiency.  The research activities would focus on
managerial and physiological factors which influence cattle reproduction.
This program includes research on the effects of mating systems and feeding
regimes and on hormone systems which could lead to methods for selecting
animals of high genetic fertility.
5.18      Reproductive Diseases.  The main research activities would be
to:
(a)  study the incidence of reproductive disease in cattle in
the Mexican tropics, assess their economic importance and
study factors which influence their distribution;
(b)  develop reliable and rapid methods for diagnosis; and
(c) develop and apply effective control measures, including
vaccines.
5.19      Tick-borne Diseases.  The main research activities would be to:
(a) study haemoprotozoal diseases of cattle and the factors
which influence their occurrence;
(b) develop advanced techniques for the diagnosis of these
diseases in cattle and native Launa;
(c) study the ecology of the cattle tick and its associated
haemoprotozoa;



- 36 -
(d) study methods of tick control, both chemical and biological;
and
(e) improve techniques for disease control, including the produc-
tion, distribution, and use of effective vaccine.
D. Extension
5.20      Details of the main items to be financed in the project extension
component are shown in Annex 2 Tables 18 and 19. The key element of the
extension program for each pilot project would be selection of the best
technical packages to be promoted. Initially, these would be based on the
proposed modules (Annex 2 Tables 20 to 34) and cropping patterns (Annex 2,
Table 5) and would include a range of crops (annual and perennial) in addition
to dual-purpose livestock activities, In this regard, they would differ from
the standard PRONDAAT program, whiLa has, until now, concentrated on maize.
VI. DEMAND AND MARKETING ASPECTS
Demand
6.01      The demand situation for agricultural production in Mexico is
generally favorable, given that over the past 10 years the combined production
of the 10 major crops (maize, wheat, beans, sorghum, rice, cotton, soybeans,
safflower, sugar and tomatoes) increased by only 1% annually while population
increased by 3.5%. Although this dismal picture was offset somewhat by an
increase of 31% in the output of livestock products during the same period,
current agricultural production is not sufficient to meet present overall
demand. Thus, the increases in production expected under the project would be
easily absorbed by the domestic market.
6.02      Beef and Milk.  Domestic beef prices have increased each year,
reflecting a continuing strong internal demand, and the long-term prospects
for expansion of the domestic market are bright. Incomes are rising, popu-
lation growth continues, and there is a high demand elasticity for beef.
Based upon an estimated increase in beef consumption from 10.0 kg to 11.6 kg
per capita from 1977 to 1982, the average annual increase in cattle population
would need to be about 800,000 head. Annual sales from the first two pilot
projects are estimated at about 5,000 head by 1982, or 0.6% of the projected
annual increase.
6.03      During the 1970 to 1975 period, total milk consumption increased
at a rate of 5.9% annually, while production increased to only 4.8% per
annum, the shortfall being supplemented by imports of milk powder. The
imports increased from an average of 24,000 tons annually during the 1960s
(costing about US$7 million) to about 56,000 tons per annum during the 1970-
75 period (costing about US$27 million per year). This increased importation



- 37 i
of milk powder was an important factor in the rise in per capita milk consump-
tion from 82 liters in 1970 to 93 liters in 1975. If the same rate of per
capita increase in consumption is maintained over the 1977-82 period, imports
would increased to about 120,000 tons per year unless the shortfall can
be taken up by a sharp increase in local production. Annual milk production
from the Zapotal and Tesechoacan pilot projects is estimated at about
7 million liters by 1987. It is expected that, initially, output from the two
pilot project areas would be marketed locally as fresh milk or cheese.
Presently, demand is strong in the Gulf Coast cities and towns, and prices are
often higher there than in Mexico City, which draws its supplies from a well
organized, commercialized industry located in the more favorable temperate
areas.
6.04      Oil Crops.  The demand for vegetable oils is projected to grow at
5.6% per annum during the 1976-82 period. In spite of increased local pro-
duction in 1977, Mexico imported 600,000 tons of oil seeds, oil and meal with
a value near US$165 million in 1977. About 80% of the production of fats and
oils is used for food; while the rest is used for soaps and other industrial
purposes. Coconut oil is the main source for industrial use, followed by
palm oil, linseed oil and tallow. The annual deficit of about 40,000 tons of
copra oil is presently filled by imports. The major sources of edible oil
are cottonseed, sesame, peanuts, safflower, soybeans and lard. Because of the
relatively easy substitution among edible oils, projections of increased demand
for individual crops are generally not meaningful. However, further expansion
of oil seed production during the next decade is expected to shift from the
irrigated to rainfed areas, including the humid tropics where it is expected
that soybean will become increasingly important. In light of the above,
prospects for expanding production of vegetable oil, both from annual oil
seeds and perennial tree crops, appear bright. Strong domestic demand can
thus be expected for the estimated 2,000 tons of copra oil and 800 tons of
soybeans which will be produced annually from the Zapotal and Tesechoacan
pilot projects.
6.05      Maize.  Maize the most important food grain and source of
carbhohydrate in the Mexican diet, is grown countrywide. Annual production
since 1970 has averaged only 95 on an index of 100 for the period 1967-69,
while annual per capita consumption has remained constant at 180 kg; to
maintain this level, imports have trended upwards since 1970. Projections of
annual import needs during the next five ;y2ar3 range from 0.5 to 2 million
tons, depending upon the success anticipated from present efforts to stimulate
local production. Both the humid and semi-humid areas of the Gulf Coast are
important in these efforts. It is expected that there will be a very strong
demand for the maize produced in the Zapotal and Tesochoacan pilot projects,
estimated at about 7,500 tons per year.
6.06      Rice.  Rice is growing in importance in the Mexican diet, increasing
from a per capita consumption of 5 kg in 1960 to 12 kg in 1976. Although
production (mainly from the irrigated areas) has increased at 5.4% per annum
over the past decade, the projections of present trends indicates that supply
will be lagging demand by about 100,000 tons by 1980. The humid Gulf Coast
region offers the greatest opportunities to increase output economically and



- 38 -
on a large scalse. Strong local demand is expected for the production from
the Zapotal and Tesochoacan pilot project areas, estimated at about 10,000
tons per year.
6.07      Sugar.  During the past decade, the growth in sugar production has
slowed from the 1960-65 rate of 5.8% to only 2.9%. With population growth at
about 3.5% p.a., plus a per capita consumption increasing at about 0.4% p.a.,
Mexico's participation in the export market has dropped from 576,000 tons
valued at US$126 million in 1972 to zero in 1976. The building of additional
sugar mills is now underway and efforts are being made to improve production
practices in order to improve to yields and sucrose content. The research and
extension effort of the present project does not have a major focus on sugar,
but will be concerned sugar production practices to improve the sugar yields.
The Zapotal pilot project includes sugar acreage for the same reason; output
will be processed in an existing mill and the annual production of about 6,000
tons of raw sugar will help fill the gap in local demand.
Fruit Production
6.08      The humid tropics of Mexico are important suppliers of perennial
tree fruits, especially sweet oranges, pineapples, limes, mangoes, bananas,
and plantains. Mango prodtuction is mainly for domestic use although there
is some canning for export, using modern heat treatment facilities. There
is also some grading as extras, firsts and seconds. Most fresh market sales
are made in the field and prices fluctuate greatly between seasons and between
regions. Although a separate effort in fruit marketing is not included in
this project, the extension program on technical assistance for improved
marketing, especially in respect to grading, boxing and transportation.
Annual production from the 125 ha proposed for the Tesechoacan pilot project
would be about 5,000 tons, and the extension service would play an important
role in helping producers to obtain the best markets.
Present Marketing System
6.09      The marketing of the agricultural output generated under the
proposed project would be handled largely through private chc-nnels, with floor
prices provided by CONASUPO in the case of basic grains. Government plays a
vital role in setting prices for several staples and managing the marketing
of inputs and production.  The Ministry of Industry and Commerce determines
prices to the farmer, the processor and the consumer and CONASUPO administers
(a) the farm support price system; (b) state retail distribution outlets for
food stuffs; and (c) several major agro-industries.
The Guaranteed Price System
6.10      CONASUPO's procurement system includes guaranteed prices, grain
storage, and ancillary services. The guaranteed prices are set before the
planting period so as to influence the farmers' planting decisions. The price
is set as a function of the projected demand, current inventory levels,
expected supply price elasticities, farmer costs and risk exposure, and the



- 39 -
availability of subsidy funds. Despite inflation, during the late 1960s and
early 1970s, CONASUPO kept support prices at a constant level. As a result,
the volume of CONASUP's internal purchases of maize droped sharply from
2.1 million tons in 1966/67 to only 770,000 by 1973/74; domestic wheat pur-
chases dropped from 1.1 million tons in 1967/68 to 718,000 tons in 1973/74.
Meanwhile, demand was rising and CONASUPO was forced to expand its imports
of these products. To reverse this trend, support prices were increased
sharply after 1972. For example, between 1970 and 1976 corn prices rose 102%,
wheat prices 92% and bean prices 185%. Prices were raised again in 1977,
which, when combined with the drop in world commodity prices, has placed the
1977 guarantee prices about in line with world prices, exception for maize,
whose price is about 30% above the world price.
Beef Marketing
6.11      Beef prices are not guaranteed, nor does the Government have a
national procurement grid. Rising incomes, high demand elasticity for beef,
and rapid population growth can, however, be expected to provide a strong
domestic market for additional beef produced under the proposed project. In
addition, exports of feeder calves from Northern Mexico, which tend to vary
with the difference in beef prices between the United States and Mexico, are
expected to average around 600,000 head per year during the 1977-82 period.
Exports of boneless beef, based on past market trends and future price pros-
pects, including the effects of devaluation, are estimated to continue around
27,000 tons annually for the 1977-82 period. The domestic beef market has
been traditionally dominated by a supply of lean animals in the immediate
areas of consumption, where they are processed in local slaughterhouses. In
recent years, packing plants have begun to market quality meat principally
through the direct sale of refrigerated meat to supermarkets. This new
marketing channel has been closely associated with the growing supply of
finished cattle from the tropics. The Federal District, with about 20% of
the population of Mexico, now accounts for about 33% of domestic beef consump-
tion. About 30% of this market is supplied with mainly refrigerated beef
processed in new slaughterhouses located in the tropical states of Veracruz
and Tabasco.
Dairy Marketing
6.12      Prices of milk to the farmer, to pasteurizing plants, and to the
consumer are theoretically fixed by the Secretariat of Industry and Commerce.
Government has increased official milk prices by 40% since 1975 as an
incentive to farmers and pasteurizing plants to increase production. Current
official regional prices to the producer vary throughout Mexico, from a high
of US$0.26 per liter in Morelos and Guerrerro to a low of US$0.18 in Tabasco,
Chiapas and Campeche. In the past, Mexican dairy production was restricted,
toth by these price controls, especially for first class milk, and by a
20-year Government regulation that first class milk should be pasteurized at
the farm level. These factors both resulted in uneconomically sized
pasteurization plants. Within the last few years, however, as a result
of intensive producer lobbying, price controls have been dropped for first
class milk, and centralized dairy processing plants are being permitted.



- 40 -
Although the milk and dairy product marketing system is presently geared
toward the larger commercial producers, smallholder participation in the
system is expanding as cooperative production and marketing system develop.
FIRA and other development agencies have stimulated this trend by offering
financing as well as technical and marketing assistance programs.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Producers' Benefits
7.01      The impact of the project in the net 7,800 ha to be developed by
drainage/irrigation infrastructure and on-farm credit at Tesechoacn and by
drainage and on-farm credit at Zapotal has been analyzed on the basis of
the representative modules for dual-purpose livestock (150 ha), sugar
(500 ha), coconut (50 ha), mango (50 ha), and the annual crops, maize, rice
and soybeans (50 ha modules), presented in Annex 2, Tables 20 to 30. Table 38
Annex 2 gives the financial rates of return for these modules as well as
returns for variations of + 10% in production values and operating costs.
Returns for all activities are most sensitive to changes in production values,
particularly for rice, maize, soybeans and sugar. Under the assumptions used
for prices and production indicies, all modules are financially viable.
7.02      Since the ejidos will be operated collectively, financial benefit
per family must be considered within the context of the cropping patterns
for each pilot project. The present net returns per ha are very low, at
about US$55 for Tesechoacan and US$53 for Zapotal. These levels are insuffi-
cient to sustain the majority of ejidatario families (about 66% with usufruct
rights of 6 to 10 ha per family). Most families reed to supplement their farm
incomes with difficult-to-find work off the farm. Even so, the net family
income for these ejidatarios is only about US$600 to US$800 per year
(excluding the -value of subsistence production). Under the project, these
incomes would be increased dramatically. Based on the cropping patterns
and according to the cash flows shown in Annex 2., Tables 36 and 37 for an
average land holding of 8 ha per family, the estimated net family incomes
farm wages) would be about US$775 in year 1; US$1,511, years 2-5; US$2,340,
years 6-11; US$3,720, years 12-15; and US$4,060 at full development for the
Tesechoacan pilot project and about US$775 for years 1-3; US$890, years 4-7;
US$1,450, years 8-9; US$3,320, years 10-14; and US$4,675 at full development
for the Zapotal pilot project.
7.03      Project charges in the pilot projects would cover the total amount
of operational and maintenance costs, plus recovery of capital investments as
appears reasonable in light of the socio-economic studies. Operational and
maintenance annual costs are estimated at Mex$ 610/ha (US$26.5) for Zapotal,
and Mex$ 715/ha (US$31.1) for drainage and Mex$ 1,300/ha (US$56.5) for
irrigation in Tesechoacan (Annex 2, Table 6). Annual capital recovery charges,
for civil works inveEtments considering a 50-year repayment period and no
interest, are estimated at Mex$ 570/ha (US$24.70) in Zapotal and Mex$ 830/ha



- 41 -
(US$3,609) with drainage, and Mex$ 1,150/ha (US$49.83) with irrigation and
drainage in Tesechoacan. As shown in the calculations for rent and cost
recovery in Annex 2, Table 39, these charges discounted at an 11% rate would
lead to a cost recovery index of 22 and 23 for Zapotal and Tesechoacan,
respectively, with rent recovery indexes of 40 and 55. In addition to paying
for all operation and maintenance costs and part of the investment costs of
civil works, beneficiaries would, also repay all on-farm investment costs
which would be financed through credit.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
General
8.01      There are two main components of the proposed project:   (a) the
pilot projects, with investments in civil works and on farm development
for which the financial and economic rate of return can be reasonably
estimated, and (b) the research and extension programs, which could yield
higher rates of return but are surrounded by a high degree of uncertainty as
to the when and by what amount. Consequently, the two analyses are presented
separately.
Pilot Projects
8.02      Economic Justification and Social Benefits.  The immediate benefit
arising from the provision of drainage and irrigation infrastructure and
credit to the pilot projects would be to permit intensive use of the lands
within each pilot project. In turn, this would result in marked increases
in productivity per unit of land. The areas would be able to support regular
cropping activities on a permanent basis (many for the first time) and live-
stock production would be greatly intensifed. The data from the two pilot
projects on which feasibility studies have been completed (Tesechoacan and
Zapotal) are indicative of the economic benefits for the other pilot projects.
Incremental production of milk and meat, maize and mango and production from
new crops, rice, soybean, sugar and coconuts, would amount to US$8.6 million
at full development of the Tesechoacan and Zapotal pilot projects (using
economic prices), or US$850 per ha. The significance of these production
values is considerable when viewed in the context of the future development
of the larger areas representative of each pilot project. In the case of
Tesechoacan and Zapotal, these areas total about 260,000 ha. while the
average for each of the four pilot projects still under study is expected
to be about 100,000 ha. per pilot project.
8.03      Target Group Beneficiaries.  In the project area, the upper limit for
poverty level income is US$350 per capita. To obtain this level of income
in TeseThoacan and Zapotal, an ejido family should have usufruct right of a
minimum )f 5 to 8 ha. The number of target group families with this minimum
land use vs about 280 in Tesechoacan and around 300 in Zapotal; and they compose
60% of the total number of families to benefit from the project. Ejido target



- 42 -
group families in these two project areas have usufruct right of about 40%
of the potentially cultivable land. Under the project, it is estimated that
the income of a target group family would increase from US$700 in year 1
(excluding value of subsistence projection at about US$1,000/family) to
US$1,500 in years 2 to 5 and US$4,300 at full development in 15 years.
An undetermined number of families near the pilot projects would also benefit
from the investments in infrastructure such as roads and, drainage. In addition,
these families would have more opportunity to supplement their incomes through
better employment opportunities, through an increase in seasonal demand for
on-farm labor and the operation and maintenance of the pilot project drainage
and irrigation infrastructure estimated at about 420 man-years for the six
pilot projects. During construction the pilot projects would generate around
100,000 man-days of unskilled labor per year for five years.
8.04      The project would be the first in a series of similar projects in
the humid and semi-humid tropics. The total area reclaimable by drainage
alone in the region is equal to about 20% of the total area currently under
crops in Mexico. Each pilot project would be used to develop the best mix
of infrastructural investments and the best technical packages for developing
much larger similar areas. The development costs for the pilot projects
calculated from the cost data in Annex 2, Table 1 are summarized below:
Civil                              Total/8 ha
Works      Credit     Total        Ejidatario
/ha        /ha        /ha          Holding
--------------------US$--------------------
Zapotal         1,200       1,100      2,300         18,400
Tesechoacan      1,800 /1     900      2,700         21,600
Other Four       1,500 /2   1,000      2,500         20,000
/1   Includes supplementary irrigation works (about US$400/ha).   Pilot
area drainage costs have been adjusted by US$650/ha to account for
surrounding 30,000 ha which would benefit from investment in a watershed
flow protection dike and natural drain improvement.
/2   Includes allowance for supplementary irrigation in two pilot projects.
The total development costs per hectare for the pilot projects compare favorable
with those for large scale irrigation development in Mexico which currently
vary from about US$3,000 to US$6,000 (including on-farm credit of about
US$600 to US$1,000 ha), particularly given that (a) a &onservative approach
to the design and costing of civil works has been adopted to minimize risk
at the initial development stage; and (b) in later development of larger
surrounding areas it will be easier to take advantage of economies of scale.
It can be anticipated therefore, that, following development of the pilot
areas, the civil works cost involved in expanding into the areas of influence
of the pilot projects can be reduced. However, it is unlikely that any
reduction could be expected for long-term credit. In the humid tropics,



- 43 -
development costs which maximize long-term credit and minimize civil works
are the most desirable since all long-term credit would be fully recoverable
with interest whereas only a proportion of the civil works investments are
likely to be recovered. Also farmers would contribute at least 5% of the
on-farm investment either as cash or kind.
8.05      With respect to institutional development, the pilot project program
would have a positive impact on a number of institutions involved with agri-
cultural development in the region. The extension services financed under
the project would use these areas to develop the technical packages applicable
to the large areas influence. The pilot project would also serve as a
site for testing of research findings at farm level by INIA and INIP and for
defining production oriented problems for which further research is needed.
In addition, these pilot areas would provide opportunity for those institu-
tions involved with credit, agrarian reform and marketing to gain experience
which could be used to accelerate development in the region.
8.06      Rates of Return.  The economic rates of returns of the two pilot
projects over a period of 20 years, using August 1977 prices and wages rates
and an exchange rate of Mex$ 23 = US$1 would be about:
Rate of   +10% Prod.   -10% Prod.  +10% Oper.  -10% Oper.
Return       Value       Value       Costs       Costs
Zapotal                 19          22           16         18           20
Tesechoacan             15          17           12         14           15
Zapotal and
Tesechoacan           17          20           14         16           18
The sensitivity tests show that there would be little risk involved in the
pilot project programs.
8.07      The economic rate of return of the two pilot projects were calcu-
lated on the following assumptions and adjustments (Annex 2, Tables 20 and 41),
(a) gross value of production - In order to adjust prices to the
Bank's projections, corrections were introduced to financial
prices of rice, sugarcane and soybeans.
(b) unemployment is high in the area. In order to reflect this in
the economic analysis, a shadow price was used for labor.
A good measure of it was the real salary paid in the region,
which is lower than minimum wage. Therefore, Mex$ 50 man/day
was used as a shadow wage, while Mex$ 69.7 was used in the
financial analysis. These modifications affected the civil
works costs and the production costs.
(c) as taxes are transfer payments, they were excluded from the
economic analysis.



- 44 -
Assumption on Justification and Benefits of the Research and Extension Components
8.08      Background Experience on Investments in Research.   Two main streams
of benefits could be expected from the proposed research and extension effort:
(a) impact on crop and livestock production in the seven state area under
existing infrastructure, land tenure and socio-economic conditions, and
(b) the more intensive impact on the areas of influence of the pilot projects.
Neither benefit stream however, can be estimated with precision as agricultural
research is an investment in future returns for which the time frame
is uncertain. One of the reasons for the low level of investment in research
has bee,_ the delay in reaping benefits from such investments. An investment
at time "t" will likely not begin to produce a stream of benefits until three
years later, and may not become fully productive for another five years or
more. Thus, although analyses of specific research programs show returns
ranging from 20% to over 90%, the time lage tend to reduce the relative
superiority over other development invetments.
8.09      Time lags also tend to be greater for purely scientific research
than for more technologically oriented research. However, the Kislev and
Evenson 1/ estimation of marginal internal rates of return provides signif-
icant insights on this as well as on the comparative returns to research
investments in developing versus developed countries. They found rates of
return about twice as high for developing as for developed countries, i.e.,
60% versus 36% for scientific research and 42% versus 21% for technologically
oriented research. This also supports the economic concept that the lower
the level of present research effort, the greater the return that might
be obtained at the margin from additional research investments.
8.10      An additional highly important return that has usually not been
included in the calculations because of the difficulty of measurement is
research capital formation, including especially "scholarly capital"--the
various mixes of scientific and teclrnical skills--but also the banks of
genetic materials, laboratory facilities, experimental fields, and such.
8.11      A key conclusion emerging from the ex-post studies is that countries
without significant indigenous research capability are able to realize almost
no transfer benefits from research conducted in other countries. Thus, good
research capability is a prerequisite, not only for producing new knowledge,
but also for transferring, adapting and utilizing knowled.e produced in
international centers and in other countries.
8.12      Experience in Investments in Extension.   There are relatively few
studies of the economic returns for investments in extension. Ideally, such
analyses of benefits should take into account: (a) the economic contribution
of improved decision-making or information processing skills on the part of
the farmer, and (b) the contribution of the information that is supplied by
1/   Kislev Y and Evenson R; Agricultural Research and Productivity;
Yale University Press 1975.



- 45 -
Assumption on Justification and Benefits of the Research and Extension Components
8.08      Background Experience on Investments in Research.   Two main streams
of benefits could be expected from the proposed research and extension effort:
(a) impact on crop and livestock production in the seven state area under
existing infrastructure, land tenure and socio-economic conditions, and
(b) the more intensive impact on the areas of influence of the pilot projects.
Neither benefit stream however, can be estimated with precision as agricultural
research is an investment in future returns for which the time frame
is uncertain. .-ie of the reasons for the low level of investment in research
has been the delay in reaping benefits from such investments. An investment
at 'time "t" will likely not begin to produce a stream of benefits until three
years later, and may not become fully productive for another five years or
more.  Thus, although  analyses of specific research programs show returns
ranging from 20% to over 90%, the time lage tend to reduce the relative
superiority over other development invetments.
8.09      Time lags also tend to be greater for purely scientific research
than for more technologically oriented research. However, the Kislev and
Evenson 1/ estimation of marginal internal rates of return provides signif-
icant insights on this as well as on the comparative returns to research
investments in developing versus developed countries. They found rates of
return about twice as high for developing as for developed countries, i.e.,
60% versus 36% for scientific research and 42% versus 21% for technologically
oriented research. This also supports the economic concept that the lower
the level of present research effort, the greater the return that might
be obtained at the margin from additional research investments.
8.10      An additional highly important return that has usually not been
included in the calculations because of the difficulty of measurement is
research capital formation, including especially "scholarly capital"--the
various mixes of scientific and technical skills--but also the banks of
genetic materials, laboratory facilities, experimental fields, and such.
8.11      A key conclusion emerging from the ex-post studies is that countries
without significant indigenous research capability are able to realize almost
no transfer benefits from research conducted in other countries. Thus, good
research capability is a prerequisite, not only for producing new knowledge,
but also for transferring, adapting and utilizing knowledge produced in
international centers and in other countries.
8.12      Experience in Investments in Extension.   There are relatively few
studies of the economic returns for investments in extension. Ideally, such
analyses of benefits should take into account: (a) the economic contribution
of improved decision-making or information processing skills on the part of
the farmer, and (b) the contribution of the information that is supplied by
1/   Kislev Y and Evenson R; Agricultural Research and Productivity;
Yale University Press 1975.



- 46 -
the extension systems. The productivity of extension systems depends heavily
on the introduction and rate of uptake of new technology, either directly
produced by research systems in a region or transferred from another region.
Likewise, the economic value of the allocative skills of the farmer are
dependent on the rate of technology introduction. Because of the complexity
of these relationships, it is not surprising that few attempts have been made
at specific estimates of the economic contribution of extension.
8.13      Because of its conceptual similarity to the proposed project, the
most directly relevant previous study is probably that of Mexico's Plan
Puebla Project. The Puebla analysis measured only the benefits of the applied
information without adding in a value for the improved decision-making or
information processing skills of the farmer. However, research and exten-
sion were considered parts of a single continuum extending from knowledge
production to ultimate dissemination and use. Thus, the costs and returns
for research and extension were combined so that the economic analysis would
adequately reflect the conceptual approach and avoid an unrealistic separa-
tion of returns to research and returns to extension. In this case, the
ex-post study, conducted after seven years of operation and using a discount
rate of 14%, revealed a benefit/cost ratio varying from 4.03, with a zero
opportunity cost assumption for labor, to 2.70, with the conservative assump-
tion of no seasonal unemployment and full wage rate.
The Proposed Approach
8.14      A combination of factors would appear to have set the stage for
viable investment in a combined research and extension program for Mexico's
humid tropics. Such factors include: (a) the low level of research/extension
investment in the past; (b) the expansion of farm population and of cattle and
crop production, which has advanced more rapidly than the investment in
research and extension; (c) the development of tourism and the petrochemical
industry, which has stimulated road building and provided market access to new
areas; (d) the growing interest in new technology on the part of both crop
farmers and cattlemen; (e) Mexico's well organized research program at the
national level, with a strong interest in expanding work in the humid tropics;
(f) the willingness of research and extension planners to integrate efforts
around development goals, and identification of several of the key problems
and opportunities for production improvement.
8.15      Since both research and extension already have organizational
structures at the national level, the proposed investment would go into
directly productive research and extension activities in the humid tropics.
The research would be directed specifically to increasing the production of
the various commodities and to eliminacing constraints to such increases. The
range of benefits likely to accrue are proposed in paragraphs 8.20 to 8.23.
8.16      The extension program would initially be based on existing knowledge
and would work with research to field test new knowledge and products. Then,
as new research began to yield results, these would become elements of growing
importance in the extension program.



- 47 -
8.17      In the long term the regionial program in milk and meat production
in the tropics could satisfy a large proportion of the nation's growing
needs for these products, while still allowing the continuation of feeder calf
exports from the north. The technology of most immediate promise is pasture
improvement through introduction of legume-grass mixtures and application of
existing knowledge on parasite control. Because of the extent of livestock
production in the area, a modest 10% average increase in milk and meat pro-
duction per hectare and per animal by year 1987 would more than pay for the
project costs of livestock research and extension. Even with the variety of
soil and drainage problems and the vagaries of adoption patterns, the evidence
would indicate that this is a reasonable expectation.
8.18      Likewise, a 10% increase by 1987 in yields of annual crops would
more than pay for the additional costs of the crop research and extension
program. In crop production, there appear to be excellent prospects for
yield increases through improved weed control, fertilization and other
cultural practices. In additioni, the research programs would be expected
to provide (a) recommendations on a wide range of soil and water management
problems which presently act as constraints to crop and livestock production
in the region; (b) the technology for expanded rice production, especially
the genetic materials, chemical and cultural practices to control rice blast
disease, (c) improved cultural and pest control practices for coconut pro-
duction, (d) high yielding varieties of beans and soybeans, better adapted to
the conditions of the humid tropics; (e) a sound basis for sustained cassava
and oilpalm production in the region; and (f) better varieties and improved
cultural practices for rubber and spices.
8.19      A noteworthy aspect of the project is that research and extension
development would be initiated in year I and not delayed until the pilot
projects are completed. Based on the experience from these pilot areas, the
Mexican Government expects to make further investments in infrastructure over
a period of about two decades in the areas of influence of the pilot projects.
When this occurred, the research/eXIension institutional base would be in
place and functioning to serve the expansion areas at the next stage of
development.
8.23      One of the key innovations of this project is the joint role of
research and extension. Both the livestock and agricultural research
institutes would be joining with the extension service in a common under-
taking for the development of Mexico's humid tropics.
Project Risks
8.24      The main risks would be associated with (a) achieving effective
coordination between the various participating institutions and departments
in project execution; (b) ensuring timely completion of proposed changes in
land tenure and farmer organization; (c) effecting the desired changes in land
tenure; (d) adopting the technology package at the farm level; (e) failure
to take full advantage of supplementary irrigation; (f) failure to provide
adequate counterpart financing for the research and extension programs;
(g) organizing the extension service and recruiting and training staff in a



- 48 -
timely manner. Because of these risks the supervision requirement of the
project would be greater than the average Bank coefficient for this activity
particularly during the first few years of implementation. Thus, over this
period the project would be supervised frequently by Bank staff at intervals
of about three to four months.
IX. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED
9.01      During negotiations, agreement on the following major points was
obtained:
(a)  No less than 70% of the civil works and buildings would be
constructed through contracts with an estimated value of
US$500,000 equivalent, or more, and would be procured under
public competitive bidding advertised locally. The remaining
30% would be done through contracts awarded without public
bidding or by force account (para 3.32). Also, except for
goods for on-farm development financed through agricultural
credit contracts for supply of goods exceeding US$250,000
equivalent would be procured through international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines (para. 3.32).
(b) The project unirt established in CPNH would furnish the Bank
with a completion report prepared in accordance to guidelines
which the Bank would reasonably recommend (para, 4.02).
(c) INIA and INIP would present details of their research
programs including a breakdown of each program by experiment
station location and those for visiting research scientists
and scholarships for review by the Bank. Similarly, INCAFOR
and CSAT would present their respective programs for visiting
re3earch scientists and scholarships (para 4.14).
(d) DPAE would submit details of the project extension program
to the Bank for comment (para. 4.15).
(e)  SARH, the Papaloapan Commission, FIA, INIA, INIP, INCAFOR and
CSAT would keep separate accounts on the investments they would
make under the project. CPNH, in turn, would keep separate
accounts of the various project components. All accounts would
be audited annually according to the Mexican law following
procedures acceptable to the Bank, and an audited report together
with the corresponding balance sheet, would be submitted
promptly to the Bank (para 4.20).
(f) Project charges in the pilot projects would cover the total
amount of operational and maintenance costs plus recovery of
capital investments as appears reasonable in light of socio-
economic studies (para. 7.03).



- 49 -
9.02      The following would be a condition of disbursement:   a condition of
disbursement against investments on the pilot projects still being prepared
would be that feasibility studies had been approved by the Bank (para 3.15).
This would include details of any proposed oil palm plantation and mill
(para 3.21).
9.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$56 million for 17 years with a four years
grace period.



- 50 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
A BACKGROUND TO AGRICULTURAL AND LIVESTOCK RESEARCH IN THE TROPICS
A. Annual and Perennial Crops
Water Use and Management
1.        INIA has a small unit conducting research into the management and
use of water, and has proposed expansion in tropical areas with special
attention to the problems of the high rainfall areas.
2.        Because of the large investment in drainage infrastructure which
is being projected for southern Veracruz and Tabasco, it is crucial to
obtain a fuller understanding of the potential effects of various drainage
approaches on moisture availability and yields of the major types of annual
and perennial crops that are to be grown in the new drainage districts.
3.        Experience in the Chontalpa area of Tabasco has already indicated
that even in very high rainfall areas there can be drought problems during
parts of the growing season and that this is very closely related to the
type of drainage system. For this reason the research program will look
carefully at production problems both during the heavy rainfall period and
during the drier season. This research will be linked closely to the pilot
projects to study the effects of various approaches on the production of
the main forages, field crops and tree crops.
4.        INIA research on soil fertility has taken account of all variables
affecting the expression of yield including the measurement of mois-ure stress
at various parts of the growing season and the physical structure of the
soil profile. The expanded research will combine a crop yield focus with an
optimum drainage design focus that should provide benefit/cost guidance for
the design of future drainage systems.
Rice
5.        Rice is of growing importance in the Mexican diet and production
has moved up at the rate of 5.4% per year during the past decade. Projec-
tion of present trends indicate that by 1980 supply will be lagging demand
by about 100,000 tons.
6.        The Mexican government has three main reasons for wanting to
focus a strong research effort on rice in the humid tropics: (a) rice is a
heav'T consumer of water, and transferring production from the irrigated
areas of the west coast to the humid tropics would release irrigation water
for other crops; (b) there are important problems in making the transfer--
the main one is rice blast disease caused by Pyricularia oryzae, which is
particularly damaging to rice production under rainfed conditions;



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(c) if the problems limiting yields in the humid tropics can be resolved,
Mexico could supply the increasing national demands and consider exporting
rice as a possible earner of foreign exchange (d) it would be possible to
replace rice with wheat in the Mexican diet.
7,        Expansion of rice production in the humid tropics appears quite
promising because rice is grown extensively in similar areas elsewhere in
the world, and the findings of the International Rice Research Institute
(IRRI) in the Philippines and the International Center for Tropical Agri-
culture (CIAT) in Colombia. Considerable research has been done and
INIA has already released eight varieties adapted to various conditions
of direct planting and transplanting and irrigation in the humid tropics.
Rice can be grown on vertisols and alluvial clay soils found in the low
lands.
8.        In 1975 the national average yield was 3,050 kilos per ha from
230,000 ha. Average yields were 4,000 kilos for direct planting with irri-
gation, 5,000 kilos for transplanted rice with irrigation but only 2,000
kilos under rainfed conditions. Hence research is required to provide the
basis for higher yields if rainfed crops are to supply national needs.
9.        INIA research has already made progress in determining methods,
dates and density of planting, fertilizer rates, weed control, wat;r manage-
ment, control of insects and diseases and methods for harvesting and drying.
However, there remain problems related to harvesting and drying in the
wettest areas of the tropics.
10.       At present INIA has seven rice research projects underway which
are focused on developing varieties for rainfed conditons which have
resistance to Pyricularia oryzae and drought tolerance. These include
a cooperative program with the Tropical College of Agriculture (CSAT) at
Cardenas, Tabasco and two programs in Chiapas, one on the coast and one in
the highlands in the valley of Tuxtepeques which is one of the most important
rainfed rice producing areas of the southeast. Most recently, in 1975 75%
of the rice research budget at Juchitan, Oaxaca and Cotaxtla, Veracruz was
shifted from irrigated to rainfed rice and in 1976 a new program was set up
at Chetumal, Quintana Roo financed by PIDER. The program at CSAT had two
researchers who are at the same time professors at the institute, one is a
specialist in varietal improvement and the other a production specialist.
The other six programs have one researcher each who can carry out functions
of crop improvement, agronomy, entomology, plant pathology and extension.
Oil Palm (Elacis quineenis)
11.       The demand for oilseeds is projected to grow at a rate of 5.6%
annually during the 1976-82 period. Part of this will be through expansion
of annually oil crops, principally soybeans, but Mexico is also looking to
introduring oil palm on a commercial scale.   Oil palm is one of the highest
producers of edible oil per urnit area with maximumas of-over 3 tons/ha,



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
compared to 600-800 kg of oil for soybeans or peanuts. In addition to
human consumption, this oil is used for soap production, pharmaceuticals,
the leather industry, and as a component in industrial products and metallurgy.
12.       Existing plantings in Mexico comprise about 300 hectares near
Huixtla, Chiapas plus some small lots in the State of Veracruz and a planting
on the experiment station at Cardenas, Tabasco.
13.       International experts with West African experience believe that
the high rainfall areas in the low lands of Chiapas and Tabasco should be
ideal for the production of this crop.
14.       There has been scarcely any research on this crop in Mexico and a
new program within INIA is required to provide basic information on growing
harvesting and processing.
Coconut (Cocos nucifera)
15.       The coconut palm already occupies an area of 143,000 ha in the
lowlands of Mexico, including about 27,000 ha in Tabasco and a total of
about 8,000 ha in the States of Chiapas, Oaxaca and Vecacruz.
16.       The major area of production is found in the north-center of
Tabasco where rainfall is 1500-2300 mm. Because of insufficient care for
the crop (weeding, fertilization), and pest and disease problems, present
yields of 900-1000 kg of copra per ha are well below potential yields.
Improved drainage is also required in most areas in order to provide
optimum growing conditions and to prevent infestation by the red ring
nematode (Rhadinaphelenchus cocophilus), which is transmitted by the coconut
weevil (Rhunchophorus palmar'im), a major pest in Tabasco. Improved drainage
would moreover benefit other tree crops such as cacao and citrus--often
grown in association with coconuts.
17.       Mexico's annual deficit of around 40,000 tons of copra oil is
presently filled by imports. 1/ The imported oil is mainly used in soap
manufacturing. A program is underway to rehabilitate 30,000 ha of coconut
in Tabasco by (a) replacing diseased and unproductive trees; (b) fertiliza-
tion; (c) pest and disease control; (d) establishment of leguminous cover
crops; and (e) construction of tertiary drains (at the farm level).
18.       A factory built in Tabasco in 1974 with annual capacity of 40,000
ton of copra will in the future be equipped to produce margarine, cooking
fats and oil, by hydrogenating the oil extracted from the copra.
19.       In addition to the production of vegetable oil for htuman consump-
tion or industrial use, much of the production is used as fruit and for
producing sweets, drinks and crafts.
1/   One ton of copra yields between 0.4 and 0.5 ton of copra oil.



- 53 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
20.       Within the past two years INIA has initiated research on the
coconut in two major producing areas of the States of Guerrero (1975) and
Colima (1976) orn the central Pacific Coast. This work is providing valuable
information on pest and disease control, on fertilizer requirements and on
possibilities for associations of annual crops with coconuts. The main
cause for low yields appears to be the neglect of the plantations which are
usually not fertilized, or adequately irrigated, nor kept free of weeds.
Beans
21.       Nationwide, beans rank after maize, sorghum and wheat in total
production. However, in the diet of the typical Mexican, maize and beans
are the basic ingredients and beans are a major source of protein for
balancing the diet. There are strong regional preferences for types of
beans--the bean that is preferred in one area will hardly be consumed in
other areas. In miost of the tropics, the black bean is preferred. Mexico
sometimes exports black beans to Venezuela and other countries.
22.       Because beans are grown under rainfed conditions, the yields tend
to fluctuate substantially from year to year but have been averaging 550 to
600 kilos per ha. INIA results show that these yields could be more than
doubled but there are many problems; especially diseases, poor yielding
characteristics of native strains and poor seed quality. After a period of
sigTiificant increases in the 1960's, both in yields and area under cultiva-
tion, production increases have been disappointing during the early 1970's.
With present beans yields it takes about 2 million ha of land to produce the
national needs.
23.       At present about 270,000 ha are planted to beans each year in
the Gulf Coast tropics alone. In many cases beans are interplanted with
corn and considerable research is needed on economic disease and weed control
measures as well as on various types of intercropping systems.
Soybeans
24.       The growing need for edible oils in Mexico has been handled largely
through a rapid expansion in soybeans acreage. From 1966 to 1976 soybean
production grew at 20.8% per year, and the area of crop had reached 308,000
ha in 1976.
25r       Soybean yields have been averaging about 3 times those of beans,
and in 1976 the average was 1834 kilos per ha. The main production of soy-
beans is still in the irrigation districts. However, the research results
from the stations in the southeast now provide a good first approximation
of recommended planting dates, population densities, varieties, control of
insects and other aspects of production in the humid tropics. The variety
Tropicana is recommended, with yields of "pproximately 2 tons per ha and
there are other experimental lines which appear to be able to produce uip to
3 tons per ha.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
26.       Although much research remains to be done, soybean appears to be a
promising crop for the humid tropics. It will be the focus of a major research
and development thrust in the next few years in order to keep up with the
rapidly increasing demand for edible oils until the proposed expansion in oil
palm begins to contribute to national needs.
Cassava (Manihot esculenta)
27.       Cassava is not a major food crop in the Mexican diet.    However it
is well adapted to the tropics and can substitute for maize or sorghum as
an energy source in animal nutrition. Research at the International Center
for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) in Colombia and other places has shown that
yields of energy per ha from cassava are very high.
28.       Introduction of improved varieties of cassava was initiated in 1975
when a collection of 110 cultivars was brought from CIAT. These have been
tested and evaluated in Uxmal, Yucatan, and at experiment stations in the
States of Guerrero, Michoacan, Colima and Jalisco. From these cultivars,
the best six have been selected and these are being evaluated on a more
intensive scale at the above stations and also at Cotaxtla, Veracruz and
Rosario Izapa, Chiapas. INIA also has research underway on management of the
crop, including weed control, fertilization, spacing between plants, and
planting dates.
29.       Based on positive results from this work, INIA is ready to intensify
its research to develop improved gerplasm and the necessary information to
integrate cassava into cropping systems. Research is needed on processing to
determine how to make maximum use of both the roots and the foliage. INIA
will maintain close contact with research at CIAT (Colombia) and at the
University of Guelph in Canada aimed at commercial processes for transforming
root material through micro-biological means into products with up to 45%
protein of high quality. Additional research needs to be carried out on the
use of roots and the foliage in silage and other forms for feeding ruminants
or monogastric animals.
Rubber and Spices
30.       In the wet tropics of southeast Mexico there exist approximately
20 million ha of ferralytic soils in the states of Tabasco, Veracruz and
Chiapas which are covered by unproductive forest and brush. Selected
parcels of this could be profitably dedicated to production of rubber and
spices.
31.       The rubber plant (Havea brasiliensis) has been in production in
Mfexico for a number of years. At present there are 6,600 ha planted in the
states of Veracruz, Oaxaca, Tabasco and Chiapas. This area produces 15% of
the rubber consumed in the country and the rest has to be imported. In
1975 13,309 tons of natural rubber were imported at a cost of 109 million
pesos plus another 6,700 tons of latex at a value of 45 million pesos.
With current yields it would be necessary to plant about 40,000 ha to
produce the rubber needed to fill national demand.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
32.       INIA already operates a rubber experimental station at El Plamar,
Veracruz working on selection of high yielding clones and to develop recom-
mendations for managing the crop. However, research input is at a low level
and the program needs to be greatly expanded.
33.       The proposed research with spices focuses on three crops:     black
pepper (Piper nigrum, cinnamon (Cinnamomum zeylandicum) and cloves (Ziziguium
aromaticum). The justification lies in the high prices which these products
bring in the world market and the large amount of employment which they
provide. In 1976 Mexico imported 681 tons of black pepper at a cost of
19.8 million pesos and 1,849 tons of cinnamon at a cost of 52 million
pesos.
34.       Several varieties of these spices have been under test at El
Palmar, Veracruz since 1961. At present there are about 13 ha of these
crops dedicated principally to the study of disease control. Results to
date indicate that it should be quite possible for Mexico to satisfy the
needs of the national market and probably to export spices, especially to
the United States and Canada.
35.       The research base exists to begin establishing plantings of black
pepper and cinnamon using the methodology and varieties at El Palmar.
Germplasm ready for release to farmers includes six varieties of black
pepper, four of cinnamon and two of cloves.
B. Beef and Milk
Beef
36.       Mexico has three major beef cattle production regions:     (i) the
arid and semi-arid northern rangelands; (ii) the wet tropics along the Gulf
Coast; and (iii) the dry tropics along the Pacific Coast. The dry and wet
tropics produce beef almost exclusively for domestic consumption. The region
of wet tropics is developing into a major area for cattle feeding and is
the main source of supply for the Federal District. Under private and ejidal
deforestation programs, tropical and coastal grazing lands are being cleared
and put under improved pastures.
37.       The national cattle population grew at 3.4% between 1960 and 1970
and 3% between 1970 and 1974, while slaughtered beef grew at 5.6% respec-
tively. The off-take rate increased from 14% in 1960 to over 17% in 1974
and the average carcass weight of slaughtered animals increased from 152
to 169 kg during this period, indicating a considerable increase in the
productivity of the national cattle herd. Apparently, beef consumption in



- 56 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
Mexico increased from 8.4 kg per capita in 1960 to 10.7 in 1973 and 12.1 kg
in 1974, when cattle not sold for export in 1973 were fattened and consumed
in the country. Despite high feedgrain prices and low beef prices, govern-
ment policy is to phase out the export of lightweight feeder cattle to the
US and to give higher priority to domestic needs while at the same time
exporting to the US high quality boneless beef. The domestic market
opportunities for beef appear strong due to rising incomes, high income
elasticity for beef and rapid population growth.
Milk
38.       Milk production in Mexico has been growing at 3% per annum since
1963 and increased by 5.3% in 1974 to reach about 5.7 million tons.     About
55% of this is produced in the irrigated areas of the central plateau and
the arid north under intensive systems using predominantly Holstein-Freisian
cows. Milk production in tropical areas is mostly a by-product of the beef
industry and yields per cow are very low.
39.       The average per capita consumption of fresh milk is about 114 liters
per annum, which represents about half of the recommended minimum amount for
dietary sufficiency. Demand is rising as a result of increasing income and
populations growth as well as urbanization. Over 100,000 metric tons of
skimmed milk powder were imported in 1974 as a cost of over US$90 million, as
compared with average annual imports of 30,000 tons in the mid-1960s. It is
estimated that by 1982 the total milk demand will increase to 10 billion
litres, equal to 132 litres per capita. The domestic supply is expected to be
7.8 billion litres, leaving a deficit of 2.2 billion litres to be met from
imports.
40.       Prices of milk to the farmer, pasteurizing plants and the consumer
are fixed by the Minist;y of industry and Commerce. The Ministry was earlier
reluctant to move producer prices up with the increased cost of inputs due
to concern for urban wage earners, but it is now offering incentives to
farmers and pasteurizing plants to increase production. Current regional
prices to the producer vary throughout Mexico, from a high of US$0.26 per
litre in Morelos and Guerrero to a low of US$0.18 in Tabasco, Chiapas and
Campeche.
The Cattle Industry in the Humid Tropics
41.       Much of the beef consumed in Mexico and about one-third of the
milk is produced in the humid tropics. Although statistics for this region
are incomplete, it appears that about 28% of the nation's cattle population
is located in the states of Veracruz, Tabasco, Oaxaca, Chiapas, Campeche,
'Yucatan and Quintana Roo. The industry is based on grazing cattle which
are used primarily for meat and secondarily for milk. Most animals are
crosses with Zebu to obtain heat and tick resistance. In general the
milk and milk products are considered by-products of the beef industry and
generate a supplemenital income for livestock owners.



- 57 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8
42.       Cattle production in the humid tropics is characterized by low
capital and labor inputs, and land holdings are relatively large. In a
1974 survey (Centro de Investigacioned Agrarias, Tabasco) the average
holdings for large, medium and small operations were 700, 350 and 200 ha
respectively, of which 110, 20 and 5 ha were rented la2ld.   Average stocking
rates for large and medium-size operations were approximately 1 animal
unit per ha. However, the intensity varied considerably. This survey
showed that large farmers usually concentrated on breeding and fattening,
while small farmers preferred to include milk production. Calving rates
ranged from 62% for large operators to 67% for medium and small operators.
Fixed capital (other than livestock) varied between 7% for large farmers
and 13% for small farmers.
43.       There are a few examples of successful dairy operation based on
exotic breeds. However, most dairy output comes from small farmers with
dual purpose cattle who obtain an average milk production per cow of approxi-
mately 600 litres during a six to seven month lactation period. For small
scale producers milk production is important as it tends to provide a daily
cash flow whereas their beef off-take is seasonal. Another index of low
efficiency of production in the region is average calving interval of 550
days.
44.       There is general agreement among researchers in INIP and INIA that
the major constraint to cattle production in the humid tropics is poor
nutrition. This arises primarily from the nature of the native pastures but
the general level of animal husbandry is also low. Considerable areas of
improved pasture exist but with minor exceptions these are pure grass
pastures mostly managed without fertilizer or with only a low input, and
consequently feeding value is limited by -il fertility in the same way as
for native pastures. The poor state of nutrition is reflected in low growth
rates, low milk production and low reproductive rate.
45.       Existing knowledge on pasture improvement could lead to major
advances in meat and milk production and many examples can be found. One
example is the milk producing enterprise at the C41 ejido near Cardenas,
Tabasco where feeding is based on African star grass and Leucaena
leucocephala. Application of knowledge is limited by lack of extension.
46.       Cattle production is also adversely affected by various diseases
and by internal and external parasites. While existing knowledge is often
adequate to overcome these problems its application is limited by lack of
sufficient diagnostic services and lack of extension on methods of control.
Another factor is that the effects of diseases and parasites are sometimes
masked by malnutrition.
47.       Production is also limited by the genetic potential of the cattle,
both beef milk and dairy. Most cattle are zebu-criollo types which have
had minimal selection for production characteristics. Many introductions
of more productive breeds have been made and there is ample evidence to show
that production could be increased. The general trend is to a dual-purpose
animal for milk and beef.



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9
Current Research
48.       Both INIP and INIA are active in research directed to improvement
of milk and meat production.
49.       Of major concern to the development of livestock production in
the Mexican tropics, and in the Project areas in particular, is research
of forages wAhich is carried out within both INIA and INIP. In the past,
links between the two programs appear to have been minimal so that both
Institutes have been concerned with selection and evaluation of grasses and
legumes, ferrtilizer studies, legume inoculation and small-plot on management
studies. In addition INIA has studied seed production while INIP has carried
out grazing experiments to measure animal production directly under different
experimental treatments. However this has not led to serious duplication
because the work was done in different areas and existing knowledge was so
meagre. Collectively this research has produced valuable results indicating
which species are most useful in different ecological zones, the response
to fertilizer in some important soils, and the effect of different stocking
rates on some improved pastures. It has certainly shown that animal produc-
tion in the tropical areas of Mexico could be vastly increased by pasture
improvement.
50.       INIP and INIA are now taking active steps to achieve a greater
degree of coordination of their forage programs and a better exchange of
information. Much research remains to be done, particularly in relation
to satisfactory growth of pasture legumes, and it is important that effort
should not be wasted. Both Institutes have accepted that animal production
from pasture requires a multidisciplinary approach. The key is not only
the amount of meat or milk that can be produced per hectare during part of
the year but rather the potential of year-round systems which will carry
animals through the dry season with minimum loss in milk and meat produc-
tion. The study of this kind of economic production system for farmers
operating under various ecological regions will receive greater attention
in the future.
51.       INIP has three other programs on animal husbandry which are
directed at tropical cattle production; these are in animal nutrition,
breed improvement and efficiency of reproduction. An important part of
the animal nutrition research concerns identification of mineral defi-
ciencies of livestock in different areas, leading to control either by
direct supplementation or through fertilizing the pastures. Many of
the deficiencies will, of course, affect both pasture and animal produc-
tion. Studies are also in progress on use of various agricultural by-
products as sources of animal feed with emphasis on bagassee and henequen,
and this is supported by some basic research on factors affecting ruminal
fermentation.
52.       The breed-improvement program is aimed at production of dual
purpose animals based on crosses of zebu-types with temperate breeds.
Studies already made on crosses with Holstein and Brown Swiss indicate



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
Page 10
that important advantages can be gained. The program on efficiency of
reproduction is concerned with managerial and physiological factors
which may limit conception.
53.       Two groups of animal diseases have special importance for cattle
production in tropical areas. It is known that abortions contribute
significantly to the low reproductive rate of cattle in the area, and the
presence of the major bacterial and viral diseases has been confirmed.
The tick-borne diseases anaplasmosis and babesiosis also cause serious
economic losses. Research in both instances in directed: to obtaining
better information on the incidence of the diseases, to providing reliable
methods of diagnosis in the field and to providing effective methods of
control. Close contacts are maintained with research by international
agencies and by national institutions in other countries.
54.       These studies of production and management reflect a broadened
perspective in INIP research. In the past the research focused largely on
genetics, veterinary medicine and preventive vaccine. While these continue
to be important there is as yet no good estimate of the amount of production
losses attributable to diseases, there is greater awareness of the inter-O
related roles of malnutrition and disease.
C. Forestry
55.       There is a rapidly growing deficit in forest products in Mexico
which cost US$200 million in foreign exchange in 1975, more than double
the deficit of US$93 million in 1970. In 1975 the portion of commercial
deficit in foreign exchange attributed to forestry products was 6.8%. Of the
total area of Mexico 69% (137 million ha) is classified as forest. Much of
this is semi-desert and only 45 million ha are actually tree covered. Of
this area, 30 million ha are considered forest and 15 jungle.
56.       Forestry policy ha, given most attention to the coniferous areas,
and the jungle has received little attention, with the exception of selective
cutting of the most valuable species. Recently, with the rapid clearing
of land for livestock and crop production and the growing cost of importing
of forest products, additional attention is focusing on these tropical
forests.
57.       A broad range of studies has been started at the two experiment
stations in the tropics. These include:
(a) Identification of the main species of the intermediate
and high jungle and studies on growth rates of the more
important species;
(b)  Comparative trials of collections of cedar and mahogany
from diverse parts of the Mexican tropics;



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11
(c)  Evaluation of introduced forest species such as Eucalyptus;
(d) Research on management of mahogany and cedar plantations
including methods of insect control;
(e) Studies of the physical and mechanical properties of
various species and on methods of drying;
(f) Establishment of a nursery to provide material for
research plantings;
(g) The dynamics of the secondary vegetation which appears
after clearing; and
(h) Multiple use of forest lands through various combinations
of crops and livestock with fruit and forestry - this is
an attempt to develop production systems which will give
full family employment and improve economic returns without
negative ecological effects.



-61-                                                                                E
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PRLOJECT
Projec.t Coats
---- ---Mex$ '00         0 -------       --------us      '000- ------             . of 8a-       Foroig.
Ite-                                         Local         Foreign          Total          Local        Foreign         Total         Coot         Exchange
1.  Pilo  Projects
A. Zapotal and Te..echoa-a
1. Area Dovelo.p-nt andIfatutr
L. Civil Works                                              103,309.0       106,027.0        209,346.0       4,491.7       4,609.9       9,101.6          8.5          50.7
it. ani    nrig.d S.,-ii-41,863.0                                               -              41,863.0       1,820.1          -           1,820.1         1.7           0.0
ii.OMEnginerig-t       eis                                    1,788.0        16,100.0        17,888.0           77.7        700.0          777. 7        0.7          90.0
iv. 04W During Construction                                     6,469.0        3,008.0          9,477.0         281.3         130.8         412.1          0.4          31.7
Subtotal 1                                               153,429.0       125,135.0        278,564.0       6,670.8       5,440.7      12)111.5         11.3          44.9
11. On-f-a Development
i. Land and Pasture Developomot                               21,291.6       10,189.6         31,481.2.        925.7         443.0       1,368.8          1.3          32.4
ii. Vehicles, Machinery and Equipmetnt                         35,877.0       39,697.2         75,574.2       1,559.9       1,726.0       3,285.9          3.1          52.5
Mi. Contruction                                                  7,437.9        1,070.1          8,508.0         323.4          46.5          369.9         0.3          12.6
iv,. Breeding ~Cattle                                         25,630.8         3,720.6         29,351.4       1,114.4         161.8       1,276.2          1.2          12.7
v. Plantation Operation and Materials                          1,724.9        6,842.0          8,566.9          75.0         297.5         372.5          0.4          79.9
Subtot.1 Cl                                               91,962.2        61,519.5        153,481.7       3,998.4       2,674.8       6,673.2          6.3          40.1
Subtotal (a)                                              245,391.2      186,654.5        432,045.7      10,669.2       8,115.5      18,784.7         17.6          43.2
B. Additional Four Pi,Lo Projects
1. Area Develpmenr   and Infrastructure                          273,370.1      222,957.7        496,327.8      11,885,7       9,693.8      21,579.5         20.2          44.9
11. On-farm DeveLlopmen.t                                         163,852.5      109,611.6        273,464.1       7,124.0       4,765.7      11,889.7         11.1          40.1
Ill. Agroinduntries.                                                17,537.0       87,463.0        105,000.0         762.5       3,802.7       4,565.2          4.3          83.3
Subtotal (b)                                             454,759.6       420,032.3        874, 791.9     19,772.2     18,262.2       38,034.4         35.7         46.4
TOTAL BASE COST PILOr PROJECTS                                700,150.8      606,686.8      1,306,8337.6     30,441.4      26,377.7      56,819.1         53.3          46.4
2. Reseerch Progran
I. investment Costs
i. Civil -erks an,d Office Equipment                         92,170.0        12,603.0        104,773.0       4,007.4         548.0       4,555.4          4.3          12.0
Ui. Vhce,Farm Equipment and Materials                         26,169.0        44,308.0         70,677.0       1,137.8       1,926.4       3,064.2          2.9          62.9
Li. Aircr.ft                                                      -            12,000.0         12,000,.0        -             521.7         521.7          0.5        100.0
iv. LAnd                                                       40,000.0          -             40,000.0       1,739.1          -          1,739.1          1.6           0.0
Subtotal I                                               158,339.0        68,911.0        227,250.0       6,884.3      2,996.1        9,880.4          9.3         30.3
11. Technical Service
i. Resarh Spacialists                                          7,173.0       40,644.0         47,817.0         311.9       1,767.1       2,079.0          1.9          85.0
it. Scholarhips                                                   -           36,816.0         36,816.0         -          1,600.7        1,600.7          1.5         1110. 0
iii. Special1 Analysis & Servicing Equipment                     1,736.0          744.0          2,480.0          75.5          32.4         107.9          0.1          26.2
iv,, Library Service                                              460.0        4,140.0          4,600.0          20.0         180.0         200.0          0,2          90.0
Subtotal II                                                9,369.0        82,344.0         91,713.0         407.4      3,580.2        3,987.6          3.7         89.8
rii. Operational1 Costs
i. Incrementa1 Salaries                                     292,825.0           -            292,825.0      12,731.5          -         12,731.5         11.9          0.11
ii. Other Operational Costs                                  131,580.0        32,895.0        164,475.0       5, 72C'.9    1,430.2        7,151.1          6.7         20.0
Subtotal III                                             424,405.0        32,895.0        457,300.0     18,452.4       1,430.2       19,882.6        18.6          71.9
TOTAL BASE COST RESEARCH                                        592,113.0      184,150.0        776,263.0      25,744.1       8,006.5      33,750.6         31.6          23.7
3. Extens.ion Progress
I. Extension Services
i. Salaries                                                 260,370.0           -            260,370.0     11,320.4          -          11,320.4        10.6           0,0
ii. Vehicles                                                    7,862.5        7,862.5         15,725.0         341.9        341.9          683.7         0.6          50.0
iii. Vehicles 04M                                               10,185.0        4,365.0         14,550.0         442.8        189.8          632.6         0.6          30.0
iv,. Mater-ials ad Equipment                                    7,875.0       18,375.0         26,250.0         342.4        798,9        1,141.3         1.1          70.0
Subtotal I                                               284,292.5        30,602.5       316,895.0      12,447.5       i.330.6      13,778.0         12.9           9.7
II. Trasining Center
i. land                                                       1,000.0           -              1,000.0         43.5          -              43.5         0.0           0.0
ii. Bsiidirgs, Office and Lab Equipment                       26,245.0         4,705.0         30,950.0       1,141.1        204.6        1,345.7         1.3          15.2
Iii. Veice,      ahinery and Teac.hing Equipment                1,538.0         2,977.0          4,515.0         66.9         129.4          196.3         0.2          65.9
iv. Vehicles and Equipment 046M                                  571.0           244.0            815.0         24.8          10,6           35.4         0.0          30.0
v. Salries                                                  17,654.0          -             17,654.0         767.6         -             767.6          0.7         0ID.0
Subtotal II                                               47,008.0         7,926.0        54,934.0       2,043.9         344,6        2,388.5         2.2          14.7
TOTAL, BASE COST EXTENSION                                      333,300.5       38,528.5        371,829.0      14,491.4      1,675.2       16,166.6        15.1          10,4
TOTAL BASE COST                                               1,625,564.3      829,365.3      2,454,929.6     70,676.9      36,059.4      106,736.3       100.0          33.8
Ph1i,:sc1  otlgnce      1                                                                                           4,843.2       3,9733         8,816.5
PhysLIca  Contingencies 2                                                                                              335.9        652.2          898.1
Physical Contingencies 3                                                                                               315.6         45.7          361.3
TOTAL PN'OSICAL CONTINGENCIES                                                                                        5,494.7      4,671.2       10,165.9
Price Contingencies 1                                                                                              11,798.4       8,829.1       30,627.5
Price Contingencies 2                                                                                               5,652.5       1,785.0        7,etl7.5
Price Contingencies 3                                                                                               3,875.4         138.0       4,013.4
TOTAL PRICt CONTINGENCIES                                                                                          21,326.3      1r,752.1       32,078.4
GRAND TOTAL PROJECT                                                                                                97,497.9      51,482.7      148,980.6



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Summary for the First Two Pilor ProJ,cts (P[l)
(Mex $ '000)
% Foreign
Exchange
Zapotal                                  Tesechoacan                           Total Pilot Project.              % Composition     For Each
Local         Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign         Total         Local        Foreign        Total          of Total       Line Item
I. Area Development and Infrastructure
- Drainage and Flood Control Works                26,857.0      25,175.0      52,032.0      23,995.0      24,011.0      48,006.0      50,852.0      49,186.0      100,038.0          23.2            49.2
- Roads                                            8,725.0       9,820.0      18,545.0       5,922.0       7,948.0      13,870.0      14,647.0      17,768.0       32,415.0           7.5            54.8
- Buildings                                          428.0         317.0         745.0         427.0         353.0         780.0         855.0         670.0        1,525.0            .4            43.9
- Watershed Flood Control Dike                                                              10,289.0       9,215.0      19,504.0      10,289.0        9,215.0      19,504.0           4.5            47.2
- Irrigation Workc (Tesechoacan)                                                            15,519.0      12,334.0      27,853.0      15,519.0       12,334.0      27,853.0           6.4            44.2
- Natural Drainage Improvement                                                              10,067.0      15,234.0      25,301.0       10,067.0      15,234.0      25,301.0           5.9            60.2
- Existing Flood Control Embankment
Improvement                                                                              1,080.0       1,620.0       2,700.0       1,080.0        1,620.0       2,700.0            .6            60.0
- Engineering, Administration and
Overheads - 20 yrs.                           14,260.0           0.0      14,260.0      27,603.0           0.0      27,603.0      41,863.0           0.0       41,863.0           9.7             0.0
- Operation and Maintenance Equipment                894.0       8,050.0       8,944.0         894.0       8,050.0       8,944.0        1,788.0      16,10Q.0      17,888.0           4.1            90.0
- Operation and Maintenance During
Construction                                   2,249.0         968.0         01 4,2200                 26,260. 6,                    469.0        3,008.0       9,477.0           2.2            31.7   0'
Subtotal                                     53,413.0       44,330.0      97,743.0     100,016.0      80,805.0     180,821.0     153,429.0     125,135.0      278,564.0          64.5            44.9
II.  On-Farn Development Credit
- Land and,Pasture Development                    10,913.4       4,246.6      15,160.0      10,378.2       5,943.0      16,321.2      21,291.6       10,189.6      31,481.2           7.3            32.4
- Vehicles, Machinery and Equipment               24,676.0      21,759.2      46,435.2      11,Z01.0      17,938.0      29,139.0      35,877.0       39,697.2      75,574.2          17.4            52.5
- Constructions                                    4,192.6         605.4       4,798.0       3,245.3         464.7       3,710.0       7,437.9        1,070.1       8,508.0           2.0            12.6
- Breeding Cattle                                 14,88G.0       2,160.0      17,040.0      10,750.8       1,560.6      12,311.4       25,630.8       3,720.6      29,351.4           6.8            12.7
- Plantations, Operation and Materilm              1,100j.0      5,700.0       6,800.0         624.9       1,142.0        1.766.9       1,724.9       6,842.0       8,566.9           2.0            79.9
Subtotal                                      55,762.0      34,471.2      90,233.2      36,20-02      27,048.3      63,248.5       91,962.2      61,519.5     153,481.7          35.5            40.1
TOTAL BASE COST                                   109,175.0      78,801.2     187,976.2     136,216.2      107,853.3     244,069.5     245,391.2     186,654.5     432,045.7         100.0            43.2
Physical Contingencies I                                 10,498.0       8,157.0      18,655.0      19,720.0       15,399.0      33,119.0      30,218.0      23,556.0      51,774.0                          45.5
Physical Contingencies II                                 5,603.0       3,416.2       9,019.2       4,130.0       2,428.7        6,558.7       9,733.0       5,844.9      15,577.9                          37.5
Subtotal                                      16,1nl.0      11,573.2      27,674.2      23,850.0      17,827.7      39,677.7       39,951.0      29,400.9      67,351.9                          43.7
TOTAL Mex $ '000                                  125,276.0      90,374.4     215,650.4     160,066.2     125,681.0      285,747.2     285,342.2     216,055.4     501,397.6                          43.1
TOTAL US$ !000 (at 23 p/$)                         (5,446.8)     (3,929.3)     (9,376.1)     (6,959.4)     (5,464.4)     (12,423.8)    (12,406.2)     (9,393.7)    (21,799.9)                         43.1
Price Contingencies                                  7           24,065.4      52,430.0      32,211.3      34,478.7       66,690.0      6075.9        58,544.1     119,1200                           49.1
GRAND TOTAL (Mex    1 '000)             153,640.6     114,439.8     268,080.4     192,277.5     160,159.7      352,437.2     345,918.1     274,599.5     620,517.6                          44.3
GRAND TOTAL (US$ '000)                    6,680.0       4,975.6      11,655.0       8,359.9       6,963.5       15,323.4      15,039.9      11,939.1      26,978.4                          44.3    |
in- Ix



-63 -                              Table 3
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECIT
Zapotal and Tesechoacan Pilot Projects
Main Civil Works' Features
General Data                                             Zapotal     Tesechoacan
Gross Area, ha                                            4,580         4,400
Net Area, ha                                              4,100         3,700
Annual Rainfall, mm                                       2,260         1,560
10-yr, Rainfall Intensity, mm/day                           230           220
Flood Yield, m3/sec/ha                                       26            17
Design Drainage Capacity, m3/sec/ha                           8.3           8
(With 3 days allowed for detention)
Civil Works
DRAINAGE
Watershed Flood Control Dike                                                1
Improvement of Existing Flood Protection Levee, km           -             12
Length of Main Drain, km                                     35            30
Length of Secondary Drain, km                                26            12
Length of Off the Area Drain (Outlet), km                    -              8
Provision of Minor Drains & Outlets, % 1/                    20%           20%
Drainage Density (Main & Secondary), m/ha                    13.3           9.5
IRRIGALION
Pumping Station m3/sec (installed)                           -              4.5
Main Canals, km                                                            13
Secondary Canals, km                                         -11
ROADS
Main Roads, km                                               30             30
Minor Roads, km                                              35            10
Density of Main Roads, m/ha                                   6.5            6.8
Buildings, set                                                1             1
O&M Equipment, set                                            1              .
l/ % of the total of MIain & Secondary Drains in terms of cost.



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOP4EINT PROJECT
Zapotal Pilot Area (4,100 ha-net/4,580 ha-gross)
Cost Estimates for Civil Works
Work Item                         Local        Foreign     Total               Local       Foreign     Total                Unskilled
Exchange                                    Exchange                      Labor Component
Peso '000       --                           US$ t lO  _                        %
CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                          (Rounided)
DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Clearing & Excavation                                 19,685     31,255
Structures                                             2,890     12,105
Subtotal                                         22,575     43,360
Minor Drains and Outlet
Improvement - 20%                                      2,600      8,672
Subtotal                            26,857        25,175    52,032                1,167        1,095      2,262                     26
ROADS
Main                                                             12,000
Minor                                                             6,545
Subtotal                             8,725         9,820     18,545                 379          427         '0 6                   18
BUILDINGS
Operation                                                           240
Workshop                                                            250
Office                                                               80
Communication Facilities                                            175
Subtotal                               428           317        745                 186          138        324                     30
ltem Total                              36,010        35,312     71,322               1,565         1,535     3,100
ENG., ADM. & OVERHEAD - 20%              14,260           000    14,260                 620           000       620                     24       a
50,270        35,312    85,582               2,fb3         1,535     3 720 0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES - 20%             10,054        7,062     17,116                 437           307       744                     24
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION COST          604374                       102,698                Tb T1,2                4,464
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
0 &M
0 & M EQUIPMENT                           1,000        9,000     10,000                  44           391       435                      -
0 & M DURING CONSTRUCTION                 2,587        1,113      3,700                 104            57       161                     28
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       63,911       52,487    116,398               2,770         2,290     5,060                      22
DeF.ails of Annual 0 & M Costs                              Annual 0 & M
Const.Cost       Total   Unskilled      Foreign Exchange
Drains                                   52,032             Peso   000     -
2% of Const. Cost                                    1,040        312                 290
Roads                                    18,545
5% of Const. Cost                                      927        232                 390
Buildings                                   745
1% of Const. Cost                                        7          4                  -
Subtotal                            71,322         1,967        548                 680
Eng., Adm. & Overhead - 10%              14,260          200         60                 000
85,582         2,167       608                  ON
Physical Contingencies - 15%             17,116           325        90                  70
Total Project Cost                      102,698         2,492       698                 750
% As of Total 0 & M                                                  29'/                30.1%
Per ha cost             Peso              2,500           610
US$               1,090            26
% As of Const. Cost                                        2.7
No!ember 3, 1977



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tesechaocan Pilot Area (3,700 ha-net/4,400 ha-gross)
Cost Estimates of Civil Works
Work Item                        Local      Foreign      Total               Local      Foreign     Total                   Unskilled
Exchange                                   Exchange                         Labor Component
Peso '000                                  US$ 1OO         -7 %
(Rounded)
CONSTRUCTION
WATERSHED FLOOD CONTROL DIKE
Clearing & Embankment                                9,066      18,650
SpillWa-' -outlet                     ____149                      854
Subtotal                     10,289         9,215      19,504              448          400       848                    25
DRAINAGE SYSTEM
Clearing & Excavation                               19,611      31,129
Structures                                          2,000        8,877
21,611      40,006
Minor Drains 20%                                     2,400       8,000
Subtotal                     23,995       24,011       48,006              887        1,200     2,087                    24
IRRIGATION SYSTEI-I
Clearing & Mlain Canals (lined)                      5,665      14,172
Structures                                             211         626
Distribution below Main Canals                       2,798       7,433
Structures                                            469        1,667
Pumping Station                                        153         445
Pumps                                 3__038                     3,510
Subtotal                     15,519        12,334      27,853              675          536     1,211                    44        1
ROADS                                                                                                                                      (ON
Main Road Along Main Drains                                     12,000
Minor Road Along Minor Drains                                    1,870
Subtotal                      5,922         7,948      13,870              258          345       603                    19
BUILDINGS
Operation                                                          240
Workshop                                                           250
Office                                                              80
Communication facilities               -                           210
Subtzotal                       427           353         780              186          153       339                    30
NATURAL DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENT
Clearing, Excavation and Levees                     14,815      23,537
Structures                                             419       1,764
Subtotal                     10,06'        15,234      25,301              438          662     1,100                     18
EXISTING FLOOD CONTROL LEVEE
IMPROVEMENT - 12 Km.                   1,080         1,620       2,700               47           70       117                    30
All Items Total                     67,299       70,715     138,014            2,925        3,075     6,000
ElNGINEERING, ADM & OvERHEAD-20%       29,603          000     27,603             1,200          000     1,200                    27
94,902       70,715     165,617
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES-20%             18,980       14_143     33,123               825           615    1,440                    27
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION COST             113,882       84,858     198,740            4,950         3,690    8,640                         H
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
0 & M                                                                                                                                         X
O & M EQUIPMENT (W/Eng.& Cont.)        1,000          9,000     10,000               44          391       435                     -   C>M
0 & M DURING CONST.(W/Eng.& Cont.)      A -854        2 346      7,200              198          115       313                     25
TOTAL PROJECT COST               U19,736        96,204    215,940            5,192        4,196     9,388                     25
November 3, 1977



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tesechoacan Pilot Area (3,700 ha netl4,400 ha gross)
Annual OperaLion and Nlaintenance Cost (Civil Works) - 0 & N
0 & M Costs
Constr.    Total    Unskilled   Foreign                   Details of Irrigation Pump Operating Costs
Cost                  Labor     Exchange                                   H             l/
Peso '000                       Month   Ig-Gross      Dynamic Head Kwhr         @ Peso 0.25
Irrig.Demand       m         '000       per Kwhr
1.,. Watershed Flood Control Dike 19,500                                                   Mm                                    Peso '000
0.75% of Const. Cost                       146         30         28
Jan         1.21           5.15       26.1          6.5
2.  Drainage System               48,000                                         Feb        2.03            5.15       43.7         10.9
2% of Const. Cost                          960        288        268         Mar        3.58            5.15       77.1         19.3
Apr        4.11            5.15       88.5         22.1
3.  Natural Drains Improvement    25,300                                         May         -              5.15        -
1% of Const. Cost                          253         76         70         Jun        1.24           4.o0        20.75         5.2
Jul          .59           3.50        8.6          2.2
4.  Irrigation Svytem                                                            Aug        1.17            3.50       17.1          4.3
5% of DistriL_cion System     23,850     1,192        357        334         Sep        1.95            4.0G       32.6          8.2
1% of Headwork                   445         5         -          -          Oct        1.95           4.50        36.7          9.2
Pump Operation                 3,510       960          44       533         Nov        3.00            5.15       64.6         16.2
Dec          -             5.15        -
5.  Roads                         13,870                                                    20.83                     415.8        104.1
5% of Const. Cost                          693         173       290
6.  Buildings                        780                                         1/ Kwhr = Ig x 106 x 264 gal/min x Head m x 3.28 x 0.746
1%                                           8          5         -                         60 x 3,960 x .65
= 21,540 Ig for 5.15 m Head
7.  Flood Control Levee - 12km     2,700        30         30         -                  = 18,820 Ig for 4.50 m Head                                       o
= 16,730 Ig for 4.00 m Head
Subtotal             138,000     4,247      1,003      1,523                 = 14,640 Ig for 3.50 m Head
1/
Engineering & Adm. 10%        27,600       425         100       Q00         Summary of Costs                           Total     Foreign Exchange
165,600     4,672       1,103     1,523                                                               Peso '01)0
Physical Contingencies 15%     33,100 -     700         165       230         Energy for Pumping                          104          50%      52
2/                                      Operators 2 @ Peso   15O/d                  110           -        -
Total Cost                   198,700     5,372       1,268     1,753         Labor 2 @ Peso 60/d                          44           -        -
% As of Total 0 & M                                      23.6      32.6         Lubrication 0.002 lit/HP/hour @ Peso 22      25          80%      20
Per ha cost          Peso     53,700     1,450                               Grease 0.001 Kg/HP/hour @ Peso 70            40          80%      32
US$       2,340         63                              Repair 5% of pump cost                       175         60%     105
% As of Const. Cost                           2.7                               Depreciation of pump (15 years at 5%)       338          75%     255
836                 464
Miscellaneous 15%                            125                  69
Total pump operation cost              961          55%     533
1/  On 20% Basis
2/ Construction Only
b ,
Nov. 1, 1977                                                                                                                                                 r



MEXICO - TROPiCAL AGRICTiLTURAL t'ELcimtlr3r
PROPOSED CROPPING PATTERN AND WATER EQ' I RIYEhTS
TESECCACCATI Pilot Area (4,400 ha-gross/1,700 '-,-re
Surface     Cropped     Cropping
JAN     FEB     MAR     APR     MAY     JUN    JUL     AUG     SEP      O)CT   NOV     DEC       Area        Area      Intensity
Land Use                                                                    Dry Seaso.-                               Wet Seas      on-
DRa'-nfed Croaas30ba00a
Mango                                                              300 ha                                         300 ha                             300         300
Pasture                                                          1,300                                           1,300                              1 300      1 300
Subtotal                                              1,600                                           1,600                              1                       1003
irrigsted Crops                                                        800                                             700                                          1 500
C orn                                               __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ __                    __ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                    , 0
Rice                                                               300 (110 days) -                              1,300 (170 days)                               1,6no Transplant to Harvesting
Soyben                                                                                        10 90 days Irrigated for j
Soybeans                                            ____ ___ ____ ___ ___for_
Fallow Land                                                         600                                            100
Subtotal                                               2,100                                          2,100                              2,100      3,500         167
Total Area-net                                                         3,700                                          3,700                              3,700      5,100         138%
Consumptive Uses                                                                                                                                                Annual
Rainfall (Av. 1960-19,14)           mm                    35      25      30      25      35    270     350     245     240     185      75      50      1,565
Consumptive f r: Corn                                     50      70     155    170      -       -       75     112     145     117      -       -         895
Seasonal Total                                      445                                                  450 -
Rice                                   200     270     208     326      -      8o0    287     2145    283     2$6     222              2,650     (Including nursery, .coskirg,
Seasonal Total                                     1,079                                               1,573                                     pcnding & field percolation)
Soybeans                                30      50     140     130      -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -         350
Gross Irrigation Demands (at Po=o Heading) for Each Cron (Ig)
(at 65% Irrigation Efficiency)
Corn (Av. 1960-1974)                mm                    45      84     205     2140     -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -         574        Figares in bracket are for
(260) 31                                                                              the peak year
Rice (Av. 1960-1974)                                     260     380    1400     4   31   -       95     145     90    ( 1      (l0)   (280      -       2,260
-1, 500                                                760___ ___ ___ ___
Soybeans (Av. 1960-1974)             "                    18      54     184    190       -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -         446
(200) 3/
Ar. Project Irri,2ation Demand
Corn - DOD ha (Dry)                                      .36     .67    1.64    1.92      -       -       -       -       -      -       -       -         4.59
(2.08)
Rice - 300 ha (Dry); 1300 ha (Wet)                       .78    1.14    1.20    1.43           1.24      .59   1.17    1.95    1.95    3.00               14.45
(1.50)                                                  (-0
Soybeans - 400-ha (Dry)             0"                     7     .22     .714 .76                                                                          1.79
1,500 ha        1,300 ha                                             (.80)
Av. Projest Total                                       1.21    2.03    3.58    4.11            1*21     .59   1.17    1.95    1.95     3.00              2'J.83
Peak - It0                                                                     (4.38)                                                   (3.90)
- mi/ha irrigated/ month                           = 4.38 x 106t 1,530 = 3,000                            = 3.90 x l06e 1,300 = 3,000
Pump Capacity Requirement
HP =-Discharge in gal/min x Dynamic Head in feet                                                               Project Gross Irrigation Requirements
3,960 x Efficiency
Dry Season (1,500 ha) ----10.93 Mm3 (7,300 m31ha)
On a conservative basis, adopt 15-hr per day and 30-day per month oneration during Mar-Apr and Sep-Nov.                                          3         3
Peak Demand would be 4.38 x 1066- 30 x 15 x 3,600 = 2.70 m3/sec                                                Wet Season (1,300 ha) -X-- 9.90 Mm  (7,700 m /ha)
NP = 2.70 x 264 US gal x 60 min x (4.50m + 0.65 m losses) x 3.28 feet                                          Annual                    20.83 Mm3
3,960 x 0.65
= 280.77-- say 3Q0 HP
Use 3 Pumps @ 150 NP of 1.5 m3/sec (including one spare)
Nov. 1, 1977



-68-                             ANNEX 2
Table 8
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Major Civil Works Quantities anid Unit Prices
For Zapotal and Tesechoacan Pilot Projects
Unit Price Total Price
Unit     Quantity         Mex$       Mex$ '000
Clearing                            ha           347          3,500      1,215
Dirt Excavation - Dam                m3       77,000             24      1,848
t       r      - Structure          "         8,830             50        442
"       "      - New Drain          "I    1,920,800             32     61,466
it             - Floodway                   970,000             24     23,280
if             - Canal Ditches      "        90,500             20      1,810
Rip-rap                               "       32,000             60      1,920
Rip-rap Hauling                  m3-km     1,903,000              4      7,612
Dirt Fill -  core, canal             m3      538,000             30     16,140
"        -  pervious                "       86,400              35      3,024
Concrete (lean)                       '        9,236          1,600     14,777
Reinforced Steel                   ton           673          8,000      5,384
Reinforced Steel Placing            kg       673,000              3.2    2,154
Reinforced Steel Transportation ton-km        23,000              1.5       35
Cement                             ton         2,700          1,000      2,700
Cement Transportation           ton-km        92,100              1.5      138
Lining - main                        m3        5,400            900      4,860
Lining - Distributory                 "        4,000            730      2,920
Pump  150 HP                       Set             3      1,000,000      3,000
Sub-Station & Control                "             1        510,000        510
Road - Main                         km            60        400,000     24,000
Road - Secondary                    km            45        187,000      8,415
187,650
December 1, 1977



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
MEXICO                                 Table 9
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Equipment for Operation and'Maintenance
For Each Pilot Area
Unit Price -       Unit       Total Price
Peso, '00Q-
Bulldozer D6                                    2,031             1            2,031
Excavator 60 HP                                   543             1              543
Excavator 116 HP                                1,445             1            1,445
Motor Grader 125 HP                             1,154             1            1,154
Small Tractor 80 HP                               200             1              200
Dump Truck 4 m                                    302             1              302
3
Dump Truck 6 m                                    328             1              328
Pickup Truck 3/4 ton                              126             5              630
Motor Cycle                                        18             3               54
Road Roller 62 HP                                 457             1              457
7,144
Spare 25%                                                                     1,800
8,944
Handling & Contingencies 12%                                                  1,073
10,017
Say    10,000
1/ Net of Taxes and Duties
November 1, 1977



MEXICO - TROPICAL ACRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Schedule of Construction and AnnualExpenses
TOTAL
YR-1       YR-2        YR-3       YR-4       YR-S       YR-6                     5-Years
---------------------------Peso '000---------------P----------------------------Peso '000
Zapotal (4,100 ha-net)
Drainage                       5,000     36,000     11,032                                                    52,032
Roads                          2,000      9,000      7,545                                                    18,545
Buildings                        745                                                                              745
Preparation & Engineering      5,700      7,000      1,560                                                     14,260
0 & M Equipment                                      8,944                                                      8,944
0 & M During Construction                               440      1,127      1,6501     2,167                    3,217
Physical Contingencies         3,050     11 700       3,482        173        250        325                   18,655
Project Total              16,495     63,700     33,003       1,300      1,900      2,492                 116,398
November 2, 1977
H t1
0



.EXICO - TROPICAL AGRICUTTURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Schedule of Construction and Annual Expenditures
TOTAL
YR-1       YR-2       YR-3       YR-4       YR-5        YR-6                    5-Years
---------------------------Peso '000--------------- ---------------------------- Peso '000
Tesechaocan (3,700 ha-net)
Flood Control Storage Tank   19,504                                                                          19,504
Drainage                      5,000      30,000     13,006                                                   48,006
Irrigation                                          14,000     13,853                                        27,853
Roads                         1,500       8,500      3,870                                                   13,870
Buildings                       780                                                                             780
Natural Drain Improvement               17,000       8,301                                                   25,301
Improvement of Flood Levee               2,700                                                                2,700
Preparation & Engineering     8,300      8,300       7,000      4,003                                        27,603
0 & M Equipment                                      8,944                                                    8,944
0 & M During Construction                              860      2,200      3,200      4,672                   6,260
Physical Contingencies         7,000     13,300     10,436      3,883        500        700                  35,119
Project Total            42,084      79,800     66,417     23,939      3,700      5,372                 215,940
November 2, 1977                                                                                                      CD>



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research Program
Total Incremental Costs
Pesos ('000)                                  US$ ('000)
Local          Foreign         Total          Local         Foreign          Total          % FX       %7 Base Cost
Investment Costs
Civil Works                                       89,181         11,322        100,503            3,877           492           4,369          11            12.9
Vehicles                                          10,231         10,231          20,462             445           445             890          50             2.6
Farm Equipment                                     5,600          5,600          11,200             243           243             486          50             1.4
Scientific Equipment                               8,224         24,675         32,899              358         1,073           1,431          75             4.2
Chemical Reagents                                    -            1,688          1,688              -              73              73         100             0.2
Office Equipment                                   2,989          1,281          4,270              130            56             186          30             0.6
Information & Documentation Equipment              2,114          2,114          4,228               92            92             184          50             0.6
Aircraft                                             -           12,000          12,000             -             522             522         100             1.5
Land                                              40,y0O0           -           40,000            1,739           -             1,739           0   .         5.2
Sub-total Development Costs                    158,339         68,911        227,250            6,884         2,996           9,880          66            29.3
Technical Services Costs
Research Specialists                               7,173         40,644         47,817              312         1,767           2,079          85             6.2
Scholarships                                         -           36,816         36,816              -           1,601           1,601         100             4.7
Special Analyses & Servicing Equipment             1,736            744           2,480              75            32             107          30             0.3
Library Services (CSAT)                              460          4,140           4,600              20           180             200           90             0.6
Sub-total Technical Services Costs               9,369         82,344          91,713             407         3,580           3,987           90            11.8
Operacional Costs
Incremental Salaries                             292,825            -           292,825          12,732           -            12,732           0             37.7
Other Operational Costs                          131,580         32,895         164,475           5,721         1,430           7,151          20             21.2
Sub-total Operational Costs                    424,405         32,895         457,300          18,453         1,430          19,883            7            58.9
BASE COST                                          592,113        184,150         776,263          25,744         8,006          33,750           24           100.0
Physical Contingency
Provision for Price Increase
TOTAL PROGRAM COST
NShaw:fk
October 11, 1977                                                                                      -



4<
0       0  0  0  0'a'a'a04        0'a000440000     0'a00   0440   0  00     'a'a'aC     440 440  040'a   00 -4.00  00-0    0   0
'ao'a'a'ao 'a                                                           .-,.4-.4--a'a 'ao 'a 'a
0                 4       0  0  'a 0  0'a00 'a      0000000000       o-aOo   000   0   'a0 N     0  0  'a'a  0'a  00  0 'a'a  4-400'a0 'aC 4--  0  0
'a 0 0 0 -acOco           --000a0 'a'aO'a NOC -J NO 'a                                                     0- 0 'a
N  0  4- 'a 0000, 'a      0-0440- 0'a0N4,-400,-4NON                    -a 'a 40   'aN  N40 00 -a   --.44-N  NO 4--    0  N
o       -------<------------*--------                                                                                         -
4-4     N'aNONN 0-ajo               N'a       N4444N 'a -a - 0                   44      N'a'aN'a 'a0-N           -aN 'a   0
'a'aN40                               -       - N                              -'  N'a       'a'a   -a  N
0  'aCOOl N      40000000000      000'a   000  'a -.44-0 'a  'a 0 'a'a 'a'a 'aN      -0 'a4444-4.0- .00 'a     4
N  00001 N       'a 04-a4--'a0'a4--0  -ONO-  000  'a 40 -    -0 'a 'a4   0 'a'a-a'a4--'a     -.0.0  40 'a      -
'aN.44'a'a0.a'a           'aN'a'aNN40a'a-'a-0-N00N40'a                'a'a    NON'a'aN'a'a        440.40- 40'a     404.
4  4414        44.-44NN4        N       'a'a-NN'a             4      N'a'a'a40N.a4.4          'aN 4.      'a
0 -0                                 4  N       4 'a      'a
'a 0  -0 0   -.4.0001 -   0000000000       0-a  N  000   -a    I,-.-.  N  0  'a 'a4--.N'a4--'a.-440.a'aa        'a    0  'a
N  0  'a 'a -.oooI o     'a o-o-ar-'ao'a,-0  -aN  0 'a00  'a 'a 4--  4  'a N.-4 'a  4-0'a4'a'aON      'a 4   'a    0  N
0       'a'a4'aN-o0.0 -          'aN'a'a'a4-.-'a'a-.a'a4'a4.-..'a 00  'a 44 'a  4aN'a4'a'aN'a.aN'aN            404 44 -4    0   'a
o       N  -a 0  'a --.o'a1'a       .-..-4.-4  N.-,         'a'a  N  N  -.0                   4            ON'a  N  N   'a   0  'a
'a           'a     'a-.----.f'a                                                                           -            N        'a
04
I                                0  000     00                         0      0          0   0        N   0  ON        N        N'
0    0  a       -a                               'a 'a'a'a  -00                         -a    'a         4-N  0        4--   'aN        -        4
310         0
'a  4404        a-
 - 
0  000     00                          0     0          ON   0   0   N   0  ON        N        N
4-4    'a                                'a  'a  'a  N'a                        'a    'a           N  0    'a  0   'a  'a N     'a      40
N  N'aN    -a'a4  4444444444           'a        4   4   'a 'a4  N   'a 'a4 N444      N        N
N                             'a  N  4         4        -0
0  'a     0-0001 'a      00       00           000   0   .0 .0     0          ON  0        N   OOONO       'a    0   N
N          0         NOOOI'a      N  'a'a     'aN          -000  'a  4   'a   'a          NN  0        -a'a440N44N           0   'a
4       4 N   -4    000040       -.0 4NN4    'aN        4 'aCO   0  44 0      'a     4     'a 'at      4    4-. 44-NO  44 N  0  'a
>4          -  -     ---.4 -                                 0                                      -
N  N      'a'aoNj4O                              'a'a  N  N   'a                           .-  N'a'a  N  'a 4--  0
0  0  0  0   o-ooo -a     oooooooooo       0400    000   0   -.00 'a   0  0  'a'a ON  00   0'a 'a  NOONO    -0o N    0
0 'a 0 NOOO 'a 00'a'a.4C40 4404.4.4 'a'a0'a -000 'a 40 0 'a -a 4'a 'aN 'a'a.0'a'a 0'a-0N440-.0 0 'a
-    N   0000 N       '0'a0--00N0- - NN-.0-.04'a 00  0  40 N      4  'a 40   -0-'a 440  No 'a  'a'a04--N  40 'a  0  'a
4-, N  N  'a               N    N'a.4  4     N       'aN  N  NN 4-        44N'a'a.0N               04---0NNN 'a      0   'a
4  'a                                             4a                              4   ,-4 N      4 'a    N  N
4.4                         I
0        0  0  'a 0   ONOO
0,4-4    N'a4'a-00 0                                                           0
00        -  -         -  . .                                                  a                                    0
0                          1                                         4         0                                    0
00       'a  'a  'a  'a'a'a'a                                                                                      4-4       4
40                          4                                        0         0                               'a   0
0          0       'a              40                               00   .4         0
oa                          44 0       0       0     0          0         a                     o.ooo           a
44    000                    044   0  0    44 0       0 40 -.                     0                    -.4000    44   4
0 40 4044                    000   0 'a    0  00      0      .4       -o         -.4                  0000        0    'a
44    0044   00              0--.4--4 0, .4  0  0.000  0. 'a  0        0         'a                   00'000-0   .0    0
0  4         044   0         -4.0.0 -4400,4000-4-4       00            04-400.44.4-, 'a     4-4       00400.     0     0
.0 44  .0-., 0.40  0         000                0000000                0000004000                     0  0-4440   0    'a
0  0  >o.4a  44040 --4       0>>-          040o   000   .440      .00   0 a -00---00     0        040'aOo
0  0  440   .440000          044   040>  04.4 0400,0 444440-.  0        0  0   0 00000     00        -.40  0-4   -a   'a
O  0  -400   000   044         040   0  000     0,40    0-   aa        00- 0, 0, 440.000- 00.       ,44.-4040  0       a  0
4044   0  0 .4 0 444         4.40  000,444.44  .40400  440,0  00.      a4  --4.44  0,.,40044  0.44  00-4    0 4.4 'a   0  0
040   004000404-.' 0         o444,.--- 'a.00  'a 0-40 'a..o0j.-.-.  -0  000000   00000    00       -.40004000    0    0  0
044'a000            040000.4444400 040'a04  '-44044-00    4.4  00-00-00- 040-4400- 00-      0  0-4444044 0     0  4.4
0  0'a444--0-'4'a04-40'a 00.,0-04400         004404004    0404404  004     40004000     0    44
44   4.404-000    'a .0 40440.0.-0-400     40000-"-.400 L44- 'a     0- 'a  0    'a 44   'a        'a4444-4--044 0,  0  0
o04  o.--44004     .o-  0  004000    'a0  -0 oa-.oooo     -4-        004.40.4   OUcco     00       4400.04--.00,04-0  0, 0
.400000    40440-    0 0-4044>000            40040440 -000.4            -.-4444000  4       0       044.444440--.40 0  0  0
0'a00000O4-'44          .00.00  'a.4'a  4.40.0-4 040'a.0-4-.4-' 0004-0'-4--00.-'a40,0'a0                 0   0-  04  0
04.4 40400   40000.04044044.4-000     40    0040,-04.4.40--.4-00 4      -4444440-404
o'a.oo'a.0ooo-oo44     a 0-'a0    040-0  0444-'a4.4000-4-04.:.--'a-.4  .044..444.0..44J...4-.-' 0  000000040       0  0
0440404-4'a0.00,0444'a  0     4-440    0   0       0,          404   'a   a0000-0000. 000400044                     0  'a
.0  000444444400.40040>0         440   >4400404444044444             0 004440444004444.4400              00000000      44  40  0
44 40.0  000,404.4.04404400        0400    004 'a      04           440    o-o--4--..4444-4-0--44- .0 4.4  00000'a000
00444-04,00000000440                       0                    44 0     44.4-44444-4444444444      444444,44    0    4  0
0  0 .0400   .044  0       0           44    00- 44440444--'a4004404-444   44.044.044.440.00
04444.0      004  0'a444  4440-. Z    'a                0414-                 4-   444 40404-44-4.0 40.0  4  4
00          40.00    400     0,0.4       44                                 44   -.    440044440004



-74
MEXICO                                  Ml 2-f
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NTorhofool SoonP-4o, Coot,
-o. P-     02      PY-3    744     7-      -'f....  Unit Cost  T-1o C..,
- 7,,,,p..  ('000)  ----
Ri..o                      .75              0.75     --2.5                   1,640    402
01  ~,  ,dCOO47       0.75    1.0:--1705                                 61      2,01
I,o  0  ob.          .       -    0  I        -        -1.            0610     3,220
....4                 0.5      -0.5             --10                     ,60     161
IponS4000   4 05-         05--10                            1,610   14,610
9      4 5              0.75                     2.,25   1,61     3,622
Plo.1.. g-4 -Rd 0.o ofOW-., 4  0.5  0.5      ---1.0                          3,ol    1,610
S"b-woo  Speol ll   P.o-Yoo-  6.5  1.5     3.5      --              1.
Sob-loto  Sp ooi t CooCo
I7.... '0005            10,465   2.415   5.635                                     1 8 515
P400              14      07,7    0.6      0,6     0.               2.0     1,610    3,220
Sf0400040      6      0.35     0,5     0.35    0.35      -.             1,610     ,5
Btoo  o-oo,42              0,5      -        -       -               0,I     4,610     005
CEPOcOo_y of Ropt -to.,  2  05     0,55         -   -                .0     46~10     ,610
I,rdOIo  Oo o14       0.35     1.55    0.55    0.25     -2.02           1,610    3,542
TOkboon  0,,e40           0.6     0.6      0.5     0.45     -        .     .j~0      3.301
0 -oSOpoootNo4.,3.0         3.4     1.65     1.43             9.2
Sob- .to Sp  al,4io  C.o.
(Poe-  10005             4,3     5.474    2.656   1 j852                           14 012
IN0F
Opo41Aoooo ,dd  16     5.0     1.5      1.5     1.5     8. .0            1.610   12 800
1.-o  1OoOlO  2o-or   .0      4.5     5.5      1.5     1.,      0.0
(Ro-t,  4014             3.220   2.445    2,415   2.415   2,415                    12 800
0 vk- h)0,5                            -0.5             -1.0           1,610    1,610
(P....  '000)           - -       005     -         05     -1,610
10.,, 0,11,  Moo-To.-  *Sj,,,,  6.9     6.65    3.15     0.5    -29.7
14b-oooo Spoooo.11lot G0,-
7P-,0 .0005                00.515  14.109  10,706   5,072    2 415                   47,8o?
S1-l ... __p_
RIo                 4      2,0      3.0     3.0     4.0      .9.0             416     3,744
04Iooo,  ooo          0.0      2,0  0                   -4.0             416      ,664
lon  o  oboo    4       --              10                        I 10     416      416
Fooo3                 1,0      2.0     5.0     1.0      -6.0             4116    3,496
Moog." ooot ood Iso  f W,,-- 1  -   0,0     1,0      -2.0                     416      032
Sh-oo-4o 03-6 -oohob)
060  Po  C n  440,         0.25     D,25    -                        0.5      416      200
Bo,04 oboo15    05      05       0.75    0.75     0.75    3.25     416     4,352
P'-ogo             10      1.0      1.0     4,0     4.0     1.0      5.0      416     5,000
400,                  0.5      0.5     0.5     0.1      -       2.0      416     8032
Sp00  onS   R,6,    0      05      0 00.5           0.5      -2.0             416      032
Sob-o,o1 Schol1-hbp
M.-n-fon         52      6.75    10.75   10.75    4.75     1.75    34.75
Sob-otrol ScIo,O...ohip C.-4
(Poo .. ' 000)           2,000   4,472    4.472   1.976     728                    14.4_66
111 Sy.s- eo.-6 n...td  )
Poo....            7      0.75    0,5      0,22    0.35     .,75             416      P2,0
AifoloI  ie                0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5      -       2.       416B 32
Bod  lpo oor2              0.5      0.5     --                       1,0      416      416
EfElnonoyof Oo   od,oo4o  6  1,0    1.0     0.5     0,5      .3,73            446     4,240
Ropoodoorono- Di,oo,oo   4  0.5     0.5     0.4    _0.5      -2.0             416      832
S.b--oco Sobol ...hip
0._Y__o          27      3.25    3.0      1.75    1.75     -9.75
S,.b-t,4 SoholooshOp Co.-
fP,tooo  '000)           1.352   1.248     728     728     -4.056                   4.056
SNIF  L,0-t-,        5      10       3.0     3.0     2.7      1.0     10.0     446     4.160
0,6-4,4,4 Scholotohip M.o-Y5,o- S  1,0,l,,  3.0  3.0  2,0    1.0    100.
S0b--001 Schoso-hip Co.-
(P.!.-  .000)             -406    1.248    1.248    832      4064.                     0
COAT  L000-400       14     4.0      0.0 .0   0       .0      4,0     34.0     406     14,144
264.4Soh.  :ohip M_eYes_o  4.0   0.0     00.0    0.0      4.
Sob-'oco  Sobolocoip 40,4,40
lPeo-  '000)              1.664   3.328    4.160   3.328    1.664                   14.144
1--~6 .  ,  ~ as15.0          24.75   25.5     16,5     6.75   68.5
laso  'ISO)                6.240   10.296   10.608  6,6      2,0                      36.816
409.,Th0091t, 4,t,o,o ,,,,.0.0 ('0005
lPf900oooo,o0  toEopoon   275     275     275      275     -                        1,500
M.ly  ,460                          -920             --130
Sob-oo',                   735      275    1.195    275                              2,8
CIAT  b-0.boy (boo,k., p-ifdloo4o,                            -                         ,8
......01                    920     920     920      920'    920                     4.600
Toto  01604: Teoh,Lool. So-nr,,. Coot,  1.655  1.195  2,115  1.195  9507.0
TOTA0. TECHNICAL 8405441COS~2STS  26.410  22.600  23.429  1,1 131  6.143                91.713
I014                          N.,     PT-1    PY-2     PR3     p0-4     74-5
Ph,.D.    (o00foo  3 ye--)14
0..  1eol*Ie  2s.,,)    I0        3       43
(.oo  oo0Io4o  300 6 -0,,6,)  41  99              9        9     ____
J.b0-4,- 1                 52       43      13       12       9       5
-on.io,1oo  Seoosooo.  (3I004,t.)  15  5      4       3        3-
NA.o,oSo IoI, ..o  6  oNbo  12    44                   2    2-
Oboo427                      88               5        5-
M..S.  p-IoL-ooiooo(  y,o-o)  5      I        2       11
COAT
Ph.D, Sp..fi.li..ti..  (S y-oo)  6   25           2   2
M.. Spoolaoe (2 ot)          8       22               2                -
06 ,,114                     4        4       4        2-
C,oP               5       5        517              5
4977



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research Program
Operational Costs
(Pesos '000)
Pre-Project              PY-1                   PY-2                  rY-3                  PY-4                   PY-5                Program
No.      Salary       No.      Salary        No.     Salary        No.      Salary       No.      Salar         N,      Salary            Costs
Salaries of Program Staff
Rice                          Salaries per module @ 689(1)    4       2,756          9      6,201         12       8,268        14       9,646         18      12,402        18      12,402           48,919
Oil Palm and Coconut                                          6       4134-         13      8,957         17      11,713        21      14,469         29      19,181        29      19,981           75,101
Beans and Soybeans                                            6       4,134         13      8,957         17      11,713        2i      14,469         28     19,292         28      19,292           73,723
Cassava                                                       0         -            6      4,134          6       4,134         8       5,512         11       7,579        11       7,579           28,938
Spices and Rubber                                             0         -            7      4,823          7       4,823        10       6,890         14       9,646        14       9,646           35,828
Forages                                                      12       8,268         20      13,780        24      16,536        28      19,292         33      22,737        33      22,737           95,082
Management and Use of Water                                   2       1,378          4      2,756          4       2,756         4       2,756          4       2,756         4       2,756           13,780
New Experiment Stations                                       -         -            4       2,756         8       5,512         8       5,512          8      5,512          8       5,512           24,804
Sub-total                                                  30      20,670         76      52,364        95      65,455        114     78,546        145      99,905       145      99,905          396,175
INIP (No local salaries in project) 1"                         50      34,450          -        -            -         -           -         -            -        -            -         -               -
Sub-total Salaries                                                  55,120                52,364                65,455                78,546                 99,905                99,905          396,175
Other Operational Costs
INIA
Rice                          Costs per module @ 387(1)               1,548                  3,483                 4,644                 5,418                  6,966                 6,966           27,477
Oil Palm and Coconut                                                  2,322                  5,031                 6,579                 8,127                 11,223                11,223           42,183
Beans and Soybeans                                                    2,322                  5,031                 6,579                 8,127                 10,836                10,836           41,409
Cassava                                                                 -                    2,322                 2,322                 3,096                  4,257                 4,257           16,254
Spices and Rubber                                                       -                    2,709                 2,709                 3,870                  5,418                 5,418           20,124
Forages                                                               4,644                  7,740                 9,288                10,836                 12,771                12,771           53,406
Management and Use of Water                                             774                  1,548                 1,548                 1,548                  1,548                 1,548            7,740
NeJw Experiment Stations                                                -                    1,548                 3,096                 3,096                  3,096                 3,096           13,932
Sub-total                                                          11,610                 29,412                36,765                44,118                 56,115                56,115           222,525
INIP                                                                   19.350                   -                      -                     -                      -                     -               -
Sub-total Other Operationel Costs                                  30,960                 29,412                36,765                44,118                 56,115                56,115           222,525
Total Operational Costs                                                86,080                 81,776               102,220               122,664                156,020               156,020          618,700
Incremental Operational Costs (Over Pre-project)
Incremental Salaries                                                                         31,694                 44,785                57,876                 79,235                79,235          292,825
Incremental Other Operational Costs                                                           17,802                25,155                32,508                 44,505                44,505           164,475
Total Incremental Operational Costs                                                           49,496                69,940                90,384                123,740               123,740          457,300
11 No increases in local staff or operating costs envisaged for INIP under project.                                                                     -
NSha-w:fk                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ix
October 10, 1977                                                                                                                                                                                                U,



ANNEX 2
- 76 -                       Table 16
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICTULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research Program
1/
INIA - Costs Per Research Module
Pesos ('000)
Salaries
Investtgador (1 x 260)                                              260
Ayudante (1 x 104)                                                   104
Trabajador de campo (4 x 65)                                         260
Secretaria (l x 65)                                                  65
689
Other Operational Costs
Social Security Costs, Life Insurance, Leave Loaditigs               99
Office Supplies                                                      20
Laboratory Equipment and Supplies                                    30
Field Equipment and Supplies                                         50
Vehicle Operation and Repairs                                        54
Information and Documentation2/                                      27
Travel                                                               47
Other Administrative Overheads                                       60
387
1,076
1/ Calculated on the basis of costs per Investigador.
2/ Includes a proportionate share of new library books and journal
subscriptions.



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research Program
Phased Total Incremental Program Costs
(Pesos '000)
Total
PY-1           PY-2            PY-3           PY-4            PY-5           Local         Foreign          Total           FX
Investment Costs
Civil Works                              53,534         46,969             -              -              -            89,181          11,322        100,503           11
Vehicles                                 10,802          2,660           2,660          4,340            -            10,231          10,231         20,462           50
Farm Equipment                            7,950          3,250             -              -               -            5,600           5,600         11,200           50
Scientific Equipment                     24,049          6,820           1,280            750            -             8,224          24,675        32,899            75
Chemical Reagents                           722            322             322            322            -               -             1,688          1,688          100
Office Equipment                          2,210          2,060             -              -              -             2,9a9           1,281          4,270           30
Information & Documentation Equipment     2,114          2,114             -                             -             2,114           2,114          4,228           50
Aircraft                                 12,000            -                              ---                                         12,000         12,000          100
Land                                     20,000         20,000             -              -               -           40,000             -           40,000            0
Sub-total Development Costs           133,381         84,195           4,262          5,412            -           158,339          68,911        227,250           66
Technical Services Costs
Research Specialists                     18,515         11,109         10,706           5,072          2,415           7,173          40,644        47,817            85
Scholarships                              6,240         10,296          10,608          6,864          2,808             -            36,816         36,816          100
Special Analyses & Servicing Equipment      735            275           1,195            275            -             1,736             744          2,480           30
Library Services (CSAT)                     920            920             920            920             920            460           4,140          4,600           90
Sub0total Techn'cal Services Costs     26,410         22,600          23,429         13,131          6,143           9,369          82,344         91,713           90
Operational Costs
Incremenual Saiaries                     31,694         44,785         57,876          79,235         79,235         292,825             -          292,825            0
Other Operational Costs                  17,802         25,155          32,508         44,505         44,505         131,580          32,895        164,475           20
Sub-total Operational Costs            49,496         69,940          90,384        123,740        123,740         424,405          32,895        457,300            7
BASE COST                                 2Z9,?87        176,735         118,075        142,283         129,883        592,113          184,150       776,263           24
Physical Concingency 1/                    13,338          8,420             426            541            -             7,725          15,000         22,725           66
Provision for Price Increase              15,676          27,504         27,925          45,968         53,989        130,007           41,055       171,062            24
TOTAL PROGRAJ1 COST                       238,301        212,659        146,426        188,792         183,872        729,895          240,155       970,050           225
1/  At 10% of Development Cost.
NShaw:fk
October 11, 1977



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Services Training Center, Investment and Operating Costs
(Mex . $'000)
Years           -                                        Foreign Exchange
Investment Items                               Unit       Unit Cost           1             2             3             4             5           Total          Z            Total
I.   Site Purchase                                                  n.a.            25          1,000           -             -             -             -           1000          -
II. Buildings
Mi)    Library and Conference Rooms                           M2               4.5         1,000        4,000          1,750           -             -           6,750          10             675
(ii)   Classrooms and Demonstration Areas                     M2               4.5        4,750          4,750           -                                       9,500          10             950
(iii)  Laboratories ard Greenhouses                           M22              5.0        1,000          3,000         1,000           -             -           5,000          50           2,500
(iv)   Ad.in.st,3cive/Evaluation Facilities                   M2               4.5           -           2,500         2,000           -             -           4,500          10             200
(v)    Furniture                                               -               -             -          1,300          1,300           -             -           2,600          10             200
(vi)   Dining/Recreational Facilities                         M2               4.5         1,500          300            -             -             -           1,800          10             180
(vii)  Architectural Costs                                                                   800           -             -             -             -             800          -
Sub-total                                                                      9,050        15,850         6,050           -             -          30,950          15           4,705
III. Machinery and Equipmenc
(i)    Pickup Trucks                                          No              125           600            -             -             -             -             600          50             300
(ii)   Tractor                                                No             215             215           -             -                           -             215          50             107
(iii)  Implemencs                                                               -            100           -             -                           -             100          50              50
(iv)   Teaching Equipment, Visual Aids Etc.l/                  -               -             '00         2,000         1,500           -             -           3,600          70           2,520
(v)    Tractor Truck Operation and Maintenance                90                2%           163           163           163           163           163           &15          30             244
Sub-total                                                                      1,178         2,163         1,663           163           163         5,330           60           3,221
IV. Staff Salaries
(i)    Professional Training Staff
(a)  Coordination                                      No             260             260           260           260           260           260         1,300
(b) Evaluation                                         No              260            260           260           260           260           260         1,300
(c)  Extension Techniques                              No             260            520          1,040         1,040         1,040         1,040         4,680
(ii)   Administrative Staff
Ca)  Administrative Officer                            No             260             260           260           260           260           260         1,300
(b)  Secretaries                                       No              65             260           455           455           455           455         2,080
(c) Laboratory/Field Assistants                        No              104           416            832           832           832           832         3,744
(d) Laborers                                                           65             650           650           650           650           650         3,250
Sub-total                                                                      2,626         3,757         3,757         3,757          3,757        17,654          -
TOTAL                                                                         13,854        21,770        11,470         3,920         3,920        54,934           14           7,926
Physical Contingency 10                                                                   1,385         2,177         1,147            392           392         5,493          14             769
Cost Contigency                                                                            1,143         3,727         3,013         1,392          1,791        11,066          14           1,549
GRAND TOTAL with Contingencies                                                       16,382        27,674        15,630         5,704          6,103        71,49i          14          10,244
1/ At Mex,$500,000/professional
Rililford: fk
November 4, 1977



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension Services for a Pilot Project Area of Influence;l/
Investment and Operating Costs
(Mex.$ ' 000)
Years                                                       V or-ign Lxchan.e
Investment Items                                 Unit        Unit Cost          1            2             3             4             5            Total            '         Amount
I.   salaries                                                     man/year
(a) Professionals
(i)  Extensioniscs2/                                    man/year        200            1,200         2,400         2,400         2,4U0         2,400        10,800          -             -
(ii)  Experimer.rali! cs, Field Trials                   man/year        260              780           780           780           780           780         3,900          -             -
(iii)  Program Coordinator                                man/year        260              260           260           260           260           260         1,300          -             -
(iv)  Program Evaluation Officer                         man/year        200              200           200           200           200           200         1,000          -             -
(b)  Non-Professor-.al
(i)  Field Assistants (Peritos)                         man/year        104            3,744         6,240         6,240         6,240         6,240        28,704                        -
(ii)  Secretaries                                        man/year         65              390           585           585           585           585         2,730           -            -
(iii)  Laborers                                           man/year          65             520           780           780           780           780         3, 640-                       -
Sub-total                                                                                                                                         52,074
II. Veniclazz
(i)   PLckup Trucks                                              No          125            1,375           750           -             -                          2,125         50           1,062
(ii)  Motor Cycles                                                             17             612           408           -             -             -           1,020          50            510
(i'i) Vehicle Maintenance and Operation                          L           20              394           625           629           629           629         2,910           30            873
Sub-total                                                                                                                                           6,055          40          2,445   9
III.  t.Eerials and Equipmenc                                                                      770         1,120         1,120         1,120          1,120         5,250          70          3,675
Total                                                                       10,245        14,152        12,994        12,994        12,994         63,379          10          6,120
Physical Contingencies 57-/                                                                   157           145            87             87            87           563          10             56
Cost Contingency                                                                              749         2,225         3,093         4,225          5,956        16,248          10          1,624
GRAND TOTAL wir?l Contingencies                                             11,151        16,522        16,174         17,306        19,037        30,190          10          7,800
1/ About 100,000 hr.
2/ Includes Experienced Staff at Mex.$200,000 p.a. and Trainee Staff at Mex.$100,000 p.a.
3/ Physical rontingency Vehicles and Equipments only
RMilford:fk
November 4, 1977



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dual Purpose Livestock Development
(150 ha Module)
Mex.$ '000
Cost        Number           Cost
per         of Units         per
Investment Items                                     Unit        Unit       per Module       Module        Year of Investment          Foreign Exchange
1            2            %       Mex.$'000
1. Pastures
a. Establishment grass.*legunes mixtures       Hectare         5           100            500           500                        20          80
b. Rehabilitation                              Hectare         2            50            100           100                        15          15
Sub total                                                                  600           600
2.  Construction and Inscallations
a. Fences                                      Km            11              9.5          105           105                        10          10.5
b. Corral and Milking Parlour                  Unit          55              1             55            55                        15           8.3
c. Watering facilities
Troughs                                Unit          12              7             84            84
Well                                   Unit          30              1             30            30
Dip                                    Unit          45              1             45            45
Subtotal                                                                  319            319
0o
3. Machinery and Equipment
a. Milking machines                            Unit         150               .3           50            50                        80          40
b. R. frigerated tank                          Unit          50               .3           17            17                        65          12
c. Feed chopper                                Unit          20              1             20                        20            65          13
d. Farmn cart                                  Unit          10              1             10                        10             5             .5
e. Mliscellaneous                              Unit          28              1             28                        18            50          14
Subtotal                                                                   125            77          48
4.  Breeding Stock
a. Pregnant heifers
Cross Breed                           Unit           8             50            400                       400            30         120
Local                                 Unit           6            150            900                       900
b. Bualls                                      Unit          20              6            120                       120            50          60
Subtotal                                                                 1,420                     1,420
SUBTOTAL                                                                                2,464           996       1, 468           15         373
5. Physical Contingency (10%)                                                                 246.4          99.6       147
TOTAL                                                                    2,710         1,095       1,615                        36
409



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICUILTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dual Purpose Livestock 'Development
(150 ha module) 1/
-------------------------------------------------Development Years -----------------------------------------------------
Unit           1               2          3          4          5           6          7          8          9          10          11
1. Herd Composition
a. Cows cross bred                        "            50             50         49          48         59         88         128         173        220        220        220
b. Cows local                             "           150            150         147        144        179        141          108         57         -          -          -
c. Heifers (cross bred
*     pregnant)                           "            -              -          -           12         36         53          68          70         50         50         50
d. He:.fers (local,
pregnant)                           "-                                                 39          -          -            -          -3
e. Heifers (cross bred, 1-2 years)        "            -              -          20          56         76         98         102         113        116         99         99
f.  Heifers (local, 1-2 years)            "                           -           62          -          -          -            -          -         -          -           -
g. Steers (1-2 years)                     "                           -          82          56         76         98          72          40         66         81         81
h. Calves (females, cross bred)                                       21          59         78        101        105          116        119        102        102         102
i.  Calves (female, local)                "                           64          -           -          -          -            -          -          -          -           -
j.  Calves (male)                                                     85         59          78        101        105          116        119        102        102         102
k. Bulls                                                               6           6          6          6          6            6          6          6           6          6
1. Total animals                                                     376         484        517        634        694          716        697        662        660         660
m. Total animal units                                                206         366        361        432        484          484        453        452        450         450
2. Mortality
a. Adults                                 '                            4          9           7          9         10            9          9          8          8           8
b. Calves                                                              7           6          4          6          6            6          6          6           6          6
3. Purchases
a. Cows/Heifers (cross bred,
pre gna n t)                                       50
b.  Cows/Heifers (local, pregnant)                      150
c.  Bulls                                                              6          2           2          2          2            2          2          2          2           2
4.  Sales
a. Steers (i year)                        "               -            -          -           -          -         58           93         50         18         18          18
b. Steers (2 years)                                       -            -          80         55         74          96          70         39         65          80         80
c. Cull cows                                                                                            40       10 + 30        69         76         45          45         45
d. Cull bulls                                                                      2          2          2           2           2          2           2          2          2
e.  Cull heifers                                                                  28         19         23         30           30         6C         63          47         47
f. Milk ('000 lt)                                                    130         127        125        178        229          330        268        396         396        396
5. Production coeficients
a. Weaning (%)                                                                    60         65         70         70           70         70         70          70         70
b. Mortality adults(%)                                    3            3           2          2          2           2           2          2           2          2          2
c. Mortality calves(%)                                    5            5           4          3          3           3           3          3           3          3          3
650        650         650        750       1000         1400       1600       1600        1800       1800
1/  For before development situation see footnote 1 Table 22.
Mx



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dual Purpose Livestock Development 1/
Projection of Sales and Operating Costs for 150 has Module
Mex. $
Price
1. SALES                            Salary           1              2              3             4              5             6              7              8             9             10            11
a. Steers 1 year                2,500/head          -             -              -             -              -            145.000       232,500        125,000        45,000         45,000        45,000
b. Steers 2 year                6,000/head          -             -            480,000       330,000        444,000        576,000       420,000        234,000        390,000       480,000        480,000
c. 'Heifers                     4,500/head          -             -            126,000        85,500        103,500        135,000       135,000        270,000       283,500        211,500        211,500
d. Cull Cows                    5,000/head          -             -              -             -            200,000        200,000       345,000        380,000        225,000       225,000        225,000
e. Cull Bulls                   6,000/heat.         -             -             12,000        12,000         12,000         12,000        12,000         12,000         12,000        12,000         12,000
f. Milk                         (3.80/1c.)          -           494,000        482,600       475,000        676,400        870,200     1,254,000      1,398,400     1,504,800      1,504,800      1,504,400
Total                                      -           494,000      1,100,600        902,500     1,435,900      1,938,200      2,398,500     2,419,400      2,460,300     2,478,300      2,478,300
2. PRODUCTION COSTS
a. Wages Administration   2/   50,000/year         50,000        50,000         50,000        50,000         50,000         50,000        50,000         50,000         50,000        50,000         50,000
b. Farm Laborers & Milkers-    22,000/year        100,000       175,000       1W5,000         200,000       ZU0,000        200,000       225,000        225,000        225,000       225,000        225,000
c. Mineral Supplements             65/head          -            13,390         23,790        23,465         28,080         31,460        31,460         29,445         29,380,       29,250         29,250
d. 11eterinary Medicines
and Vaccines                150/head          -            30,900         54,900         54,150        64,800         72,600         72,600        67,950         67,800        67,500         67,500  C
e. Calf Feeds                     400/head          -            68,000         47,200        62,400         80,800         84,000        92,800         95,200         81,600        81,600         81,600
f. Fertilizers                    450/ha           13,500        22,500         22,500         22,500        22,500         22,500         22,500        22,500         22,500        22,500         22,500
g. Maintenance                 10,000              10,000        10,000         10,000         10,000        10,000         10,000        10,000         10,000         10,000        10,000         10,000
h. Insurance                      200/head          -            75,200         96,800        103,400       126,800        138,800        143,200       139,400        132,400       132,000        132,000
i.  Bull Purchase              20,000               -             -             40,000        40,000         40,000         40,000        40,000         40,000         40,000        40,000         40,000
j, Urea Molasses Supplement       200/a.u.          -            41,200         73,200         72,200        86,400         96,800        96,800         90,600         90,400        90,000         90;000
Sub-total                                173,500        486,190       593,390        638,115        709,380       746,160        784,360        770,095       749,080        747,850       747,850
1/ Before development livestock production was carried out by individuals with small herds allowed to graze available
pasture lands inside and outside the pilot project areas in an uncontrolled fashion. Reliable dat. oGn stocki jS
rates and production coefficients are not available but based on socio-economic studies done in conjunciron with                                                                                     13 ;
the feasibility studies of the pilot project areas the net return for this type of extensive management is about
Mex.~ 500/ha. .                                                                                                                                                                                       c x
2/ 1st year: 4, 2nd year: 7, 3rd year: 7, 4th-6th year: 8, 7th-llth year: 9.
1/ 1st year: 4
2nd year: 7
3rd year: 7
4th - 6th year: 8
7th - 11th year: 9
October 5, 1977



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dual Purpose Livestock (150 ha Module)
Financial Rate of Return
(Mex $ 'OOs)
-----------------------------------------Years------------------------------------------------------------------Y
1         2         3        4         5         6         7         8         9         10       11       12-20
1. Gross Value of Production          -         494.0   1,100.6   902.5   1,435.9   1,938.2   2,398.5   2,419.4   2,460.3   2,478.3   2,478.3   2,,78.3
2. Benefits Without Project           -         105.0     105.0   105.0     105.0     105.0     105.0     105.0     105.0     105.0     105.0     105.0
3.  Production Costs                 173.5      486.2     593.4   638.1     709.4     746.2     784.4     770.1     749.1.    747.9     747.9     747.9
4. Project Charges                                                                        .                                                             D
- Capital Recovery                   0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     105.0     105.0     105.0     105.0      105.0     105.0     105.0k
- Operation, Maintenance             0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0      99.0      99.0      99.0      99.0      99.0       99.0      99.0
5.  On-farm Investments             1,095.0   1,614.0       -       -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -
6.  Replacement Costs                 -           -         -       -         -         -       395.0            -          -        -            395.0*
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:  23.8%
* This figure repeats itself every five years.
m 14



MEXICO
TROPICAL AG;ICnLLTUlRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
On-Farm Investments for Annual Crop Farming (50 has Module?
Mex.$ '000
.Unit         Cost
Unit       per          per         Years of Investment         Forei.an Exchange
Investment Items                                   Unit        Cost      Module       Module           1           2-            %         Mlex.$'000
1. Land D.evelopment
a. Land Clearing                              Hectare        3.6       12.5          45          45                          63          28.4
b. Land Leveling                              Hectare        1.2       12.5          15          15                          65           9.8
c. On-Farm Drainage                           Hectare        1.6       50.0          80          80                          30          24.0
d. On-Farm Ditches 1/                         Hectare        2.4       50.0         120         120                          45          54.0
Sub-Total                                                                  260         260                          44.6       116.2
2. Machinery and Equipment for Rice or Corn
a. Tractor 77.1 H.P.                            Unit        250_         1          250         250                          45          20.2
b. Plow                                         Unit         45          1           45          45                          45          27.0
c. Cultivators (harrow)                         Unit         60          1           60          60                          45          13.5
d. Disc Cultivator                              Unit         30          1           30          30                          45          15.7
e. Seeder                                       Unit        35           1           35          35                          45          10.8
f. Spray Motor                                  Unit         12          4           48          24           24             45          10.8
g. Combine                                      Unit      1,200         1/6         200                      200            100         200.0   co
Sub-Total                                                                  668         444          224             44.7       298.0
3. Constructions
Stores                                       M2            .9       25           22.5                      22.5          10           2.2
Sub-Total                                                                  950.5       704          246.5           43.8        416.4
4. Physical Contingencies                                                                95          70           25             43.8        47.5
Total Investments in areas with irrigation                                    1,045.5      774           271.5           43.8       416
and drainage (Tesechoacan)
Total Investment in areas with drainage only 2/                                 913.5      642           271.5            43.6       398.6
1/ For Irrigated area only.
21 Excludes on- :rm ditches.
JCordeu: fk                                                                                                                                      ,> f
October 7, 1977



-85 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 25
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production Data - Sales Projections and Operating Costs for Annual Crop Farming
(50 ha module for each crop)
(Mex.$ 1000)
Corn       Rice        Soybean
I.   Annual Sales (years 2-15)                      507.5       620.0       550.0
Yields (tons/ha) - Rainfed                       3.5         4.0         1.5
- Irrigated                     4.0        5.0          2.0
Average Farmer Price (Mex.$/ton)             2,900.0     3,100.0     5,500.0
II.  Operating Cos's (years 2-15)
a)  Labor 1/                                    77.5        74.8        67.8
b)  Seeds.2/                                     4.9        37.5        37.5
c)  Fertilizers 3/                              35.1       57.7         24.0
d)  Pesticides                                  13.5       42.7         24.5
e)  Insurance                                    7.7         9.7         7.5
f)  Taxes                                        5.6         8.7        14.7
g)  Operation and Maintenance of Machinery     110.0       110.0       110.0
Total               254.3      341.1       286.0
1/  Salary per day:  Mex.$ 69.6
2/  Corn Seeds:  Mex.$ 6.5/kg - 15 kg./ha.
Rice Seeds: Mex.$ 12.50/kg - 60 kg./ha.
Soybean Seeds: Mex.$ 15/kg - 50 kg./ha.
3/  Price of fertilizers:   (Mex.$)
N - 2,650.0/ton - P2D5    5,200.0/ton - K2 = 5,600.0/ton.



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return
Annual Crops (50 ha Modules)
Zapotal Pilct Project
(Mex $ '000's)
-----------------------------------Years---------------------------
1         2       3-5          6         7       8-11      12-15
1. Gross Value of Production
Corn                          507.5     507.5     507.5     507,5      507.5     507.5     507.5
Rice                          620.0     620.0     620.0      620.0     620.0     620.0     620.0
2. Production Costs*
Corn                          254.3     254.3     254.3     254.3      254.3     254.3     254.3
Rice                          341.1     341.1     341.1      341.1     341.1     341.1     341.1
3.  Net Benefits Without Project*       35.0      35.0      35.0       35.0      35.0      35.0       35.0
4. Project Charges
- Capital Recovery                    -         -         -         28.4      28.4      28.4       28.4
--pperation, Maintenance                        -         -         30.5      30.5      30.5       30.5
5.  On-farm Investments*               642.5     271.15                 -         -         -         -
6.  Replacement Costs*                   --        -                            334.0       -       334.0
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN:
Corn       32.6%
Rice       24.4%
* Note items 3, 4, 5 and 6 are costs for each of the corn and rice modules.



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Rate of Return
Annual Crops (50 ha Module)
Tesechoacan 'Pilot Project
(Mex $ 'OOOs)
-------------- Years------------------------------------
1         2        3       4       5          6         7-15
1.  Gross Value of Production*        560        560     560     560      793     1,046       1,113
2.  Benefits Without Project           65        65       65      65      65         65          65
3.  Production Costs*                 294        294     294     294      354       467         497
4. Project Charges                                                                                                 m
- Capital Recovery                   0          0       0       0        0        57          57                X
- Operation, Maintenance             0          0       0       0        0       101         101.
5.  On-farm InvestmerLts            1,046        774       -       -       -          -           -
6.  Replacement Costs                                     -                           -         334  **
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN: 15.7%
* The value and costs of production were calculated as a weighted average of the value and cost of production
of each crop (were each crop grown singularly). As of year 5, irrigation permits double cropping.
** This figure repeats itself every five years.
CD M:



MEXICO
TRCPECAL A'J8ILULSU2RAL DEVELOPMEM F02F.Cr
1lanpo TreE Pl-ntations - S HA iodul.
Yields. Sales, Investments and Production Costs
Cost/Ha                                                                                                                                               F-rejn Esebhre-
Mex.$        1         2          3          4         5          6          7          8         9         10       11-15      16-20               1L          hes.S
YIELD m ton/ha                                                                                       5.5       2.0        2.7        3.5       5,0        7.0       12.0      17.0
PRODUCTION s ton                                                                                     7.5       10.0      13.5       17.5      25.0       35.0       60.0      85.0
--------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------ex------------------  -------------------------
SALES M-x.52,800/ha                                                                             21,000     28,000    37,800     49,000     70,000    9S,300    168,000    238,000
INVESTHENTS
1. L.a.d Inprosent      1/
Clearing and Burning-                     276    1,380
Land Preparation                          388    1,940                                                                                                                                      60           232.8
2. Planting            2/
Planting Operations-                    1,380    6,900
Planting Material                       2,971   14,855
3. Cultural Practices During Establish-ent
Period
Cultivation       3/                    1,440    1,800      1,800      1,800     1,800                                                                                                      50           120
Cultural Operations-                    3,761    2,760      5,348      5,348     5,348
Fertilizer 4/                             653      594        891        891       891                                                                                                      80           522
Pesticide 5/                            2,947    2,540      4,065      4,065     4,065                                                                                                      85         2,505
Wire                                      600      -        1,000      1,000     1,000                                                                                                      10            60     c
4. Contingencies                            1,44i2    3,277      1,310     1,320      1,310                                                                                                      2 8.          407.  W
Sub-total                                    36,046     14,414     14,414    14,414                                                                                                      287.       4,443.8
Pr-da-ti;n CuSTS
Cultivation                                                                                    1,440      1,440     1,440      1,440      1,440     1,440      1,440      1,440
Cult-ual OpertIlor: 3/                                                                         6,038      6,038     6,038      6,038      6,038     6,038      6,900      6,900
Fertlize?r 4/                                                                                  1,782     1,782      1,782      1,782      1,782     1,782      2,228      2,228
Pesticide 5/                                                                                   4,572      4,572     4,572      4,572      4,572     4,572      5,588      5,588
Wire 6/                                                                                          600        600       600        600        600        600       900        900
Harvesting and Packing 7/                                                                      1,708      2,277     3,074      3,985      5,692      7,910    13,662     19,354
InsMra.ce 97.                                                                                  1,291     1,336      1,400      1,473     1,610      1,787      2,457      2,913
Sales Tax (47)                                                                                   840      1,120     1,512      1,960      2,800      3,920     6,720      9,520
Sub-total                                                                               18,271     19,165     20,418    21,850     24,534     28,049     39,895    48,843
TOTAL TNVESTMENMS AND OPERATING COSTS
I/ Hiand Sobor 4 man-day/ha.                                                                    4/ Kg/ha/year. Year 1:40; Years 2-4:60; Years 5-10:80; Years 11-20:100                                             :
2/  Hand labor 20 man-day/ha.                                                                   5/  Kg/ha/year. Year 1:10; Years 2-4:16; Years 5-10:18; Years 11-20:22
3/  Includes: weeding, applicationif fertilizer and targYcide, i running and wiring.            6/ 3 rolls/ha every 3 years.
Hand labor. Year 1, 8 man-day/ba/year; Years 2-4:  ' ,; era, 5-10: 17.5;                    7/  Labor:  3.3 man-day/ton.
Years 11-25: 20
JV'man: fk
November 16, 1477



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mango (5 ha Module)
Financial Rate of Return
(Mex $ '000s)
---------------------------------------------------------Years-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1            2            3            4            5            6            7          8            9            10          11-15
J. Gross Value of Production            0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0     21,000.0     28,000.0     37,800.0    49,000.0     70,000.0     98,000.0     168,000.0
2. Benefits Withouit Project           3.5           3.5         3.5          3.5          3.5          3.5          3.5         3.5          3.5          3.5          3.5
3.  Production Cost                     0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0     18,721.0     19,165.0     20,418.0    21,850.0     24,534.0     28,049.0      39,895.0o-
4. Project Charges
- Capital Recovery                   0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0          3.5           3.5        3.5          3.5          3.5           3.5
- Operation, Maintenance             0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          3.3          3.3        3.3          3.3          3.3           3.3
5. On-farm Investments             36,046.0    14,414.0     14,414.0     14,414.0          -            -            -           -            -            -
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN: 27-7%
nox



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEiNT PROJECT
Coconut Development (50 ha Module)
M(ex.$ '000)
Number                                Years                                                 Foreign Excl-ange
Unit         Unit Cosc      of Urits                                         3 -  -3        4           Total             %           Amount
-------------men.$'000 ------------------------
I.   Land Prepara-ion
1. Clearlng                            llectare          3.6            10              36                                                         36              60              21.6
2. Cultivation                         llec--re           .32           50              16                                                          16             20               3
3. On-Farm Drainage                     1-e--ars         1.6            50              80                                                          80              0               0
Sub-total                                                                     132                                                         132                             24.6
II.  Planting Opertions
Cc,cnut Seed l/                        Hectare           2.4            50             120                                                         120             90             108
Coconut Establishmnt                   Heetare           1.6
III. ?7;chIn,rv end Eauirman
a. IracLor                             Unit            250.0             1             250                                                         250             45             112
b. Implements 2/                       Unit            120.0             1              120                                                        120             45              54
c. Spray and Motor                     Unit             12,0             4               48                                                         48             45              22
Sub-total                                                                       418                                                        418                            188
IV. Materials for Coconut Establis.mont
Fertilizer 3/                          Heetare             .123          50               6              6              6              6            24             80              19
Insectieides and Fungicides            Eectare            .508          50               25             25             25             25           100             80              80
Herbieides                             Hectare             .480         50               24             24             24             24            96             80              78
Sub-total                                                                        55             55             55             55           220                            177
V.   Buildings                                Unit              22.0                            22                                                         22             L0               2
Total                                                                           747             55             55             55           912             55             499
Physicgl CostL.gency 10%                                                                 75              5              5              5            91                             49.9
Total (s.th contingency)                                                        822             60             60             60         1,003                            549
Production Cata
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Years -------------------- - -------------------------------------------------------
1              2              3              4               5              6              7              8              9             10             11           12-20      
Coconut Production (tons) 4/                                                                                                 150            225            300            400            500             500           500
GraP; Value Coconut (Mex.$ '000)                                                                                              50            675            800          1,200          1,500          1,500         1,500
Maize Proiuction (tons) 5/                        100            100            100             75             75             75
ras Value  Ia.ize  (Mex.$  '000)              290  .. . . . . .290  ... . . . .290  .. . . . . .217.5  ... . . .217.5  . . .. 2;7.5
------------------------------ ---- ----- - ----- - - ------- --- ex.               000    --    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Production Costa
Labor 6|                                        80             80              80             80             80            180            100            100            100             100            100           100
F-rtilizer                                                                                                   10             10             10             10              10             10             10            10
Insecticides and Fungicides                                                                                  25             25             25             25              25             25             25            25
Transpor t 71                                    30             30             30             22             20             67              67             90            120            150            150           150
Ma rh mary , I in tenance , p;rat ion.
and tevslopmc                                   62             62             62             62              62             66
Miscellaneous
building Maintenance 9/                                                                                       1              1              1.                             1              1              1             1
Taxes and Insurance                             1S             18              18             18             18             18             18             18             18              I-             18            18
1/ 160 Imported hybrid seeds/ha 4 Mex.$150 each. Planting density 144/ha                        5/ Maize grown on 80'. of area' years 1-3; 60% years 4-6. With yield of 2,5 tons/ha
on assumption 10% seedling loss.                                                                at Mex.$2,900/ton.
2/  Includes plow cuLtivat. r seeder.                                                           6/  Labor requests 4 man-years years 1-5; 5 man-years thereafter at Mex.$20,070/man-year.
3/ 58 Kg. 20-10-10/ha.                                                                          7/ At Mex..,30/tnn for production-
4/  Coconut yields/ha, year 6, 3; year 7, 4.5; year 8, 6; year 9, 8;                            8/ At 15% Cost.
year 10, 10, at Mex.$3,163/ton.                                                             9/ At 5% Cost.
X 5
mix
Ira
ci



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coconut (50 ha Module)
Financial Rate of Return
(Mex $ 'OOOs)
---------------------------------------Years-----------------------------------------
1     2     3       4        5      6     7     8      9      10       11     12-20
1.  Gross Value of Production        290   290   290    218      218     770   675   900   1,200   1,500    1,500   1,500
2.  Benefits Without Project          35    35    35     35       35      35    35    35      35      35       35      35
3.  Production Costs                 190   190   190    218     221      221   244   274     274     304     304      304
4.  Project Charges:
- Capital Recovery                  0     0     0      0        0      35    35    35      35      35       35      35  o
- Operation, Maintenance            0     0     0      0        0      33    33    33      33      33       33      33 F
5.  On-farm Investments              822    60    60     60        0       0     0     0       0       0        0       0
6.  Replacement Costs                  -     -       -      -       -      -   219     -       -       -       -      219*
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN: 28.7%
* This figure repeats itself every five years.
(D t-i



MEX ICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJUCT
On-Farm Investments for Sugar Cane (500 ha Module)
Mex.$'C00
Cost          Number         Total         Years of Inrestrmient          Foraign Exchange-
Invest-.aent Items               'Jnit        per Unit      of Units         Cost            1              2   -7                    Mex.$'000
1. Land Development
a. Land Clearing                   'Hectares         3.6            125            450            450                          63             283.5
b. Land leveling                    Hectares         1.2            125            150            150                          65              97.5
c. On-Farm Drainage                 Hectares         1.6            500            800            800                          30             240.0
Sub-total                                                               1,400          1,400                                         621.0
2. Ifachinery & Equipment
a. Harvester                          Unit           2,237            4          8,948                          8,948          45           4,027
b. Tractors                           Unit             447            7          3,129                          3,129          45           1,408
c. Others 1/                                                                    10,609                        10,609           45           4,774
Sub-total                                                               22,686                        22,686                      10,209
3 Constructiors
a. Buildings                          Unit         136,800            1            136.8                          136.8        10              13.7
b. Other s                            Unit          42,000            1             42.0                           42.0        10               4.2
1]78.8                         178.8                        17.9
Total                                                                   24,264         1,400          22,864           45          10,847
4. Physical Contingencies (10%)                                                       2,427            140           2,286                       1,091
GRAND TOTAL                                                             26,691         1,540          25,150                       11,938
1/ Containers, Farm Trailers, Road Trailers, Truck Tractor,
Front End Lcader.
F3 x
'f >-4
.@



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sugar Cane Modules (500 ha) - Sales Production Costs
(Mex$'000)
3           4            5           6           7           8            9         10-15
I. ANNUAL SALES l                  15,720       15,720      i5,720      15,720       15,720      15,720      15,720      15,720
II. PRODUCTION COSTS
a. Labor                           1,341       1,341       1,341       1,341        1,341       1,428       1,341       1,341
b. Equipment Operating Costs 2/    6,775       4,900       4,900       4,900        4,900       4,900       4,900       4,900
c. Seeds                             975         -           195         195          195         195         195         195
d. Fertilizers                     1,019       1,019       1,019       1,019        1,019       1,019       1,019       1,019
e. Pesticides                        168         168         168         168          168         168         168         168
f. Insurance                         381         381         381         381          381         381         381         381
g. Taxes                             314         314         314         314          314         314         314         314
h. Administrative Expenses           762         762         762         762          762         762         762          762
Subtotal        11,735       8,885        9.080       9,080       9,080        9,167       9.080       9.080
1/ Yield per ha: 120 tm.
Price per ton: Mex$ 262.
2/ After year four assumes 125 ha replanted per year
at 2



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sugar Cane (500 ha Module)
Financial Rate of Return
(NIex $ 'OOOs)
------- ---------------------------------------------------  Yas------Yer --------------------------------------
1        2         3        4        5        6         7        8        9      10-11    12-20
I. Gross Value of Production         -        -       15,720    15,720   15,720   15,720   15,720   15,720   15,720   15,720   15,720
2. Benefits Without Project          400      400.0      400       400      400      400      400      400      400      400      400
3. Production Costs                  -        -        11,735    8,885    9,080    9;080    9,080    9,167    9,080    9,080     0,080
4. Project Charges
- Capital Recovery                -         -            0        0        0      350      350      350      350      350       350
- Operation, Maintenance          -         -            0        0        0      330      330      330      330      330       330 x,
5.  On-farn Investments            1,540    25,151.3        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -
6. Replacement Costs                 -        -                               -        -   11,343        -        -        -    11,343*
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURi:  11.9%
* This figure repeats itself every five years.
oZ
a- t -
(4 NS



- 95 -
MEXICO                                     ANNEX 2
Table 35
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Cropping Patterns!/
Tesechoacon Pilot Project (3,700 ha)2/
--------------------------------Years--------------------------------
1        2        3        4        5        6         7       Total
I. Dual Purpose Livestock
Area (ha)/year                        150      300      450      400       -        -        1,300
Number of modules/year                  1        2        3        2.67   -         -            8.67
II. Maingo
Area (ha)/year                         50       100      150      -        -        -          3GO
Number of modules/year                 10       20       30      -        -         -           60
III, Annual Crops
Physical area/year                    800    1,300                                           2 s  ,  X  2,100
Investment modules/year                16       26      -        -        -         -           42
- Rice
Cropped area/year                     300      500     -         200      400       200      1,600
Number of modules/year                  6       10    -             4        8        4         32
- Corn
Cropped area/year                     500      800   --    >               200               1,500
Number of modules/year                 1.0      16   -               >       4                  30
- Soybeans
Cropped area/year                     -        -        -        200       200    _            400
Number of modules/year                -        -        -           4        4                   8
Zapotal Pilot Project (4,100 ha)2/
---------------------Years-----------------
1        2        3        4,,      Total
I.    Dual Purpose Livestock
Area (ha)/year                                  600       600      600      1,800
Number of modules/year                            4         4        4         12
II.   Sugar Cane
Area (ha)/year                                   600                          600
Number of modules/year                             1.2                          1.2
III. Coconut
Area (ha)/year                                   300      350      350      1,000
Number of modules/year                             6        7        7         20
IV.   Annual Crops
Area (ha)/year                                   200      300      200        700
- Rice
Number of modules                                  2        4        3          9
Cropped Area (ha)                               100       200      150        450
- Corn
Number of modules                                  2        3        3          8
Cropped Area (ha)                               100       150      150        400
1i/ Dual purpose livestock module: 150 ha;
Mango module: 5 ha; Annual crops module:
Sugar Cane module: 500 ha; Coconut module: 50 ha
Annual crops module:
2/  Cropping inrensiLy.  Tesechoacon Pilot Project
1, year 1 thru 4; 1.1 year    1.3 yeat 6; 1 year 7 onwards
Zapotal Pilot Project
1, year 1 thru 2; 1.05 year 6 onwards



MEXICO
TROPICA0 AGEICUL11.rn1'L HlElTLOPRFNr FFT0JfC7
Zaptul- Plc,E rTO ,;
fiCh Flo-
2       3        4       5       6        7       8        9      10      I1      12       13      14       15      16      17       18      39      20      21.25
Cach ItsEcw
1. A    Inual Sales                                3,995   12,D03  40,682   43,857  47,117  5li,tO   61,837  70,758  80,117   84,636  88,344i  88,344  88,344  88,344  88,344   88,J44  88,344   L8.34-  88,344  88,344
2, Producer . Cntriburios                            19    2,588   1,078     479
3.  IosE-tern Loan                                 11,775  49,185  20,491    9,104
4.  C;        p-ki.g ..i ,al .esour.es
i.1 Last-ye-- Csah Baloore                        -       344     (41)   3,941  10,849    9,332   2,838   5,745    7,768   5,870   3,607     (229)  1,60   1,925    3,178   3, .;3   (928)     384      52   5,718
4.2 Shbe-tert- Loan
Total Expected Cooh Inflow                     16,389  64,120   62,210  57,381  57,966   64,692  64,675   76,503  87, 385  90,506  91,951  88,115  90,014   90,269  91,522  92,043   87,416  813,728  88,396  94,062
r;sh Jut F!.,,.
1. Invesroento
1.1 Producers Contribution                        619   2,588    1.076t    477
1.2 Ibeg-ter  Lo-ns                            11,775  49,185   20,491   9,104
2. Forn Costs Exclusive sf Water Charges
2.1 Operating Expenses                          3,092   8,933   28,606  27.211   28,503  29,332  30,103   30,764  31,042  31,287   31,408  31,618  31,618   31,618  31,61ti  31,618  31,618  31,618   31,618  31,618
2.2 leplace.-.ts                                  -       -        -       240   5,379   10,535,  4,594    6,33S     240   5,379   10,539   4,594   6,238      240   5,37i  O1S39    4,594   6,238     240    5,906
2.3 Scull Invest-ants                                                                       :20
3. Loan Repaycent & Interest
Long-ter- Loan                                  559    3,455   6,764   8,170   8,602   15,413  1i,413   15,413  15,413   15,413  15,413  15,413   15,413  15,413
4. ProJect Charges
4.1 0 & 18 Costs                                                                 2,492    2,492   2,492    2,492   2,492   2,492    2,492   2,492    2,492   2,492   2,491    2,492   2,492   2,492    2,492   2,492
4.2 Capital Bec.very                                                             2,328    2,328   2,328    2,328   2,328   2,328    2,j28   2,328    2,328   2.328   2,328    2,328   2, 328  2,328    2,328   2,328
Sub-total 1 + 2 t 3 t 4                        16,045   64,161  56,939  45,202   47,304  60,524  54,930   57,235  51,515   56,899  62,180  56,445   58,089  52,091  41,817   46,977  41,032  42,676   36,678  42,344
5, Producers Cash Withdrawal                                         1,330   1,330   1,330    1,333   4,005  12,000   30,000  30,000   30,000  30,000  30 000   35,002  46,000  46,000   46,000  46,00D   45,000  46,000
EXPECTED CASlH BAIACE AT END O? YEAR                   344     (41)  3,941   10,849   9,332    2,838   5,745   7,268    5,873   3,607    (229)   1,670   1,925    3,178   3,705    (928)     384      52   5,718    5,718
Per ha net benefits wthcut -rolct ?:ex.1 70 (tUS' 30)
Aver-ce ocr ha cash v,Lthdlrals . -eats 13-14 Mlex.S7,317 (148t1s; i-4 los.3ll,314 (:-Si-88)
Average f, -l cash u-hdra.lu, (e h4 rto  M-ex.s58,536 (!52,51a t-"l:a9,75E t.' l  1 3,90j)
Annu,l fall, 7ages .e.-s17,500  Si7717



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
Tesechoacan Pilot Project
Cash Flow
(-ex. $ '000)
2          3         4          5          6         7          8          9        10         11         12        13         14         15        16       1.7-25
Cash Int lc-
1. Annual Sales                                 8,795     23,609     34,869    48,086     54,672    57,756     61,468     66,447     70,435    73,821     79,846     79,846    79,846     79,846     79,846    79,846
2   Producer Contribution                         585      1,272        747       427        248
3. Long-term Loan                              11,118     24,350    14,185      8,109      4,703
4. Working Capital Resources
4.1  Last-years Balance                                             714      7,397    21,846     19,974     10,925     1,455      3,248      2,941     6,332      8,375        989        (10)   (1,839)     2,419
4.2 Short-term Loan
Total E,.pected Cash Inflow                 20,498    49,231     50,515     64,019    81,469     77,730     72,393    67,902     73,683     76,762    86,178     88,221        835       836     78,007     82,265
Cash Outflos
1. Investments
1.1  Producers Contribution                   585      1,272        747       427        248
1.2  Long-term Lor.                        11,118     24,350     14,185     8,109      4,703
2. Farm Costs Excludn& WVater Charges
2,1  Opating Expenses                       4,743     12,680     14,143    18,313     24,703     27,047    28,045     28,490     28,748    28,891     29,045     29,339     29,681    29,681     29,681     29,681
2.2  Repl-c-ets                                                                        1,560      4,779      7,914     1,185      2,015      1,560     4,779      71,914    1,185      2,015      1,560     4,779             -
3. Losa Pepay-ent and Interest
Land-term Loan                              528      2,212      4,043     5,324      5,934     10,632    10,632     10,632     10,632    10,632     10,632     1U,632     10,632    10,632        -         -
4. Project Charges
4.1                                                                                    5 & M C,.t.  5,372  5,372  5,372  5,372    5,372     5,372      5,372      5,372      5,372     5,372      5,372      5,372
4.2  Capital Recovery                                                                  3,975      3,975      3,975     3,975      3,975      3,975     3,975      3,975      3,975     3,975      3,975      3.975
Swb-toral 1 + 2 + 3 + 4                     16,974    40,514     33,118     32,173    46,49t     51,805     55,938    49,654     50,742     50,430    53.803     57,Z32     50,845    51,675     40,588     43,807
5, Producers Cash Withdrawal                     3,524     8,000     10,000    10,000     15,W00     15,000    15,000     15,000     20,000    20,000     24,000     30,000     30,000    30,000     35,000     35,000
EXPECTED CASH BALANCE AT END CF YEAR                -          714      7,397    21,846     19,974     10,925      1,455     3,248      2,941      6,332     8,375        989        (10)    (1,939)    2,419      3,458
Per ha net benefits without project Mex.$ 1 300 (US$ 57)
Average producers cash withdrawals/ha years i-5 -ex.$ 2,128 (US$ 92); years 6-11 Mex.$ 4,504 (US$ 196)
years 12-15 Mex.57,770 (US8338) after vear 15 Mex.$9,460 (US$411)
Aegfamily cash withdra /  ha n,et yY, - 5, Mex H.$17,024 (US$736).;, yeafrs 6-11 Max.$36,032 (US$1 568)
yenr- 12-15 Mew.$62,160 (US=2,9-4,;  fter yea  15 Mex.$75,800 eUS$3,258)
Annua  family wages  Me.-$17,500 (US$774)



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return of Product Modules
Product               Rate of Return +10% Prod. Value     -10% Prod. Value   +10% Oper. Costs   -10% Oper. Costs
Sugarcane                         11.9%             18.9%               3.6%               7.3%              16.2%
Livestock                          23.8%            27.8%              19.6%              22.4%              25.5%
Coconut                           28.7%             32.5%              24.9%              27.1%              30.4%
Mango                              27.7%            29.8%              25.2%              26.8%              28.5%
Annual Crops for Zapotal
(drainage only)
Corn                        24.4%             40.1%               8.4%              16.6%              32.5%
Rice                         32.6%            54.8%              13.1%              21.8%              44.2%
Annual Crops for Tesechoacan
(drainage and irrigation after
the project year 5)
Corn, Rive, Soybean /        15.7%            22.8%               8.0%              12.2%               19.0%
HtxM
1/ Costs and benefits were estimated assuming module development similar to that of the cropping pattern for the
pilot project irrigated area.                                                                                        c



-99 -                         ANNEX 2
Table 39
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rent and Cost Recovery Indices
Total Pilot Projects 2/
Zapotal          Tesechoacan
(510 families)     (460 families)
--------------Pesos '000--------
1. Gross Value of Production                    383,967             347,043
2. Less Production Costs and Loan Repayments    233,043             191,408
3.  Equals Net Income (1-2)                     150,924             155,635
Less
4.    Depreciation                               25,510              16,493
5.    Imputed Value of Family, Labor 3/          42,076              33,958
6.    Imputed Value of Management Services 4/     8,544               6,792
7.    Imputed Return on Own Capital               3,099               2,237
8.    Allowance for Risk (10% of Net Income)     15,092              15,564
9.  Equals Rent/Surplus                          56,603              80,591
10. Rent as % of Net Income (9-.3)                   38%                 52%
11. Operation and Maintenance Recovery           11,777              25,387
12. Capital Recovery                             11,002              18,735
13. Total Direct Charges (11+12) 5/              22,779              44,172
14. Rent Recovery Index (13.9)                       40%                 55%
15. Capital Investments and O&M Costs           104,453             194,597
16. Cost Recovery Index (13-15)                      22%                 23%
17. Farmers' income per capita, in project
year 16 at full development (Pesos)          15,563              17,92'J
1/ Items 1 through 16 are incremental, discounted values at 11% rate
over a 25 year period.
2/ Average acreage per family 8 ha
3/ Imputed value of family labor 25% production costs.
4/ Imputed value of management services 5% production costs.
5/ Grace period 5 years.



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Zapotal and Tesechoacan Pilot Projects
(Mext '000)
1           2             3            4           5            6             7             8            9.           10           11          12-20
Incremental Gross Value of Production.3                                                                  6                           8                         _1
Zapotal                          0.0      (1,150.0)     6,526.6    51,768.8     54,943.8     58,203.9      63,746.8      72,925.3     81,411.8     86,928.2     91,522.4     96,030.0
Tesechoacan                      0.0        960.0      18,750.6    33,700.6     50,905.7     58,979.7       62,074.2     65,775.7     71,129.8     74,742.8     78,128.6     84,154.8
TOTAL                            0.0       (190.0)     25,277.2    85,469.4    105,849.5    117,183.6      125,821.0    138,701.0    152,541.6    161,671.0    169,651.0    180,184.8
Incremental Operating Costs,2
Zapotal                          0.0        (72.0)     4,930.8     23,346.6     21,841.0     23,153.3      23,954.0      24,831.2     25,700.6     25,790.6     26,034.6     26,151.0
Tesechoacan                      0.0       (538.0)      6,769.1    10,087.3     15,941.0     18,582.6       19,471.0     20,363.7     20,752.6     20,942.8     21,025.0      21,398.7
TOTAL                            0.0       (610.0)     11,699.9    33,433.9     37,782.0     41,736.4      43,425.0      45,194.9     46,453.2     46,733.4     47,059.6     47,549.7
On-Farm Investments-3/
Zapotal                          0.0     12,394.0     51,773.0     21,569.0      9,877.0      5,379.0       10,959.0      4,594.0      6,238.0        240.0       5,379.0      5,482.0
Tesechoacan                      0.0     11,703.0      25,622.0    14,932.0      8,536.0      6,511.0        4,779.0      7,914.0      1,185.0       2,015.0     1,560.0       3,490.0
TOTAL                            0.0     24,097.0      77,395.0    36,501.0     18,407.0     11,890.0       15,738.0     12,508.0      7,423.0       2,255.0      6,539.0      8,972.0
Civil Works!4
Zapotal                     13,658.3     52,389.-      29,225.0     1,040.0      1,520.0          0.0            0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
Tesechoacan                 34,450.0      66,621.0     54,915.0    17,687.4      3,041.0         00             0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0
TOTAL                       48,108.3    119,010.0      84,150.0    18,727.4      4,561.0          0.0            0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0           0.0          0.0 g
O&M Costs_5/
Zapotal                          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0          0.0       2,492.0       2,492.0      2,492.0       2,492.0      2,492.0      2,492.0      2,492,0
Tesechoacan                      0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0       5,372.0       5,372.0      5,372.0       5 372.0      5,372.0      5,372.0      5,372.0
TOTAL                            0.0          0.0           0.0         0.0          0.0       7,864.0       7,864.0      7,864.0       7,864.0      7,864.0      7,864.0   .  7,864.0
Extension Service 6/
Zapotal                        420.0        677.0         663.0       709.0        780.0        657.0          657.0        657.0         657.0        b57.0        657.0        657.0
Tesechoacan                    380.0        611.0        598.0        640.0        704.0        593.0          593.0        593.0        593.0         593.0        593.0        593.0
TOTAL                          800.0       1,288.0      1,261.0     1,349.0      1,484.0       1,250.0       1,250.0      1,250.0       1,250.0      1,250.0      1,250.0       1,250.0
Net Incremental Benefits
Zapotal                     (14"078.3)   (66,538.0)   (80,065.2)    5,104.2     20,931.8      26,522.1      25,684.8      40,531.1     46,324.2     57,748.6     56,959.8      61,248.0
Tesechoacan                 (34,830.0)   (77,437.0)   (69,153.5)   (9,646.1)    22,683.7      27,921.1      31,859.2      31,532.1     43,227.2     45,820.0      49.578.6     53,301.1
TOTAL                       (48,908.3)  (138,485.0)  (149,228.7)   (4,541.9)    43,615.5      54,443.2      57,544.0      71,884.1     89,551.4    103,568.6     106,938.4    114,549.1
1/ Product prAces used shown in Annex 8 , Table 2.
2/Shadow wage rate - Mex$ 50/day was used vs. 69.6 real wage rate.
3/ Replacement costs which begin in year 5 are included in on-farm investments. Most investments have a useful life of 7 years,                                                               ix
4/ Shadow wage rate - Mex$ 50/day was used vs. 69.6 real wage rate. Investments benefiting areas larger than the pilot -roject were imputed proportionally.                                   I No
5/ 0&H Cost for years 1-5 are included in civil works.
6/ Extension costs have been imputed In proportion to pilot rroAects areas.
Rate of R-eturn Zapotal 18.7; Tesechoacan 14.5; Combined 16.8



ANNEX 2
-101 -                         Table 41
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prices for Crops and Livestock
- Mex $ -
Product                                                        Price
Financial                    Economic
Annual Crops
Rice                                        3100/ton"                   4600/ton
Corti                                       2900/ton                    2900/ton
Soybeans                                   5500/ton                     6900/ton
Sugar Cane                                       262/ton                     460/ton
Mango                                            2800/ton                   2800lton
Livestock
Steer 1 year                                2500/head                   2500/head
Steer 2 years                               6000/head                   6000/head
Heifer                                      4500/head                   4500/head
Cull Cows                                   5000/head                   5000/head
Cull Bulls                                  6000/head                   6000/head
Milk                                         3.8/lt.                     3.8/lt.
Coconut                                         3163/ton                    3163/ton



-102-                     ANNEX 3
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
1.   Programa para el desarrollo rural integrado del Tropico Humedo -
Primera Fase Proyecto Piloto (7 volumes) by Comision del Plan Nacional
Xidraulico, Mexico, June 1977.
2.   Land use study of Gulf Zone of Mexico (2 volumes), by Technical
Services Ltd., Kent, England, July 1975.
3.   Proyectos Piloto - Anteproyecto sitio Tesechoacan (2 volumes), by
Infrastructura, Recursos y Servicios S.C. and Agrodesa, Mexico,
without date.
4.   Proyectos Piloto - Anteproyecto sitio Zapotal, by Infraestructura,
Recursos y Servicios S.C. and Agrodesa, without date.
5.   Appraisal data on engineering and cost estimates of irrigation and
drainage components, file No. AGROP-CPS/Kanchanalak/OOl, October 1977.
6.   Annual Oil Crops in the Gulf Coast, by P. Guillier, May 1975.
7.   Oil Palm planting in the Gulf Coast of Mexico, by Hartley, March 1975.
8.   Resumen de los resultados mas sobresalientes en los campos agricolas
experimentales del tropico humedo mexicano, by Instituto Nacional de
Investigaciones Agricolas, Mexico, June 1977.
9.   Proyecto para la intensificacion y ampliacion de la investigacion
agricola en el tropico humedo de Mexico, by INIA, Junio de 1977.
10. Subproyecto de ganaderia presentado al Programa de las Naciones
Unidas para el Desarrollo por el Instituto Nacional de Investigaciones
Pecuarias, Mayo de 1977.
11. Mexico Tropical Agriculture Development Project - Research Program,
appraisal mission paper prepared by N. Shaw and D. Myren, October 1977.
IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL.
12.  Anteproyecto del servicio de extension del programa para el desarrollo
integral del tropico humedo, by Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos
Hidraulicos, Mexico, Septiembre 1977.



MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENQTATION SCHEDULE
1978                  1979                   1980                  1981                  1982                   1983
PROJECT ITEM
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
Establishment of Project Unit
Establishment of Monitoring Unit
PILOT PROJECTS
ZAPOTAL AND TESECHOACAN
Promotion and Organization of Farmers
Agrarian Reform Actions                                       ._-_-_._.__-_-_-_._,__
Final Designs of Civil Works
Procurement of Civil Works
Construction Drainage Works
Construction of Irrigation Facilities (Tesechoacan)
On-Farm Development
FOUR ADDITIONAL PILOT PROJECTS
Prefeasibility Studies
Proniotion and Organization of Farmers                       ___.,_._._._._-___
Agrarian Reform Actions                                                          -     -
Feasibility Studies
'ield Appraisal
Final Design
Procurement of Construiction Contracts
Construction
On-Farm Development                                                                                                   -                                 ._     ._,
RESEARCH
Design of New Research Centers
Procurement of Construction Contracts
Construction of Research Centers
Equipment and Other Investments                                                  __,                                                     _
Research Specialists                                                                      . .     -_-_.._-_--
Scholarships
Research Work
EXTENSION
Planning and Design of Training Center
Procurement Contracts for Construction of Training Center
Construction of Training Center                                  -
Recruitment and Training of Extensionists                          (in Chapingo)                                                             in New Center
Extension Service in Zapotal and Tesechoacan                                    , _           .                           -.                        __.._-._-_.__--._-_ ,___
Extension Service in Other Four Pilot Areas
World Bank - 18620



i4 .                                            |-^
i  Tempoa     /w                                       94'd                                        94'                                         92'                                         90'                                        JANLARY19s
npool                                                                                             MEXICO
' tanio 1                                                           Tropical Agricultural Development Project                              .                    .  , c o-
Cerra <PILOT PROJECTS & PROJECT AREAS
,   Prcposed sites for oditional pilot project                                           Progr- a
...Plor projects
"--                                                                           , JPiot projects areas of influence
- nr * x t(  tX                                                            TU g6 cullurol etxperimental stations                                                   M    E      (                        t
3                                                                  Tropical low lands
IExisting dams and reservoirs
Q Planned damsites (by government)
Po~aRca                                                '--Rivers
;co                                                                          Swamps                                                                                                                      Vallado,id
Main roads
/                                                                            Secondary roods
-------Railroads                                                                                    iu
-.F fNNO'tl)                            kState boundaries
T4u    \ nciqo                                         -                                     .- -- International boundaries
1hI{ChUDI n.1) ,(UUTO                     XO5                                                                      IGO        50                                                2               J                                               !
T   a                                                                 a         so /( -  G10C                                                           M     E     >       . KILOMETERS1
0       50               100
JALAPAMI LES
I   Jasd Cardel                                                    1Pet
VChmpat6                                                                                                                                         Chunchintok -     U ; um
PIAOAT VERACRUZ
1.~1 0                                                    .   -,
, \'f4', r jTE                                                          irZEr                    n c .s
T s r                                                                                                                                                                 cegOo>e ,, |
RESERVOIRJR~J"'
San A                          CristObAldelasCasas                                                                                  {                       2
0                                                                                                                                -- A c88'c  I  H
oAm-s)rE                                                         u,tc                                                                                                                          ,
HnA' ()
|6       i' .cent,. 1T ro                                                                                                          Nlo
. POhtQ,,,,e,; retz "ri' rePlt hei.r'r . EXt'r'b'Th
i0POac.hutl':c;                                                                                                                       Comalapa                   /                Jr/,cire                &              t",- E.. -X .I... tv':, C
98|                                          96'                                           9~r nu i                                  /  2   ./                                             - -  i5 do rt s i   I I      Me|ca
~.
la ,-od                                                                                          ,,N                                        -     rI 6rRV OIRs
G U..                                                                                                                                        AL



IBRD F3210
W-90t                                                              r                                                                    - - FEBRUARY 1978
W-90                               W-85
ZAPOTAL PILOT AREA                                         TO Drain Chontalpa
*1          L      l           N-5                                     MEXICO
Plain                    TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
9  .              N1                                                                                   FIRST TWO PILOT AREAS
KILOMETERS                                    La C
ry ViLa ChHntalpa
T  i         E-H90         E-92          E-94          E-96          E-98          E-100
[7                                PIO N| TESECHOACAN P REA
N-0   h
Drain             'Z39F-6Dris/a                                                                                  \   5     I4                                   -6
EXISTING                                                                                           JUAN MULATOf7
Main Road                                                          -N-18
Ejido BoundaryTEC
I  I  Rv              -. i                          LOCAL GRID S PgSTEM:
W-90                               W8
1100 |o                            90|                       E88 .o MCidOdAI                   !N
UNI TED      S T A T E S
PROJECT
30'                                                    30'-  Nit 16-        Drains                     /N1
. |";Main Canal
Lateral Canals
i |                                         0Embankment
0    Pumping Station
M EX    ICO     i                                   __
N-14      EXSIGRoads
- r                                                                       c on  W l............ Proecio
-20'                                                                         Main Road/jN
MEXICO CITY                                    Secondary Roads
M00 20f00HaLESC                                              s          Embankment
VILLAAZUET
.=L ES                                             BELIeZE  NEiido Boundary                             VILLAAUETA
0   250  500' 9p'ARmn tE-
KILOMiETERS                      PltA,oiJ~I-                          -   ie
oftetoaOO  efhl ooOth/o~t~p  h  C O dOl,t.O   -tdod We oz                                                                                 KILOMETERS
1100              1000             90 c. /DR                 E-83          E-90         E-92          E-941         E-,96         E-,98         E-1,00



