Wmk. j!                              Document of
FILE copy    The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2287-M&
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 12, 1978
This document has a restricted distribuion and may be used by recipients only in the performane of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
The fixed exchange rate of US$1 = Mex$ 12.50 which had prevailed
since 1954 was abandoned on September 1, 1976 and the Mexican peso has
been floating since then. In recent weeks the rate of exchange has
fluctuated in the range of Mex$ 22-23 to the US dollar. On March 30,
1978 the peso traded at 22.75 per US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Glossary of Abbreviations
CPNH - National Water Plan Commission
CSAT - College of Tropical Agriculture
FIRA - Agriculture Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
INCAFOR - General Directorate for Forestry Training and Research
INIA - National Institute for Agricultural Research
INIP - National Institute for Livestock Research
PIDER - Investment Program for Rural Development
PRONDAAT - National Program for Agricultural Extension in Rainfed Areas
SARH - Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
SRA - Secretariat of Agrarian Reforms



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:            United Mexican States
Proiect
Executing Agency:   Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources
Amount:               US$56 million equivalent
Terms:                Payable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 7.5 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:      Nacional Financiera, S.A. would transfer US$11.3 million
of the proceeds of the proposed loan to the Agricultural
Trust Funds (FIRA) of the Bank of Mexico, which would
rediscount subloans to farmers. Interest rates to
ultimate borrowers would vary from 11 to 17 percent per
annum depending on loan purpose and size, and farmer's
income level. The lowest rate would be applied to first
time borrowers with low levels of income (annual income
of less than 1,000 times the daily minimum wage rate),
and. the highest would be applied to loans for farmers
with higher incomes (para. 45).
Project
Description:        The proposed project is envisaged as part of a long-
term program for intensifying agricultural production
in Mexico's humid tropical areas. The project consists
of three parts: (i) development of six pilot projects,
of about 4,000 ha each, introducing technical pack-
ages for annual and perennial crops and livestock;
(ii) improvement and expansion of agricultural and
livestock extension programs in the humid tropics,
with emphasis on the areas of influence of the pilot
projects; and (iii) support for the tropical agricul-
tural and livestock research programs. The technical,
soc:ial, and administrative packages developed as a
result of the project would be applicable to a wider
area of about 660,000 ha having similar ecological and
socio-economic conditions. The proposed pilot projects
would directly benefit about 3,000 small holders and
cooperative farmers, the majority of which have incomes
beLow the relative poverty level in Mexico. Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without IFC authorization.



- ii -
beneficiaries' incomes are expected to double within
five years. Project risks are primarily ensuring:
(i) farmers' acceptance of new technology; (ii) bene-
ficiary participation in project planning and execution;
(iii) coordination between implementing agencies.
The project design attempts to minimize such risks
to acceptable levels (para. 60).
Estimated Cost:        The total estimated cost of the project is US$149.0
million of which US$51.5 million is in foreign exchange:
------US$ Millions--------    Foreign
Component                              Local       Foreign   Total    Exchange
I.   Pilot Proiects                     30.4        26.4      56.8        46
a.  Area Development and           18.5        15.2      33.7        45
Infrastructure
b. On-farm Development             11.1        7.4       18.5        40
c.  Agro-industries                 0.8        3.8        4.6        83
II.   Research                           25.8         7.9      33.7        23
a. Buildings, Vehicles, and
Equipment                    6.9         3.0        9.9       30
b.  Technical Services              0.4        3.5        3.9        90
c. Incremental Salaries and
other Operational Costs    18.5          1.4       19.9        7
III.   Extension                          14.5         1.7      16.2        10
a. Buildings, Vehicles, and
Equipment                    1.9         1.5        3.4       43
b. Incremental Salaries and
other Operational Costs    12.6          0.2       12.8        2
IV.   Total Base Line Cost               70.7        36.0     106.7        34
V.   Physical Contingencies              5.5         4.7      10.2
VI.   Price Contingencies                21.3        10.8      32.1
VII.   TOTAL COST                         97.5        51.5     149.0



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                   US$ Millions           %
Government                     91.3             61
Beneficiaries                   1.7              1
Bank                           56.0             38
TOTAL                         149.0            100
Estimated
Disbursements:                Bank FY 1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984
------------ US$ Millions -------------
Annual:           2.1    9.2   11.8   14.1   12.3    6.5
Cumulative:       2.1   11.3   23.1   37.2   49.5   56.0
Economic Rate
of Return:           The estimated economic rate of return of the pilot
projects is 17 percent based on the two pilot projects
for which feasibility studies have been completed.
These two pilot projects represent 33 percent of total
pilot project investment; nine other pilot projects
are under study of which four with acceptable rates
of return of 12 percent or more would be financed under
the project. All six pilot projects would account for
58 percent of project cost. The rate of return for the
remaining items - research and extension - has not been.
quantified.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 1864b-ME, dated April 3, 1978.






INTERNATIONAL BANIK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSEI LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GIJARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the folLowing report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the guarantee of United Mexican States
for the equivalent of US$56.0 million to help finance a tropical agriculture
development project. The :Loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4
years of grace, with interiest at 7.5 percent per annum. US$11.3 million of
the proposed loan would be relent through the Agricultural Trust Funds of the
Bank of Mexico (FIRA) to f,armers for on-farm investments and establishment of
agroindustries. Farmers would pay interest rates ranging from 11 to 17 percent
per annum depending on size of the loan and its purpose and the income level
of the borrower.
PART I: THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Some of the major features of the Mexican economy were analyzed in
"An Updating Report on the Economy of Mexico" (1110-ME), distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1976. An economic mission visited Mexico
in April-May 1977 and its report is now in preparation. The discussion which
follows reflects the preliminary findings of the mission.
Past Performance
3.        For most of the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico
was outstandingly successful in achieving rapid economic growth while main-
taining stability in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970,
average GDP growth exceeded 6 percent per year in real terms, inflation
averaged less than 5 percent per year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the
dollar value of the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until the September
1976 devaluation. The Government's role in this achievement was to carry
out direct investments in infrastructure and in key industries such as power,
steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regulatory and institutional
framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced rapid growth, but led to a sharpening of
contrasts within the Mexic:an economy. While land redistribution under the
reform of 1915 was continued, most of the peasants who received land could not
improve their economic status in the absence of basic infrastructure, credit
and technical assistance. Rapid population growth made social equity even
more difficult to achieve, Population growth in Mexico accelerated steadily,
1/   Part I is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Tourism Development Project (R 78-35 of February 16, 1978).



- 2 -
primarily as a result of reduced death rates, and reached 3.5 percent per
year by 1970. Despite economic growth, the high demographic growth rate made
adequate absorption of the labor force in productive employment difficult.
Some 40 percent of the labor force is either relatively unproductive and
poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the 1970s, Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight
and a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped
to 2 percent in 1976-- the lowest annual growth rate experienced by Mexico
since the mid-thirties. On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the
fixed exchange rate of 12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged
since 1954 and let the peso float; in recent months it has remained rather
stable at rates fluctuating between 22 and 23 pesos per dollar. Following
the devaluation, Mexico obtained major support from the IMF. In the last
quarter of 1976, Mexico was able to draw on the Fund for US$480 million.
For 1977-79, an Extended Fund Facility accompanied by a comprehensive three-
year stabilization program was negotiated, which could provide as much as
an additional US$861 million once the increase in Fund quotas becomes
effective. Thus, total IMF support for the Government's program may exceed
US$1.3 billion. The new Government ratified the agreement with the IMF
shortly after taking office on December 1, 1976, and to date has complied
with the program agreed upon with the IMF.
Current Economic Policy
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation upon taking
office on December 1, 1976. High inflation, large public sector deficits, in-
creasing foreign indebtedness and lack of confidence in economic management
indicated a need for economic stabilization. However, the situation also
called for more expansionary policies; economic activity had slowed down, net
private investment was virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and
growth of the labor force was increasing. High world prices for petroleum
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the best
way to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the
coming years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities are adopting a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority
public expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with
petroleum and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Govern-
ment's program include progressive control of inflation together with a
return to high rates of economic growth by the end of 1978.  Better manage-
ment of public sector expenditures, more rational pricing and cost control
in public sector enterprises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage
increases to justifiable levels, and more effective cooperation with the
private sector are important parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        The measures instituted by the new Administration have already
produced good results. Inflation in the twelve months of 1977 slowed to 20.7
percent (January-December) as compared to an annual rate of 60 percent in



- 3 -
the last three months of 1976. The deficit in the current account of the
balance of payments has been reduced, and is estimated preliminarily at
US$2.2 billion for 1977, compared to US$3.5 billion in 1976. Total public
sector financial requiremients dropped from 10.3 percent of GDP in 1976 to 7.9
percent in 1977. Mobilization of savings by the banking system is increasing.
Perhaps most importantly, there is a general feeling of increased confidence
in the Government's economic policy.
9.        The stabilization effort during 1977 was absolutely necessary, but
its price has been the continuation of economic stagnation; for a second
year in a row GDP grew only by about 2 percent in real terms, implying a
further decline of real per capita income. While control of inflation will
remain as the overriding short-term objective--the Government's announced
target is to reduce inflation to about 12-15 percent during 1978--the 1978
economic program aims at a simultaneous recovery of economic activity,
through a recovery of private and public investment. Increased public sector
savings, further strength,ening of the financial system and therefore in-
creased availability of credit to the private sector, and continuation of a
carefully managed wage policy (the annual increase in minimum wages agreed
upon in January 1978 averaged about 14 percent) are the main means the Govern-
ment will rely upon to attain the above objectives.
Economic Issues and Prospects
10.       As Mexico looks ahead, the key problems that its economic policies
must address would seem to include the following:
(a)  Many Mexican families have not participated in the sustained
economic growth of the last several decades. As of 1975,
about 4,600,000 Mexican families--45 percent of the total--
receive incomes equal to less than one-half the national
average. The rmembers of most of these families work--more
than half of them in agriculture--but they produce little
and receive little. Mexico's labor force is now growing
even more rapidly than in the past--it will grow at about
3.6 percent per year over the next decade, which implies an
average annual increase by some 670,000 workers during 1978-82;
during the 1960s the growth rate was 2.7 percent per year.
The challenge of providing productive jobs for both new
entrants and existing under-productive workers is an awesome
one.
(b) Crop and livesitock production in Mexico, which had grown by
6 percent per year during 1945-55 and 4.2 percent per year
during 1955-65, grew at only 2.1 percent per year during
1965-75. This near-stagnation of agricultural production
signals the end of the strategy in which growth of agricul-
tural production came from newly irrigated land, while rain-
fed agriculture was relatively neglected. The continued
expansion of large-scale irrigation, so successful from
1945 into the 1960s, has brought lower and lower returns as the
works became costlier and easily accessible export markets for
high-value crops became more nearly saturated. New approaches
are required now to assure both production growth and increases
in income for Mexico's poor rural families.



-4-
(c) The size and role of the State in the economy has been a
subject of much discussion in Mexico in recent years.
During 1970-76, private investment slowed down, and virtually
stagnated since 1975. This was, in part, a consequence of
the pre-emption of credit by the public sector (during the
six-year period, the share of the public sector in the
economy grew from 15.0 to 21.5 percent), combined with infla-
tionary financing and accompanied by what some perceived as
an "anti-business" attitude. Public statements by the present
Administration indicate that it wants to reverse this trend.
(d) The present large foreign debt and sizable public finance
deficit are mainly the direct outcomes of past public sector
inability to mobilize adequate financial resources. By the
early 1980s, large increases in export revenues, mainly from
petroleum and related products, should make both the foreign
debt problem and public finances much easier to manage. In
the meantime, however, larger public sector savings are
required to reduce inflationary pressures and to release
credit for the private sector.
(e) The rapid growth and heavy concentration of people and
production in Mexico City, and the scarcity of employment
opportunities and services in rural areas, are important
challenges which have to be confronted. Both equity and
efficiency considerations imply a need for diversion of
some of Mexico City's future growth to other regions, as
well as the provision of basic public services and enhanced
employment opportunities in selected villages and small
towns.
11.       In the medium term the prospects for resumption of economic growth
with relative price stability are good. Poverty will remain a problem but
the Government is taking steps to address it. The alleviation of the external
constraint on growth brought about by the expected petroleum earnings (para.
14), together with the Government's efforts to increase public sector savings
and to stimulate private investment, could produce economic growth of 7 to 8
percent per year in the remaining five years of the present Administration.
Resumption of economic growth combined with the intensification of the
Government's family planning program (on October 28, 1977 President Lopez
Portillo announced the ambitious goal of reducing the population growth to
2.5 percent per year by 1982, then progressively to 1.8 percent by 1988, 1.3
percent by 1994, and 1 percent by the year 2000), the new emphasis on rainfed
agriculture, and the implementation of specific programs aimed at increasing
productive employment should help to address the structural problems mentioned
above (para. 10).
12.       In agriculture, the Government's quick action to defuse tensions
created by land invasions and expropriations at the end of 1976, and its
decision to review the legislation concerning land and water use, should



-5-
reduce uncertainty and induce a better use of the available land and water
resources. In addition, tlhe new emphasis on rainfed agriculture--which
had been relatively neglected in the past--should lead to an increase in the
production potential of vast areas currently under-exploited and to a reversal
of the past trend towards larger income disparities between the modern and
traditional agricultural subsectors. Development of intensive agriculture in
the tropics and of a nationwide program to construct small irrigation and
drainage works are new features of the Government's agricultural policy. These
initiatives, together with the more realistic exchange rate and remunerative
support prices, promise a resumption of growth of production for both domestic
and export markets and increase the possibilities of an improvement in the
living conditions of the rural poor.
13.       Industry has potential for considerable growth in many sectors,
including efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and
capital goods as well as exports of many different manufactured products.
Increases in tourism export earnings are also expected.
14.       Among the benefits of recent public sector investments are the
new possibilities opened to the Mexican economy through the recent discover-
ies of rich petroleum fields. The Government has decided to use these large
hydrocarbon resources to help manage Mexico's heavy debt service burden and to
enhance the country's over-all development prospects. To meet this objective,
PEMEX (Petroleos Mexicanos, the State-owned oil monopoly) has launched an
ambitious six-year investment program amounting to US$17.0 billion in 1977
prices (about 25 percent c,f total public investment). This program would:
(a)  almost triple the production of oil and condensates, from 292
million bbl/year in 1976 to 818 million bbl/year in 1982;
(b) more than double the country's primary distillation
capacity, from 270 million bbl/year in 1976 to 577 million
bbl/year in 1982;
(c)  substantially increase production of primary petrochemicals
(ammonia, ethylene, benzene, etc.) as well as downstream
products (styrene, vinyl-chloride, polyethylene); and
(d)  enable export of natural gas at a rate of 2.0 billion
cubic feet/day by 1982.
Under this program, the value of exports of oil and related products would
increase over ten times, from about US$0.9 billion in 1977 to more than
US$10.0 billion in 1982. If this program were to be carried out on schedule,
and incentives maintained for non petroleum exports, the balance of payments
on current account would shift from a deficit of US$2.1 billion in 1977 to
a surplus of about US$3.0 billion in 1982.



- 6 -
15.       The prospect of rapidly rising petroleum exports, as well as
previously mentioned prospects for increases in tourism earnings, recovery of
agricultural exports, and resumption of growth of manufactured exports, have
greatly strengthened the balance of payments outlook. Even on the basis
of somewhat more conservative projections of petroleum production and exports
than those mentioned above, the current account deficit can be expected to
decline steadily over the next several years and become slightly positive by
1982, thus reducing Mexico's net external borrowing requirements (Annex I).
The debt service ratio has been increasing over the recent past, reaching
46 percent in 1977. It is expected to peak in 1979 at slightly over 50 percent
and decline sharply thereafter to levels around 30 percent in the early 1980's.
Debt service on Bank loans amounts to about 4 percent of public debt service;
this ratio is projected to decrease over the next two years and to increase to
some extent afterwards. The Bank currently holds about 8 percent of Mexico's
total medium- and long-term public debt, and this ratio is likely to increase
to some extent over the next few years. Mexico remains creditworthy for borrow-
ing on conventional terms considering the country's strong medium- and long-
term potential and the comprehensive economic strategy which the Government
has adopted to realize it.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
Bank Operations
16.       As of February 28, 1978, Mexico had received 50 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$2624.4 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 33 loans totalling US$1486.4 million were fully disbursed. As of
February 28, 1978, the Bank held US$2142.2 million of which US$787.2 million
had not yet been disbursed. Some 35 percent of Bank lending has been for
agriculture and rural development (15 loans for US$923.4 million), 27 percent
for power (12 loans for US$704.8 million) and 21 percent for transportation
projects (12 loans for US$546.7 million); the remaining 17 percent has been
for industry (US$205.5 million), water supply (US$130 million) and tourism
(US$114 million) projects. Mexico is carrying out a stabilization program and
because of scarcity of counterpart funds, some projects fell behind schedule
in 1976 and 1977. Following review with the Government, a steel loan was
terminated (Sec M77-258 of April 5, 1977), the scope of an irrigation project
was reduced and US$100 million from the original US$150 million loan were
cancelled (R77-305 of December 13, 1977) and the scope of several other
projects has been modified. Other projects under implementation and affected
by the stabilization program are being reviewed by the Government, and further
discussions will be held with the Bank shortly. By and large, adequate budget
support for the ongoing projects has now been secured. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans as of February 28, 1978 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
1/   Part II is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the
Tourism Development Project (R78-35 of February 16, 1978).



-7-
IFC Operations
17.       As of February 28, 1978, IFC has made 13 investment commitments in
Mexico, for a total of US$69.5 million, of which US$38.3 million had been sold,
repaid or cancelled. The balance held by the Corporation, US$31.2 million,
consists of US$2o.2 million in loans and US$5.0 million in equity. A summary
statement of IFC investments as of February 28, 1978 is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
18.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to: (i)
support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the benefits
of economic growth; (ii) strengthen policies and programs leading to continued
economic growth, by helping to finance projects that are to make directly or
indirectly significant contributions to output, exports, and employment;
and (iii) help resolve critical adjustment problems that Mexico is currently
facing. In support of the administration's economic stabilization efforts,
it is proposed that limited finance of local costs be provided in 1978 and
1979 for priority projects of a social nature in which the foreign exchange
costs are low. The Bank is preferentially supporting projects that make
relatively modest demands on budgetary resources and have a strong positive
balance of payments effect, projects of high social priority that help the
rural or urban poor, projects that promote higher levels of employment and
production and those that help to decentralize economic activity. The pro-
posed tropical agricultural development project, although requiring substan-
tial budget support over its five year implementation period, meets several of
the other criteria: it would benefit the rural poor, introduce modern agri-
culture in the humid tropics, and has the potential of significantly expanding
the agricultural base of Mexico.
19.       In view of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agriculture
and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development, the
Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. Consistent with
the overall framework of country and sector objectives, a three-tier approach
has been developed. First, to strengthen infrastructure development and
agricultural credit programs so as to meet the demands of a rapidly growing
population more adequately and to generate the foreign exchange needed for
rising import requirements. Second, to raise the incomes of the rural poor
and improve their standards of living through a combination of directly pro-
ductive, support and social infrastructure investments. Third, to strengthen
Mexico's institutional capability to use scarce agricultural resources more
efficiently. In support of this strategy, the Bank has made seven loans over
the past four years, totalling US$579 million, for irrigation, rural develop-
ment and agriculture and livestock credit programs. In FY77, the Executive
Directors approved a US$120 million loan for an Integrated Rural Development
Project--PIDER II--under which some 46,000 poor farm families will benefit from
directly productive activities. In addition to the proposed tropical agricul-
tural development project, an agricultural credit project has been appraised
and will be submitted to the Executive Directors in a few weeks.



-8-
20.       Bank lending for industry has been aimed at assisting the Govern-
ment's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit and decentralize
industrial activities away from the major (and increasingly congested) urban
areas. Thus, a major steel project which the Bank helped finance has
recently started operating in a previously underdeveloped area on the west
coast of Mexico, and the Executive Directors approved a US$50 million loan
in FY75 to support a fertilizer project which promotes new poles of development
in the resource-rich southeast region and the north central area. A third
Industrial Equipment Fund project and a fertilizer project are currently being
processed for submission to the Executive Directors in the coming months, and
a project to promote small- and medium-scale enterprises is being submitted
for consideration on April 25.
21.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing: the Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the Third Railway Project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City Water Supply Project (FY73) has been instrumental in the estab-
lishment of a specialized institution for efficient supply of bulk drinking
water in the Mexico Valley, and in the pricing of water at levels more
closely related to costs.
22.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over concentration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas, and several projects are now being
prepared to meet the needs for basic urban services for poor families in
selected priority cities. One such project, to assist in the development of
the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area, is being considered by the Executive
Directors on April 25.
23.       The Government, pressed to reduce the external deficit on current
account, is giving emphasis to the tourism sector to generate higher foreign
exchange earnings and promote employment. In support of this policy, the Bank
has granted three loans for tourism projects in Mexico; two to provide infra-
structure in new poles of tourism and one, approved by the Executive Directors
earlier this year, to help finance tourism superstructure.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
24.       The Mexican agricultural sector is marked by wide disparities in
resource endowment, technology, productivity and income. On the one hand,
it includes commercial farms under the management of efficient and sophis-
ticated rural entrepreneurs who contributed decisively to Mexico's success in
satisfying the demand of a rapidly growing population and in transforming the
country from a net importer to a net exporter of agricultural products. On
the other hand, it comprises a large number of small-holders in subsistence
agriculture with small plots, many in unfavorable ecological conditions.
These farmers work by traditional methods, barely participate in the market
economy, live in poor social conditions and subsist on a modicum of food
production from their farms.



-9-
25.       More than 22 million people live in Mexico's rural areas.  Agri-
culture is by far their most important employment and income source. Over
3 million families, representing close to 40 percent of Mexico's labor force,
depend on agriculture for their livelihood. These people comprise three
distinct groups of nearly equal size: (i) those who work on land owned by
others; (ii) private landholders; and (iii) ejidatarios 1/. In sp-ete of
extensive migration to urban areas, the number of landless agricultural
workers is increasing rapidly, a consequence of limited farm land and limited
rural employment opportunities.
26.       The dualistic naLture of Mexican agriculture is shown by wide
variations in productivity. The fifteen percent of Mexican farmers with irri-
gated holdings produce sixty percent of Mexico's agricultural goods. Most
of the remaining farmers aLre of such low productivity so as to barely subsist;
half of Mexico's farm units produce less than one percent of total national
agricultural production, whereas the 7 percent of farms using modern technology
produce 34 percent.
27.       A program of large scale irrigation works resulted in a five fold
growth in production over the period 1940 to 1965, a growth that is among the
highest in Latin America. The concentration of public investment, technical
assistance, and farm crediLt in the irrigation districts enabled the 3 percent
of Mexico's farms so affected to provide 80 percent of the growth in production
between 1950 and 1960. At: the same time, very little was invested in improving
rainfed agriculture, although the rainfed areas comprise about 75 percent of
the total cropped area of Mexico and contain about 85 percent of the country's
farm enterprises.
28.       Mexican policy also stressed social justice through the implementa-
tion of a pioneering agrarian reform program. Between 1940 and 1965 over half
of Mexico's arable and pasture lands were distributed to landless families.
Most of the farmers benefitting from irrigation programs also benefitted from
this massive land redistribution program, but as mentioned in the preceeding
paragraph, those who did not benefit from irrigation received few public
services and therefore were seldom able to exploit the land intensively. In
an effort to correct this imbalance and to bring redistributed land into more
productive use, the Secretariat of Agrarian Reform (SRA) has recently embarked
on a program to provide technical, promotional, and organizational assistance
to farmers while encouraging the participation of credit and marketing agencies.
29.       There has been a marked deceleration in the growth of agricultural
production in the last decade (para. 10 b). In an effort to reverse this trend,
the Government has adopted a strategy of making small holders more productive.
This should result in a more equitable income distribution and increased rural
employment opportunities. Some of the more important efforts are the following:
1/   Ejidatarios are members of an ejido, which is a form of group land tenure
based on usufruct.



- 10 -
(i) Rural development programs designed to increase the productivity
of the poorest rural residents are under implementation. The
largest of these, the Investment Program for Rural Development
(PIDER) presently covers 100 micro-regions with a high concen-
tration of rural poor.
(ii)  A program of small scale irrigation and drainage works benefitting
groups of small holders is being expanded.
(iii)  Increased amounts of development credit and technical assistance
have been extended to low income farmers through the private and
public banking system as a result of new banking regulations and
promotional activities of the Agricultural Trust Funds of the Bank
of Mexico (FIRA).
(iv)  A progranm to promote better use of irrigation water was developed
and is being applied to irrigation districts.
(v) Rainfed districts were created to promote the channeling of inputs,
credit, and technical assistance to rainfed areas. An improved
extension service for rainfed areas (PRONDAAT) has been developed.
(v) The Government has prepared a program to develop the under-utilized
agricultural potential of the humid tropics. The proposed project
is part of this program.
Agriculture in the Tropics
30.       The tropical lands of Mexico located on the Gulf Coast and southeast
region of the country (see map IBRD 13209) represent the largest underexploited
agricultural region of Mexico.  This area includes about 8.3 million ha of
arable lands with medium to high agricultural potential of which about 3.6 mil-
lion ha are virtually unused and the remaining 4.7 million ha are devoted
primarily to extensive livestock. These figures compare to a total of 35
million ha of arable lands in all of Mexico of which 17 to 20 million ha are
currently cropped. The arable areas in the region have considerable potential
for intensive production because of the generally high and reliable rainfall.
In many places double cropping is possible without irrigation while in others
only modest supplementary irrigation systems would be required. More than 60
percent of the lands is in the hands of ejidatarios or small private farmers,
the holdings averaging 8 ha per ejido family and upwards of 20 to 30 ha per
small private farmer.
31.       Agricultural production in the humid tropics is presently charac-
terized by extensive land use with low yields and a generally low level of
farm management, processing, marketing and agricultural services (extension,
research, credit). Much of the land is also poorly drained and subject to
flooding. As a result, a majority of the rural families are at subsistence
levels. Livestock production both from beef and dual-purpose beef/milk
operations is the most widespread activity. About 7 million head, or about
25 percent of the national herd, are located in the humid tropics and represent



- 1 1 -
an important source of supply to the Mexico City market. Corn, beans, and
sugar account for 90 percent of the cropped area; the remaining areas are
devoted to rice, cocoa, vegetables, rubber, coffee, bananas, pineapples, and
other fruits. Average yields are low but information and experience exists
that could be applied to iLncrease yields significantly.   The main constraints
for development -f intensiLve agriculture are: (i) frequent flooding and poor
drainage of much of the fLat, fertile soils; (ii) lack of data on many aspects
of agricultural production; (iii) lack of support services, particularly a
well integrated extension service; (iv) generally inefficient farmers' orga-
nization and on-farm management; and (v) unclear land use rights.
32.       The Government undertook a major review of national agricultural and
water resources that was financed by the UNDP and for which the Bank was the
executing agency. The conclusions were published as the National Water Plan
Study of 1975. A major conclusion of the study was that the vast underutilized
humid tropical areas offer Mexico the greatest potential for increases in
agricultural production in the medium term. As a result, the Government
formed the National Water Plan Commission (CPNH) within its Secretariat of
Agriculture and Waf:er Resources (SARE) and charged it with formulating a
development strategy for the humid tropics and preparing specific projects.
The proposed project is a major step in this effort to develop the humid
tropics.
Bank Experience in Other Sector Projects
33.       Bank lending in the agricultural sector has concentrated on irriga-
tion, rural development, and agricultural credit projects. Experience has
generally been satisfactory with project goals met or likely to be met.
The irrigation projects and one rural development project, however, have
suffered from some managerial deficiencies and a shortage of counterpart
resources during the Government's economic austerity program, thereby leading
to delays in project execution and substantial cost over-runs. The Government
is taking corrective measures, and improvements in project execution have
recently been noticed. Successful experiences from previous agricultural and
rural development projects have been incorporated in the design of the proposed
project. The PIDER rural development program (Loans 1110-ME and 1462-ME) and
the Papaloapan Rural Development Project (Loan 1053-ME) have demonstrated the
effectiveness of the approaches to extension, farmer organization, agrarian
reform, and inter-agency coordination that would be applied to the proposed
project. The Rio Panuco Irrigation Project (Loan 969-ME) is employing the
cooperative farming approach that would be promoted under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
34.       A staff appraisal report, entitled "Tropical Agricultural Development
Project," No. 1864b-ME dated April 3, 1978, is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. The project was identified as a result of work done
under the National Water Plan Study financed by the UNDP for which the Bank



- 12 -
was the executing agency. The project was prepared by the National Water Plan
Commission and appraised by a Bank mission in August 1977. Negotiations took
place in Washington D.C., from March 17, 1978, to March 29, 1978. The Mexican
negotiating team was led by Mr. Arturo Ortiz of Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Project Objectives
35.       The project would be part of a long-term program to develop and
bring into intensive agricultural production 2.4 million ha in the tropical
lowlands of Mexico. Basic studies conducted by CPNH (para. 32) indicate
that this area with medium to high agricultural potential is among the most
promising of the lands that could be brought under cultivation in the medium
term, provided that the physical, financial, legal and social constraints to
development mentioned in paragraph 31 could be overcome. The proposed project
is directed at the resolution of these constraints and would intensify agri-
cultural production on 24,000 ha. The project would be carried out over a
five-year period and would consist of three major components: (i) development
of six pilot projects of about 4,000 ha each that are representative of about
660,000 ha of the tropical lowlands; (ii) improvement and expansion of agri-
cultural and livestock research programs in the tropics; and (iii) strengthen-
ing agricultural extension services in the tropics. Some 3,000 families would
directly benefit from the pilot projects and 40,000 additional families in the
pilot projects' areas of influence would benefit from applied research and
improved extension services.
Pilot Projects
36.       In its strategy for development of the humid and semi-humid tropics,
the Government has decided to phase development and test techniques before
embarking on large-scale programs. To this end, CPNH had identified 23 pilot
project areas, ranging from 2,000 to 6,000 ha each, as being representative of
ecological and social conditions prevailing in surrounding areas, and in which
development strategies could be tested. Under the proposed project, six pilot
projects of about 4,000 ha each would be implemented, of which two, Zapotal
in Tabasco State and Tesechoacan in Veracruz State, have already been chosen
and whose feasibility studies have been completed (see Maps IBRD 13209 and
13210). Studies for selection of the remaining four pilot projects are
underway in nine possible areas. Final selection would be based on detailed
feasibility studies and investment programs; works in each pilot project would
be eligible for finance under the proposed loan only after appraisal by the
Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3(b)). To ensure their replic-
ability and success, the following criteria have been applied in the selection
of pilot projects: (i) the pilot area must be ecologically representative of
a surrounding area sufficiently large to warrant a future development program
in which economies of scale would accrue; (ii) the status of the farmers in
the pilot area regarding land tenure and income distribution should also be
representative of a much larger surrounding area; and (iii) the areas should
possess good potential for intensifying land use and increasing agricultural
production.



- 13 -
37.       Features common to the six pilot areas would be:  (i) improvement of
physical conditions of the areas by constructing drainage works, feeder roads,
administrative facilities, and, when appropriate, works for supplementary
irrigation; (ii) clarification of land use rights for participating ejidatarios
and small holders; (iii) organization and training of ejidatarios to encourage
them to undertake collective development; (iv) provision of agricu'2ural exten-
sion services and applied research to develop technical packages and promote
agricultural development in the areas; (v) provision of short and long-term
credit for on-farm development, fixed investments and livestock; (vi) establish-
ment of agro-industries; and (vii) establishment of an operation and mainte-
nance service for the works.
38.       The main investment in the pilot projects would be the construction
of drainage works to remove existing waterlogging and flooding problems.
Works would be compact and simple in design, and project beneficiaries would
contribute unskilled labor during construction. The operation and maintenance
of these works would be the responsibility of users' associations.
Agrarian Reforms and Farmer Organization
39.       Two types of agrarian reforms would be carried out in the pilot
projects: (i) clarification of land use rights in the ejidos and (ii) purchase
of privately owned land to be converted into ejidos. The Government is
encouraging collective ejido operations in the region, but to provide flexi-
bility in addressing the varying circumstances of each ejido group, three
different approaches are envisaged: (i) in ejidos where group farming is not
practiced, the ejidatarios would be encouraged to form groups of viable
commercial units; (ii) in ejidos like Tesechoacan, where group farming is
practiced, efforts would 'be made to strengthen the existing organization, to
ensure effective farmer participation in management and decision making, and
(iii) in the case of the new ejidos, collective farming would be encouraged
to promote adoption of modern technology. SARH would establish a land tenure
resident office in each pilot project to implement these actions in coordina-
tion with SRA.
40.       Proper farmer organization is important for success of the project,
and during the first project year, farmers' participation in ejido management
and farm development planning would be promoted. To this end, an office
responsible for farmers' organization would be established in each pilot
project; the office would be made up of CPNH staff supported by the National
Institute for the Training of Farmers and assisted by a UNDP/FAO team of
technicians.
Extension
41.       With the exception of the programs operating under the control
of the Papaloapan Commission, SARH extension services in the project area
are inadequate (less than one extension worker for 1,000 families), and the
service offered is generally poor. Under the proposed project, basic insti-
tutional arrangements would be made to develop a comprehensive extension
service for the tropical regions of Mexico. It would be based on the PRONDAAT



- 14 -
approach 1/, and would provide for an intensive coverage of the pilot project
areas (one extension agent per 30 to 40 families) and substantially improve
coverage in the adjacent areas of influence (one per 150 families).
42.       A major bottleneck in the expansion of the PRONDAAT extension system
has been the lack of training facilities--presently there is only one training
center that cannot cope with the demand. Under the project, a Tropical Center
for Extension Training would be established in the state of Tabasco.
43.       The total cost of the extension component of the project (including
contingencies) is estimated at US$20.5 million, of which US$1.9 million would
be in foreign exchange. With a view to making a meaningful contribution to
this critical element of the project, it is proposed that the Bank finance not
only the foreign exchange component but also US$4.5 million equivalent of
local costs on extension services and training.
Research
44.       Although the existing information and technological base is adequate
to ensure development of viable agricultural programs in the Mexican tropics,
it is unlikely that the momentum will be sustained without substantially
increasing production oriented agricultural research in the region. The
project would, therefore, provide for increased assistance to the National
Institutes for Agricultural Research (INIA) and Livestock Research (INIP). It
would also assist the General Directorate of Forestry Training and Research
(INCAFOR) to strengthen its tropical research programs, and the College of
Tropical Agriculture (CSAT) to train its teaching staff. These institutions
are integrating their research programs to avoid duplication and to develop
integrated technological packages for farmers in the humid tropics of Mexico.
About $6.4 million from the Bank loan would be applied to the research component
of the project, of which $1.4 million would be eligible for disbursement only
after the integrated program has been reviewed with the Bank (para. 3(c) of
Schedule I to the Loan Agreement).
Agricultural Credit
45.       About US$19 million of long-term credit (of which about $9 million
financed by the Bank loan) would be provided for on-farm development including
land and pasture development, small scale drainage and supplemental irrigation
works, and for purchase of cattle, farm machinery and equipment. Private and
public banks would participate in the credit program; the Agricultural Trust
Funds of the Bank of Mexico (FIRA) would discount these loans up to 90 percent.
The terms of the sub-loans would be adjusted to the repayment capacity of the
1/   National Program of Agricultural Development in Rainfed Areas (PRONDAAT)
is based on the experience under "Plan Puebla" to improve maize cultiva-
tion. The extension agent is given a broad developmental role, is
responsible for delivering a comprehensive technological package and
assists in marketing the produce.



- 15 -
sub-borrowers and the type of investment project, and would vary from 3 to 15
years, including grace periods of I to 3 years. The interest rates charged to
sub-borrowers and participating banks are summarized below:
Rate to
Loan          Participating           Rate to
Sub-borrowers                  Amount               Bank             Sub-borrower
(Thousand Pesos)    ------ (percent per annum)
1.   Low-Income Producers    up to 350              7.50                 11.0
(annual income of up
to 1,000 times the       up to 1,000         10.50                  13.50
minimum daily wage)
up to 2,500         11.00                 14.00
2.   Other Sub-Borrowers      up to 2,500          13.00                 16.00
up to 5,000         13.25                 16.00
Above 5,000         14.50                 17.00
Details of the sublending and rediscounting terms and conditions are given
in the Schedule to the Project Agreement. The Government periodically reviews
interest and other charges for agricultural loans, and the terms and conditions
of long-term loans under the project would be the same as for similar loans
made by FIRA in the country. Short-term operational credit would be made
available through the BarLking system but would not be reimbursable from the
Bank loan.
46.       About US$4 million of additional long-term credit (of which about
$2 million financed by the Bank) would be channeled through FIRA to support
the establishment of a piLlot oilpalm plantation (1,000 to 2,000 ha) in one of
the pilot projects and a small mill with a capacity of handling 7 to 10 fresh
fruit bunches per hour. Oilpalm is a crop that, except for one small planta-
tion, has not been developed in Mexico, but studies reveal that there are
areas within the humid tropical region with appropriate ecological conditions
for this crop. Mexico is currently a net importer of vegetable oils, and
development of oilpalm would contribute toward meeting domestic demand.
Project Management and Implementation
47.       Overall responsibility for project execution would rest with SARH.
Actual implementation would be done by SARH, SRA, and FIRA. Representatives
of the implementing departments and agencies would form a technical committee
which would define project strategy and priorities. The chairman of CPNH
would head the committee. A Project unit in CPNH would be responsible for
day-to-day coordination, supervision, monitoring, and evaluation in accordance
with the plans approved by the technical committee. Each of the participating



- 16 -
departments and agencies would be responsible for the day-to-day execution of
a specific part of the project, under operating agreements drawn up between
the executing entities and the project unit.
48.       The state representative of SARH would be responsible for overall
implementation of the pilot projects in his state and for coordination of the
work of the participating agencies. He would chair an advisory committee
consisting of representatives of the farmers, the state governments and the
various implementing agencies concerned. The committee would make observations
and recommendations on overall organization and implementation of the pilot
project and would review annual budgets before they are submitted to the
project technical committee through CPNH.
49.       Overall implementation of the Tesechoacan pilot project and any others
that might eventually fall within the domain of the Papaloapan Commission would
be the responsibility of the Commission, which would undertake execution of
those components that in other pilot projects would be executed by the several
SARH departments. In these cases, extension services would be provided by the
Commission staff who operate along the lines of PRONDAAT (para 41).
Monitoring and Evaluation
50.       The CPNH project unit would be responsible for project monitoring
and evaluation and has set up a special group for this purpose, with the
assistance of the UNDP and FAO. In collaboration with the participating
agencies, the unit would prepare semi-annual reports on development of the
pilot projects for submission to Government and the Bank. Extension and
research activities would be reviewed annually by the departments and insti-
tutions concerned and a summAry of them would be included every year in the
report to the Government and the Bank.
Project Costs and Financing
51.       A summary of project costs is presented in the Loan and Project
Summary. Total project costs are estimated at US$149.0 million equivalent.
The proposed loan would finance 38 percent of project costs including foreign
exchange costs of US$51.5 million and, for extension services, US$4.5 mil-
lion of local expenditures. The balance would be provided by the Government
(US$91.3 million equivalent) and by the beneficiaries (US$1.7 million equiva-
lent).
Cost Recovery
52.       Charges to beneficiaries of drainage and irrigation works in the
pilot projects would cover the full amount of operational and maintenance
costs averaging US$30 per ha per annum in drainage areas and US$55 per ha per
annum where supplemental irrigation is also provided, plus recovery of capital
investments as appears reasonable in light of the socio-economic studies. In
addition to paying for all operation and maintenance costs and part of the
investment costs of civil works, beneficiaries would also repay all on-farm
investment costs financed through credit.



53.       Assurances have been obtained that the Government would:  (i) charge
and collect fees to cover all the operation and maintenance costs and a
reasonable amount of the investment costs on the basis of the ability of the
beneficiaries to pay and the need to maintain an incentive for them to make
efficient use of water; (ii) determine project charges based upon socio-economic
studies, which would be carried out within 6 months of completion uo the works
in each pilot project; (iii) give the Bank an opportunity to comment on conclu-
sions and recommendations of the socioeconomic studies; and (iv) periodically
review such studies with a view to revising the charges as appropriate (Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.12).
Procurement
54.       Civil works would total US$30 million with the largest single
contract about US$2.0 million. Because of the size and location of the several
works included in the project, it is expected that construction contracts would
not be big enough to attract non-Mexican bidders. Moreover, Mexico has a well-
developed and competent construction industry capable of executing the works
at competitive international costs. Tractors and equipment for on-farm develop-
ment would total US$9.0 million and would be purchased directly by the farmers
from local suppliers, considering local availability of spare parts and service.
Other goods, including operation and maintenance equipment, vehicles, chemical
reagents, farm, scientific, office and information and documentation equipment,
would total US$8.0 million. These would be purchased by several agencies in
small quantities in accordance with implementation requirements. Most of the
equipment would be purchased from local suppliers that offer a wide range of
international brands, and provide adequate service and sufficient suppliers of
spare parts.
55.       Thus, procurement procedures would be as follows:  contracts for
construction of civil works would be procured following local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank. However, to encourage competition,
no less than 70 percent of the civil works and buildings would be constructed
under contracts having an estimated value of US$500,000 each or more and pro-
cured under local competitive bidding. The remaining 30 percent could be
done through contracts awarded without public bidding or by force account.
Except for goods for on-farm development financed through agricultural credit,
contracts for supply of goods would be grouped when feasible in packages of at
least US$250,000 equivalent. Such contracts would be procured through inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines; domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a 15 percent preference. Contracts for less
than US$250,000 could be procured under local procedures (Schedule 2 to the
Guarantee Agreement).
Disbursement
56.       The loan is expected to be disbursed in five-and-one-half-years, mid-
1978 through 1983. The projected schedule of disbursements is given in the
Loan and Project Summary.
Project Impact
57.       About 3,000 families are expected to benefit directly from invest-
ments in the six pilot projects; their annual incomes currently average
US$700 per family, or about US$115 per capita. Family incomes would double



- 18 -
by the time the project is completed in five years, and, ten years there-
after, on full development of the project, increase to an average of US$4,300
per family. Another 40,000 families in the impact zones of the pilot projects
would also benefit from improved extension services provided by the project.
Economic Evaluation
58.       The economic rate of return of the two pilot projects for which
feasibility studies have been completed 1/ is estimated at 17 percent. In
calculating the rate of return, a shadow price of labor equal to 75 percent
of the official minimum rural wage rate was used to reflect the lowered supply
price of labor due to high unemployment. As stated earlier (para. 36), studies
on nine pilot projects are currently underway. Four of these projects would
be selected for finance under the proposed project. The Bank would appraise
each of these pilot projects before they would be eligible for disbursement
and only those with rates of return in excess of 12 percent would be included.
59.       Rates of return for the research and extension components, which
represent 42 percent of project cost, were not calculated. However, a variety
of factors promise acceptable returns on investment in a combined research and
extension program for Mexico's humid tropics. Such factors include: (i) the
expansion of cattle and crop production, which has advanced much more rapidly
than the quite limited investment in research and extension; (ii) the develop-
ment of tourism and petroleum, which has stimulated demand for agricultural
products, and the accompanying road building program, which has improved
access to markets; (iii) the growing acceptance to new technology by farmers
and cattlemen; (iv) Mexico's well organized national research program which is
placing increasing emphasis on work related to the humid tropics; (v) the
identification of several key problems (see in particular para 31) and the
integration of research and extension efforts to solve them.
Project Risks
60.       The project has risks, and special efforts at minimizing these risks
were made during the extended period of project preparation. It is important
that effective coordination between participating agencies be achieved. To
this end, institutional participants have been active in formulation of the
proposed project and have entered into operating agreements to ensure effec-
tive coordination during project implementation (para 47). Beneficiary
participation in project formulation and execution has been encouraged. Their
continued participation would be ensured by including beneficiary representa-
tives on the project advisory committee (para 48) and by continued promotional
activities by SARH (para 40). The proposed Tropical Center for Extension
Training would increase the supply of trained extension teams (para 42).
Experience in other agricultural and rural development projects has been
useful in designing the proposed project to minimize such risks (para 33) and
of the area, the importance of the project in promoting the utilization of
this potential, and the low income of project beneficiaries.
1/   Representing 33 percent of total pilot project investment cost, or
20 percent of total project cost.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Banco de Mexico, S.A.
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii),
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.       In addition to the features of the draft Loan Agreement and draft
Guarantee Agreement whichi are referred to in the text and listed in Section
III of Annex III, ScheduLe 1, para. 3 of the Loan Agreement provides that
expenditures on pilot projects and parts of the research program will be
eligible for reimbursement only after completion of an appraisal satisfactory
to the Bank.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
April 11, 1978






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3A
MEXICO              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)      ----------------
MEXICO                               REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      3972.5                                       M1'FT RECEN'
AGRIC.    1930.01960                               1970   ESTiIMATE          BRAZIL         CHILE          SPAIN ****
GNP PER CAPITA IUS$)                     370.0*    690.0*  1090.0*/a              550.0*      820.0*    1580.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
___________________-________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            36.0       50.4      62.0 /a             92.8         9.4        33.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        1 B. 0    26.0       31.0 /a             11.0       12.0         67.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        36.o       52.0       65.0 71             49.0       58.0        105.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          46.1      43.8       42.0                38.4        32.9        21.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           14.0       10.2       8.6                 9.9        11.0         8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        74.0       68.5       52.0               110.0        79.0        27.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       56.3       62.4       64.7                59.4        60.6        70.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2        3.1       3.0                 2.6         2.2         1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  3.1       3.5        3.5                 2.9         2.4         1.1
URBAN                                  4.9       4.8        5.1                 5.0         3.5         2,0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           90.7       58.7      63.3                55.9        76.0        59.1
AGE STRUCTURE IPERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       45.8       46.2       46.3                42.0        39.0        27.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                       50.9       50.1       50.3                55.0        56.3        62.5
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.3        3.7        3.4                 3.0         4.7         9.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    1.0         1.0        1.0                0.8         0.8         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.6         2.0        1.8 /b             1.5         1.6         1.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..      5E._      32i.1               250 .0      403.5
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         .       13.1                 1.6          .
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         11300.0   13000.0   16600.0              29400.0      2900.0    11900.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          54.0      45.0       41.0                40.4        21.0        25.0
UNEMPLOYED (N OF LABOR FORCE)             ..         ..       6.6/a,c             7.5         4.1 /a      1.1 l.a
INCOME DISTR.BUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             i.  /a  27 9            A*               35.0  /a   31.0
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            3o.8 Ta  58.3            A"               62.0 7a   55.8
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             3.5 7T    3.4          **                 3.0 7ja    4.8
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS           10.3 7i   10.5           **                10.0 7T    13.0
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10  OF OWNERS             ..       37.1         .                45.0           .
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        0.3         ..                1.5
HEALTH AND IJUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              1800.0    1480.0                         1910.0      2210.0 /b   740.0 Ilb
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         2830.0 /b 162(G. a                       3220.0 /b  5630.0 7TS
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED            590.0 7?  93.o0    830.0 /d              2EO.0 -    270.0        220.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         107.0     105.0      117.0               109.0       101.0       107.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               65.0      65.0       66.9                64.0        71.0        81.,
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.0 /d   28.0/b    27.5                  39.0        32.0        40.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             12.7        9.8        8.4 /e               ..        3.9         0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       80.0       104.0     111.0                87.0      107.0       123.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      11.0       22.0      30.0                  ..        39.0        57.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.1      12.0                11.0        12.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     24.0       24.0          ..               17.0        33.0        20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (N)                 62.0 /e   76.0        76.0               64.0        90.0        94.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6        2.2         ,.                 1.0         1.3 /C
OCCUPIEO DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                       76.0 /f   61.0 /C       ..               73.0 /C    40.0 /C,d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(N OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    .        5. 9.0       .                48.0                 .
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ,,       28.0         ..                8.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          95.0      276.0      301..0              60.0        143.0       214.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           14.0       24.0       40.0               25.0         18.0        71.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           313.0      567.0     724.0               491.0       806.0       1634.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.8        3.2        3'6                 2.7         5'0         5.8
----+-- -       -- ---                                                                       --------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise octed, data for 1960 refer to aey year btween 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent fatimate between
1971 and 1975.
*  GNP per capita data are based on the World Bank Atlas aethodology (1974-76 basis).
00 Income distribhtion date for 1975 currently being revised.
000  Spait  has been selected as an obje-tive country because its per capita income is higher than Mexico s, and because both coontrien have in common
fhr isportasie of toorism asd the influenc- of nearby richer countries.
MfXI00     196Q      Ia  1963;    /b  Includes midwifery and nursing anasilliaries;              /c  1962;    /d  1961-62;    /e  Si. years and over;    /f  Inside
only.
1970    /a  Inclaudig assiotant nurses;    Lb  1964-66;             /c  Inside only.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:        /a  1976;    lb  Ratio of popalation under 15 and 65 and ovet to total labor force;                   /c  Larger cities conly;
/d  1971;    /n  1972.
BRAZIL     i970      !a  Eco-oidcally active popslation;    /b  Hospital personnel;    /c  Inside only.
CHILE      1970      La  Grao Santiago;        lb  Personnel in government services only;           /0  Data refer to households;          /d  Inside only.
SPAIN      1970    La  Enplyneet office estimate;           Lb  Registered, not all practicing in the country.
RIO, February 14, 1978
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (th.. k.')                                                                           Pspulation per  srintg person - Population 1elided by nuber of practicing
Total - Tctal ssrfaoe area cosprising iand area and inland waters,                                male and female graduatenur.oc-, "trai-ed" or "certified" nurses, aed
Sank. - Most reocent  tes.ate of sgricultural area used temporarily or perati                    auxiliary perassnel with training or experience.
neorly for crops, pastures.  -arket & kitohen gardens or to lie fallow                       Pnpuiatian par hospital bed - POpulatiom divIded by nuber of hspital beds
avilable is publin amd private geseral and specialieed hospital sed
cNr per captp   (US)  - GNi  per c-pitc  estimates  a.carrent  nrket prices,                     rehabilitation  eneer-; e-clude- nori   barns and  setali.shments for
oaicslated by same conversioc method as World Bsank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                      oustodi.l and preventive  are.
1960; 1970 asd 1975 data.                                                                    Per cpita  -Pfpet of   d          % of res e irel mesntc) - Computed frn energy
equivalent of ne t food supplies available in ceuntry per ospira per day;
Popslation aod vital statistic                                                                   available sopplies  -ompeie doeestic produntiun, isporta lees export-  and
Puenlasice (sid-year tillioo)   As of Jrly first:  if moO available, average                     changea inatck; see aupplies exclude animal feed, seeds, qnanrites used
of two ecd-year estimates; 1'60, 1970 and 1975 dart.                                           in food proceaeimg and losse  in distribution; requireents were estim atd
by FAO base.d as physioiogical needs for norma ac-tivity and health ctasid-
fopulatioc densitv  - per -suare los - Mid-year population per square kilosseter                 enrig emvironrental temperature, body weights, age and aex distributions of
(100 hectareo) of total area                                                                   population, cad allov1ig 10% for .aste at household Ievel.
Pounlation denrity - per squam  us of Aric. land - Coepoe-d as above for                       Par canit. sueppl  of protein  fgreas  per day) - Protein cvnteet of per ccpita
agricultural land only.                                                                        set supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; requirt-
meets for all osuntries established by ISDA Economic Researoh Servines
Vital statistics                                                                                  pro-ide for a =iaimum  allowance of 60 grams af ttal protein per day. nd
Crudo birth rate per thousand, uverage - Annual lie births per thousand of                        20 gras of animal and polse protein, of which 10 grams should he  nimal
aid-year population; -eo-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                      proteic; theas tandarde are la-e than chose of 75 grsam  of cotal prostin
and fivn-year overage ending is 1975 for moet re-ent  otinate,                                  and 23 gras of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate per thosand. average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                    in the Third World Food Surey.
population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending is 1960 asd 1970 and five-                   Per capita prot-in aupply from anlesal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year a-erage ending in 1975 for mast renent estimate                                            derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.
Iofaet mortality rate (irboh) - Annual deaths of infants uder one year of age                  Death rate (/thos) agea 1-4 - An-ual deaths per thousand in age groop 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                       years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indicator of
Life expectaecy at birth (yre) - Average nuaber of years of life remainisg at                     malsutrition.
birth; usually five-year averafes ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing oountries                                                                                Education
Crtoss rer -odor on rate - uveruge nu-ber of livo daughtnrs A sonan will baer                   Adluated enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
in her noural reprodu-tice period if she enperineces present age-specific                       centage of primary school-age popslation; inclodes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually floe-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                       but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developisg councrie-                                                                        universal education, enrollment may exceed 1007. since some pupils are belo
Popolation growth rate (%) - total - Coppound anmual growth rates of mid-year                     or aboye the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                  Aiduted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; s-endar-
Population grawth rate (2) - urbha  - Compsted like growth rate of total                          eduoation requires at least four years of approved primary insatruction;
population; different definitions of orbas areas may affect comparability of                    provides geseral, vocational or teacher training in trsotions for pupils
data among countries                                                                            of 12 to 17 years of age; nerreespndence co orss are generally ecluded.
Urban  opoulation (7 of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                  Years of schooling proyided (first and saeond levela) - Tetal years of
definitions of orban areas may affent  -omparability of data among countries.                   ahooling;  t secondary level, vocational instructian may be partially or
oompletely eacioded.
Age structor  (perceot) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-64 years),                     Vocational enrollment (7 of secondary) - Vacational i-stitutios-  include
and retired  (65 vears and over) as percentages of mid-year population                          technical, industrial or other programs which operate fudepe-dencla or as
Age depe-de-cy ratio - Ratio of papulation under 15 and 65 and over to those                      dopart-eot  of second-arc institutios
of ages 15 through 64                                                                         Adult literacy rate (R) - Lit-erae s dlts (able cor nsd a-d w-it-) as por-
Ecosomic dependencv ratic - Ratio of popolation under 15 and 65 a-d over to                       meotge of total adslt population aged IS years and over.
,he labor force is age group of 15-64 years
F-niiy pasuio - -accp.ror   ico-nIative, thou) - Cuoulatice nusber of acceptors                 Housing
of birth-control d-vices unde- a.spices of national family plao-isg program                  Pyrsoss Per room  (irban) - Average nunher of persons per room  in occupied
since iception.                                                                                 conventional dwnllinvt in  rhan areas; dwellings  -ocludenon-prnmanenc
Familv piannini - users (7, of married womes) - Percentcgos of married wooer of                   structures and unoccupied parts.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) who -se birth-concroi devicos to a11 curried                  Occupied dwellings withaut piped water (%1 - ircupied cooveeinaL dwellings
woen is: same age group.                                                                       in  rban and coral areas withot inside or outside piped -atrr facilities
as_ per...o rge of all oocpied dwellings.
Etoo ument                                                                                       _ccnss to eleotricity (C of all dwellings) - ConventinaI dwellicgs with
rural labor force (thousasd) - iEconmically  cti-ve   sons  etds  armed                           eLectriciry Is living quarters as percent of total dwellings is -orba  and
forces aod  -soployod hut entloding hoosewive, stodests,  t-c; defiiciocs-                      cral area..
in carious .on tries are not comparable                                                       Rural dwellings conneoted to elo ctricitv  (7) - Compoted as above for rural
Labor farce in aorlicuture (%) - Agricultural labor force (in faning, forestry,                   dwellings only
hosting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Ueemployed (% of labor foros) - Umployed are usia ly defined as persors who                     Conoumption
are able and willing tc  take   j (ob, out of a job on a given day, remained ost              Radio receivers (per tho- pop) - All types of receivers for rsdio brcadcas.-
of a job, end aeeking work for a specified mimiom period not exceeding une                      to general piblic per thoosand of population; ecludes onliceoned receivers
week; may not he comparable betwees coustries doe to diffnrent definitions                      in countries and in yeaur  when registration of radio sets  -a is effet;
of unemployed a-d source of data, e.g., employment offie stotistics  sample                     data for rec-t-  years may not bh  comparable si-ce most countries abolished
suroeya, compulsory unemployment insuran.                                                       licensiog.
Passenger cars (per th.u ?OP) - Passenger oars cmpr ice motor cars seating
_Lcome distribctio    - Prcentage of priva-e income (both io cash aod kibd)                       loss thao oight persoas; exclodns ambulances  hearses and militsrv
received by richest 5k, rioheut 207., poorest 20%, and poorest 40% of house-                     ehicles.
holds.                                                                                           bLectricity (ih/yr Per can) - Ana  -noption of industrial, oa-ercil.
public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita. generol1y
Distrihution  of land  ownership  - Percentages of Sand owned by weaithiest 10%                    based on production data, without allowanne for losses in grid. bht allow-
and poorent 10% of land  wnrers.                                                                ing for imports and eaports of electricity.
Newprint (kg/yr per top) - Per capita annual consutption in kilograms
tealth and Nutrition                                                                              estimated Era do=eatic production plus net imports of newprint.
Polation per phvsician - Pypuiation divided by number of pratticing
physicians qualified from  a medical school at onicersity level.



f4go 3 .1 4
MEXICO - ECONouIC DEVEi'PMEfO! DATA SlEEt
A.t..1                  Pol isinory E.t-iates          P,ooeet.d                         Crosth R.t.s                 As T of CDT
1965        1970         1975         1976        1977         1978         1982       1966170     1971 75      1976i82      19e       JJZI      1S92
NATIOSAL, ACCo01EiTs                                                   Constant 1972 Prices. US$ MillonS
Gross Dostic Producc                        26,472.0    36,952.0    48,.680.0    49,683.0    50,570.6    53,935.9    72,275.7          6.9          5.7          5.8       99.6      99.1     97.2
Gains frog Terms of Trade                      904.0        104.0       424.0        482.6        328.6        418.5      2,075.3    -35.1         32.5         25.5        3.4       0.9      2.8
Cross DonastiL Iav.oa                       :_,S76.0    37,056.0    49,104.0    50,165.6    50,899.2    54,357.4    74,351.0           6.9          5.8          6.1      100.0    100.0    100.0
Imports (incladiog NFS)                      2,768.0     3.928.0      5,648.0      5,339.0     4,549.4      5.269.6      7,118.3       7.3          7.5          3.4       10.4     11.5       9.6
Exports (ioport capacity)                    2,624.0      3,152.0     3.960.0      4,470.5      4.761.2      5,223.6     9,057.9       3.7          4.7         12.6        9.9      L.1      12.2
Resoorce Cap                                   144.0        776.0      1,688.0       868.5      - 211.8         45.9    -1,939.6      40.1         16.8          -          0.5       3.4    - 2.6
Consumption                                 21,704.0    30,288.0    39,752.0    39,476.4    39,799.0    41,643.5    54,421.4           6.9          5.6          4.6       8t.7     80.9      73.2
IsvStcont                                    5,016.0     7,544.0    11,040.0    11,557.7    10,888.4    12,759.8    17,989.9           8.5          7.9          7.2       18.9     22.5      24.2
Cross Deoestic Savings                       4,872.0      6,768.0     9,352.0    10,689.2    11,100.2    12,713.8    19,929.5          6.8          6.7         11.4       18.3     19,1      26.8
Cras Nt  lanai Saving.                       4.520.0      6,312.0     8,296.0      9,365.8      9,701.7    11,258.4    18,501.0        6.9          5.6         12.1       17.0     16.9      24.9
T82  LXI OOD5 AxD XFS                                                       C,rrant  Urinos. USS Million-                                                                       A. of total
L-TMPrs. rOTAL                                2,073.2      3,416.9     8,636.7      8,135.1      7,512.2     9,410.9    16,216.0       10.5         20.4          9.4     100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                             5.9         74.6       443.0        148.2        223.4        220.7        302.3     66.1         42.8         -5.3        0.3      5.1       1.9
Petroleso  aod Products                         26.2         54.2        291.1       291.5        358.0        415.2         -        15.7         40.0          -          1.3      3.4       -
Other Goods                                  1,527.5      2,223.4     5,879.7      5,631.7      4,855.3     6,400.0    11,586.1        7.8         21.5         10.2      73.7      68.1      71.4
Non-Factor Services                            513.6      1,064.7     2.022.9      2,063.7      2,075.5      2,375.0     4,327.6      15.7         13.7         11.5       24.8     23.4      26.7
LW07TS. TOTAL.                                 1,964.6      2,745.5      6.081.7     6,811.8      7,862.1      9.328.8    20 634.6       6.9         17.2         19.1      100.0    100.0    100.0
S.loot.d Agricultural Coods V                  642.4        711.6       954.2      1,202.8      1,785.6      1,503.5     2.200.2       2.1          6.0         12.7      32.7      S3.7      10.7
P.troleu= aod Products                          40.1         38.4       460.1        567.5        835.4     1,687.5      7,002.1      -0.9         64.3        47.5        2.0       7.6      33.9
S.lacted  li.eral.                             189.7        244.3       457.6        456.7        509.6        593.4      1,050.1      5.2         13.4         12.6       9.7       7.5       5.1
P.awfactur.s                                   132.5        326.9      1,069.3     1,193.0      1,410.7      1,752.1     4,035.6      19.8         26.8         20.9        6.7     17.6      19.6
Other Goods                                    153.9         26.6        63.3         46.5         52.4         61.2        117.9    -29.6         18.9          9.3       7.8       1.0       0.6
Nos-Foctor Services                            806.0      1,397.7     3,077.2      3,345.3      3,268.4      3,731.1     6,228.7      11.6         17.1         10.6      41.0      50.6      30.2
TRAPt !NDICtS                                                                    A.sot. 1972 . 100
!.pcrt Price Ind.s                              78.0         90.0       172.1        170.8        177.4        194.1       295.5       2.9         13.8          8.0       -         -
tIport Prica Inds.                              75.0         87.0       153.6        152.4        165.1        178.6       227.8       3.0         I2.o          5.8       -         _
T.r   of Trade                                 104.0        103.4        112.0       1121.        107.4        108.7        129.7    -0.1           1.6          2.1
VAIXE A2lrED BY SEC-.OR                                                Constant 1972 Prices. US$ Millions
FPti ry                                      5.082.6     6,244.9      6,183.4      6,260.1      6,725.9     7.443.6      9,612.7       4.2         -0.2          6.5      19.2      12.7     13.5
Serondary                                    6,988.6    10,790.0    14,849.8    15,103.6    15,322.9    16,451.3    23,923.2           9.1          6.6          7.1      26.4      30.5      33.1
Tertiary                                    14,400.8    19,917.1    27,654.8    28,319.3    28,521.8    30,044.0    38,739.8           6,7          6.8          4.9      54,4      36.8      53.6
T.ot.l (CDP)                                26,472.0    36,952.0    48,688.0    49,683.0    50,570.6    53,938.9    72,275.7           6.9          5.7          5.8     100.0    100.0    100.0
WU11.1D.ATED PVSLIC SECTOR SINMACE5                                   Constant 1972 Pric.s. U5$ Millions                                                                        As % of Ci7
Carrent R-oipta                              3,042.0     4,942.6      7,346.3      8,325.2      7,853.1      9,410.3    17,315.4      10.2          8.3         11.o      11.4      15.0      23.3
C-trron  Expenditures                        2.329.0      3,156.4     6,222.4      6,902.5      6,643.8      7,416.7    10,652.0       6.3         14.5          6.4       8.8      12.7      14.3
Public Saings                                  713.4      1,786.2     1,124.0      1,332.7      1,209.3      2,260.9     6.663.6      20.1         -8.9         25.9       2.7       2.3       9.0
Rlsosr-es for In-estme.t                       776.3      1,864.0     1.193.7       1,427.5     1,259.4      2,315.2     6,736.3      19.2         -8.5         24.0       2.9       2.4       9.1
Ina-st-est                                   1.741.5     2.400.5      4,485.8      4,843.7      4,425.0     5,606.0      7,880.3       6.6         13.3          7.2       6.6       9.1      10.6
Deficit (cot)                                 -965.2      -536.5    -3,292.1    *3,416.2    -3,165.8    -3,290.8    -1,144.0   -11.1               43.7       -13.5       -3.6      -6.7      -1.5
AtLCTION'L OF COXSOLIDATED                                                                                                                                                      As 7 of Total
P;-3t:C -CFC`OR EXPENDITURES                                                                                                                                                1970      1975      1982
Agriculture                                    ,            843.2     3,245.5         -            _-                                                            -         8.8      15.9       -
Irad.stry                                                 3 3,500 3   6880.3          - 6                                                                                 736.3    32. 
Sooi.l 4W1fssra                                          2,384.1      4,269.6         --                                    -          -.                                 24,7      21.0      -
Tros-port and Coc,unicatons                    -          1,136.9     2,034.6         -            _            _            _         _            .            -        11.8      10.0
C*oeral Ado,nistration and Otbers              .          1,772,3     4,202.4         -            -            -            -         -            -            -        18.4      20.7
Total                                                     9,637.2    20,332.6         -            _            _            _         _   _.       *            _       100.0    100.0       _
Period Av-rage
SELECTED OIDI5CATORS                                                                                                                                               1966/70      IS71/75    1976/82
ICOR                                            2.91        2.89         4.99        11.10       13.02         3.23         3.41       -           _               2.90         3.63        5.76
Import Elasticity                               0.75        1.51       - 0.52       - 2.68       -8.28         2.38         1.16       -           -               0.31         0.96      -0,64
K.rgL.sl S-i0s. Ratio                          -0.16       - 0.24        0.11         1.34         0.50         0.46        0.35       -            -              0.19         0.10        0.53
LABOR FORCE AIM OE'TPUT PER WORXER                                                                                 Value Added Pnr Worker t1972 orices)
In Millnon       AS 7. of Total    1960-1970                                   7. of Averxqe
1960     1970      1960     1970    Grovti, Rte         1960        L970        1960         1970      Gro-th tAte
Agriculture                                   5.6      5.1      50.5      39.2       -0.6           600.8       939,9        34.7         33.0         4.4
Ind-stry                                      2.1      3.0      19.6      23.1        3.6         2,468.9    4,134.9        140.6        145.0         5.3
Seroices                                      3.2      4.9      29.9      37.7        4.4         3,222.8    4,044.8        183.6        142.0         2.3
rotal                                        10.7      13.0    100.0     100.0        2.0         1,755.6    2,847.6        100.0        100.0          5.0
lot applicable or available
I/ lacludes su8 r



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(US$ million at current prices)
Actual               Preliminary Estimates                                Proiections
1970           1975              1976         1977                     1978          1980            1982
SUPIYARY BALANCE OF PAYMEENTS
Exports (including NFS)                       2,745.4        6,081.5           6,811.8       7,862.1               9,328.8        13,879.9       20,634.6
Imports (including NFS)                      3,416.9         8,636.6           8,135.1      7,512.2                9,458.7        12,256.1       16,271.5
Resource Balanci                              - 671.5       -2,555.1          -1,323.4         349.8               - 129.9          1,623.8       4,363.1
Interest, net -                              - 307.0        -1,266.5         -1,872.0    -2,126.5                 -2,350.9        -2,746.6       -2,713.4
Direct Investment Income                      - 267-5       -  657.5          -  636.6     -  739.8                - 856.4        -1,135.8       -1,486.2
Workers' Renittances                            122.7           174.6            193.0         207.5                  224.1           257.7          295.1
Current Transfers, net                           55.3           123.4            146.9         157.1                  171.6           204.9          245.0
Current Account Balance                     -1,068.0        -4,181.2         -3,491.9    -2,151.7                 -2,941.3        -1,795.8           703.8
Private Direct Investment                       322.8           748.8            688.0         688.0                  777.4           983.9       1,234.2
Public Med. and Long Term Debt, nrt             258.6         3,565.8          4,906.9       3,075.1               2,467.0        -  213.4       -1,588.5
(Disbursements)                             (821.3)       (4,418.6)        (6,123.3)   (5,551.1)                (5,996.2)       (4,748.8)      (3,355.2)
(Repayments)                               (-562.7)        (-852.8)       (-1,216.4)  (-2,476.0)               (-3,529.2)      (-4.962.2    (-4,943.8)
Other Capital                                   588.7            31.7        -3,043.0       - 861.4                    21.9        1,233.3        - 133.3
(Public Short Term)                         (139.6)         (842.8)          (839.8)         -                      -            (-200.0)       (-200.0)
(Other Capital, n.e.i.)                     (449.1)        (-811.1)        (3,882.8)      (-861.4)                 (21.9)       (1,433.3)         (66.7)
Change in Reserves (- - increase)              -102.1          -165.1            940.0     -  750.0                  -325.1          -207.5      -  373.6
CRAN'T A.ND LOAN COM2ITMENTS                      844.1         4,305.7          6,560.5       5,356.8
PUBLIC nED. AND L.T. LOANS
IBRD                                            146.8           310.0            725.0         187.0                   --                             -
IDA                                               _              _                _             _
Other Multilateral                              112.3           121.8            355.1         280.0                    -             -               -
Goverrments                                      81.0           316.8            118.6         250.0                    -              -               -
Suppliers                                        69.7           116.7            201.9         150.0                   -              -               -
Banks and Financial Institutions                434.4        3,300.1          4,454.8       3,889.8                    -              -               -
Bonds                                            -              140.3            707.5         600.0                   -              -               -
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                                                 EXTERNAL DEBT
Public Debt Outstanding & Disbursed           3,226.9       11,095.9          16,002.9    19,078.0                                   Outstanding and Disbursed
(end of period)                                                                                                                    on Dec. 31. 1977
Interest on Public Debt                      - 216.9         - 810.5         -1,069.9      -1,237.0
Repayment on Public Debt                     - 474.7         - 852.8          -1,216.4    -2,476.0                                     $ Millions    Percent
Other Debt Service (net)                     - 224.3         - 193.3          -  325.7     -  367.7
Total Debt Service (net)          2'          - 915.9        -1,856.6         -2,612.0    -4,080.7                 Public M & L.T.
Burden on Export Earnings (7) -1                                                                                        Loans
a.  Public Debt Service                        24.0           26.6              32.6         46.0
b.  Total Debt Service                         31.8           29.7              37.3         50.6                IBRD                  1.456.8         7.6
c.  Total Debt Service and                                                                                       IDB                     772.7        4.0
Direct Investmenc Income                 44.8            40.2             46.4          59.7               Goverments              853.5         4.5
Average Terms of Public Debt                                                                                       Suppliers               320.8         1.7
a.  Interest as % of prior                                                                                       Bonds                 1,821.6         9.6
year's D.O. and D.                        7.4            10.8              9.6           7.7               Other Financial
b.  Amortization as % of prior                                                                                    Institutions        13,852.6        72.6
year's D.0. and D.                       16.3            11.3             11.0          15.5               Total                19,078.0       100.0
IBRD Exposure
a.  IBRD D.0. 6 D. as % of                     18.0            10.1              7.7           7.6
Public D.0. and D.
b.  IBRD Debt Service as % of
Public Debt Service                        7.8             7.0              5.8           4.2
IDA Exposure                                      -               -                -             -
- Not applicable or available
1/ Includes interest on short-term private and public debt
2/ Includes vorker remittances



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of February 28, 1978)
Loan                                                       Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower               Purpose       Cancellations   bursed
33 loans fully disbursed                      1,486.4
793   1972   NAFINSA                       Tourism              22.0        0.6
909   1973   NAFINSA                       Water Supply         90.0       50.6
968   1974   NAFINSA                       Roads                90.0       61.1
969   1974   NAFINSA                       Irrigation           77.0       17.1
970   1974   NAFINSA                       Irrigation           47.0       43.6
1022   1974   NAFINSA                       Airports             25.0       14.5
1053   1974   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development        50.0      45.6
1110   1975   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development       110.0      60.5
1111   1975   NAFINSA                       Irrigation           50.0       50.0
1112   1975   FERTIMEX and NAFINSA          Industry             50.0       23.4
1186   1975   Banco Nacional de
Obras y Servicios
Publicos S. A.             Water Supply         40.0       38.7
1205   1976   NAFINSA                       Industry             50.0       33.7
1217   1976   NAFINSA                       Agricultural and
Livestock Credit 125.0       48.1
1232   1976   Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA      Railways            100.0       87.7
1420   1977   NAFINSA                       Tourism              42.0       42.0
1462   1977   NAFINSA                       Integrated Rural
Development       120.0     120.0
1524   1978   NAFINSA                       Tourism              50.0       50.0
TOTAL                                           2,624.4     787.2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank              454.7
Total now outstanding                           2,169.7
Amount sold                        92.3
of which has been repaid           64.8            27.5
Total now held by Bank I/                       2,142.2
Total Undisbursed                                           787.2
1/     Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of February 28, 1978)
Fiscal                                                             US$ Million
Year          Obligor                  Type of Business      Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59    Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/         Industrial Equipment       0.8     --      0.8
1958       Bristol de Mexico,
S.A. 1/                 A.C. Engine Overhaul       0.5             0.5
1961       Acero Solar, S.A. 1/       Twist Drills              0.3      --      0.3
1962/65/   Compania Fundidora
Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.         Steel                      2.3    21.4   23.7
1963       Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/         Steel                      0.9      0.1    1.0
1963       Quimica del Rey,
S.A. 1/                 Sodium Sulphate            0.7     --      0.7
1964/66    Industrial del Hierro,
S.A.                    Construction Equipment   --        2.0    2.0
1970       Minera del Norte, S.A,   Iron Ore Mining              1.5     --      1.5
1971       Celanese Mexicana, S.A.  Textiles                    12.0     --    12.0
1972       Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de
C.V.                    Pulp and Paper              2/       2/     2/
1973       Cemento Veracruz           Cement                    10.5     --    10.5
1974       Cancun Aristos Hotel       Tourism                    1.0     0.3    1.3
1975       Mexinox, S.A.              Steel                     12.0     3.2   15.2
Total Gross Commitments                             42.5    27.0   69.5
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                         16.3    22.0   38.3
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC 3/                26.2      5.0   31.2
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off, sold
redeemed or repaid.
2/ US$25,000
3/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 793    Zihuatanejo Tourism Prolect:  $22 Million Loan of January 22,
1972; Effectiveness Date: March 30, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
All infrastructure works at Ixtapa and in the town of Zihuatanejo
are complete. The international airport at Zihuatanejo is now
being served by 35 flights a week from Mexico City. A new
bilateral air agreement between Mexico and the US was signed
in January 1978 that will allow Mexican and US air carriers to
serve Zihuatanejo directly from 23 US cities. Three hotels
with 555 rooms will open by May 1978, and an additional
1,500 rooms are under construction. The only category of the
loan not yet fully disbursed relates to the training compo-
nent (about US$500,000). To use these funds, the Mexican
authorities are preparing a proposal for additional training
facilities at La Paz (Baja California).
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31. 1978.
Project works are well advanced except in the Texcoco Region.
Overall, more than half of the project works as originally
defined have been completed, and the works in progress are
expected to be completed by the end of 1978. The Government
has proposed that savings in carrying out some components of
the projects be applied to finance new works which would serve
the same objective of increasing bulk water supply to the Mexico
City metropolitan area. The Government is carrying out a
revision of the bulk water rate, on confirmation of which
a recommendation on changes in the project description will
be submitted to Executive Directors.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
About 25 percent of the works have been carried out and about
US$25 million have been disbursed. Substantial delays have
been encountered in the initiation of project works because of
the shortage of budgetary allocations. Substantial cost
increases caused by price escalation were also encountered.
Taking this into account, a change in the scope of the project
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975 km) to ten roads
and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which, because of cost
increases, have the same total cost as the original project.
The roads remaining in the project continue to be justified as
benefits have kept pace with costs. Overall progress of project
works is estimated at about 31 percent and completion is now
expected for late 1980 or about two and a half years behind
schedule.
Ln. No. 969    Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $77 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction is over 60 percent completed and termination of
all works is scheduled for 1980. About 16,000 ha were
irrigated in the previous season; on full development the
project will provide irrigation to 137,000 ha. The
technical assistance program and the land settlement
program are proceeding satisfactorily. However, inflation
has been greater than estimated at the time of appraisal,
and project costs have risen to about US$371 million
equivalent from the original estimate of US$212 million.
A recent analysis of the project indicates that, although
project costs have risen, the rate of return remains satis-
factory due to rapid increases in commodity prices over
the same period. The Government's request for a supple-
mentary loan is under consideration.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Construction of major project works remain substantially behind
the original schedule; the pace is, however, accelerating as
works for the major storage dam have now begun. About 15
percent of project works are completed and water is being
supplied to 25,000 ha. of the 100,000 ha. to be served by the
project. Total project costs have risen from US$146 million to
US$341 million because of higher inflation than projected at
the time of appraisal and changes in the volume of physical
works. The Government's request for a supplementary loan is
under consideration.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been
postponed by the Government because of interim improvements
of the existing airport carried out by the local municipality
with its own resources. At Campeche, the Government has



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
decided to construct a new airport with its own funds
instead of improving the existing airport. Loan proceeds
allocated to Guaymas and Campeche were reallocated in August
1977 to complete construction of the six airports retained
in the project. Works in all the six airports are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is accelerating after delays due to
inadequate budget support. A reprogramming of the project
was begun in 1977 to adjust for these delays. The project
is presently being given priority attention. Budget levels
have been inadequate but are under review and are likely
to be raisetd. While, as a whole, the project remains
behind the original implementation schedule, some elements,
most notably extension services, are ahead of schedule. The
project would likely be completed two years after the original
closing date.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIPER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8. 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project investments are generally on schedule and management
is taking actions to further strengthen project implementation.
Special inter-agency agreements regarding the development
credit, agricultural extension, and farmer organization compo-
nents are being implemented. The new PIDER management is
giving priority to ensuring the proper operation and mainte-
nance of earlier PIDER investments. Emphasis is also being
given to strengthening the efforts regarding cost recovery,
investment analysis and programming, monitoring, and rural
industries.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
*                         reduced tco $50 Million; Effectiveness Date:  July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The Government and the Bank have agreed that, in view of
the size and complexity of the project, its high cost and
the Government's current policy of restraining fiscal expendi-
tures, it would be advisable to carry out the project in
several phases over a longer period of time than the seven
years originally visualized. As explained in Memorandum
R77-305 of December 13, 1977, the loan amount has now been



ANNEX If
Page 6 of 7
reduced from $150 million to $50 million which would be applied
to the first phase of the project. The first phase works would
be implemented over four years. Contracts for priority works
are being placed and studies for the remaining works under the
reduced project are in progress. A technical assistance
component of the project is under implementation.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The devaluation of the peso in September 1976 affected the
project cost and its implementation schedule. Preliminary
estimates indicate a capital cost increase of 36 percent
in pesos and a delay of 7 to 8 months in implementation.
The Baiio Urea Plant will be completed in June 1978, the
Pajaritos Urea Plant in June 1979 and the Parathion Plant
in May 1978.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13. 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26. 1976.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Subloan agreements have been signed with three cities where
construction has begun. It is expected that agreements will be
signed by the end of the year with local authorities for four
additional subprojects which would fully commit the loan funds.
Ln. No. 1205   Industrial Equipment Fund (FONEI) Project:  $50 Million Loan of
April 30, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976. Closing
Date: December 31, 1979.
After some delays in committing resources to new projects in
late 1976 and early 1977, demand for financing for industrial
projects has strengthened and FONEI has numerous applications
on hand. As of March 15, 1978, 80 percent of the loan had
been committed.
Ln. No. 1217   Fifth Agricultural and Livestock Credit Project:  $125 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976.
Closing Date: January 1, 1980.
Commitments under this project are running ahead of schedule.
Funds for medium-income producers and agro-industries are
fully committed. The National Rural Credit Bank has been
declared eligible for rediscount under this project thereby
increasing the rate of commitment of funds to low-income
producers.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Execution of the project has been generally satisfactory.
O-ders have been placed for rails, car components, track
and workshop machinery. Following the devaluation in 1976,
and the budgetary cuts in the stabilization period, and the
slackening in the traffic growth, the railway has proposed
substantial rephasing of its investment plan and procurement
schedule, details of which are being worked out.  The execution
period of ithe project will require to be extend by about two
years. Operational and technical improvements of the railway
continue, though they have not yet been reflected in the
financial performance of the railway on account of inadequate
tariff increases.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
JulY 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date
Clcsing Date: June 30, 1981.
The establishment of a land trust fund in the project area
of San Jose del Cabo, a condition of loan effectiveness, is
expected shortly. Implementation of the project has already
started and is on schedule. A project unit in Mexico City
and adequaLtely staffed field offices have been established.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21. 1978;
Effectiveness Date:                           Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The loan is not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.        Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:          About two and one-half
years
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:  Secretariat of Agri-
culture and Water
Resources
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:         February, 1975
(d)  First mission to review project:        June, 1975
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:         August, 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:             March, 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:          June, 1978
{I.       Special Bank Implementation Actions
(a) Intensive supervision is planned.
III.      Special Conditions
(a) The completion of an appraisal satisfactory to the Bank
would be a condition of disbursement for each of the
remaining four pilot projects (para. 36);
(b) Those portions of the research component of this project
which are being integrated into more comprehensive
programs would be eligible for finance by the Bank
loan only upon completion of an appraisal satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 44);
(c) For irrigation and drainage facilities, charges would be
set to recover: (i) all costs of operation and mainte-
nance, and (ii) as much of the investment costs as shall
be reasonable in view of the ability of beneficiaries to
pay (para. 53);
(d) Medium and long term agricultural credit would be provided
under the terms and conditions referred to in para. 45;



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) The total outstanding balance of sub-loans to any
individual farmer cannot exceed Mex$ 5 million
(para 1 of the Schedule to the Project Agreement);
(f) Seventy percent of civil works contracts would be let
under local competitive bidding in contracts of at
least US$500,000 equivalent. The remaining 30 percent
would be let without competitive bid or by force
account (para. 55); and
(g)  Except for those goods purchased by farmers and
financed through agricultural credit, contracts for
the purchaise of goods and equipment would be grouped
in packages of US$250,000 or more and let under inter-
national competitibe bidding. Domestic manufactures
would be allowed a 15 percent preference. Contracts
for less than that amount would be let under the
Guarantor"s ordinary procedures (para. 55).






IBRD 13209
Tempon                                       0                                        II  9A E X I C                                                                                                                       ,9,
! RS   /  \  b4:  0                                                                          MEXICO                                                                       n:;,:,:,j';:::;  :  ::       t   V   _
Tropical Agricultural Development Project                          G>u/      ot   A4ex,
PILOT PROJECTS & PROJECT AREAS                        :                                                   1O: S
A, CrroAz. Pro-od 5i,, prado : ' 0 'C'
Pilnf P901100                                                                                           Fn-    o-
Agrjc,0-iua        '                           'iaNyns
:F] u luSluupui)  vtXc2 lan  <|  \;                                          F I eM E 5 '    '                                      \;   ; & ;;t 5 J( 0 ba loi,da                               .E50'
i11'i'~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t                                                                                                                           '''
0>\<gRI    /                                 _                                           L,Sti7!2- E/jisin dOli jri i9h F' oitl
ii  Pbonr-d d-ry, (a b, go--tnenr
;   '097                 _         5                  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____ Ma,.:                                           u                                                 0d:
CAAVPL(1oE    BAY ~   ~ ~ A~I
Ihc'00
<    t    z    X    ;    on   Huimanivi 7//_%M=cytopA 1 | .. 1 RR . ....... t tri S \; t2;t                         ....... 
NOAXAr ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~~, AOosl (  ,                                                                           'X"   0,11d of /A5<sM   ,,1    }: '!hRill:'\: A[;;rL1  
Poon,iito                                                                                                                    ;l,,;  _;R  j;> '5:g:;         j  Ii;  RV EliTL   '
H            ==           ,     f     \ehooo-'oc'oa   .,5.iy* /i;                                                                                                       IL  ;0          rV
|; r / A    szrE #L  !Z;44LRR{;;t; Xt=T rs & ;t18;;:ri x # $d; d 5: & r srA
0,.<1>>Cfooak<nCiteadeoCao  r5g;,; ;;;rvh :;fti7tjti:;; -! b3T, ii ~ == -vov 
i )-d.\                     S              7Mo,4rl. ;         0
OPnAXAerorlDI'u  A                                                            >     \                 1      a ,    (  '
>5S  \   /                ...... .. .1 ~ 05S rA                       X , ?Z$ t  i E llt! , ., ,i7. . LD P  ;i;;; 1 1%  i   ; i; .t ri   , .tL ,l
,   e upnte ec    <  C94>  >9  >   f < rTrPve/R  S rm Jan         ; S      d>e ffli;.nnagt 'l; i; L   '!u2;5 7;%h \ fKi   r;lL*iT4D LtSwes ) 1.
Xu   Xszl!ocrur  ~  TnTa  r  sw\ 5 ; U%iljTiu=Eeljzi; ;sLi!:iX 9* > t z-
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ [.P.                                            j!  /lR  4 1   8t>  
\   P chrla-                                                                      /     3  u wfJ;C sss ,- 2t" i; Mii};t,i!;l  2lS ;:: j  ;;j  _       t-hW;s-X-Jf LiT ew vfTLJTI  0,  - 1r o 
P_ / rv u/f a r reXuon/eDDs < < r^,,, up,0 / > ;:; ,, = .!:; :!; ',;1%!g 5 T.>:itit mi!ti: r + ;9  : 5;5 X ; , : o! ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J-H-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/f sZSi:r : =Qt2 8:tlS St, i!Z:j        
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p                                                                                                                                4 -~~~~~~~>'\Mfr,1a//d!V;, ,m         j   SEim,  4 iDD<      111 ;J,.3 >3 ;     t,s
-~~~ ~~~~~~~~> , P                      /x                                                               ,;;jm;.''!S:'"ii lFrsVr  Nd,Vli:
6'   4ft  To  ^o.h1~  Ati  nf: ,;  ''SS:: D . ,V.:::kiE ,!d,,{$V:.< !I;isla,f: f, :1;9!i:!:lJllt;.i i s;2:i;:: v    :.V!: 






IBRD 332l0
in-n                                           in-O S                                                                                                                                    FEBRUARY 1978
ZAPOTAL  PILOT AREA                                                              To Drain Chontolpa
-N-I 4,                                                                                                     N-S                                                     MEXICO)
/                                    Lower  L  Flood                       TROPICAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
0        1        2   q   /1               4        1                                                                                        FIRST TWO PILOT AREAS
KILOMETERS                                           i
La Chontalpa
E~~~9O ~~E-9                     E-94               5-96               E-98                 0
j  fi  eTESECHOACAN  PILOT AREA
N-0             !4- J              llv       |l        ,    \   /         /         IL                    N-22                                               ,r14   0                     -- $                        N-22]
N-JETiN2SN-0
|  ' -           .       G          , So                                      --                1/                             ./=
e;ls|< ~       ~                                             4                                                                                I N_tg,t4t@                                                  N2
Main Road                                                                                   - N-18                                                                                                        i'  D)  2f,N-1B-
-    Eiido Boundary                                                     L(! CDR C SYTF                                                                                             TF 1 CbOACAN/ %X
_-River   W-,90 W,5LLLC  YTI  9w  
PROJECT                                                                                                N20 I*  '                                                                                          ) T 5 I)+ s 't34  PROJECT  O
.3:' :2t -N-6 -Drains  1/                                                                                                                                                                                                       -16
<   >   -                 - Main Rradain CanlD
River                                                                      S O -L  Lteral CoaMls
.,  1,      Q- i         6   <., I   f                          T      ~~~~~~~~~Embankmenti                                                   |.=
in v s                                                               O     Pumping Stot(on                                                                           -A
";,, ,M  E  X  I C  O g             o    f            -N-14            --- Roads                                         !-N-14
,                                    MT                                      EXISTING t   T.
-No                                                                  \. k ~ . ............ ..... PJ roEC T ion Wa ll
20-                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~Main Coana
209      7       j         ~ ~~~~~~~~MEXICO CITY '       f-Secondary Roads                                                            L _f 
o 6 1 p                                                                                         Embankment
510LOrtt                                                                                       7-N._    rz_ STEW2 -N-12  ~- ElidoZ BoundaJry                      t;O1N-12-
2  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ie                                                                          0 P2pn  tto
Zb s~~ME                     I OpL                                                  _        rvr1  Yil     r o   s e  -- --o-, ss
-   7=t=  ~~~~    torr   C   E  A   S           E-E8                E-90              E 92               t;           LC r A. - pID R8' 1 -Z>^       KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IL )ETER
A- V                                    E-8                   E,9S-9TE9 EN                                                                                     P



