CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1553 ME
Loan Agreement
(Tropical Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
Dated September 27, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1557 ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Pilot Projects Area" means the total area occupied
by the six pilot projects included in the Project, each one
of them with an area ranging from 2,000 to 20,000 hectares.
(b) "Project Area" means an area of about 500,000 hectares
located in the tropical lowlands on the Gulf Coast and Southeast
regions of Mexico and includes the Pilot Projects Area.
(c) "INIA" means Instituto Nacional de Investigaci6nes
Agricolas of the Guarantor.
(d) "INIP" means the Instituto Nacional de Investigaci6nes
Pecuarias of the Guarantor.
(e) "CSAT" means the Colegio Superior de Agricultura Tro-
pical of the Guarantor.
(f) "INCAFOR" means the Direcci6n General de Investigact6n y
Capacitaci6n Forestales of the Guarantor.


﻿-2-
(g) "Law" means the law of the Guarantor published in the
Diario Oficial of December 31, 1954 establishing the Fondo de
Garantia y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura,
and includes its Reglamento of May 6, 1955.
(h) "Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de Fideicomiso
dated June 24, 1955 between the Guarantor and Banxico whereby
the Fondo de Garantla y Fomento para la Agricultura, Ganaderfa
7 Avicultura was entrusted to Banxico as trustee pursuant to the
Law.
(i) "Special Trust Agreement" means the Contrato de Fidei-
comiso dated August 26, 1965 between the Guarantor and Banxico;
and "Special Trust Fund" means the Fondo Especial de Financiamien-
tos Agropecuarios established by the Special Trust Agreement.
(j) "Fondo" means the technical and administrative organi-
zation, resources, staff and facilities used or to be used by
Banxico to operate the Fondo de Garantia y Fomento para la
Agricultura, Ganaderia y Avicultura and the Special Trust
Fund.
(k) "Banxico" means Banco de Mexico, S.A., as trustee of
Fondo.
(1) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and Banxico of even date herewith for purposes of the execution of
Part C of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time
to time; and such term includes all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement and all schedules thereto.
(i) "Participating Banks" means any public credit institu-
tion approved by the Bank and any private credit institution
approved by Banxico to participate in the carrying out of Part C
of the Project.
(n) "Sub-borrower" means a farmer or a group of farmers
which qualifies as a beneficiary of agricultural credit in accor-
dance with Ley General de Cr6dito Rural of the Guarantor pub-
lished in the Diario Official of April 5, 1976, as amended on
December 30, 1977, living in the Pilot Projects Area and to which
a Participating Bank proposes to make or has made a sub-loan on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.


﻿-3-
(o) "Sub-loan" means a medium- or long-term sub-loan made
or proposed to be made under Part C of the Project by a Partici-
pating Bank to a sub-borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifty-six million dollars ($56,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and one-half per cent (7.50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall make the following con-
tractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank: (a)      with the
Guarantor providing, inter alia, (i) for the transfer to the
Guarantor of part of the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of
carrying out the Project, except Part C of the Project, and (ii)
for the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as
the Borrower shall be required to pay to the Bank on account of
principal, interest and other charges on the Loan; and (b) with
Banxico providing, inter alia, for the transfer to Banxico of part
of the proceeds of the Loan for the purpose of carrying out Part C
of the Project. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of such
arrangements.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any external debt.
(b)  The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any external debt, such lien
will lpso facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in
the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect, at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such pro-
perty; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactione and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any covenant or agreement on the part of Banxico under the Project
Agreement; and
(b) a change shall have been made in the Law or in the
Trust Agreement or in the Special Trust Agreement, which shall
adversely and materially affect the carrying out or operation
of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Guarantor, the Borrower and Banxico; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following are specified as additional L_t-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Banxico and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Banxico in accor-
dance with its terms;
(b) that the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 of
this Agreement are legally binding on the parties thereto; and


﻿-6-
(c) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to
be performed or given by the Guarantor, its political subdivisions
or agencies or by any agency of any political subdivision or
by Banxico or pursuant to the Law, the Trust Agreement or the
Special Trust Agreement or otherwise to be performed or given in
order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable
the Guarantor, the Borrower and Banxico to perform all of the
respective covenants, agreements and obligations of the Guarantor,
the Borrower and Banxico in the Guarantee Agreement, the Loan
Agreement and the Project Agreement contained, together with
all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have
been duly and validly performed or given and no other such acts,
consents and approvals are required to be performed or given
for said purpose.
Section 6.02. The date December 27, 1978, is hereby speci-
fied for the puzpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Isabel la Catolica 51
Mexico 1, D.F. Mexico


﻿-7-
Cable address:                    Telex:
NAFIN                             NAFIN 383-1775765
Mexico City                       Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicolas Ardito-Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
By /s/ J. Espinosa de los Reyes
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
Pilot Projects
(1) Civil works, equip-          14,700,000       49%
ment and consulting
services
(2) Sub-loans under              11,300,000       49% of payments
Part C.1 of                                  made by Fondo
the Project                                   to Participat-
ing Banks in
respect of sub-
loans under
Part C.1 of
the Project
Research
(Part E of the Project)
(3) Civil works, equip-
ment and furniture
for research stations:
(a) INIA                     1,600,000       49%
(b) INIP and INCAFOR         1,000,000       49%


﻿-9-
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4) Vehicles, farm and
scientific equipment,
and chemical reagents:
(a) INIA and INIP            1,500,000         49%
(b) INCAFOR                    400,000         49%
(5) Scholarships, salaries,       1,900,000         49%
travel and living ex-
penses for visiting
scientists, and library
equipment and materials
Extension
(6) Civil works, equip-             700,000         49%
ment and furniture
for the Training
Center included in
Part D of the Project
(7) Salaries of exten-            6,000,000         49%
sion workers and of
the staff of the
Training Center
included in Part D
of the Project
(8) Vehicles, equipment           1,300,000         49%
and materials for
extension services
(9) Unallocated                  15,600,000
TOTAL        56,000,000


﻿- 10 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the terrItory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of a specific
pilot project included in the Project, unless such pilot project
has been appraised in a manner satisfactory to the Guarantor
and the Bank and the results of such appraisal are satisfactory to
the Guarantor and the Bank;
(c) Categories (3) (b) and (4) (b) on account of payments
made for expenditures in respect of a specific research program,
unless such program has been appraised in a manner satisfactory
to the Guarantor and the Bank and the results of such appraisal
are satisfactory to the Guarantor and the Bank; and
(d) payments made for consulting services exceeding 10%
of the cost of civil works financed under Category (1).
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank and the
Borrower are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if
such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,


﻿- 11 -
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, shall
have reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in any
Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without
in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
beginning November 1, 1982
through   November 1, 1994                  2,155,000
On May 1, 1995                                    2,125,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                              1.30%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                              2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                              4.85%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                        6.60%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                              7.50%


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(a) Paragraph 11 of Section 2.01 shall read as follows:
"The term 'Project' means the project for which the
Loan is granted, as described in Schedule 1 to the
Guarantee Agreement and as the description thereof
shall be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Guarantor, the Bank, the Borrower and Banxico."
(b) Section 6.06 shall read as follows:
"Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension for
Cancellation.
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all
the provisions of the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee
Agreement and the Project Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect except as in this Article
specifically provided."
(c) Section 10.01 shall read as follows:
"Enforceability. The rights and obligations of the
Bank, the Borrower, the Guarantor, and Banxico under
the Loan Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, and the
Project Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in
accordance with their terms notwithstanding the law
of any State, or political subdivision thereof, to
the contrary. Neither the Bank nor the Borrower nor
the Guarantor nor Banxico shall be entitled in any
proceeding under this Article to assert any claim
that any provision of these General Conditions or
of the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement or
the Project Agreement is invalid or unenforceable
because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement
of the Bank."
(d) Section 10.02 shall read as follows:


﻿-15 -
"Obligations of the Guarantor. The obligations of
the Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement shall not
be discharged except by performance and then only to
the extent of such performance. Such obligations shall
not be subject to any prior notice to, demand upon or
action against the Borrower or Banxico or to any prior
notice to or demand upon the Guarantor with regard to
any default by the Borrower or Banxico, and shall not
be impaired by any of the following: any extension
forbearance or concession given to the Borrower
or Banxico; any assertion of, or failure to assert,
or delay in asserting, any right, power or remedy
against the Borrower or Banxico or in respect of any
security for the Loan; any modification or amplification
of the provisions of the Loan Agreement or the Project
Agreement contemplated by the terms thereof; any failure
of the Borrower or Banxico to comply with any require-
ment of any law of the Guarantor."
(e) Section 10.03 shall read as follows:
"Failure to Exercise Rights. No delay in exercising,
or omission to exercise, any right, power or remedy
accruing to any party under the Loan Agreement or
Guarantee Agreement or Project Agreement upon any
default shall impair any such right, power or remedy
or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquies-
cence in such default; nor shall any action of such
party in respect of such default, or any acquiescence
by it in any default, affect or impair any right,
power or remedy of such party in respect of any other
subsequent default."


