                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR1776




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT


                                      ON A

                                     GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$65.00 MILLION

                                   (TF-54462)

                 FROM THE WORLD BANK IRAQ TRUST FUND

                                     TO THE

   MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE
                        REPUBLIC OF IRAQ

                                     FOR AN

          EMERGENCY PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                December 30, 2012




Finance and Private Sector Development Group
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective December 13, 2012)

                     Currency Unit = Iraqi Dinar
                          1,145.98 = US$1

                           FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CBI     Central Bank of Iraq
CPA     Coalition Provisional Authority
DA      Designated Account
DARM    Diwan Al Rikaba el Malia (Iraqi Supreme Audit Institute)
EDF     Economic Development Fund
EPSD    Emergency Private Sector Development Project
ESSAF   Environment and Social Safeguards Framework
EU      European Union
FBS     Fee-Based Services
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment
FMA     Fiduciary Monitoring Agent
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOI     Government of Iraq
ICB     Iraqi Central Bank
IFR     Interim Financial Report
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IQD     Iraqi Dinar
IRTF    Iraq Reconstruction Trust Fund
ISRB    Iraqi Strategic Review Board
ITF     Iraq Trust Fund (administered by the World Bank)
ITPC    Iraqi Telecommunications and Post Company
KRG     Kurdistan Regional Government
MDG     Millennium Development Goals
MIGA    Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOC     Ministry of Communications
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOPDC   Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation
P&S     Payments and Settlements
PDO     Project Development Objective
PMT     Project Management Team
PSD     Private Sector Development
RP      Restructuring Paper
RVP     Regional Vice President
SCIS    State Company for Internet Services
SME     Small-Medium Enterprise
SOE     State Owned Enterprise
TA      Technical Assistance
TFTA    Trust Fund Technical Annex
TOR     Terms of Reference
UK      United Kingdom
UN      United Nations
UNDG    United Nations Development Group
UNIDO   United National Industrial Development Organization
US      United States
USD     US Dollars




                   Vice President: Inger Andersen
                 Country Director: Ferid Belhaj
                  Sector Manager: Simon C. Bell
             Project Team Leader: Stephen Rimmer
                ICR Team Leader: Stephen Rimmer
                                    REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
                          Emergency Private Sector Development Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 18
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 22

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 23
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 27
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 29
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 46
A. Basic Information
                                                                         IQ-EMERGENCY
Country:               Iraq                    Project Name:             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                                                         DEVELOPMENT
Project ID:            P091344                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-54462
ICR Date:              12/30/2012              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    ERL                     Grantee:                  REPUBLIC OF IRAQ
Original Total
                       USD 55.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 61.48M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 65.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation
 Iraq Telecommunications and Post Company
 Ministry of Communications
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/16/2004   Effectiveness:                              12/06/2004
                                                                                03/31/2010
Appraisal:             11/23/2004   Restructuring(s):
                                                                                03/31/2012
Approval:              11/30/2004   Mid-term Review:        06/30/2008          02/29/2008
                                    Closing:                06/30/2007          06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower          Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             Moderately Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General finance sector                                                20                  20
General industry and trade sector                                     20                  20
General information and communications sector                         60                  60


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  50                  50
Infrastructure services for private sector development                50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Inger Andersen                       Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Ferid Belhaj                         Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:            Simon C. Bell                        Zoubida Allaoua
Project Team Leader:       Stephen Rimmer                       Mohammad A. Mustafa
ICR Team Leader:           Stephen Rimmer
ICR Primary Author:        Stephen Rimmer
                           Marc Jean Yves Lixi

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall project development objective (PDO) is defined in the TFTA as "To lay the
foundation [for private sector development] by addressing certain key priorities in
institutional capacity building and essential communications infrastructure to help foster
the development of the private and financial sectors. A secondary objective of the project
is to generate job creation through the development of the private sector".
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)          Values        Target Years
                1. Strenghthening of the following institutions:
                (a) Investment Promotion Agency
Indicator 1 : (b) Export promotion Agency
                (c) Economic Development Fund and
                (d) Development plans for two industrial zones at Arbil and basra.
                                                                Successful
                                                                strengthening
                                                                of export
                                                                promotion,
                                                                effective      The first three
Value                                                           operation of objectives were not
quantitative or 0                           0                   Economic       fully achieved,
Qualitative)                                                    Development Objective (d) was
                                                                Fund and       achieved.
                                                                development
                                                                of two
                                                                industrial
                                                                zones
Date achieved 12/01/2004                    12/01/2004          06/25/2010     06/30/2012
Comments
                25% achieved. UNIDO is taking forward the component to establish industrial
(incl. %
                zones.
achievement)
                Support of (i) Export Promotion Fund at the Ministry of Trade which will
                channel TA to 100 eligible firms to develop export plans; (ii) Economic
Indicator 2 :
                Development Fund at the MOPDC to channel TA for Iraqi private enterprises to
                develop feasibility studies.
                                                                               30 firms have
                                            75export ready                     developed export
                                            firms have                         plans.
                0 eligible firms have
                                            developed export                   30 private sector
                developed export plans.
Value                                       plans.                             firms assisted to
                0 private sector firms
quantitative or                             50 private sector                  develop feasibility
                assisted to develop
Qualitative)                                firms assisted to                  plans to seek
                feasibility plans to seek
                                            develop feasibility                financing
                financing.
                                            plans to seek                      assisted to develop
                                            financing.                         feasibility plans to
                                                                               seek financing
Date achieved 12/01/2004                    12/01/2004                         06/30/2012
Comments        The capacity building component was abandoned in 2009 due to lack of capacity
(incl. %        by relevant ministries but provides a platform to implement an access to finance
achievement) for SMEs program. Export market development continued by Ministry of Trade.
                  48% achieved
                  Connecting the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI) with two Government owned Banks
Indicator 3 :     (Rafidein and Rasheed) and the headquarters of 20 private banks in Iraq with
                  high capacity and reliable communications infrastructure.
Value
quantitative or   0 % achieved             20 banks in Iraq                   52 banks in Iraq
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/01/2004               06/25/2010                         12/20/2011
Comments
                  Target surpassed by 250%. 52 Iraqi bank headquarters connected to CBI's
(incl. %
                  network and services
achievement)
                Rehabilitation and upgrading of three of five national background microwave
Indicator 4 :   routes: (i) Baghdad-Trabil, (ii) Baghdad-Mosul and (iii) Baghdad-Ammara-
                Basra.
Value                                                                         All routes
                                           All routes
quantitative or No route rehabilitated                                        rehabilitated and
                                           rehabilitated
Qualitative)                                                                  operational
Date achieved 12/01/2004                   06/25/2010                         06/25/2010
Comments
                100% achieved. All three microwave routes have been rehabilitated and are
(incl. %
                operational.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                        Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                Development of Institutional Framework:
                1. Industrial zones development plans;
Indicator 1 : 2. Public awareness campaign to promote investment;
                3. Endorsement by the government of business plans developed for public
                institutions to support PSD
                                           2 Industrial Zone
                                                                             2 Industrial Zone
                                           plans developed;
                0 Industrial Zone plans                                      plans developed;
                                           1 public awareness
                developed;                                                   0 public awareness
                                           campaign to
                0 public awareness                                           campaigns to
                                           promote
                campaigns to promote                                         promote investment
Value                                      investment
                investment conducted;                                        conducted;
(quantitative                              conducted;
                0 business plans                                             0 business plans
or Qualitative)                            3 business plans
                developed for public                                         developed for
                                           developed for
                institutions to support                                      public institutions
                                           public institutions
                PSD endorsed by                                              to support PSD
                                           to support PSD
                Government.                                                  endorsed by
                                           endorsed by
                                                                             Government
                                           Government.
Date achieved 12/01/2004                   06/25/2010                        06/25/2010
Comments        100% for Industrial Zone development plans for Erbil and Basra and legislation
(incl. %        for Industrial Zones. 0% for public awareness and Government endorsement of
achievement)    business plans. This indicator has been achieved at 50% .
                Private Sector Opportunities:
                1- Number of private sector export ready firms assisted to develop viable export
Indicator 2 : plans.
                2- Number of private sector firms assisted to develop feasibility plans to seek
                financing
                                            100 export ready                  0 export ready
                0 export ready firms        firms assisted to                 firms assisted to
                assisted to develop viable develop export                     develop export
Value           export plans.               plans.                            plans.
(quantitative   0 private sector firms      50 private sector                 0 private sector
or Qualitative) assisted to develop         firms assisted to                 firms assisted to
                feasibility plans to seek develop feasibility                 develop feasibility
                financing.                  plans to seek                     plans to seek
                                            financing.                        financing.
Date achieved 12/01/2004                    12/01/2004                        06/30/2012
Comments        The capacity building element was formally abandoned in 2009 because of
(incl. %        insufficient capacities and commitment by Ministry of Trade, but export market
achievement) research and development continued. Not achieved.
                1. Ten Capacity connectivities in the three routes
Indicator 3 : 2. Training of 25 staff members in technical, legal, management, procurement
                and financial management affairs.
Value
                1. 0 capacity connectivity 1.10                               1. 10
(quantitative
                 2. 0 staff member trained 2. 25 staff trained                2. 40
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2004                    06/25/2010                        06/30/2012
Comments
                The project has trained far more than 25 ITPC employees and extended the
(incl. %
                training to MoC. All routes are high capacity and operational. Fully achieved.
achievement)
                Availability of 1,200 lines of interconnection and two megabits per sec-leased
Indicator 4 :
                lines
Value
(quantitative   0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2004
Comments
(incl. %        No information about this indicator.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Roll-out of 2,050 Km digital microwave routes
Value
(quantitative   0 km                        2050 km                           2050 km
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2004                    06/25/2010                        06/30/2012
Comments        Fully achieved. The project financed the rehabilitation/construction of 1,200 km
(incl. %        of microwave lines and successfully interconnected with the 850 km of already
achievement) existing lines.
Indicator 6 : Ten Corporate users and service providers.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %          No information about this indicator
achievement)
Indicator 7 :     Improvement of the ICT sector as a result of technical assistance
Value
(quantitative     0                          3                                 3
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/25/2010                    06/25/2010                     06/30/2012
Comments
                  The activities related to the institutional framework implemented after 2010 have
(incl. %
                  been fully achieved.
achievement)
                  Access to telephone services (fixed mainlines plus cellular phones per 100
Indicator 8 :
                  people)
Value
(quantitative     66.7                       73.4                              79.8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/25/2010                    06/25/2010                     06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded at 110%.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Access to internet services (number of subscribers per 100 people)
Value
(quantitative     4.0                        4.4                               10.4
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/25/2010                    06/25/2010                     06/30/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded by more than 200%.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                            IP            Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/20/2004              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 0.00
  2     03/04/2005              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 0.00
  3     08/24/2005              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                 0.10
                                Moderately                    Moderately
  4     03/07/2006                                                                          0.20
                               Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                                Moderately                    Moderately
  5     11/08/2006                                                                          4.15
                               Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
                                                              Moderately
  6     08/07/2007             Unsatisfactory                                               4.32
                                                             Unsatisfactory
  7     10/31/2007             Unsatisfactory                 Moderately                    4.35
                                                 Unsatisfactory
                         Moderately                Moderately
  8    06/17/2008                                                               8.50
                       Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory
  9    11/21/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory          23.91
 10    06/26/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory          48.06
 11    05/13/2010       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 55.40
 12    01/03/2011       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 57.44
 13    07/17/2011       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 58.43
 14    02/08/2012       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 59.60
 15    07/04/2012       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                 60.38

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The Project was restructured in
                                                     March 2010 to accommodate:
                                                     (i) additional capacity building
                                                     and TA for the Private Sector
                                                     Development (PSD) and
                                                     Telecom component
                                                     respectively (US$10 million
                                                     funding came from additional
 03/31/2010       N       MS    MS           54.21
                                                     financing "savings," resulting
                                                     from the stabilization of the
                                                     euro vs. dollar exchange rate);
                                                     (ii) reallocation of proceeds
                                                     (including replenishment of the
                                                     operating budget of the PMT);
                                                     and (iii) extension of the closing
                                                     date to March 31, 2012.
                                                     The closing date was extended
                                                     by three months from March 31,
                                                     2012 to June 30, 2012 in order
                                                     to allow the two main
 03/31/2012                S      S          59.87
                                                     consultancies to be completed
                                                     (Iraq Telecom Policy and
                                                     Telecom Asset Inventory and
                                                     HR Assessment).
I. Disbursement Profile
     1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
     1.1 Context at Appraisal
          Background
     1. Iraq’s command economy and the international sanctions imposed on it for decades left a
     major mark on almost all the country’s economic sectors, leading to a very significant
     deterioration of the economy, and further entrenched the structural problems that have
     impeded job creation and inclusive growth levels. Just before the 2003 political transition,
     Iraq was a country in considerable distress, having experienced a marked fall in almost all
     human development indicators over the past decade (e.g. material poverty, health standards,
     life expectancy and literacy). Despite the country’s rich resource endowment, Iraq’s human
     development indicators were among the lowest in the region and the country had deviated
     drastically from the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in 2004. With low income
     levels and high unemployment rates 1 , the immediate key objective of this and related
     programs of support was to create new jobs by stimulating the private sector.

     2. Relative to the size of the Iraqi economy, the formal private sector was quite small. The
     private sector was then characterized by a very few large companies, a number of small-
     medium enterprises (SMEs), and a very large number of informal micro-enterprises.
     Furthermore, most large enterprises were situated in the state public sector comprised of 180
     state-owned enterprises. The sanctions that were imposed on the Iraqi economy for more
     than a decade greatly weakened institutions and governance, depleted exports and other
     services, and therefore further weakened the private sector in Iraq.

     3. It was clear that the private sector could not develop and gain competitive advantage if it
     did not have rapid access to a vibrant financial services industry, providing access to finance
     for small and medium sized enterprises and based on a digitized network of branch banks,
     etc. Lack of access to capital was one of the most important impediments to private sector
     growth and job creation. Furthermore, modern financial systems depend on computerized
     information processing and settlement mechanisms to move money through local and global
     telecommunications networks. During the post-2003 reconstruction era, Iraq did not have a
     national payments and settlements (P&S) system, and its financial service industry was out of
     date compared to the requirements of the global economy. Therefore, the Iraqi Central Bank
     (ICB), supported by the Government, prioritized the establishment of a proper P&S system
     by connecting some 80 nodes/locations across the country. However, building these
     connections to enable the effective functioning of the banking system required a modern,
     reliable, secure, and high-speed telecommunications infrastructure.

     4. In addition, most aspects of a trade regime’s modern supply chain are heavily dependent
     on telecommunications. Trade facilitation systems, including customs management, general
     logistics management, and inventory controls require efficient and reliable data
     communications systems. It was envisioned that as Iraq eliminated its telecom networking
     bottlenecks, it would be able to acquire its imports more cheaply, organize its primary and
     secondary production more efficiently, operate its markets more rationally (goods, assets,


1
 IMF, UN/World Bank Watching Briefs, and other Iraqi sources estimate per capita GDP at US$840 for the year 2003. The official
unemployment rate was 28%, while some estimates placed this number at 50% or more.



                                                               1
labor, capital), and exploit its intellectual and human capital more effectively. In addition the
country would be able to improve its capacity to attract and retain foreign direct investment
(FDI). Therefore, modern telecommunications was identified as a fundamental necessity for
Iraq’s trade facilitation in specific and private sector development and job creation more
broadly.

    Rationale for Bank Assistance
5. After 2003, the international community was quick to recognize the need for a
multilateral approach to the reconstruction and development of Iraq. At the request of the
international community, the World Bank and the United Nations Development Group
worked closely to produce an assessment of Iraq’s reconstruction needs and established the
International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq to channel resources from 25 donors for
Iraq’s reconstruction and development needs. This project arose from this broader strategic
needs assessment, which identified private sector development to spur job creation as a key
aspect of Iraq’s reconstruction, and was financed by the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund.
Capacity building for ministries overseeing private sector development and modern
telecommunications infrastructure was seen as a crucial foundation for private sector
development.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
    approved)
6. The Trust Fund Technical Annex (TFTA) is the equivalent of the “Project Appraisal
Document? (PAD). The overall project development objective (PDO) is defined in the TFTA
as “To lay the foundation [for private sector development] by addressing certain key
priorities in institutional capacity building and essential communications infrastructure to
help foster the development of the private and financial sectors. A secondary objective of the
project is to generate job creation through the development of the private sector.?

7. In order to reach the overall PDO, the TFTA presents three sub-PDOs as follows: (i) to
provide the foundation for sound investment climate from a financial and institutional
perspective; (ii) to develop a pipeline of opportunities for the private sector that would lead to
job creation; and (iii) to make essential infrastructure for the survival of a modern private
sector, namely a reliable payment system, supported by necessary telecommunications
infrastructure.

8. Additionally, the following specific outcomes were listed to complement the above-
mentioned sub-PDOs: (i) Development of key enabling public institutions that support the
private sector; (ii) Improving the competitiveness of Iraqi private firms by increasing their
access to financial and foreign markets; (iii) Building reliable telecommunications
infrastructure to interconnect key parts of the Central Bank's payments and settlements
system; (iv) Building a section of a high capacity national communications network capable
of supporting corporate needs; and (v) Financing expenditures directly related to project
management.

9. Although the project’s original performance indicators (Annex 1 of the Technical Annex)
were not well specified (they were not specific enough and lacked baselines and target
values), they still provide a basis for understanding and assessing the project’s intended
results. The assessment of achievement of indicators is presented in the Data Sheet and in
Section 3.2 below.

                                              2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
    Indicators, and reasons/justification

10. The overall PDO as well as the sub-PDOs were never formally revised.

11. However, the Restructuring Paper (RP) of March 2010 added the following key sector
indicators to further measure the results in the telecommunications sector :
 Improvement of the telecom sector as a result of technical assistance (score 1-5, 1 = low
    impact, 5 = high impact). Baseline 2010 = 0; target for 2012 was 3.
 Access to telephone services (fixed mainlines plus cellular phones per 100 people).
    Baseline 2010 = 66.7; target for 2012 was +10%.
 Access to internet services (number of subscribers per 100 people). Baseline for 2010
    was 4. Target for 2012 was +10%.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
12. The beneficiaries include the private sector in Iraq and all Iraqis via improved access to
services, opportunities, and jobs. More specifically, direct beneficiaries included Iraqi
businesses needing access to capital and foreign markets and Iraqi and foreign businesses
needing access to industrial zones as a base for their operations. In addition, beneficiaries
include private banks, which could connect to the IIBN and could benefit from an enhanced
service. Direct beneficiaries also included telephone users in provinces covered by the new
infrastructure. Indirect beneficiaries were the clients of the private banks (firms or
individuals), who benefitted from much faster and more reliable services. Overall, more than
12 million people directly benefitted from this project, as well as many SMEs across the
country.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
13. The project originally combined the following four components:
Component 1: Development of the institutional framework to enable private sector
development (PSD) (US$7 million). This component would help establish and/or strengthen
institutions that support or encourage the private sector and financial sector in Iraq, to enable
them to play their appropriate role. The institutions targeted for assistance were the
Investment Promotion Agency, the Export Promotion Agency, and Industrial Zones.

Component 2: Private Sector Opportunities (US$5 million). This component was a pilot
to address two elements of market failure that the export and private sectors were facing in
Iraq. The first was related to the inadequate knowledge the Iraqi export sector has when it
comes to accessing export markets. The second market failure referred to the inability of Iraqi
private enterprises, especially SMEs, to obtain credit for new projects or businesses through
the Economic Development Fund. Feasibility studies were required by financial institutions
before extending credit for a proposed project.

Component 3: Payments System Supporting Infrastructure (US$3 million). This
component was to fund the critical physical communications infrastructure for providing
enhanced capacity for interconnecting the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI) Headquarters with
CBI’s Mosul and Basra branches (at project launch connected via VSAT) and for networking
CBI with the two Government owned banks, Rafidein and Rasheed and the headquarters of
20 private banks in Baghdad. Based on the successful implementation of this phase, CBI
would then establish a communications network to interconnect with banks throughout Iraq.

                                             3
In this regard, the expanded CBI network would make effective use of good and reliable
bandwidth capacity that would become available from the Iraqi Telecommunications and Post
Company (ITPC) beginning April 2006 under this project and augment it with appropriate
state of the art technologies to establish transmission links to banks in other
provinces/districts of Iraq.

Component 4: Telecommunications National Backbone Network (US$40 million). This
component supported ITPC’s rehabilitation program for 2004-2007 approved by the Iraqi
Strategic Review Board (ISRB) to build a modern and integrated international digital
backbone microwave network to improve delivery of communications services to the
government and to the people of Iraq. In particular, this component was to focus on
rehabilitating and upgrading three of the five national backbone microwave routes and
associated spur routes that have been severely damaged. The three routes were: (i) Baghdad -
Trebil, (ii) Baghdad - Mosul, and (iii) Baghdad - Ammara - Basra.

1.6 Revised Components
14. Component 2 was slightly revised in 2009. The sub-component which focused on export
market research and development was abandoned due to lack of commitment and capacity of
the Iraq Ministry of Planning and Development Cooperation (MOPDC) and the Ministry of
Trade which was the implementing Ministry. When the project was launched in 2004
MOPDC was the lead ministry in coordinating and implementing economic and private
sector development reforms, but its role and influence has diminished significantly since
2004.

1.7 Other significant changes
15. The grant from the World Bank Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) in an initial amount of US$55
million was approved in November 2004 to support a comprehensive private sector
development in Iraq. The amount of ITF funds allocated to the Emergency Private Sector
Development Project (EPSD) was increased to US$65 million in October 2008 to cover cost
overruns resulting from fluctuations in the USD/Euro exchange rates (the grant is in dollars
but some major contracts were in Euros) and contract variations as well as for contingencies.

16. The project was restructured in March 2010 to accommodate: (i) additional capacity
building and technical assistance (TA) for the PSD and telecom components respectively
(US$10 million funding came from "savings" resulting from the stabilization of the euro vs.
dollar exchange rate in October 2008); (ii) reallocation of proceeds (including replenishment
of the operating budget of the MOC Project Management Team (PMT)); and (iii) extension
of the closing date to March 31, 2012. A second restructuring was approved by the Regional
Vice President (RVP) on March 31, 2012. The changes from that restructuring were as
follow:

              Reallocations: A total of US$1.7 million was reallocated from the PSD
               components to the telecom components, including a reallocation to the
               Ministry of Communications’ Project Management Team (MOC-PMT),
               which needed additional funds to attend the series of workshops on telecom
               policy, law, and regulation organized abroad for security reasons.
              Closing date: The closing date was extended by three months from March 31,
               2012 to June 30, 2012 in order to allow the two main consultancies to be



                                           4
                   completed (Iraq Telecom Policy and Telecom Asset Inventory and HR
                   Assessment).

    17. During the 2010 restructuring, the Project Management Team (PMT) under the Ministry
    of Communications (MOC) was reorganized in two parts: (i) PMT MOC to lead
    implementation of technical assistance for telecom sector reform; and (ii) PMT-ITPC to lead
    implementation of physical telecom components. A number of additional activities were
    proposed and financed by the reallocation of undisbursed funds from the PSD components
    which included the Asset Inventory and Human Resources Assessment of Government-
    owned telecom assets in Iraq. This was a necessary deliverable to help the Government of
    Iraq (GOI) in planning for the privatization of ITPC and the State Company for Internet
    Services (SCIS), two Government-owned telecom companies. This study compiled
    information about all the physical assets owned by MOC either directly or through ITPC and
    SCIS. These assets were spread throughout the country and they were physically verified and
    compiled into a standardized database in which they can be better managed. In addition,
    MOC agreed to conduct a follow-on assignment to prepare a strategy for the best use of these
    assets, including the 22,000 government employees of ITPC.

    18. Several other activities were included such as building regulatory capacity, with technical
    assistance (TA) programs on regulatory issues. This TA involved several stakeholders,
    including the Communication and Media Commission (CMC), the Kurdistan Regional
    Government (KRG) MOC, and the MOC, and was a necessary input to the development of
    the telecommunications sector policy. This assistance was to contribute to putting in place
    vital institutional building blocks for the transformation of the sector, such as the new draft
    telecom law, the restructuring of the incumbent operator, strengthening of CMC and MoC,
    etc., also indirectly serving as a pilot for a possible future Reimbursable Advisory Services
    (RAS) instrument that is being developed as part of the Bank’s engagement with Iraq in the
    forthcoming Country Partnership Strategy.

    2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
    2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
    19. The EPSD Project was prepared as an “emergency? response project in 2004, after the
    Iraq political transition in conditions on the ground characterized by chaos, a growing armed
    insurgency, and growing armed conflict between various groups and factions in Iraq. The
    preparation was fast-tracked and based on a very ambitious program of reconstruction and
    capacity building. Although the overall project objective was to lay key foundations for the
    development of a vibrant private sector, most of the funds were allocated to the
    reconstruction of the destroyed telecom network and the construction of the Iraq inter-
    banking network (IIBN), which was perceived as a prerequisite to private and financial sector
    development. The project preparation and design demonstrated shortcomings outlined in the
    following three paragraphs.

    20. The preparation of the project did not benefit from robust data and a detailed analysis of
    the actual situation on the ground, particularly regarding institutional issues and constraints.
    The logistics on the ground were very difficult at that time and did not allow the team to carry
    out all the necessary assessments as normally done during project preparation and rollout.
    Also, the project preparation was completed within a few months (from June to November
    2004).
 

                                                 5
21. The indicators listed in the original Results Framework (Annex 1 of the TFTA) are
statements of outputs or outcomes rather than actual measurable indicators. The results
framework was not revised until 2010, and only then to include telecom-related indicators,
including key sector indicators. However, the original “indicators? were not changed. The
lack of actual indicators is a major shortcoming of the project preparation and it has indirectly
affected project implementation (see Sections 2.2 and 2.3). Given the considerable
uncertainty in Iraq over this period it was not possible to address these issues in an early
restructuring.

22. The overall design of this project was based on statements such as “(…) there will be
large reconstruction flows; there are export-ready SMEs based on a proud and vibrant arts
and crafts manufacturing past; and there are potential comparative advantages in the oil and
agricultural sectors. The SOE sector is ripe for reform, the religious tourism industry is
increasing, and information technology opportunities are on the rise.? These assessments
were overly optimistic and speculative and did not take into account the complex and
evolving security, political, and religious environment in Iraq. The implementation of the
project was eventually deeply affected by growing conflict and security concerns and
constant political tensions (see next section). Overall, the situation on the ground did not
allow for a thorough review of the opportunities, risks, and potential mitigation measures.
Furthermore, with the progressive deterioration in the security situation from 2005-2008,
costs and time taken for implementation increased significantly, making it much more
difficult to implement some elements of the original program.

23. However, the project design benefitted from “decentralized? institutional arrangements,
with MOPDC (and Ministry of Trade for export market research) being the counterparts for
Components 1 and 2. MOC had the responsibility to implement the telecom aspect of the
project (Components 3 and 4). The set-up of two PMTs to ensure implementation in parallel
had a positive impact on project implementation and was a demonstration of the ministries’
willingness and capacity to effectively implement agreed reforms (see next section and
lessons learned).

2.2 Implementation
24. The project was approved on November 30, 2004 and became effective on December 6,
2004. Project implementation started in earnest and was boosted by the following factors:

   Level of commitment of the PMTs and implementing agencies. Throughout the project
    implementation, our counterparts have demonstrated a strong and constant commitment.
    Despite many institutional obstacles, PMT staff has regularly attended fiduciary, project
    management, and other relevant technical training. The project benefitted from the
    assistance of a private contractor for financial management aspects. The outsourcing of
    the project’s financial management aspects allowed the PMT to focus on the technical
    and substantial aspects. That said, MOPDC at times struggled to focus on project
    implementation and did not prepare its own assessment of the project, despite the
    assistance and advice provided to guide preparation (such as the ICR Manual, examples
    of recent Iraq ICRs in Arabic, etc.).
   Strong commitment at the highest level of the Iraq administration. The project benefitted
    from a strong commitment at the highest level of the Ministry of Communications. After
    the restructuring in 2010 and once the infrastructure and the project outputs were
    achieved, project implementation involved all telecom sector stakeholders (operators,


                                             6
    Ministry of Communications, ITPC, the Central Bank, the regulator CMC) in order to
    ensure a strong buy-in and the sustainability of the project outcomes (see Section 2.5). At
    the highest level of the Iraq administration, the Minister of Communications, the head of
    CMC, and the CEOs of the three mobile operators were directly involved in project
    implementation (either as part of the decision-making process, or as active stakeholders
    of the project). MOPDC also displayed a high level of commitment, but at times
    identified a different vision and path to project implementation, which resulted in the
    termination of some parts of the program including export market research and
    development (2007) and strengthening of the Economic Development Fund (2011). This
    commitment was demonstrated by the personal involvement of the Ministers in
    workshops, in implementation-related issues, and in a rapid decision-making process to
    resolve issues very quickly.
   Adaptation to changing circumstances. The constant political tensions directly affected
    the project (see paragraphs 25, 64, and 66 below). When the infrastructure part of the
    project was achieved, the PMT for the project’s telecom component shifted from ITPC to
    MOC to allow for a more hands-on approach to implementation. The project benefitted
    from an additional US$10 million financing in October 2008 and funds reallocation of
    US$1.7 million in March 2012 that made it possible to consolidate the its achievements
    by focusing more on the institutional aspects of the sector. This additional funding
    resulted in unexpected outcomes that exceeded initial expectations (see Section 3.6).

25. Despite these positive factors, the project encountered considerable delays as a result of
external factors (adverse local, national, and regional environment) outside the control of the
implementing agency. These factors, among others, include:

   Constant political tensions and evolving violent conflict. The project implementation
    spans from 2004 to 2011; it began shortly after the conclusion of the Iraq political
    transition in 2004. In this very difficult context, implementation was constantly slowed
    down and sometimes completely stopped (2006 - 2008), which considerably delayed the
    achievement of project outcomes.
   Terrorist acts on project-funded infrastructure and assassination of project counterpart.
    In 2008 one of the CBI backbone nodes was destroyed by a bomb. This damaged the
    network and deeply affected key services between CBI and Iraqi banks. It cost the
    Government money and time to replace it. In a separate incident one of the main
    counterparts for this project was assassinated.
   No full-time staff in PMTs. Although staff of both PMTs were clearly skilled and
    dedicated to the project, they were not appointed full-time on this task. The heads of
    PMT-MOC and PMT-MOPDC were very senior civil servants with many
    responsibilities. These positions helped the project by having a close relationship with the
    Minister and other senior stakeholders, but the PMTs were also under a lot of pressure to
    carry out other tasks besides those of the project.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
26. Monitoring and Evaluation suffered from a hectic implementation, a difficult and ever
changing environment, and a poorly designed M&E framework. The original indicators were
not specific enough to measure the project’s expected outcomes. Monitoring and Evaluation
reports were submitted by the PMT-MOC only toward the end of the project after the
restructuring of 2010, which introduced more specific indicators measuring the impact of the
operating infrastructure, in particular the IIBN.

                                             7
27. Overall, the day-to-day difficulties of project execution prevented both PMTs from
focusing on the M&E aspects of the project, despite several requests by the Bank task team.
However, from 2010 to 2012, the project benefitted from new indicators for Components 3
and 4 and the figures obtained clearly illustrate significant results arising from the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguard compliance
28. During the launch of this project in Amman in January 2005, a training session was
conducted on the full World Bank safeguards set, with examples of other places where some
of them were triggered. Following the safeguards presentation, the Bank’s Environment and
Social Safeguards Framework (ESSAF) was explained in detail with all its attachments. All
works under the project were rehabilitation of existing infrastructure. Although the various
Aide Memoires do not provide any information on the monitoring of the safeguards triggered,
safeguards has never been an issue since the disclosure of the partial assessment in 2004. As
stated in the ISRs, all infrastructure activities were successfully completed in compliance
with the recommendations of the ESSAF Therefore, safeguards compliance is rated
Satisfactory.

Fiduciary compliance
29. Financial management. Financial management was outsourced to a private company as
the Bank's Fiduciary Monitoring Agent for the ITF- and IDA-financed projects. This was
very helpful, as the contractor became familiar with Bank procedures and was able to allocate
the required resources when necessary.

30. At the beginning, the project suffered from frequent turnover of the MOPDC staff with
FM responsibilities and lack of commitment at ITPC that caused ineligible expenditures due
to lack of understanding of the World Bank guidelines, inaccurate accounting records,
significant delays in replenishing expenditures from the World Bank, and delays in
reconciling project records with the World Bank Client Connection. However, the overall
performance of the financial management team improved during the second half of the
project implementation period. During the 2010 restructuring, the PMT under MOC was
reorganized into two parts without any changes on the financial management arrangements:
(i) PMT-MOC to lead implementation of technical assistance for telecom sector reform; and
(ii) PMT-ITPC to lead implementation of physical telecom components.

31. Interim Un-audited Financial Reports (IFRs) were satisfactory and were submitted in a
timely manner. Audit reports have been regularly submitted to the Bank but with some delay,
except for the 2010 audit report which was submitted on time. The auditor issued unqualified
“clean? opinions on the audited financial statements except for 2009. The 2009 audit report
was qualified due to an insignificant ineligible amount of US$197 and incorrect classification
of expenses by the PMTs in one submitted withdrawal application. Both issues were rectified
by the PMTs. The next and last audit report will cover the period from January 1, 2012 until
closing date plus a four-month grace period and is due by December 31, 2012.

32. Due to the absence of Designated Accounts (DAs), project payments above the threshold
of US$10,000 were made by the World Bank directly into the bank account of the contractor,
supplier, or consultant. Payments below the threshold of US$10,000 were made by the
MOPDC and ITPC from their own resources and were reimbursed, on a periodic basis, by the

                                            8
Bank to the MOPDC and ITPC upon presentation of proof of payment and a signed
withdrawal application.

33. The project suffered from payment delays, especially payments in Iraqi Dinars (IDQ),
mainly due to: (i) the weak banking system in Iraq, (ii) lack of familiarity of consultants and
contractors with internationally accepted business practices, especially the monthly
submission of invoices and full documentation of invoices, (iii) limited capacity within
MOPDC and ITPC for management, and (iv) unavailability of DAs for the project. Therefore,
the project faced delays as direct payment to vendors was not authorized. Moreover, the
project did not benefit from electronic signature and had to send hard copies of documents to
Europe. This heavy administrative process affected the payment to vendors, particularly for
large amounts.

34. The fiduciary monitoring agent (FMA) hired by the Bank for fiduciary purposes, was
effective. FMA staff visited the PMTs two to three times per month on average to: (i) review
the PMTs’ IFRs and reconcile their records with the Bank records; (ii) monitor unclaimed
expenditures; (iii) verify disbursement plan updates; and (iv) provide on-the-job training in
FM matters. The FMA included the PMT-prepared IFRs in their quarterly reports, as well as
the adjusted IFRs (with their review comments and recommendations for the PMT IFRs).
IFRs were usually submitted in a timely manner. The FMA also conducted, on a sample basis,
pre-screening and post-review of withdrawal applications for direct payments and
reimbursements.

35. Payment of very large contracts. As mentioned above, the direct payment method was
not authorized by the Legal Agreement/Disbursement Letter. Large infrastructure contracts
such as the rehabilitation of ITPC backbone for more than US$30 million were paid through a
Letter of Credit issued by a local bank. Such a long procedure cost MOC more than
US$400,000 in penalty fees because of delays. This could have been avoided by authorizing
the direct payment method. Overall, financial management was rated Satisfactory.

36. Procurement. Procurement was rated Satisfactory. Procurement was monitored closely
by the Bank team since the commencement of the project and counterparts were provided
with detailed training in World Bank procurement requirements to implement the
procurement plan. They were given ongoing support on procurement throughout the project.
Procurement was also monitored by the FMA who audited, monitored, and reported on the
rollout of the project on the ground. The counterparts complied with all Bank procurement
requirements (with one or two very minor technical exceptions). Where deficiencies were
identified (e.g., construction of a substandard telecom tower) these were corrected by the
counterpart. Procurement was often delayed over the 2006-2008 period because of the level
of conflict in Iraq at that time, the cost of some initial bids exceeding available budget, and
the difficulties experienced by counterparts over this. Consultants hired delivered on all
agreed outputs for the industrial zones, export market research, and the Economic
Development Fund (EDF). Also, despite the security situation and lack of interest on the part
of international suppliers generally to work in Iraq during the implementation of IIBN and
microwave backbone contracts (2004-2008), there were very good responses from
international companies for those contracts, resulting in good competition in the tendering
process.




                                            9
    2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
    37. After 2010, the project activities were essentially telecom-related. The PSD aspects had
    been already implemented and UNIDO will take forward the Industrial Zones activity
    (Component 1) as part of an Italian Government-funded project to support Industrial Zones
    and Special Economic Zones in Iraq.

    38. The remaining funds were reallocated in 2010 to telecom-focused components, in
    particular, to build the institutional capacity of the key telecom stakeholders. During the last
    year of project implementation, the intensity of engagement on the part of the sector
    stakeholders increased significantly. Through activities such as the draft of a sector policy
    and the Human Resources and Assets Assessments as well as training for both the regulator
    CMC and MOC/ITPC, all telecom stakeholders became involved and used these
    opportunities to talk openly to each other for the first time, to share their views, and to
    address many issues pertaining to the roles and responsibilities of the operators, CMC, and
    MOC. It was also an opportunity to get a clearer picture of the current state of the national
    incumbent ITPC.

    39. This was a major breakthrough in the sector dialogue, which will have long-term impact
    on the sector and help ensure the sustainability of the telecom-related outcomes. For instance,
    the Human Resources and Assets Assessments laid the ground for a strategic repositioning of
    ITPC and will be very useful for the valuation of the company. On these two items, the
    Government of Iraq has already requested Bank assistance through fee-based services (FBS).
    This could lead to major reform in the sector, including the adoption of a new telecom law,
    the restructuring of ITPC, and eventually the liberalization of the backbone and international
    gateway.

    3. Assessment of Outcomes
    40. The unusual nature of this project (an emergency project prepared and implemented
    shortly after the political transition in Iraq, a large scope covering very distinct sectors, an
    implementation in the midst of a civil war, etc.) led the ICR team to carry out the assessment
    in a way that considers the achievements of each of component separately and measures at
    the end their respective contributions to the overall project development objective. This task
    was challenging, as the TFTA was drafted in 2004 when Bank standards regarding project
    results and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) were not as clearly defined as today. Also, a
    secondary objective of the project, which was to “generate job creation through the
    development of the private sector" has not been included in the assessment for the simple
    reason that no indicator or outcomes were associated with this particular objective, and also
    because information related to jobs and unemployment are not available in Iraq. However, it
    is now recognized that the development of broadband has a positive impact on net job
    creation. For instance, the development of broadband services in Australia resulted in the
    creation of 25,000 jobs. But more importantly, several studies have shown that the indirect
    creation of jobs with the development of broadband services is even higher2: 10% annual
    broadband penetration increases the annual GDP growth by 0.24-1.5 p. p., and creates 1.5 to
    4.5 indirect jobs for each job created.


2
  Several studies have demonstrated the linkage between development of broadband and job creation:
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INFORMATIONANDCOMMUNICATIONANDTECHNOLOGIES/Resources/2012-02-
ICTPolicyNotes.pdf
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/INFORMATIONANDCOMMUNICATIONANDTECHNOLOGIES/Resources/1221302_NewFro
ntier_PolicyNote_LowRes.pdf

                                                  10
     3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
     41. In 2012, eight years after the appraisal, the PDO is still relevant. The private sector in
     Iraq still needs support to continue its development, with for example Iraq’s ranking in the
     Doing Business 2013 Report being 1653.Although the communications infrastructure funded
     by the project has been successfully implemented, this created a backbone only from
     Baghdad to three main provinces and the further expansion of a reliable national backbone is
     still necessary to ensure communications across the country. Moreover, it is needed to
     connect all the Banks’ branches across the country in order to enable a rapid development of
     the private sector outside the capital city. In addition, the development of communications
     and the transformation of the telecom sector in Iraq are a priority for the Iraqi government,
     and are also included in the new Bank Country Partnership Strategy.

     42. At project closing, and based on the implementation history and the successive political
     crises in Iraq, the design and implementation are still relevant, although with some nuances.
     The first reason is that the four components cover several very distinct sectors (private sector
     development, including financing of small and medium sized enterprises and the
     establishment of Industrial Zones in Erbil and Basra, banking and finance, and telecom). The
     coordination of such a project requires expertise in different domains and complicates day-to-
     day management. The second reason is that each of these sectors faces very specific issues
     that could be resolved as part of a stand-alone or more focused project. Overall, the relevance
     is High.

     3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
     43. In order to assess the achievement of project outcomes, this ICR uses the PDO mentioned
     in paragraph 6 and both lists of objectives mentioned in paragraphs 7 and 8 (taken from
     paragraph 26 in the main text of the TFTA and the Logical Framework in Annex 1). The list
     of all project objectives can be summarized in the table below. This table describes the
     hierarchy of objectives and their linkages (see also paragraph 44).

                         OUTCOMES                                                                                 Assessment
                         To lay the foundation [for private sector development] by
                         addressing certain key priorities in institutional capacity building
          Overall        and essential communications infrastructure to help foster the
           PDO           development of the private and financial sectors. A secondary
                                                                                                                              MS
                         objective of the project is to generate job creation through the
                         development of the private sector.
                         To provide the foundation for sound investment climate from a
       Sub PDO-I                                                                                                              MS
                         financial and institutional perspective.
                         To develop a pipeline of opportunities for the private sector that
       Sub PDO-II
                         would lead to job creation.
                                                                                                                              U
                         To make essential infrastructure for the survival of a modern
        Sub PDO-
           III
                         private sector, namely a reliable payment system, supported by                                       S
                         necessary telecommunications infrastructure.
                         Development of key enabling public institutions that support the
       Objective-1       private sector, including support for establishment of Industrial                                    MU
                         Zones in Erbil and Basra.


3
 The recent Investment Climate Assessment (2012) and the new ILO-MSME analysis report points out progress over the past few
years, but many challenges remain for the investment climate and the private sector in general.

                                                             11
                   Improving the competitiveness of Iraqi private firms by
                   increasing their access to financial and foreign markets, including
     Objective-2   identifying export market opportunities for Iraq business and               U
                   support for the Economic Development Fund to provide finance
                   for SMEs.
                   Building reliable telecommunications infrastructure to
     Objective-3   interconnect key parts of the Central Bank's payments and                   S
                   settlements system.
                   Building a section of a high capacity national communications
     Objective-4
                   network capable of supporting corporate needs.
                                                                                              HS

   44. Each Objective (numbered 1 to 4 at the bottom of the list) represented the direct outcome
   of each component of this operation. We will assume, for the purpose of this evaluation that:
   Objective-1 contributed directly to Sub-PDO I, that Objective-2 contributed directly to Sub-
   PDO II, and that Objective-3 and Objective-4 contributed directly to Sub-PDO III.

   45. For Objective-1, MOPDC hired consultants to prepare detailed diagnostics and proposals
   for the establishment of Industrial Zones in Erbil and Basra and also to prepare draft
   legislation to strengthen legal certainty for Industrial Zones in Iraq. These outputs were
   delivered at a workshop in 2010 and were well received by MOPDC, the Prime Minister’s
   Task Force for Economic Reforms, Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) (for the Erbil
   Industrial Zone), and Basra Governorate (for the Basra Industrial Zone). However, the
   Government of Iraq and KRG have been slow to implement these proposals. In 2011 UNIDO
   agreed to take forward these reform proposals as part of a new three-year project launched in
   collaboration with the Government of Iraq in 2011, which is funded by the Italian
   Government. As shown in the table below, Objective-1 was achieved at 50 percent and is
   rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.

PDO Indicator 1                       Baseline                Target                Actual
Strengthening of the following 0                       Successful             The first three
institutions:                                          strengthening of       objectives were not
(a) Investment Promotion                               export promotion,      fully achieved,
Agency                                                 effective operation    Objective (d) was
(b) Export Promotion Agency                            of two industrial      achieved
(c)      Alternative   Dispute                         zones
Resolution Capacity, and
(d) Development plans for two
industrial zones at Erbil and
Basra.
Intermediate Indicator 1              Baseline                Target                Actual
Development of Institutional     0 Industrial Zone     2 Industrial Zone      2 Industrial Zone
Framework:                       plans developed;      plans developed;       plans developed;
1. Industrial zones              0 public awareness    1 public awareness     0 public awareness
development plans;               campaigns to          campaign to            campaigns to
2. Public awareness campaign     promote               promote investment     promote
to promote investment;           investment            conducted;             investment
3. Endorsement by the            conducted;            3 business plans       conducted;
government of business plans     0 business plans      developed for          0 business plans
developed for public             developed for         public institutions    developed for


                                                 12
institutions to support PSD      public institutions    to support PSD            public institutions
                                 to support PSD         endorsed by               to support PSD
                                 endorsed by            Government.               endorsed by
                                 Government.                                      Government


    46. For Objective-2, for the Economic Development Fund (EDF) which was established prior
    to 2003, detailed proposals and training workshops were provided to transform the
    administration of the EDF by introducing and adopting modern systems for assessing risks
    and administering loans for SMEs. Over this period 30 feasibility studies to seek finance were
    prepared. Unfortunately, over this period various Ministers had different visions for the EDF
    and wanted to allocate these monies for other purposes. The EDF was formally closed by
    MOPDC in 2011. However, the Government of Iraq recognizes that access to finance is a
    considerable constraint on the private sector and has focused on that topic in its National
    Development Plan. The capacity building for EDF provides an institutional platform for the
    Government to implement programs in this area in the future. Regarding the element of
    Objective-2 “improving the competitiveness of Iraqi private firms by increasing their access
    to financial and foreign markets, including identifying export market opportunities for Iraq
    business?, the program results in the preparation of 30 export development plans. The
    capacity building component for export market research was abandoned in 2009 due to lack
    of capacity and commitment by Ministry of Trade. However, the export market research
    component launched by the project continues to be undertaken by Ministry of Trade.
    Therefore, the achievement of Objective-2 is rated Unsatisfactory.

PDO Indicator 2                              Baseline             Target                 Actual
Support of (i) Export Promotion          0 eligible firms    75 eligible firms      30 firms have
Fund at the Ministry of Trade which      have developed      have developed         developed export
will channel TA to 100 eligible firms    export plans.       export plans.          plans.
to develop export plans; (ii)            0 private sector    50 private sector      30 private sector
Economic Development Fund at the         firms assisted to   firms assisted to      firms assisted to
MOPDC to channel TA for Iraqi            develop             develop                develop
private enterprises to develop           feasibility plans   feasibility plans      feasibility plans
feasibility studies                      to seek             to seek financing.     to seek financing
                                         financing.
Intermediate Indicator 2                     Baseline             Target                 Actual
Private Sector Opportunities:            0 export ready      75 export ready        30 export ready
1- Number of private sector export       firms assisted to   firms assisted to      firms assisted to
ready firms assisted to develop viable   develop viable      develop export         develop export
export plans.                            export plans.       plans.                 plans.
2- Number of private sector firms        0 private sector    50 private sector      30 private sector
assisted to develop feasibility plans    firms assisted to   firms assisted to      firms assisted to
to seek financing                        develop             develop                develop
                                         feasibility plans   feasibility plans      feasibility plans
                                         to seek financing   to seek financing.     to seek
                                                                                    financing.

    47. Objective-3 has been fully achieved. At project closing, the Iraq Inter-Banking Network
    (IIBN) connected the headquarters of all banks in Iraq (52 banks across the country – PDO
    indicator 3) to the ICB in Baghdad. The target objective was 20 banks at project closing; the

                                                13
      project therefore exceeded this target. As a result, the project positively impacted the
      following services of the Central Bank: (i) the Real Time Gross Settlement system, (ii) the
      Automated Clearing House, (iii) the Government Securities Registration system; and (iv) the
      Checks Enablement Project. The indicator below shows clearly the impact of the project on
      the inter-banking payment system and the achievement of Objective-3, with a more than
      500% increase in number of transactions in four years. Objective-3 is rated Satisfactory.

PDO Indicator 3                                                                             Baseline           Target           Actual
Connecting the Central Bank of Iraq (CBI) with two                                                0               20                52
Government owned Banks (Rafidein and Rasheed) and the
headquarters of 20 private banks in Iraq with high capacity and
reliable communications infrastructure

 Year                   2008                    2009                     2010                     2011                      2012
 Currency         IQD USD      IQD   USD    IQD   USD                                      IQD          USD            IQD        USD
 # of trans       5,844 1,276 11,145 2,695 20,746 4,289                                   30,234        5,275         30,740      6,898

      48. Regarding Objective-4, the microwave network has been successfully rehabilitated (see
      Annex 2 on Outputs per Components). The project rehabilitated three routes departing from
      Baghdad (2,050 km): Baghdad-Ramadi-Trebil, Baghdad-Kirkuk-Mosul, and Baghdad-
      Amara-Basra. These three links are now fully operational and allow telecommunications
      between the capital city and other provinces of Iraq. This objective has been achieved 100
      percent.

 PDO Indicator 4                                                                          Baseline            Target           Actual
 Rehabilitation and upgrading of three of five national                                     0                     3                3
 background microwave routes: (i) Baghdad-Trebil, (ii)                                  microwave
 Baghdad-Mosul and (iii) Baghdad-Ammara-Basra                                             routes
                                                                                       rehabilitated

      In the case of Objective-4, the project went much further than the simple construction of the
      microwave network. At the request of the Government of Iraq, and following the allocation
      of an additional US$10 million to the project in October 2008, the Bank proposed to use the
      undisbursed PSD amount of that allocation (some US$1.7 million at the time of the March
      2010 restructuring) to build the capacity of the telecom stakeholders (MoC, ITPC, CMC, and
      the operators) thus helping the sector consolidate the project’s recent achievements. The
      telecom sector is the second largest sector of the Iraq economy after oil in terms of shares of
      GDP, and activities financed after 2010 had a significant impact on this sector. In 2010, the
      core sector indicators “Improvement of the ICT sector as a result of technical assistance4?,
      “Access to telephone services?, and “Access to internet services? were added to the Results
      Framework. It is difficult to attribute the increase in access to telephone and internet services



 4
   This indicator measures the extent of the impact of World Bank TA activities on the sector. It is intended as a meta-indicator. This
 measure is a composite measure comprising five key areas of Bank work (with no special weighting among them). These show the
 impact of the project on: a) making the legal and regulatory framework more effective at delivering sector performance. b) Improving
 the capacity of the regulatory institution(s) to deliver on their mandate(s). c) Increasing the level of competition in the ICT sector. d)
 Improving the ICT policy environment in the country. e) Reforming state-owned assets in the ICT sector. The indicator is measures
 on a 1-5 scale with 1 indicating low impact and 5 indicating high impact.

                                                                    14
       to the project. However, the improvement of the ICT sector as a result of technical assistance
       was clearly an outcome of the project. Among other things, the project financed the
       development of the sector policy and the audit of all technical and human resource assets of
       ITPC, laying the ground for the effective transformation of the state-owned operator, and
       many highly technical training courses for MOC and CMC in order to improve the capacity
       of the regulatory body to deliver its mandate. According to the OPCS website, the first core
       sector indicator in the table below reaches the value of 3 if “a project results in guidelines
       addressed to regulators and policy-makers that cover a modest share of the sector and/or
       which may result in changes to the existing regulatory environment?, or if “a project makes a
       modest impact on the capacity of the regulator, such as participation by regulatory staff in a
       regional training program, or the provision of fellowships for study?, which was clearly
       surpassed by the project. The OPCS website also states that this indicator reaches the value of
       3 if the project has a significant impact on the sector policy environment, for example by
       helping drafting a universal access policy through engaging relevant stakeholders?. The
       project has clearly achieved that level of impact by financing the development of the new
       telecom sector policy. The Objective-4 is rated Highly Satisfactory.

Intermediate Indicators (added after restructuring)                             Baseline   Target   Actual
Improvement of the Telecom sector as a result of technical                         0         3        3
assistance
Access to telephone services (fixed mainlines plus cellular                       66.7      73.4     79.8
phones per 100 people)
Access to internet services (number of subscribers per 100                        4.0       4.4      10.4
people)

       49. To summarize, Objective-1 is rated MU and contributed directly to Sub-PDO I. Based on
       the indicator measuring the number of transactions to and from the Central Bank of Iraq
       (CBI) (following paragraph 47), it is clear that the infrastructure built under Component 3
       made a difference and improved significantly the efficiency and effectiveness of the inter-
       banking payment system, and hence contributed directly to the development of the financial
       and private sector. The success of the Central Bank network, a prerequisite to financial sector
       development, contributed directly to Sub-PDO I. Therefore, Sub PDO I is rated Moderately
       Satisfactory. Objective-2 is rated U and contributed directly to Sub-PDO II. Therefore Sub-
       PDO II is rated Unsatisfactory. Finally, both telecom-related Objectives-3 and -4 are
       respectively rated Satisfactory and Highly Satisfactory, have delivered (sometimes exceeded)
       the expected outcomes, and generated measurable results on the ground. Therefore, Sub-PDO
       III is rated Satisfactory. Overall, in this assessment, those parts of the project that were
       successful in the uncertain political environment had important impact on the financial and
       private sector in Iraq, such as the Central Bank inter-banking network, and the excellent
       performance of the telecom sector. In addition, in the improved enabling environment
       facilitated by the project, telecom companies are the best hope of depth on the Iraqi stock
       market, thus aiding the deepening of the securities market through non-government issuers5.
       Therefore, the overall achievement of outcomes rating (efficacy) is rated Moderately
       Satisfactory.




5
    http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/10/02/iraq-zain-idUSL6E8L2IMW20121002



                                                            15
3.3 Efficiency
50. The efficiency of Components 1 and 2 are difficult to measure given the evolving context
on the ground, and the outputs that were delivered. For Component 1, the detailed legislation
and plans for Industrial Zones were prepared and transmitted to the Government of Iraq and
there is ongoing work being undertaken by UNIDO and the Government of Iraq. For the
outputs of Component 2, the identification of export market opportunities by the Ministry of
Trade and assistance in developing feasibility studies from MOPDC, the Ministry of Trade
closed in 2009 the capacity building element, although its focus on export market research
and development continues. MOPDC received detailed support for EDF which was closed in
2011. Because of the security context and uncertainty on the ground the cost of engaging
consultants was very high, including their need to hire security protection and life support
while in Iraq, typically comprising over half (or more) of the contract amount. On a number
of occasions only one bid was received for contracts, resulting in delays. In addition, capacity
building activities for ministries usually involved workshops being conducted outside Iraq,
because secure and safe facilities for in-country workshops were unavailable. This also
increased costs significantly. Given the unique situation in Iraq, it is therefore not possible to
benchmark Component 1 and 2 with other countries. Rather, the approach taken here is to
indicate the outputs delivered and the cost. See Annex 2 for further information.

51. For Component 1 (Industrial Zones) detailed plans for industrial zones in Basra and Erbil
were prepared and submitted to the Government of Iraq in 2010. The plans included pre-
feasibility analysis design, feasibility and design, an assessment of the legal, regulatory, and
institutional framework (including preparation of draft legislation for Industrial Zones in
Iraq), plans and manuals for development, management, and operation of Industrial Zones
(including use of public-private partnerships) and case studies. In addition, the MOPDC
received significant capacity building and support through several workshops and seminars.
The total cost of this component from 2004 to 2010 was US$6.6 million. See Annex 2 for
further information.

52. For Component 2 (Strengthening the Economic Development Fund and increasing access
for Iraqi business to financial and foreign markets, including identifying export market
opportunities), a series workshops for MOPDC meant to strengthen the capacity of the EDF
was held from 2005 to 2009 (see also paragraph 46). As noted above (paragraph 46), capacity
building for identifying export opportunities was abandoned by Ministry of Trade in 2009.
However, the export market research and development component continued to be
implemented. The total cost of this component from 2004 to 2010 was US$5 million.

53. Comparison with unit costs of physical outputs in-country. The cost of the IIBN
infrastructure financed by the Bank was EUR 30,738,445. The World Bank imposed the use
of a Letter of Credit for the payment of the supplier Alcatel-Lucent. This procedure was very
long and cost the Government of Iraq more than US$400,000 in penalties. In addition, it
resulted in the contract coming into force only a year after signing. Due to the political
situation in 2006 and 2007, the supplier had to wait until 2008 to start the work and
completed the infrastructure only in 2009. Overall, the construction of the three microwave
links with a total length of 2,050 km took more than three years between contract signing and
completion of works. This comes to a cost per kilometer of about EUR 15,000. In Lebanon,
another post-conflict country of the MENA region, the cost of the two fiber optic backbones
recently built were respectively EUR 24,000 per kilometer and EUR 25,000 per kilometer.
Taking into account the higher severity of security issues in Iraq, the cost of EUR 23,000 was
very reasonable. However, for reference, in Europe, the current cost of this technology is

                                             16
       between EUR 2,000 and EUR 4,000 depending on the landscape and the bandwidth. So it is
       clear that the difficult environment on the ground was a key factor in the price increase.

       54. Cost per beneficiary. The cost per beneficiary is difficult to measure. But a proxy could
       be the total cost of the infrastructure divided by the population of the regions reached outside
       Baghdad (although inhabitants of Baghdad also benefit from this network when making calls
       to other regions). The total population in the South, West and North regions reached by the
       new infrastructure exceeds 12 million.6 Hence the new infrastructure is estimated to bring
       reliable communications to 12 million inhabitants at an average cost of EUR 3 per
       beneficiary, which corresponds to the average in other telecom backbone infrastructure
       projects (e.g., Congo CAB: US$19 million for 4 million inhabitants).

       55. Overall costs of goods and services. The unit costs take into account the security costs
       that usually more than double the unit price. In the case of the infrastructure contracts, and
       based on the fact that the works were outside Baghdad, in isolated regions, and at the peak of
       the political crisis (2006-2008), the cost per beneficiary is reasonable. The efficiency of the
       project outcomes is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
       56. The relevance of the PDO, design, and implementation at the end of the project is rated
       High. The achievement of outcomes (efficacy) is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Regarding
       the efficiency, comparators for infrastructure show that the project has been efficient despite
       a very challenging environment and rated Moderately Satisfactory. Overall, the outcome is
       rated Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
       57. Not applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

       58. For Components 1 and 2 institutional strengthening included enhancing the capacity of
       MOPDC to implement industrial zones and administer programs to support provision of
       finance for small and medium sized enterprises. In addition, Ministry of Trade continued with
       the export market research component launched by this program. As mentioned above, the
       project shifted its focus in 2010 toward institutional strengthening for MOC and other actors
       in the telecom sector through a series of workshops suggested by the Bank. The results are
       spelled out in paragraph 62 below.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)



6
    July 2011 population in Iraq by Governorate. http://www.citypopulation.de/Iraq.html



                                                                 17
   59. Not applicable.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
   60. Following the restructuring in 2010, the Bank organized a series of workshops for each
   component involving all stakeholders, in order to address institutional issues that were deeply
   affecting the development of the telecom sector: lack of clear strategy (no sector policy),
   absence of a modern telecom law, confusion of roles and responsibilities among the
   stakeholders (e.g., MOC, CMC, and the operators). In order to avoid political interference
   during these workshops, the first four were held outside Iraq (Istanbul and Beirut). The
   “neutral? environment and the assistance of the Bank as an “honest broker? helped break the
   ice and encouraged the different parties to engage actively in the sustainable transformation
   of the sector.

   61. The first outcome of the stakeholder workshops was the draft sector policy that benefitted
   from the technical expertise of international consultants, and includes best practice elements
   on regulation and on distribution of roles and responsibilities. The second outcome of the
   workshops was the potential strategic repositioning of ITPC. The workshops were an
   opportunity to openly address issues pertaining to the national operator: a staff of 22,000, the
   ongoing loss of technical expertise through “brain drain?, and its money-losing status,
   making ITPC a huge liability for MOC. The workshops helped MOC understand the issues
   and the different options to transform ITPC into a profitable communications carrier. The
   third outcome was the revision of the law. For the past five years, and in the absence of a
   clear strategy, different telecom stakeholders have pushed different versions of a new telecom
   law. The workshops helped the Government pick the best elements from the different
   versions and form a modern law, aligned with international best practice. Finally, the
   workshops allowed all telecom stakeholders, including parliamentary commission and prime
   minister’s office to get involved in the discussion and bring another perspective to the debate.

   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   62. Rating: moderate. Risk to development outcomes is moderate, given the commitment
   level of GOI and in particular MOC and the operators, as well as the level of infrastructure
   development that has taken place in project intervention areas.

      Institutional risks to development outcome are moderate. With the numerous trainings
       and workshops carried out by the project, mainly focused on building capacity of both
       MOC and the regulator, as well as members of parliament (the Telecom Commission),
       the project reinforced the capacity of the key institutions. One of the main achievements
       is the draft sector policy, developed by MOC and presented to all stakeholders for input
       and recommendations. This led to a better definition of roles and responsibilities among
       the telecom stakeholders. The risk of having this positive momentum reversed is
       moderate, as only a strong political crisis between MOC and the other players would
       change the cooperation between them.

      Infrastructure risk to development outcomes is moderate. The infrastructure built under
       the EPSD project is now integrated into the institutions they support: ITPC and CBI.
       Their maintenance and management is mainstreamed in ITPC and CBI budgets.
       Therefore, a deterioration of this infrastructure in the short term may be due to the lack of
       maintenance or an act of terrorism to damage the infrastructure and affect the institutions.
       The risk of the former is low for CBI and moderate for ITPC as both institutions need the

                                               18
       infrastructure to operate. The risk of the latter is moderate but the currently tense political
       situation may increase such a risk. Overall the infrastructure risk to development outcome
       is moderate.

   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

   63. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The project preparation was carried out in the context of
   an emergency in a very difficult, rapidly evolving, and unusual context. With the benefits of
   hindsight Components 1 and 2 were perhaps too ambitious, although it would have been
   difficult to predict in 2004 the extent to which the security situation in Iraq would deteriorate
   in the coming years and have such an adverse impact in achieving identified outcomes. There
   was also little room to maneuver given the constraints imposed by the reconstruction
   program, the deteriorating security, political, and institutional situation on the ground, and the
   considerable uncertainties these generated for the project team. The preparation had a few
   shortcomings including having to launch the project with a lack of available data to inform
   project design, very tight timelines, and absence of a developed results framework (in
   particular good results indicators with baseline and target values).

(b) Quality of Supervision
   64. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank conducted several regular supervision
   missions between 2004 and 2009. Several workshops were conducted, including a Project
   Launch Workshop (January 11-19, 2005) involving 32 representatives from the Government
   of Iraq and private sector; From 2010 with the presence of the task team leader in Baghdad
   toward the end of project implementation, significant progress was achieved for Components
   3 and 4. Furthermore, the lack of an effective M&E reporting framework was a major
   shortcoming. Indicators for the telecom components were only introduced in the Results
   Framework in 2010.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
   65. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Bank supervision took place in an extremely difficult
   environment which was physically dangerous for much of the project’s duration. Even so,
   the Bank’s efforts (as described in the previous paragraph) were crucial to obtaining
   significant positive outcomes. The failure to restructure Components 1 and 2 in the face of
   their non-performance and the failure to revise the project’s original inadequate results
   framework are a significant shortcoming. Indicators for the telecom components were only
   introduced in the Results Framework in 2010.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
   66. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The Government of Iraq, and in particular the Ministry
   of Planning and Development Cooperation and Ministry of Communications, played a crucial
   role during the lending phase. By mobilizing their own resources in very difficult and
   challenging conditions, these two Ministries showed their clear commitment. In particular,
   MOC proved to be an effective counterpart through its intensive focus on implementing
   Components 3 and 4.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

                                                19
   67. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. During the supervision phase the MOPDC and MOC
   were clearly committed to high quality preparation and implementation. All formal
   Agreements were complied with, notwithstanding some understandable delays in
   implementation especially during the period 2005 to 2008 when widespread violence and
   conflict impeded implementation. The performance of MOC and related agencies was clearly
   superior to MOPDC.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
   68. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. While Components 1 and 2 were progressively
   abandoned by MOPDC (and Ministry of Trade for the export market research) it is important
   to note that this was a result of decisions taken at the political level rather than by senior
   officials. For Component 1 there was clear commitment but a lack of capacity to rapidly
   implement, mainly because implementation of the industrial zones component in particular
   could not be facilitated solely by MOPDC and required effective coordination of several parts
   of the Government of Iraq, including at the sub-national level. Such wide-ranging
   coordination over this period was beyond the capacity of GOI. For Components 3 and 4
   MOC remained strongly committed throughout the duration of the program and was able to
   implement without the need for coordination and cooperation from other parts of the
   Government of Iraq.

   6. Lessons Learned
69. The lessons derived from the project can be summarized below:

      The overarching lesson is that the project was too ambitious in its scope and objectives
       from the beginning. Nearly all the other lessons can be derived from this. The first one
       is that in similar post-conflict settings, project preparation should proceed from as robust
       data as it is possible to obtain, along with a detailed analysis of the actual situation on the
       ground, particularly institutional issues and constraints. Any assessments carried out
       should take the time necessary to put together such an accurate picture in order to lay the
       best possible foundation for the project and this process should not be influenced by
       pressures for quick project preparation.
      The decision to launch a project of this type with various components covering distinct
       sectors should be made only if there is a basic implementation capacity available in the
       respective ministries and preferably if champions in those ministries can be identified
       during preparation. In addition, the reforms to be undertaken should not be too complex
       for the available capacity. Finally, such a multi-sectoral project requires skillful, hands-
       on management from the Bank side to promote the needed coordination, collaboration,
       and communication across sectors and Bank unit teams. If these factors are not in place,
       it is better to go with several simpler stand-alone projects and coordinate across sectors
       through regular interactions between task teams. Synergies should be identified during
       project preparation, and regular workshops involving both projects should be held
       regularly to promote coordination between sectors.
      In this regard, it is unclear whether a project based on World Bank investment lending
       procedures was appropriate so soon in the post-conflict and fragile conditions evident in
       Iraq after 2003. Especially in the first few years after 2003, the capabilities of the
       MOPDC in particular were so weak that they were challenged to effectively implement
       and administer their own internal policies, systems, and processes. But the instrument
       employed here required MOPDC to adopt WBG policies, procedures and systems to
       administer the funds and implement the agreed program. This is necessary to ensure

                                                20
    probity and proper monitoring and evaluation. However, given that capacities of MOPDC
    at the beginning of the project were so weak, this model of support may have kept
    MOPDC from strengthening their own internal policies, systems, and processes. This
    may generate costs which are largely hidden. In addition, the proposed PSD reforms
    were too complex for MOPDC’s and the Ministry of Trade’s available capacity
    (paragraphs 14, 33, 46, and 68). In a similar post-conflict situation in the future, it may
    be more useful to find ways to help the public sector strengthen its internal policies,
    systems, and processes first through Bank-provided or –financed training despite pressure
    for quick project implementation. Indeed, as mentioned above it is important to note that
    the most successful institutional strengthening initiatives of the project were those carried
    out with MOC and related agencies through a series of Bank-provided and –financed
    workshops.
   To remark further on the telecom/ICT-related TA, it is worth noting that the original
    design of the overall telecom component focused on infrastructure only, whereas the
    2010 restructuring and aftermath clearly demonstrated that this additional TA had a
    significant impact on overall ICT sector development and on laying the foundation for
    further private sector development in Iraq. This has also been demonstrated in regional
    connectivity projects (e.g., WARCIP, CAB, RCIP). Indeed, this combination of
    connectivity investment and enabling environment TA was the principal reason for the
    rating of Highly Satisfactory for Objective-4. Therefore, especially in similar post-
    conflict settings, telecom infrastructure investment should always be complemented with
    this type of TA in order to maximize impact (increased usage, penetration, etc.) and
    economic gains.
   With hindsight small highly flexible operations (that are expandable if things work out)
    with a mix of Bank and recipient execution calibrated to the capacities of the recipient
    (instead of complex cross-sectoral operations from the outset requiring coordination
    across both Bank units and government ministries) is the way to go in similar post-
    conflict situations. Where there were appropriate conditions on the ground, rapid
    response from the Bank project staff, based in Iraq to a large degree, contributed to the
    success of key components of this project. They were able to provide quick response to
    problems when they arose and facilitated relationship building with counterparts and
    project restructuring as needed.
   The success of the project is linked to the overall effort that was sustained over time, in a
    context of political turmoil and uncertainty. While focusing on emergency needs, the
    project was also able to address capacity building issues and to set the basis for effective
    institutional strengthening. Such an approach can only be developed and implemented
    over time; it is essential for establishing meaningful reforms and achieving concrete
    progress on the ground.
   In countries with an unstable political environment such as Iraq, keeping the scope of
    projects straightforward and simple is essential. Whether they deal with PSD or other
    sectors, having a clear focus and at the same time including some forward looking,
    developmental elements, and allowing for maximum feasible flexibility of
    implementation greatly facilitates successful implementation. If a project is
    overambitious in such an environment, the ability to restructure as soon as possible is
    key.
   PSD should be included in the Bank’s initial support for fragile and post conflict
    environments. A focus on reconstruction and capacity building for PSD institutions and
    the establishment of functioning markets can play a key part in development of the

                                            21
        private sector and generate jobs on this ground. In such contexts, PSD can provide a
        platform for rapid expansion of the private sector. Associated job generation can play an
        important role in helping fragile countries or regions recover from conflict and achieve
        stability.
    7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
MOPDC provided minor drafting comments which were incorporated into this report. MOC
submitted their own assessment report, included in Annex 5 to this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society) N/A




                                               22
                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                    Appraisal Estimate                  Percentage of
            Components                                 Estimate (USD
                                     (USD millions)                      Appraisal
                                                          millions)
 Dev. of enabling public
institutions that support the                6.80              6.60          97
Private Sector.
Improving the competitiveness of
Iraqi private firms by improving
                                             5.00              5.00          100
their ability to access finance and
foreign markets.
Building reliable
telecommunications infrastructure
to interconnect key parts of the             3.00              3.20          106
central bank’s payments and
settlements system
Building a high capacity national
backbone communications
network capable of supporting               39.50             49.60          125
corporate needs and develop
human capacity to operate it
Financing expenditures directly
related to project management -              0.20              0.20          100
MOPDC
Financing expenditures directly
related to project management –              0.50              0.70          140
ITPC

            Total Baseline Cost         55.00               65.00            118
Physical Contingencies
                                         0.00                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies
                                         0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs        55.00               65.00            118
Project Preparation Costs                0.00                0.00             .00
                                         0.00                0.00             .00
     Total Financing Required           55.00               65.00            118

(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                      Type of        Estimate     Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                    Cofinancing        (USD         (USD    Appraisal
                                                     millions)    millions)
Trust Funds                                       0.00         0.00
Iraq Reconstruction Trust Fund                    55.00        65.00            118


                                           23
                       Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Development of the institutional framework to enable PSD ($6.6 million).
   Basra Industrial Zone Legal and Regulatory Assessment
   Erbil Industrial Zone Legal and Regulatory Assessment
   Draft Industrial Law on Industrial Zones
   Operating manuals and evaluation manuals

Component 2: Private Sector Opportunities (US$5 million).
    Feasibility studies - 30 completed and delivered
    Export plans – 30 completed and delivered
    Review and assessment reports and program design and implementation plan reports
     for EDF and Export Promotion Fund (EPF)
    8 training workshops
    Operating manuals and evaluation manuals and final report
    EDF Study and training tour
    Training of EDF and EPF staff

Component 3: Payments System Supporting Infrastructure (US$3.2 million).
    Three distribution Sites connected with STM-1 and the two Central Bank Sites
    28 participant Banks sites in Baghdad connected with three distribution sites
    26 participant Banks Sites outside Baghdad connected with the main Central Banks.

Component 4: Telecommunications national backbone network (US$49.6 million).
   Supply, installation and commissioning of three backbone microwave routes and the
     associated spur microwave routes on a single responsibility basis utilizing tried and
     tested technologies (2,050 km).
   Provision of training and operational telecommunication services.




                                         24
                               Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      Project beneficiaries and benefits. The project benefited MOPDC and MOC (and
related agencies). More broadly, the Iraq private and financial sectors benefited from the
provision of telecom infrastructure and support services described in this report.

2.       Methodology. The EPSD IDTF was an emergency project and did not require a rigorous
economic and financial analysis in accordance with Bank’s operational guidelines and procedures
(OP.8.50). Therefore, an ex-ante conventional cost benefit analysis (CBA) was not conducted at
appraisal. Although the ICR team was unable to ascertain cost efficiency for Components 1 and
2, the team was able to estimate cost efficiency for the main telecom infrastructure by comparing
the project’s unit cost with similar projects in the MENA region. The ICR team examined various
economic aspects (macro and micro) to assess the impact of the investment on the Iraqi economy
and the telecom sector.

3.         Macro-economic aspects

Although no economic analysis (macro or micro) was carried out during project preparation or
implementation, the impact of the telecom infrastructure at the macro-economic level can be
assessed broadly. This new infrastructure brings broadband services to the Iraqi population. Raul
Katz has established in his “Impact of Broadband on the economy? (ITU, 2012), that a 10%
increase in a country’s broadband penetration rate results in an increase of at least 0.24 p.p. of the
GDP. A McKinsey study suggests an even higher estimate, with an average increase of 0.7 p.p. 7
Similarly, an increase of 10% of mobile penetration results in a 0.8% increase of the GDP.

The backbone infrastructure funded by this project re-connected 3 regions to the broadband
network, covering 12 million people (one third of the population), when it became operational in
2008. Also, the infrastructure provided bandwidth and connectivity to the three mobile operators,
adding several million indirect beneficiaries through interconnection with ITPC. Between 2008
and 2012, the number of mobile subscribers in Iraq grew from 17.8 million to 29.2 million, a 50%
increase, of which almost one third were in the regions re-connected by the project investment.
This increase in mobile penetration is an indication that infrastructure funded by the project could
have contributed to an increase in Iraq GDP by as much as 1.33 p.p.8. We cannot directly attribute
the growth in mobile and broadband subscribers to the backbone investment only: the backbone
infrastructure has contributed, with other factors, to the growth in subscribers. But while data on
increase in broadband subscription in the project regions is unknown, it can be assumed that the
backbone funded by the project increased broadband and mobile penetration, and could thus have
a positive impact on GDP growth.

4.         Micro-economic aspects

The project’s impact on sector revenues can be estimated using ARPU 9 . A simple integral
calculus shows total revenue for the operators of more than $2.8 billion with an EBITDA of $300
million in 2011. In the case of Iraq, the ARPU was at $33 in 2004, when the project started
(mobile/broadband services were mainly in Baghdad and other big cities), and dropped to $12.19


7
  Average of 5 country studies, including the UK, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, and a Middle Eastern country, from various
sources (2003 and 2004) and Qiang and Rossotto 2009 study
8
  Using the assumption that a 10% increase in mobile penetration increases GDP by 0.8 p.p. and that one third of the 50% increase in
mobile penetration occurred in the project areas: (5*.33)*0.8=1.33.
9
  Average Revenue Per User

                                                                 25
in 2007, and has since remained stable ($13.33 in 2011).10 In the case of component 4, the market
of 12 million people reached by the infrastructure forms roughly 30% of the total
mobile/broadband market in Iraq, which means that the share of the direct beneficiaries in the
total net profit (EBITDA) of the sector is roughly $100 million in only one year. So, it is clear
that the investment of $36 million in telecom infrastructure has been very cost efficient.

Finally, by comparing the cost of the investment with similar investment in other countries
(Africa and Middle-East), it can be seen that, taking into account the enormous cost of security
for contractors, the unit costs have been reasonable.

Table 2.1. Comparison of unit costs of project outputs by country
Output         Iraq (EPSD Grant) Congo (USD) DRC (USD)                                    Lebanon (USD)
               (USD)
Backbone/km 25,000                    14,000          19,000                              24,000

Source: Figures obtained from PAD CAB Congo APL3, study report on infrastructure cost in DRC, and
most recent works implemented by the Ministry of Communications in Lebanon.

5.       Cost per beneficiary. With a cost per beneficiary of approximately $1, the investment in
telecom infrastructure has been cost-efficient. The impact on the sector revenues far outweighs
the initial investment.

Table 3.1. Project Cost per beneficiary by type of project

                                                                                                     Cost per       Total Cost
                  Total                                                              Cost per        Indirect          per
                 Activity         Direct         Indirect            Total            Direct        Beneficiar      Beneficiar
                   cost         Beneficiari     Beneficiarie      Beneficiarie      Beneficiar          y               y
 Activity         (US$)             es               s                 s             y (US$)          (US$)           (US$)
                    36              12
Backbone         million11       million12       23 million13      33 million            3              1.56             1.1




10
   Typically, the ARPU drops asymptotically while infrastructure is being developed. This is because an operator reaches wealthy
consumers first, who can pay for more added-value services (high ARPU). As infrastructure develops, an operator extends its market
toward more modest consumers (lower ARPU in less wealthy regions).
11
   Total cost of the infrastructure contract with Alcatel-Lucent
12
   Estimated population of the regions reached by the new infrastructure outside Baghdad
13
   Population of Iraq outside the regions covered by the new infrastructure. Potentially, the whole population of the country will
benefit from the backbone.

                                                                26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                    Responsibility/
          Names                        Title              Unit
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
                                                                  General Project
Tufan Kolan             Iraq Trust Fund Manager           MNACS
                                                                  Oversight
                        Lead Private Sector Development
Mohammed Mustafa                                          MNSIF Task Team Leader
                        Specialist
                                                                  Private Sector
                        Lead Private Sector Development           Development
John Speakman                                             MNSIF
                        Specialist                                (Procurement, FM,
                                                                  implementation)
Nazaneen Ali            Procurement Consultant            MNACS   Procurement
                        Senior Financial Management               Financial
Ayman Abou Haija                                          MNACS
                        Specialist                                Management
Hiroko Imamura          Senior Counsel                    LEGMS   Legal
                                                                  Environmental
Kanta Rigaud            Senior Environmental Specialist   MNACS
                                                                  Safeguards
A. Shanmugarajah        Principal Telecom Engineer        CITPO   Telecommunications
Rajesh Pradhan          Lead Operations Officer           CITPO   Telecommunications
Supervision/ICR
                        Lead Private Sector Development
Mohammad Mustafa                                          MNSIF Task Team Leader
                        Specialist
                        Lead Private Sector Development
John Speakman                                             MNSIF Task Team Leader
                        Specialist
                        Lead Private Sector Development
Stephen Rimmer                                            MNSF1 Task Team Leader
                        Specialist
                                                                Operational
Steve Wan Yan Lun       Operations Analyst                MNSF1 Support/Quality
                                                                Assurance
David Satola            Lead Counsel                      LEGPS Legal
Carlo Maria Rossotto    Lead ICT Policy Specialist        TWICT Telecommunications
Doyle Gallegos          Lead ICT Policy Specialist        TWICT Telecommunications
Svetoslav Tintchev      Sr. Telecommunications Engineer   TWICT Telecommunications
Rajendra Singh          Sr. Regulatory Specialist         TWICT Telecommunications
Marc Lixi               Senior Operations Officer         TWICT Telecommunications
Zaid Safdar             Operations Officer                TWICT Telecommunications
Mather Pfeiffenberger   Operations Analyst                TWICT Telecommunications
Joulan Abdul Khalek     Consultant                        TWICT Telecommunications
Ndeye Anna Ba           Program Assistant                 TWICT Telecommunications




                                        27
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget and Trust Fund)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending

  FY05                                                             313,347
FY06                                                                18,960
                          Total:
Supervision/ICR
 FY05                                                              125,216
 FY06                                                              264,290
 FY07                                                              154,305
 FY08                                                              206,892
 FY09                                                              301,987
 FY10                                                              198,521
 FY11                                                              279,018
FY12                                                               269,669
FY13                                                                22,541

                                                                  2,154,752
                          Total:




                                          28
   Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Draft ICR was shared with MOPDC and MOC for comments. MOPDC provided a number of
                   suggestions which were incorporated into this draft.




                    Implementation Completion Report
                                     ICR


               Emergency Private Sector Development Project
                                   (EPSDP)
                            Telecom Components




                               Republic of Iraq
                        Ministry of Communications
                          Project Management team
                                    (PMT)




                                      29
Acronyms


MoC           Ministry of Communication
PMT           Project Management Team
EPSD          Emergency Private Sector Development
ITF            Iraq Trust Fund
IDA           International Development Association
ICR           Implementation Completion and Results report
ITPC           Iraqi Telecommunication and Post Company
IIBN           Iraqi Inter Banking Net work
CH             Cheques
SVPO           Small Value Payment order




                                   Preamble


       This report is issued by Project Management Team (PMT) at the Ministry
of Communication (MoC) evidencing of achievements on the ground the
Implementation Completion and Results of the Emergency Private Sector
Development Project /Telecom Components, as an integral part of the World
Bank's drive to increase development effectiveness, by focusing in achievements
(Results) rather than implementations (process) through a continuous process of
self-evaluation, lesson learning and application, sharing of knowledge, and being
accountable for results. The lessons learned from ICRs improve the quality and
effectiveness of Bank loans/credits, especially for follow-on operations, while
borrower/stakeholder participation in the ICR process enhances later designs,
preparation, and implementation.

                                       30
                                  Introduction

      The infrastructure of Iraq and particularly telecommunication sector
exposed to the mass destruction in the last war on 2003, over 150 telecom sites
were destroyed.
      Within the rehabilitation program in 2004 through community (World Bank,
United Nations agencies and donor States or other bilateral) based on International
donors’ Conference on the Reconstruction of Iraq held in Madrid in October 2003,
a package totaling up to USD 55 million then became USD 65 million was
allocated towards a project of Emergency Private Sector Development (EPSD)
financed from the Iraq Trust Fund (ITF) Trust Fund, Grant No.: TF 054462,
Project ID: P091344, within the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for
Iraq (IRFFI) and is administered by the World Bank (WB).




                                        31
       The Ministry of Planning & Development Cooperation (MPDC) is the
Government’s designated donor coordination agency for Iraq’s reconstruction
program.
       The Iraqi Emergency Private Sector Development project is being
implemented to provide priority building blocks to facilitate private and financial
sector development and ensure its growth leading to sustainable employment
generation in Iraq

 Of the total allocated budget mentioned above, USD 51million of grant aid was
allocated towards Telecom Sector Projects with the Ministry of Communication
through its subsidiary as one of the beneficiaries, the Iraqi Telecom and Post
Company (ITPC), and up to USD 14 million to meet the needs of Ministry of
Planning & Development Cooperation.

        The Telecom Sector Projects objective is to provide a resource or an
environment for Private Sector Development through rehabilitant or building a
nationwide backbone or infra-structure communications network capable of
supporting corporate needs, and developing the human capacity to operate it
efficiently.


                          Telecom Sector Components
       The Telecom Sector comprised three components that being funded by
grant of World Bank Iraq Trust Fund mentioned above are:
1- Microwave Transmission System for the three main back bone routes of Iraq.
2- Iraqi Inter Banking Network (IIBN).
3- Technical Assistance for telecom sector reform in Iraq (added within project
   restructuring in March 2010).




                                        32
Component 1: Microwave Transmission System
      The “Microwave Network Project? is one of the components dealing with
telecommunications infrastructure development within the Iraqi Emergency
Private Sector Development project is being implemented to provide priority
building blocks to facilitate private and financial sector development and ensure
its growth leading to sustainable employment generation in Iraq.
      The component of the overall Project contributes to the building of a high
capacity national backbone communications network, capable of supporting
corporate needs and of developing the human capacity to operate it efficiently.

      The overall Project addresses the rehabilitation and upgrading of three of
the five microwave routes included in ITPC’s rehabilitation Program.

      The remaining two routes (North-West and South-West) are slated to be
developed under a Japanese Government Assistance Program to Iraq.

      The microwave network component supports ITPC’s rehabilitation
program for 2004 – 2007 approved by the Iraqi Strategic Review Board to build a
modern and integrated national digital backbone microwave network to improve
delivery of communications services to the government and to the people of Iraq.
In particular, this component focuses on rehabilitating and upgrading three of the
five national backbone microwave routes and associated spur routes that have
been severely damaged.




                                        33
 Figure 1., Country-wide Map, Microwave Routes, shows the original five
microwave routes being undertaken by ITPC’s rehabilitation program. Our
Microwave Project three routes (the ones specifically adressed by this present
document) are the West route (Baghdad-Ramadi-Trebil), the North-East route
(Baghdad-Kirkuk-Mosul) and the South-East route (Baghdad-Amara-Basra).




                                     34
 These microwave links providing immediate voice and data connectivity for the
key cities in the districts of Baghdad, Baquba, Kirkuk, Arbil, Mousa, Sulaimaniya,
Dohuk, Ramadi, Hadetha, Alquaim, Kut, Ammara, Basra and Um Qaser, and
improve national and international connectivity.
       The microwave network component consists of two parts: (i) supply,
installation and commissioning of the above three backbone microwave routes and
the associated spur microwave routes on a single responsibility basis utilizing tried
and tested technologies that can be rapidly rolled out in the current Iraq
environment; and (ii) provision of training and operational telecommunication
services.
       ITPC provide interconnecting with all interested telecommunications and
data service providers and provide transmission capacity at cost-based prices in
line with the principles of transparent regulation and fair competition.
 Project Procurement Aspects
   Under guidelines and management of World Bank Task Team with Project
     Management Team (PMT) from MoC/ITPC Tender announced in closed
     date in
   About 30 bidders submitted their proposals, 7 bidders where short listed.
   After evaluation process in 21st June 2006, ITPC awarded the contract for
     the microwave network component to Alcatel-Lucent (ALU).
   Contract price 30,738,445 Euro.
   Contract came into force June 22nd 2007 after ALU confirming the letter of
     credit (LC).
   Contract Amendment Jan 10th 2008 (+ 619 k Euro).
   ALU split between equipment part 24 Million Euros to ALU Italia and the
     services part 7 Million Euros to Egypt.
   On June 22, 2007, a letter of credit was confirmed and the contract came in
     force.
   Contract validity was 72 weeks.

                                         35
   Completion of the project for all components of the microwave network was
     by November 2009.

Project Technical Aspects
       The Microwave Project is a transmission project addressing the supply and
installation of digital microwave routes . These routes interface with other
facilities of the telecommunications system (local plant, switching, other
microwave routes and fiber optics transmission routes) at the Digital Distribution
Frame (DDF) level. The routes will be supported by a Network Management
System (NMS) connected to the Management Systems of the other facilities just
mentioned. All traffic routing, including the one in support of service restauration,
is controlled at the switching system level and is not part of the functionality of the
Microwave Project. However, the Microwave-Project NMS Center shall be
colocated in Baghdad (Mamoon) with other network management facilities in
order to facilitate service protection and restauration switching. Using the ring
topologies established by the combined five routes and the existing fiber-optics
routes, the sevice interruptions arising from the failure of any of the transmissison
routes may be restored by looping around the complemnentary path offered by an
eventually available ring structure.




                                          36
Challenges
                                 MW Backbone
 Security

     - Most Areas were under US army control.
     - Sites not secured in middle of nowhere.
     - Difficulties in movement of Employees due to sectarian.
     - Curfews in Baghdad, North and west Areas from time to time.
     - Site access difficulties due to security forces.
      - Road closing by side road explosives.
  Custom Clearance due to procedure difficulties

  Return back of two shipments (power equipment) due to Turkish army.

  Delay in Frequency Plan approval (CMC)

  Delay in construction of the New Towers due to Soil Tests Readiness &
    redesigning of its Foundations.

  Access difficulties to BAQUBA site due to owner of the Site.

  Mosul under curfew.

  Difficulties in coordination        between Kurdistan Administration   and
    Governmental Administration which caused non -commissioning of Kelek
    Site till now.

   West Route
   Area under US army control.
   Sites not secured in middle of nowhere.
   Area still under pressure.

  The following are the Top Issues facing the project:
   Site Readiness.

                                         37
     Completing the project on time and on budget.
     Poor communication during the weekly conference call.
     Lack of monthly project meetings (face to face).
     Custom Clearance for all routes
     Site Readiness
     Frequency Plan approval (CMC)
     Recovery of lost time
     Completing the project on time and on budget
     Poor communication during the weekly conference call
     Lack of monthly project meeting (face to face)

    Risk
     -Transportation of materials from warehouse to various Sites.
     Difficulties in following – up the construction of the New Towers.
     - Environment disasters and terrorists action.
          - Physical attack from the inside of main sites, the --- Participating Banks
          and core sites (Switches Sites).

Inter-Banking Network
 contract turn-key project (Goods, Services, Consultant Services), signed on 24th
   September, 2007 with Alfa-Consult Company, US$ 2.8m, period 180 days.
 Accomplished on February 2009 (LC activation 6 months delay)
 The project is for networking the 28 Banks head quarters sites with CBI
   (Central Bank of Iraq) for supporting Interbank Payment System (IPS) and
   other applications operated by the Central Bank of Iraq such as monitoring
   money transactions ...etc.

The Network is formed by two main Layers, Link Layer and Routing with security
Layer:-

 ? Link Layer composed:-

                                             38
*   Microwave links to connect three distribution Sites (WiMax Base Stations)
    with STM-1 and the two Central Bank Sites (CBI-1&CBI-2) also with STM-1
*   WiMax to connect the (28) participant Banks
    sites in Baghdad with three distribution sites
    (Mammon      ITPC     Communication     Center,
    Rafidain Bank, Alweyia ITPC switching)       at
    2Mb/s with redundant by connecting        them
    through two distribution Sites .
* V-Sat to connect the (7) participant Banks Sites
    out Baghdad at 1Mb/s with main Central Banks.

? Routing and Security Layer is formed of L2, L3 switches Firewalls, and
    Crypto Routers. This Layer is operated on top of the Link Layer with
    maximum level of independency




                                       39
? The Project Outlets
    Real Time Gross Settlement system - RTGS
    Automated Clearing House - ACH
    Government Securities Registration system - GSRS
    Checks Enablement Project - CEP
1) Number of Participate Banks (PBs) in IIBN
            i.   IIBN has been started on 2009 with 27 banks; full expected capacity
                 of the IIBN is 75 participants.
        ii.      2010, 39 participant
       iii.      2011, 45 participant
       iv.       2012, 54 participant
2) RTGS

                                            No       of
Year        Currency Tran. Values
                                            Trans
            IQD         42,841,645,741      5,844
2008 USD                1,365,141,680       1,276
            IQD         94,846,327,246      11,145
2009 USD                2,431,705,458       2,695
            IQD         115,166,494,611 20,746
2010 USD                3,630,470,693       4,289
            IQD         122,474,675,455 30,234
2011 USD                3,580,087,050       5,275
            IQD         147,653,079,692 30,740
2012 USD                3,837,121,290       6,898


       i.        Yearly values and Number of transactions in IQD




                                              40
                          Values of Trans. IQD                                No. of  trans.  IQD
Millions IQD   160,000                                              35000

               140,000                                              30000
               120,000
                                                                    25000
               100,000
                                                                    20000
                80,000
                                                                    15000
                60,000
                                                                    10000
                40,000

                20,000                                               5000

                          0                                            0
                                2008   2009   2010   2011   2012            2008   2009   2010   2011   2012




                ii.           Yearly value and Number of transactions in USD



                              Values of Trans. USD                            No. of  trans.  USD
               4,500                                                 8000
Millions USD




               4,000                                                 7000
               3,500                                                 6000
               3,000
                                                                     5000
               2,500
                                                                     4000
               2,000
                                                                     3000
               1,500
               1,000                                                 2000

                 500                                                 1000
                      0                                                 0
                              2008     2009   2010   2011    2012           2008   2009   2010   2011   2012




               iii.           Total Value and number of Transaction in Billions IQD,( equivalent
                              the USD to IQD with exchange for 1 USD=1200 IQD)



                                                              41
                   RTGS Total Values of Transactions
                                                                                RTGS/ No of 
           5,000
                                                                                Transactions
Billions


           4,500
           4,000                                                 40000
           3,500                                                 35000
           3,000                                                 30000
           2,500                                                 25000
           2,000                                                 20000
           1,500                                                 15000
           1,000                                                 10000
            500                                                   5000
              0                                                     0
                      2008   2009   2010   2011   2012                   2008      2009     2010    2011   2012




  3) C-ACH (Cheques – Automatic Clearing House )

           Year          Trans. type        currency          No. of trans.        Values of Trans
           2009              SVPO             IQD                1,172              6,704,152,111
           2009              SVPO             USD                  20                     399,380
           2010              SVPO             IQD                7,159             102,232,185,490
           2010              SVPO             USD                 126                 1,100,863
           2011              SVPO             IQD                3,727              2,133,776,488
           2011              SVPO             USD                  44                     798,770
           2011               CH              IQD                1,507             105,279,791,583
           2011               CH              USD                 281                 62,172,512
    2012 (*)                 SVPO             IQD                6,336              4,127,413,016
   2012 (*) SVPO                           USD            107                   5,793,164
   2012 (*) CH                             IQD            10,772                1,181,368,623,168
   2012 (*) CH                             USD            1,221                 137,088,786
  (*) estimation number based on the results of the first 8 months (Jan -Aug./2012)



                                                         42
i.     Yearly value of transactions in IQD for SVPO (small value payment orders)
       and Number of transactions.


                      Values of Trans.  IQD                          No. of  trans. IQD
                120,000                               8,000
     Millions




                                                      7,000
                100,000
                                                      6,000
                 80,000
                                                      5,000
                 60,000                               4,000
                                                      3,000
                 40,000
                                                      2,000
                 20,000
                                                      1,000
                     0                                   0
                          2009   2010   2011   2012           2009        2010     2011   2012




                                                 43
 ii.     Yearly value of transactions in USD for SVPO (small value payment orders)
         and Number of transactions.


                        Values of Trans.  USD                                 No. of  trans. USD
       7,000,000                                           140

       6,000,000                                           120

       5,000,000                                           100

       4,000,000                                               80

       3,000,000                                               60

       2,000,000                                               40

       1,000,000                                               20

                   0                                            0
                           2009    2010     2011   2012                2009       2010     2011          2012




iii.     Yearly value of transactions in IQD for Cheques and Number of transactions.

                         Values of Trans.  CH. IQD                           No. of  trans. CH. IQD
                       1,400,000                                    12,000
            Millions




                       1,200,000                                    10,000
                       1,000,000
                                                                     8,000
                        800,000
                                                                     6,000
                        600,000
                                                                     4,000
                        400,000

                        200,000                                      2,000

                              0                                         0
                                     2011          2012                           2011            2012




                                                          44
iv.       Yearly value of transactions in USD for Cheques and Number of transactions.


                       Trans. Values CH/USD                                          No. of  trans CH/ USD
                 160,000,000                                              1,400
                 140,000,000                                              1,200
                 120,000,000
                                                                          1,000
                 100,000,000
                                                                           800
                  80,000,000
                                                                           600
                  60,000,000
                                                                           400
                  40,000,000
                  20,000,000                                               200

                             0                                               0
                                        2011       2012                                 2011           2012




 i.       Total Value and number of Transaction in Millions IQD,( equivalent the USD
          to IQD with exchange for 1 USD=1200 IQD) for the SVPO+ Cheques


                    Total Values of trans (CH+SVPO) for                      Total No. of  trans 
                                 USD+IQD
                 1,600,000                                                      (CH+SVPO) 
      Millions




                 1,400,000                                        20000
                 1,200,000
                 1,000,000                                        15000

                  800,000
                                                                  10000
                  600,000
                  400,000
                                                                   5000
                  200,000
                        0                                            0
                                 2009     2010   2011     2012                2009      2010    2011   2012




                                                             45
                        Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents

Basra Industrial Zone Legal and Regulatory Assessment

Erbil Industrial Zone Legal and Regulatory Assessment

Draft Industrial Law on Industrial Zones

Investment Climate Assessment 2012

ILO – MSME analysis

CAB APL3 Congo P128398

CAB APL1B – Chad and CAR – Economic and Financial Analysis




                                             46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33422R



                                                                                                                         IRAQ
                                                                        SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                    MAIN ROADS

                                                                        GOVERNORATE CAPITALS                                                                         RAILROADS

                                                                        NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                             GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES

                                                                        RIVERS                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                            40E                                      42E                                                 44E                                           46E                                      48E


                                       TU R K EY                                                                                          To Urmia


                                                                                                                                                            To Urmia
                                                                                                          - -
                                                                                                         Zakhu                                                                                 0          50           100       150 Kilometers
                                                              To
                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                             DAHUK
                                                                             -
                                                          Al Qamishli
                                                                                            Tig                     - 'Aqrah
                                                                                                                 Dahuk                                                                         0                  50               100 Miles
                                                                                               r R.
                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                                                                     Haji Ibrahim
                                                                                                                                                          - -
                                                                                                                                                         Rayat        (3,600 m)
                                                                                -                                        Mosul               -
                                                                            Sinjar                                                        ARBIL
                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                              Arbil
   36N
                   Euphr
                           ates                                                    -                                                                                                                                                                         36N
                                  R.                  To Dayr
                                                      az Zawr
                                                                                 N I N AW ?
                                                                                                                                                                              As
                                                                                                                                                                                   - -
                                                                                                                                                                             Sulaymaniyah                              ISLA MI C
                                                                                           Al Hadr
                                                                                                                                                                             - -                                       REPUBLI C
                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                      Kirkuk     AS SULAYMANIYAH
    S YRIAN                                                                                                                           KIRKUK                                                                           O F IRAN
                                           To Dayr
     A RAB                                 az Zawr                                                                       -
                                                                                                                     Bayji          Ja
                                                                                                                                         ba
      RE P.                                                                                                                                   l
                                                                                                                                          -       H
                                                                                        -
                                                                                       'Anah
                                                                                                                    - Tikrit
                                                                                                                 SALAH AD
                                                                                                                                am
                                                              -                                                      -             ri                                                         -   -
                                                          Al Qa'im                                                  DIN      -  -
                                                                                                                          Samarra'    n                                                To Kermanshah
   34N                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                 Al Hadithah                                                                                                                                                 34N
                                                                                                                                                                              - -
                                                                                                                                   Tharthar
 To Hims                                                                                                                           Lake                           -
                                              - -
                                           'Akashat                                                                                                           Ba'qubah
                                                                                                                               - -                            -
                                                                                                                         Ar Ramadi
                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                           DIYAL?
                                                                                                                                     Al Fallujah
                                                                                                            - -
                                                                                                        Habbaniyah
                                                                                                                                                        BAGHDAD
                                                                                                                                                       BAGHDAD
                                                                      -                                       Lake
                                                                   AL ANBAR
JORDAN




                                                                                                             Razzaza                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                              WA S I T
           To
                 Trebil
                          S            y       r      i       a         n                                       Lake                 -
                                                                                                                               Karbala                 -
                                                                                                                                                      BABIL                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                    Al Kut         Tigr
                                                                                                                                                                                                        is R.
         Amman
                                                                                                                                    -                  Al Hillah
                                                                                                                              KARBALA'                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                To Dezful
                                                     D        e s e r                        t                                                                         - - -                   Al Hayy
   32N                                                                                                                                                             Ad Diwaniyah                                                                              32N
                                                                                            Nukhayb                                  An Najaf
                                                                                                                                                            -   -                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Al 'Amarah
                                                                                                                                                        AL QADISIYAH                                            -
                                                                                                                                                        Eu
                                                                                                                                                          phr                                               MAYSAN
                                                                                                                                                                ates
                                                                                                                                                                     R   .         -    Ash Shatrah                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                             As Samawah             Al 'Uzayr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To Ahvaz
                                                                                            S                                 AN NAJAF                                                         - -
                                                                                                a                                                                                            DHI QAR
                                                                                                    h                                                                                                  - -
                                                                                                                                                                                                   An Nasiriyah
                                                                                                        ra
                                                                                                             '
                                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                                     l                                                                                                       Al Basrah
                                                                                                                          H
                                                                                                                              ij                                -
                                                                                                                                                         As Salman
                                                                                                                                   ar                                                                            AL Az Zubayr
                                                                                                                                         ah                                                                                            Umm
                                                                                                                                                       AL MUTHANN?                                              BASRAH                 Qasr
   30N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30N



                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To Ad
                                            IRAQ                                                                                                                                                                        Damman

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KUWA IT
                                                                                           S A UDI A RA BIA

                                                                                        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
   28N

                              40E                                                42E                                                     44E                                                 46E                                            48E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       APRIL 2012
