Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11499
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1595-GUI)
DECEMBER 28, 1992
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Industry and Energy Division
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONONYMS
DCA:        Development Credit Agreement
ENELGUI:    Entreprise de 1'Electricite de
Guin6e
GOG:     Government of Guinea
KfW:     Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NHS:        National Hydrology Service
PR:      President's Report
SNE:        Societe Nationale d'Electricit6
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Guinea Franc (GF)
Calendar 1986              1992
US$1.00 - GF365    US$1.00 - GF992



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Guinea
Second Power Engineering and Technical
Assistance Proiect (Credit 1595-GUI)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report
on Guinea - Second Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Credit
1595-GUI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. The report is informative and
comprehensive. However, Part II was not submitted by the Borrower.
The project covering mostly technical assistance aimed at ambitious
institutional goals and at improved power system efficiency and reliability. It
followed on the first IDA operation in the sector, which ultimately achieved a
few of its physical objectives but left the sector in the same dismal state it
had been at project start.   Despite this experience, the project did not
establish the borrower's commitment to reform and failed to meet its sector
objectives. However, at the very end of the project (1990-91), a major change
in sector management did take place and led to the appointment of members of an
assistance team to key managerial positions in the national utility.
During implementation, the project scope was changed to accommodate
emergency repair of the Banea dam. This component was successful and the studies
included in the project were completed.  However, at project completion, the
implementation of the studies' recommendations, which were part of the project
objectives,  had not yet  started.    On balance,  the project  is rated as
unsatisfactory and its sustainability as uncertain.
An audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiaL duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1595-GUI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE.. .............. i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................                                   ii
PART I      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Background  . .
3.    Sectoral Objectives and Project Description . . . . 2
4.    Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . 3
5.    Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
6.    Project Results   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
7.   Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
8. Bank Performance    .                .7
9.    Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
10.   Project Relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
11.   Consulting Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
12.   Project Documentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
PART II     PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(This part was not submitted by the Borrower)
PART III    STATISTICAL INFORMATION ON THE PROJECT
1.   Related IDA Credits to Guinea   . . . . . . . . . . 9
2.    Project Timetable   . . . .       ..     . ..... 10
3.    Cumulative Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
4.    Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
5.    Project Costs by Credit Category  . . . . . . . . . 11
6.    Project Results   ..rdAr.   .......   12
7.    Status of Covenant in Credit Agreement  . . . . . . 14
8.    Use of Bank Resources   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1595-GUI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Power
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project in the Republic of Guinea
for which Credit 1595-GUI in the amount of SDR 8.4 million (US$8
million) was approved on May 16, 1985. The last disbursement took place
on October 28. 1991. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1991 and a
remaining undisbursed balance of SDR 48,545 was canceled on April 30.
1992.
The Credit, the second operation in the Guinean power sector, was
extended to the Government of Guinea (GOG) for on-lending to the Soci6t6
Nationale d'Electricit6, (SNE), the state enterprise created in 1961 to
operate the Guinean public power system.
Parts I and III of this PCR were prepared by the Industry and
Energy Operations Division of the Occidental and Central Africa
Department, and are based inter alia, on the President's Report, the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence
between IDA, the borrower and the executing agency, data and information
from Bank files and discussions with Bank staff involved in project
implementation and supervision. A Bank mission visited Conakry in April
1992 to discuss the project with GOG, project agency staff and local
representatives of the cofinanciers. (Part II has not been received by
IDA).
Parts I and III were sent to the Borrower and Cofinanciers in
early June 1992 for comments. No comments have been received.






ii
PROJECT CMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1595-GUI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Oblectives
1.    The main objective of the project  was to continue the sectoral
rehabilitation efforts started under the First Power Project (Cr. 1085-
GUI approved in December 1980). IDA's goal was to create a power
utility capable of: (a) operating and maintaining the installations
already rehabilitated; and (b) carrying out a major expansion of the
sector in the late 1980's, based on hydro power. In specific terms, the
project was to: (i) strengthen the power sector's organization and
management; (ii) plan the development of Guinea's most abundant energy
resource - hydroelectricity; (iii) improve power system efficiency and
reliability through cost reductions, training and provision of technical
assistance, vehicles, equipment and spare parts; and (iv) provide
technical assistance and equipment to the National Hydrology Service.
The project was later modified to include civil works, equipment and
consulting services for the repair of the Banea dam (para 3.02).
Implementation Experience
2.    Project start-up and implementation were difficult.  Performance
ratings of 3 or 4 were recorded throughout the first six of the 7-year
period of execution. Credit effectiveness was also delayed by a year.
Three recovery plans for the utility drawn up between 1985-88 were not
implemented and the technical assistance funded by the project during
early implementation was not effective. When suspension of disbursement
became a real possibility, important institutional changes were
introduced in 1988-89. However, these had no impact on the poor
performance of Entreprise Nationale d'Electricit6 de Guin6e (ENELGUI),
as management issues were not addressed and no internal reforms took
place (paras 5.01-5.07).
3.    Five years after appraisal, the effort to reform ENELGUI was made
by radically altering the institutional set-up of the sector. A new
team was recruited and the TA personnel were given decision-making
authority in ENELGUI. Major breakthroughs on the institutional front
were achieved when GOG decided to go even further in the direction of
autonomy for ENELGUI by granting full management powers to the TA
personnel who were appointed, by Presidential decree, to all the top
posts. It was not until 1991, the last year of the project, that
substantial progress was achieved in reforming the ENELGUI and in
improving its commercial performance. Consolidation of the reforms
continued in 1992. Unfortunately, lengthy power outages remain endemic



iii
and improving the service is difficult in the absence of major
investments in long-term network rehabilitation programs and expansion
of generation capacity (para 5.08).
Prolect Results
4.    The project was a major vehicle to help GOG with better decision-
making information on developing its hydro-electric potential. Least-
cost expansion programs could now be based on full-feasibility level
studies. These studies demonstrated given the small size of the Conakry
system, along with uncertain growth in demand. that some thermal
expansion was justified. Thus the decision to defer by a number of
years developing initially the Fomi and later the Garafiri projects.
5.    Over three-quarters of the Credit was disbursed for studies and
foreign technical assistance. The institutional reform and physical
rehabilitation of the sector was to have been completed by the end of
the project. The reform is still in its early stages, and is firmly
under way. However, additional rehabilitation, particularly of the
Conakry distribution system remains to be tackled under the next IDA
project, which has been appraised and negotiated (paras 6.01-6.02).
6.    Studies (including engineering services and financial and
management audits), accounted for over 25 percent of the total Credit
amount.   These were generally well executed and helped GOG arrive at
important decisions on the development of the sector. Some project
components (e.g. training), were dropped during project implementation
and were replaced by others, of high priority, such as the Banea dam
embankment, which was in serious need of repairs. The repair of the
Banea dam embankment was satisfactorily completed and may prove to be
one of the enduring and tangible results of the project (paras 6.03 -
6.05).
Sustainabilitv
7.    As an engineering and TA credit, the project had only the repairs
of the Banea Dam as a physical component. As regards the institutional
and management reforms implemented at the end of the project, the
results so far are very encouraging. Sustainability will depend, to a
large extent, on successfully negotiating a contract with private
operators to run ENELGUI under the next IDA project (para 7.01 - 7.02),
and on Government's continued commitment to reforms.
Conclusions and Lessons Learnt
8.    The project's objectives were generally met.  Important
breakthroughs on institutional and management issues in the late stages
of the project mean that prospects for further progress under the next
project are significantly brighter. Although granting greater
management responsibility in exchange for a performance-based approach
to technical assistance could have offered better prospects, this was
not feasible given the Government's reluctance to do so, and reluctance
from operating utilities to accept such responsibility given the macro-
economic environment in Guinea at that time.



iv
9.    Both the utility and the Government gave repeated assurances to
implement reform measures that they were unable or unwilling to carry
out, undermining their credibility as well as relations with the Bank.
In future, GOG should only agree to measures which are within its
capacity to execute and the Bank should be more circumspect in accepting
such assurances at face value (para 9.02).
10.   Finally, IDA played a crucial role in bringing about fundamental
sector reforms. A longer time was needed, than originally foreseen, due
to the difficult environment in Guinea, and the systematic failure of
the sector. IDA's support was a critical element that finally resulted
in a turn around situation, that would not have otherwise been achieved.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1595-GUI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Proiect Identity
Name               -     Second Power Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project
Credit Number     -      1595-GUI
RVP Unit           -     Africa
Country           -      Guinea
Sector            -      Energy
Subsector         -      Electric Power
2.    Background
2.01 At the time of appraisal of this project in 1984, a new government
committed to a far-reaching liberalization of the economy took power in
Guinea. ending a very long period of centralized planning and state
participation in all aspects of economic life. IDA's overall objectives
were to assist the inexperienced new government in bringing about the
profound transformation of the economy necessary to escape from the poor
performance of the Guinean economy during the previous two decades.
2.02 In 1984, the electric power sector was in very poor shape, even by
sub-Saharan African standards.   Despite a major donor-financed system
rehabilitation program that began in 1980, electricity generation was
insufficient to meet demand and frequent and lengthy power outages were
commonplace. The national power utility. Soci6t6 Nationale d'Electricit6
(SNE) was extremely weak, badly run and suffered from massive losses.
Only about sixty percent of electricity produced was billed and only half
of  billings  were  actually  collected  by  the  utility.    Preventive
maintenance was non-existent and there was widespread pilferage of
materials, equipment and fuel.
2.03 Responsibilities in the sector were fragmented and SNE's role was
limited to operating the power system. Its supervising Ministry was
responsible for planning and executing sectoral investments, but it also
played a major role in the day-to-day operations of SNE including control
of treasury operations.   The latter had no autonomy and even junior
staffing decisions were made by the Ministry of the Civil Servic-.
Constant government interference in its operations combined with
ineffective management, overstaffing, inadequate compensation, low tariffs
and the lack of foreign exchange to buy essential spare parts, all
contributed to the sector's problems.



- 2 -
3.    Sectoral Obiectives and Proiect Description
3.01 The objectives of the project as stated in the President's
ReportjJ (PR) were to continue the sectoral rehabilitation efforts
started under the First Power Project (Cr. 1085-GUI of Dec. 1980). IDA's
goal was to create a power utility which would be capable of: (a)
operating and maintaining the installations already rehabilitated; and (b)
carrying out a major expansion of the sector in the late 1980's, based on
hydro power. Given the state of SNE as described above and the legacy of
the previous regime, these goals were somewhat ambitious.
3.02 Obiectives. The project was to: (a) strengthen the power sector's
organization and management; (b) plan the development of Guinea's most
abundant energy resource - hydroelectricity; (c) improve power system
efficiency and reliability through cost reductions, training and provision
of technical assistance, vehicles, equipment and spare parts; and (d)
provide technical assistance, equipment and vehicles to the National
Hydrology Service (NHS).
3.03 Prolect Components The project initially consisted of:
a)    Consulting services and studies for:
(i)   a power generation and transmission planning study to
the year 2000;
(ii)  an institutional, organizational and manpower study of
the sector and of SNE;
(iii) a   study   of   the   rehabilitation   and
reinforcement   of   subtransmission   and
distribution systems;
(iv)  a   feasibility   study   and   detailed
engineering of the next generation project;
and
(v)   a study of the tariff structure.
b)    Technical assistance to SNE and staff training:
(i)   extension   of   the   ongoing   technical
assistance contract between SNE and a
foreign power utility;
(ii)  overseas training for SNE staff;and
1/    No Staff Appraisal Report was prepared as the project was an engineering and
technical assistance credit.



-3-
(iii) equipment to complete the Training Center.
c)    Technical assistance to the NHS and staff training;
d)    Spares, equipment, vehicles and materials; and
e)    Buildings:
(i)   warehouse rehabilitation and equipment;
(ii) perimeter wall and security lighting at
Tombo power station.
3.04 Changes in Project scope: During project implementation and at the
request of the GOG, the project scope was modified to address the serious
erosion to the earth embankment of the Banea dam, which endangered its
very existence.   Given the urgent nature of these repairs and the
unavailability of foreign exchange resources, a reallocation of funds of
SDR 0.9 million was approved in December 1986 to finance:
(a)   Civil works and equipment for the repair of the Banea
dam; and
(b)   Consultant services for the supervision of civil works at
Banea and for periodic dam inspections.
4.    Prolect Design and Organization
4.01  In the context of SNE's unfinished  institutional and physical
rehabilitation and the country's power planning vacuum at that time, this
project was seen by both IDA and the borrower as a three-year transitional
phase (1985-87), needed to lay the ground for a large hydro generation
project to follow. With hindsight, it appears that the ambitious scope of
the project and the unrealistic timetable did not take into consideration
the difficulties of implementing fundamental reforms in the extremely
distorted economic context of Guinea in the early 1980's. This was also
one of the conclusions of the PCR of the First Project 2/, which argued
that it was unrealistic to redress the sector in isolation of improvements
in overall government policy.
4.02 At the heart of the rehabilitation program for SNE was a large
technical assistance team that had been at work in SNE since late 1982.
but as pointed out in the PCR for the First Power Project, they were
handicapped by the lack of proper tools and equipment, had only advisory
roles and were "stymied by the absence of effective SNE management, the
lack of discipline of personnel and the general disarray in the country.
In spite of the major efforts to bring about changes, they had only a
minimal impact on SNE".
2J    Report No. 7235 of 6 May 1988.



- 4 -
4.03 IDA staff were aware of the ineffectiveness of the TA team on the
institutional and management front during its first two years (1982-84).
As a result, in early 1985, as a precondition of negotiations for this
project an attempt was made to redefine the role of the TA team to bring
it closer to managerial rather than advisory functions. However, at that
time both the Bank and the Borrower felt that placing expatriates in line
positions was politically impossible; in addition operating utilities that
could provide the TA were reluctant to accept such responsibility given
the macro-economic environment in Guinea at that time. Thus a detailed
recovery plan with quantitative and time-bound performance targets for all
areas of SNE's operations was drawn up and agreed to by SNE's top
management and the head of the TA team. Obligation to implement this plan
was explicitly incorporated into the Development Credit Agreement (DCA).
4.04 In retrospect, it appears that IDA overestimated the ability of the
parties involved to implement the recovery plan, given the weaknesses of
the SNE management, the lack of experience of the new political
leadership, despite its commitment to reform, and the vested interests of
the supervising ministry, did not support SNE autonomy.   In addition.
insufficient account was taken of the likely resistance from SNE and
ministry staff, to measures designed to end corruption, given the very low
level of public sector salaries.
4.05 The nature of the technical assistance contract was also
controversial, because of the large size of the team and its high overall
cost. Ideally, their fees should have been linked, at least partially, to
results. This, however, was not feasible given their lack of decision-
making authority and an environment that was not conducive to reform.
Responsibility for results was thus diffused and neither SNE's management
nor the TA team could be properly held responsible for non-performance.
5.    Prolect Implementation
5.01 Credit Effectiveness Although Credit signature took place less than
a month after board presentation, meeting the effectiveness conditions
took almost a year.  When the credit was finally declared effective in
June 1986, two of the conditions had to be waived.
5.02  A PPF  ./, ensured that the institutional and system planning
studies proceeded on schedule, while an unused balance of US$1.5 million
from a Petroleum Technical Assistance Credit (Cr.1438-GUI), provided funds
to keep the TA team in place before effectiveness. However, the shortage
of foreign exchange for spare parts and equipment due to the non-
effectiveness of both the IDA and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW)
credits and of local currency because of delays in introducing a tariff
i     # P299-GUI of August 1984 for US$0.68 million.



-5-
increase A/. meant that physical and financial goals set in the recovery
plan at the time of negotiations could not be met during 1985-86.
5.03 IDA supervision reports from this period show that the TA team was
not living up to expectations, largely because of the weak SNE management
and an environment within the company that was not conducive to reform.
Despite internal memos highlighting the urgency of replacing the SNE
management and redefining the nature of the TA arrangements, IDA's
official actions were limited to drawing up a revised recovery plan whose
implementation COG was urged to support, but which was hardly acted upon.
Thus, by mid-1987, two years after Board presentation, there were few
tangible signs of progress.
5.04 IDA management formally informed COG in July 1987 that it would not
agree to fund any new activities out of the credit because of the delay in
implementing the 1986 recovery plan and the non-observance of most of the
conditions in the DCA.   Furthermore,  in the absence of significant
progress IDA would suspend all disbursements from end-October, 1987.
5.05 The next supervision mission drew up a third recovery program with
SNE and GOG and recommended to IDA management that disbursements continue
uninterrupted on the basis of fresh assurances from the highest political
levels in Guinea to implement it. This was at a point in the project when
nearly 50 percent of the credit had already been spent. In retrospect,
the Bank should have been more demanding for the GOG to implement reforms
and should not have just accepted assurances. Real reforms were thereby
postponed by a further two years.
5.06 During 1988, as result of pressure from the Bank, GOG dissolved SNE
and set up a new power company Entreprise Nationale d'Electricit6 de
Guin6e (ENELGUI), with a board of directors and new top management. Net
effect of these changes were largely cosmetic. There was no improvement
in commercial performance or in the service to consumers. Internal reform
in the "new" company was virtually absent, and the old malpractice by the
SNE personnel who had all been retained, continued.
5.07 Meanwhile, the program of studies to be funded under the credit made
steady progress. The number had increased in total, even though some of
those initially envisaged had been shelved. As regards the investment
planning for the future generation requirements of the sector, by early
1989 GOG had opted for a hydro scheme on the Konkoure river, some 160 km
NE from the capital, Garafiri, following completion of the necessary
technical studies. Despite the lack of progress in the daily operations
of the power sector, GOG began to seek funding for the Garafiri project.
This was at first supported by IDA, even though the latter was on the
record as saying satisfactory progress in reforming ENELGUI was a
necessary pre-condition for any major investment project. This gave mixed
signals to the borrower and cofinanciers and also undermined IDA's own
4/    Which was the also the main obstacle to the effectiveness of the IDA credit.



- 6 -
credibility in the area of sectoral reform where greater firmness was
necessary.
5.08 Finally, in late 1989, five years after appraisal and with 70
percent of the credit already disbursed, and as a major conditionality of
proceeding with any major investments in the sector, GOG and IDA agreed to
make a fresh start to reforming ENELGUI by radically altering the
technical assistance arrangements.   A new team was  recruited after
competitive tendering and the TA personnel were given decision-making
authority in ENELGUI. While it took another year until September 1990,
for a new team to take over the management of the company, major
breakthroughs on the institutional front were achieved. After attempting
to introduce a compromise setup involving the board of directors and a
management committee, GOG decided to go even further in the direction of
autonomy for ENELGUI by granting full management powers to the TA
personnel who were appointed by Presidential decree to all the top posts.
5.09 It was not until 1991, the last year of the project, that
substantial progress was achieved in reforming ENELGUI and in improving
its commercial performance V/.  Consolidation of the reforms continued
in 1992.   Unfortunately,  lengthy power outages remained endemic and
improving the service proved impossible as these necessitated major
investments for long-term network rehabilitation programs and expansion of
generation capacity.
6.    Prolect Results
6.01 If viewed solely from the perspective of the objectives, as stated
in the PR, it is evident that the project only met its objectives at the
end of the execution period. However, it is necessary to take a broader
view and recognize that the post-1990 breakthroughs on the institutional
and management issues mean that prospects for the future are significantly
brighter. A future retrospective review of the sector may conclude that
this project played a key role in setting the stage for subsequent
progress.
6.02 Over three-quarters of the Credit was disbursed for studies and
foreign technical assistance.§/ The institutional reform and physical
rehabilitation of the sector was to have been completed by the end of the
project. However, although these reforms are firmly under way, they are
in their early stages.  Additional rehabilitation, particularly of the
5/    The collection to billing ratio rose from 40% in 1989 to 84% by end-1991. Losses
were reduced from over 40% of gross generation to 27% and the number of
unmetered customers cut from 63% to 35%. Tariffs and salaries were increased
while overstaffing was reduced. A wide range of internal housekeeping and
control measures were also introduced to stop malpractice.
oJ    At appraisal they were expected to account for less than half the credit amount.



-7-
Conakry distribution system remains to be tackled under the next project.
The major hydro investment foreseen for the late 1980's is now unlikely to
start before the late 1990's. Its large size and high cost make it less
attractive economically than its smaller thermal alternative.
6.03  Studies   (including  engineering  services  and  financial  and
management audits), accounted for over 25 percent of the total Credit
amount.    These were generally well executed and helped GOG arrive at
important decisions on the development of the sector.
6.04 Several activities to be undertaken under the project were not
carried out. Little formal staff training was done and no equipment for
the training school acquired. Given the context, any training activities
would have probably been wasted had they been attempted. Other
unanticipated higher-priority needs also arose during the life of the
project. The minor civil works at Tombo power station were executed by
ENELGUI at the end of the project, using its own funds. The decision to
drop the assistance to the National Hydrology Service was justified
because of the large program of hydro studies carried out under the
project.
6.05 The repair of the Banea dam embankment and the associated
engineering supervision, which were not part of the original project were
satisfactorily completed in line with the contracted cost and timetable.
This additional component of the project accounted for over 18 percent of
the total credit amount. Bank staff reacted promptly to the urgency of
the problem and the reallocation was fully justified.
7.   Prolect Sustainability
7.01 Since the 1980's, the thusfar unsuccessful attempts at sectoral
reforms involving Guinean management and a phase-out of technical
assistance, has been abandoned in favor of a new approach that may deliver
more substantial results in the future. The results so far are dramatic
(paras 5.08 & 5.09), particularly in the commercial area, but it is too
early to judge if they are sustainable.   In addition,  the present
transitional arrangement in which the expatriate management is not paid by
results can only be justified as a short-term arrangement pending the
introduction of a risk-based management contract. This is likely to take
considerable time to put in place. Nevertheless, experience under this
project as well as its predecessor, demonstrates that less radical
approaches cannot succeed in Guinea where the legacy of the pervasive
economic distortions of the past two decades continues to weigh heavily on
all reform programs.
7.02 In terms of physical sustainability, the project only financed the
repair of the Banea dam. This important physical asset should remain for
many years, if it is inspected regularly and future erosion tackled in a
timely fashion.   It should be noted that the condition of the Conakry
distribution system is probably poorer today than at the start of the
project, when new or recently rehabilitated equipment financed under the
First  Power  project was  still  in  service.    Today,  most  of  these



- 8 -
installations have deteriorated to a point where they are unserviceable.
Transmission and distribution equipment has been stolen or badly damaged
through theft, negligence and by the lack of maintenance from 1985 to
1990.
8.    Bank Performance
8.01 Over the eight-year (1983-91) period of the project, Bank
performance was variable.  In overall terms, technical matters such as
supervision of planning studies were dealt with satisfactorily, but
performance in dealing with the more difficult institutional and
managerial issues in the pre-1989 period could have been dealt with
greater firmness.
8.02 Supervision was generally adequate in terms of frequency of visits,
with the exception of an 11 month gap between formal supervision missions
in 1986-87 I/.
8.03 It was in the follow-up actions that the Bank's performance was
weakest.    While  the  staff and management  changes  during the Bank
reorganization§/, probably contributed to a delay in confronting the
lack of progress under the project, it nevertheless appears that there was
a reluctance in 1988-89 to suspend disbursements.  Supervision reports
from this period do not discuss the possibility of such recourse.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.01 The project was poorly managed, with frequent changes of
responsibility  g.    within  the  power  utility  and  its  supervising
ministry. Consequently, reporting requirements to IDA were rarely met and
project funds were not put to use in a timely fashion to purchase
essential spares and equipment. In the end these unused funds only served
to prolong the presence of the TA team.
9.02 Responsibility for the delay of five years before embarking on real
institutional reform in the sector rests squarely with GOG and the
utility. Both repeatedly gave assurances to implement reforms that they
were unable or unwilling to carry out, undermining their credibility as
well as relations with the Bank. In future, GOG should be less willing to
agree to carry out measures which are beyond its capacity to execute and
the Bank should be more circumspect in accepting such assurances at face
value.
7]    The gap between visits by an IDA financial analyst was even longer - 18 months.
None of the Bank staff who worked on the project in 1984-86, nor the Project's
Division Chief, remained in charge of the project following the reorganization.
21    Between 1985 and 1990 the company had 5 General Managers and 4 Project
Managers for the project.



-9-
10.   Proiect Relationships.
10.01 The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was not easy. It
was often marred by lack of transparency on the part of GOG, and frequent
changes of staff political manoeuvre by GOG to play off cofinanciers
against each other did not help matters either.   As early as 1983,
relations between the Bank and one of the other donors were difficult, due
to differing approaches to technical assistance and investment planning.
11.   Consulting Services
11.01 The performance of consultants hired to carry out studies under the
credit was generally of an acceptable standard. (See Part III, Section 7).
The caliber and performance of the large number of technical assistance
personnel assigned to the project during its execution was variable.
However, in the early years of project execution, the senior management of
the TA supplier failed to understand the kind of role Bank staff expected
the TA personnel to play, and was reluctant to consider alternative
approaches to their interventions.
12.   Proiect Documentation
12.01 No Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was prepared for the project and the
limitations on length and coverage of topics in the PR meant that it did
not convey the full flavor of the complexity of the project nor the likely
difficulties  of  implementation.    It was  not  a particularly  useful
reference document during project execution.   The legal agreement was
appropriate, although its conditions were often ignored by the borrower.



- 10 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1595-GUI)
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Part II was not submitted by the Borrover.



- 11 -
PROJECT CCHPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 1595-GUI)
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION ON THE PROJECT
1. Related IDA Credits to Guinea
Credit Name         Purpose        Year approved          Status           Comments
First Power       Rehabilitation,          1980            Completed      PCR states
(Cr. 1085)        reinforcement                                          project failed
of failed in                                            in
power utility                                           institutional &
financial
areas.
Industrial        Rehabilitation           1982            Completed      Unused funds
Rehabilitation   of PEs,                                                  used to cover
& Promotion       promotion of                                            shortfall in
(Cr. 1234)        private                                                 (Cr. 1595) for
enterprises                                            TA
thru credit
line, TA.
Petroleum         Geological               1983            Completed      Idem.
Exploration       survey, TA,
(Cr. 1438)        training for
oil
exploration,
extension of
power sector TA
contract.
Public            Institutional            1992          Board June 92   PPF provides
Enterprise        legal reform of                                         funds for
Technical         PE sector,                                              studies of
Assistance        privatization                                           regulatory
financial                                               framework
restructuring
l ______________    of   key   PEs.
Power II          Proposes                (1993)          Negotiated      PPF funds
innovative                               May 1992      ongoing TA and
institutional                                           studies.
reform; system
rehabilitation
& expansion



- 12 -
6. Project Results
Studies executed under Category 1 of proiect
TechnicallEconomic
1.    Plan directeur du secteur d'energie electrique 1986-2000, Nov. 1986
This electric power system planning study was technically satisfactory, but its usefulness was limited by the
poor input data on hydro-energy sources.
2.    Etudes cartographiques, hydrologique et geologique d'amenagements hydroelectriques en Guinee maritime et
en Moyenne Guinee, 1988
3.    Etude des ressources hydroelectrique de la Guinee maritime et de la moyenne Guinee, Oct. 1988.
4.    Five reports of Committee of Experts appointed to review work of consultants, 1987-88.
These resource surveys and expert reviews were of high quality, provided a solid basis for the selection of the
most promising hydroelectric site to develop in the center and west of Guinea.
5.    Etude economique de la strategie d'equipement du secteur electrique en Guinee, April 1989.
Permitted a quantitative economic comparison of the two most attractive hydro sites identified and helped
provide a technical justification for a decision with important political consequences.
6.    Etude de prefeasibilite d'am6nagements hydroelectriques du Milo, Farankonedou, et Kogbedougou, Oct.1989
This study, completed satisfactorily, was aimed at filling the gap in knowledge of suitable small hydro
schemes to serve urban centers in eastern Guinea.
7.    Haute Guinee - Fomi hydro project, 3 expert review board reports, 1988.
The panel of experts ensured that the feasibility study (not IDA-financed) on the main alternative large-scale
hydrosite in eastern Guinea was carried out to the same standards as the work on sites in the other regions.
8.    Projet hydroelectrique de Garafiri: environment et reinstallation des populations, 1990.
Study was completed satisfactorily, but has no immediate application due to postponement of hydro project.



- 13 -
Institutional/Financial Studies
1.    Etude d'organisation et de gestion de la SNE, 1986
Recommendations not implemented due to change in sector organization and creation of new electricity
company.
2.    Etude d'evaluation du personnel de la SNE, 1988
Results assisted in selection of staff for new power company
and in identifying unqualified staff to be laid off.
3.    Various financial audits, liquidation report of SNE, preparation of opening balance sheet for new power
company (ENELGUI), and inventory of assets.
The quality of all the above was satisfactory.
In addition, Category 1 financed the services of an engineering consultant to supervise installation of the
generation equipment at Banea power station and also the repair of the dam embarkment.
The work of the consultant was of good quality.



- 14 -
7. Status of Covenants in Credit Agreement
Covenant            Sub                Deadline
2.02(c)      Opening of a special acct.   Immediate         Effective 8/88,
in US$ at a commercial bank                    but dollar acct.
not allowed.
3.02(a)      SNE to pay interest on loan                    No interest paid
and repay it over 20 years                     Restructuring plan
as per subsidiary loan                         in 1992.
agreement.
3.03(b)      Govt. to assure SNE access  Immediate          Not done.
to foreign exchange to meet
needs not covered by Cr. 1595
3.04(b)      Govt. not to execute next                      Not complied
major power project w/out                      with for new
IDA agreement.                                thermal plant.
3.05(b)      Implement recommends. of   By end              New statutes
organization & instit'l  Dec. 1986             adopted in study.
Aug. 1987
3.06         SNE to implement Recovery   By end             Revised plan
Plan agreed at negotiations. Dec. 1986         partially
implemented a
year late.
3.07         Implement recommendations   By end             Tariff study
of tariff study to be done   Dec. 1987         not done
under project.                                till Oct.'90
4.01         SNE to submit audited       Annual             Observed, but
accounts 6 months after end                    1985-90 accts.
of each financial year.                        qualified by
auditor.
4.02(a)      SNE to take out insurance  Immediate           Vehicles and
cover against risks.                           equipt. insured
since 1991.



- 15 -
7. Status of Covenants in Credit Agreement (contd.)
Covenant            Subject            Deadline
4.02(b)      SNE to manage its affairs    Immediate         Observed only
under sound financial and                      since full
public utility practices                       management authority
with competent management                      given to TA.
authority given to TA team
in 1990
4.03         SNE to properly maintain,   Immediate          As for 4.02 (b)
and repair power assets
4.04         Accounts receivable by SNE   eff. end-         Never
not to exceed 3 months bills  June 1986        achieved.
4.05(a)      Power tariffs to be set at  from 1986          Not observed
level reqd. to cover local                     from 1987 to
costs of investment progm.                     1990.
4.05(b)      Quarterly fuel adjustment    Immediately       Never introduced,
clause to be incorporated  introduced.         implementation underway.
in tariff structure.
4.05(c)      Adequacy of tariffs to meet   Annually         Not observed
level in 4.05(a) to be che-    before from 1987
cked and IDA to be informed  to 30 Sept. 1990.
4.07         Govt. to charge SNE a price  Immediate         Not respected;
for diesel not exceeding the                   fuel tax went
CIF price plus handling cost                   up but power
tariff left
frozen till 1991.
4.08         SNE to limit diesel consn. at  from            Briefly observed
Tombo plant to manufacturer's  end 1985.       in mid 1987 and
rated consumption level.                       early 1991.



- 16 -
8. Use of Bank Resourc.
A. Staff Innuts
State of Projects Cycle      Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal              64
Appraisal to Effectiveness     9
B. SuDervision Mis
Month/        No. of         Days in   Specialization       Perfin.      Types of
Year          Persons        Field      represented 1/      Rating 2/    Problems 3/
Supervision I          11/85               2            7       FA/PE                   3        F,M
II         06/86               7            7       E/PE                    4        F,M,I,P
iml         12/86              2            13      EIIS
IV         02/87                1           7       IS
V           05/87              2            10      PE/FA                   4        F,M,I,P,T
VI          10/87              3            10      E/FA/PE                 3        F,M,I
Vll         02/88              2            10     EBFA
VEII        07/88              2            4       E/FA
IX          11/88               1           3       E
X           02/89              2            16      FA/E                    3        F,M,I,P
Xi         04/89               2            7       FAMPE                   3        F,M
)xC         06/89               1           5       E
xm          09/89               2            6      FA/PE                    3        F,M,I
XIV         02/90               1            4      E
Xv          04/90               3           16     FPAE                      3        P,M,Il
XVI         10/90               1            4      FA
XVII        03/91               1            12     FA                       2        P,T
xvm         06/91               1            9      FA                       2        F,T
Abscence of rating irdicates that Form 590 not prepared.
I/1      FA - Financial Analyst
PE = Power Engineer
E = Economist
IS = Institutional Specialist
2/       1 = Problem free
2 - Moderate problems
3 - Major problems
3/       F = Financial, M = Managerial, I = hItitutional, P = Political, T = Technical



