DommIut of
The World Bank
FOM OMCAL USE ONLY
cK 01- s- 5w
Reps,t N  P-3861-GEI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAIION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
InTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPT CREDIT
OF SDR 8.4 MILLION (USS8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND TECINICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 18, 1985
This doemne  ho a resticted distUmiem and my be ued by recipient ely i the perforance of
their oBtia det. lb contest my no otherws be dicloed wit   Word Bank authWizaio



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Syli (GS)
GS  1.00    =     US$   0.04
US$ 1.00    =     GS   24
GS  1,000   =     US$  41.66
FISCAL YEAR
Government             : January 1 - December 31
SNE                    : January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGCD         Administration Getnerale de la Cooperation au
Developpement (Belgium)
CCCE         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(France)
CIDA         Canadian International Development Agency
ESIE         Ecole Superieure Interafricaine d'Electricite
GOG          C-overnment of Guinea
HQI          Hvdro-Quebec International
KEfW         Kreditanstalr fir Wiederaufbau (Germany)
,1PNR        Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources
SNE          Societe Nationale d'Electricite
S10          Service National de l'Hydraulicue
SSE          Secretariat of State for Energy
TA           Technical Assistance
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
Kilometer (km)                            0 0.62 miles
Kilovolt (kV)                      =       1.000 volts
Kilowatt (kW)                      =       1,000 watts
Megawatt (MW)                      =       1,000 kilowatts (kW)
Gigavatt hour (GWh)                         1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
Tons Crude Oil Equivalent (TOE)           7 bbl of crude oil
One barrel (bbl)                   =      0.16 cubic meters



FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...................                                        i
I.         THE ECONOMY ............................,,,.. 1
Recent Performance ..                                   2
Foreign Assistance and External Debt ..................  4
Prospects ..............................,,,,,,,,,                    5
II.        BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINhEA ............................  6
III.       THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTOR ................................  8
The Energy Sector.                                                   8
Demand and Supply.                                               8
Institutions in the Energy Sector ..................  8
Sector Investments .................................  9
Energy Pricing .....................................  9
The Power Sector ......................................  9
Background .......................................    9
Existing System ..................................,.10
Future Development ................................. 10
Sector Organization ................................ 11
Accounts and Audit Arrangements .................... 13
Past Performance ................. 13
Future Finances and Tariffs ........................ 14
Bank Group Objectives and Rationale for
Involvement ..........16..., ....... ,6
IV.    THE PROJECT ...................,.                                      ..... 16
Objectives ........,.,,............,.... 17
Description ......,.                  .        . .......... 17
Status of Preparation .....................                         18
Cost Estimate ....,,,,,,,,,,. 19
Financing Plan........................ , ......... 19
Implementation ............... ,            ........... 19
Procurement ...........                                             20
Disbursement ...........                                            20
Project Benefits and Risks .20
V.    LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY .21
VI.  RECOMMDATION. .21
' This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
ANEE:
1      Guinea Social Indicators Data Sheet ........................  22
2      Status of Bank Group Operations in Cuinea ..................  27
3       Supplementary Project Data Sheet ...........                  29
4       Implementation Schedule ....................................  31
5      Amounts and Methods of Procurement .32
6   Disbursement Schedule .33
7      Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File   34
MAP: IBRD 18167 (Power System and Potential Hydroelectric Sites)



THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Guinea
Beneficiar_:         Societe Nationale d'Electriciti (SNE)
Amount:              SDR 8.4 million (US$8.0 million)
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    The Government of Guinea would onlend the amount of the
Credit for a period of 20 years including a 5 year
grace period, at the prevailing IBRD interest rate
(9.29 percent). SNE would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
Project             The proposed project would continue the efforts begun
Description          under the First Power Project to rehabilitate the
existing facilities, organization and management of the
power sector, SNE and the National Hydrology Service
(SN1H)- The expected benefits are the definition of the
future development for the power sector and improved
efficiency in the operations of SNE and SNH. The
project faces no special risks, although realization of
the expected benefits will depend on the Government
granting SNE autonomy in its operations and motivating
the management and staff by improving compensation.
The major project components are:
(a) an extension of ongoing training and technical
assistance to SNE;
(b) an organizational and institutional study of the
power sector, a power planning study, a
feasibility study and detailed engineering of the
first power plant recommended by the planning
study, and a study for the rehabilitation and
*                                  extension of the subtransmissior. and distribution
systems;
(c) spare parts, equipment and materials, and a
warehouse for SNE; and
(d) technical assistance, training and equipment to
imprwve SNH's operations.
Estimated Cost:     The proposed project is estimated to cost about
US$20 million, excluding taxes and duties. The
breakdown of the project cost estimate is as follows:



- ii -
-     US$Sillion
Local   Foreign   Total
1. Consulting services and studies
a. Power planning study                        0.02      0.34      0.36
b. Sector organization study                    0.03     0.40      0.43
c. Priority distribution system
rehabilitation study                       0.05      0.45      0.50
d. Feasibility and detailed engineering
of the next power project                  0.30      4.40      4.70
Subtotal                       0.40     5.59      5.99
2.  Technical assistance
a. Technical assistance to SNE                 0.30      4.16      4.46
b. Technical assistance to SNH                           0 0.30    0.30
Subtotal                       0.30     4.46      4.76
3.  Training
a. Training of SNE staff                       0.05      1.30      1.35
b. Training of SNH staff                          -      0.12      0.12
Subtotal                       0.05     1.42      1.47
4.  Spare parts, equipment and material
a. Urgent spares and vehicles for SNE          0.17      3.45      3.62
b. Material and equipment for SNH              0.25      0.20      0.45
c. SNE stocks                                  0.15      1.00      1.15
Subtotal                       0.57     4.65      5.22
5.  Renovation of Tombo Yard and
Warehouse Building                             0.03      0.30      0.33
6.  Base Cost                                       1.35    16.42     17.77
7.  Contingencies
Physical                                       0.07      0.80      0.87
Price                                          0.23      1.13      1.36
Total Project Cost a/          1.65    18.35     20.00
Financing Plan                                            US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                                               -       8.00      8.00
SNE                                              1.65       --      1.65
CCCE                                              -       5.20      5.20
CIDA                                                      3.75      3.75
Germany (KfW)                                             0.70      0.70
AGCID                                                     0.70      0.70
1.65    18.35     20.00
a/ Including up to uS$ 680,000 being financed under the Project Prepara-
tion Facility # P299 GUI of August 2, 1984 for items 1 a) and b).



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements (US$ mdllion equivalent)
IDA FY              1986      1987      1988      1989     1990      1991
Annual         1.12       2.32      2.08      1.44     0.80     0.24
Cumulative     1.12       3-44      5.52     6.96      7.76     8.00
Rate of Return:     Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:  None.
Map: IBRD 18167 (Power System and Potential Hydroelectric sites)



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 8.4 MILLION (US$8.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TIO THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recoimmendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Guinea for SDR 8.4 million (US$8.00
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second power
engineering and technical assistance proiect. Additional financing for the
project would be provided by the Caisse Centra'Le de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) in an amount nov estimated at the equivalent to US$5.20 million, by
the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) in an amount
equivalent to US$3.75 million, by the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) and
by Belgium's Administration Generale au Developpement (AGCD) in amounts
equivalent to US$0.70 million each.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4690-GUI) was discussed with
the Government in November 1983 and distributed to the Executive Directors
in February 1984. This section summarizes its contents, focusing on
changes in Guinea's economic situation and policies in recent years. More
specifically, the change in Covernment following the death of President
Sekou Toure in March 1984 has resulted in a radically different political
orientation which greatly enlarges the possibilities for close collabora-
tion between Guinea and the Association, in the context of a major economic
reform program (para.16).
3.        Despite its mineral and agricultural potential, Guinea saw
declining economic performance from Independence in 1958 until about
1973-74.  Economic activity, with a stimulus from mining, grew rapidly
between 1973-76. but again at a slower pace since then. At present, most
of Guinea's 5.8 million inhabitants live at the margin of poverty. With a
per capita income of about US$300 in 1983, Guinea belongs among the least
developed cjuntries as classified by the United Nations. Life expectancy
is only 44 years, infant mortality is about 17 percent, 90 percent of the
population has no access to safe water, and 80 percent of the adult popula-
tion is illiterate.
4.        Since 1976, and particularly since 1979, Guinea has been re-
examining its development policies, institutions, and relations with the
outside world. Important first steps were taken towards improved economic
management and decentralization of the economy: excessive money supply was



- 2 -
gradually reduced; more explicit performance criteria and greater autonomy
of public enterprises are being introduced; and a reform of the banking
sector has been initiated. A new Government, which took office on April
1984. is now committed to more far-reaching economic reforms. There is
explicit recognition of the need for economic pricing of resources and for
technical assistance for planning, investment programming, and project
preparation and execution. State retail trade has been discontinued, and
many price controls have been permitted to lapse, thus liberalizing and
encouraging the agricultural sector. Private investment, small and medi-
um-scale enterprises, foreign direct investment. and the return of expatri-
ate Guinean capital are being encouraged, and private enterprises have been
allowed to import and export most goods and to borrow and hold foreign
exchange. Primary education is to be revamped and strengthened.
Enrolments in higher education have been severely reduced and more students
are being directed to vocational training: manpower planning is being
introduced, and the guarantee of state employment to school graduates is
being reappraised. with a view to curtailing the increase in public employ-
ment and the wage bill. These reform and liberalization measures, which
will be extended during 1985, reflect a significant and broadly based
attempt to address Guinea's deep-seated problems and poor economic
performance, and represent fundamental changes from past policies.
Recent Performance
5.        Real output of the economy is estimated to have grown at an
average rate of 1.6 percent in real terms between 1979 2nd 1983. Growth
was more rapid in 1980 (2.6 percent) reflecting a recovery in agriculture
and mining. However agriculture stagnated in 1981, mining and construction
declined and overall growth fell to 0.6 percent. Recoverv in 1982 and
1983 - at 1.8 and 1.3 percent respectively, well below the rate of
population increase of nearly 3 percent - resulted from an increase in
construction activities, mainly for preparations for the OAU conference
that was to be held in Conakry in May 1984.  The primary sector rerained
the most important throughout the period, representing 42 percent of GDP,
although it produced well below potential for lack of incentives and
adequate pricing policies. Secondary industries, mining and construction,
contributed 23 percent of real GDP, although the manufacturing sector -
mainly public enterprises - produced at less than 15 percent of capacity
and registered heavy losses. The tertiary sector accounted for the
remaining 35 percent of GDP, with real output in commerce declining by
4 percent from 1979 to 1983, reflecting the poor performance of state
trading enterprises.
6.        Surpluses in the trade account from 1979 to 1983 were more than
offset by rising deficits in services and private transfers. Despite
important official transfers, the current account consistently recorded
deficits. Capital inflows were not sufficient to offset these current
account deficits, which were joined by important errors and omissions -
very likely reflecting heavv unrecorded capital flight. The overall
balance of payments deficits increased from US$40 million in 1979 to US$85
million in 1983. Overall deficits were financed through reduction in net
foreign assets and accumulation of external debt arrears, which at over



-3-
US$200 million at the end of 1984 represent more than 40 percent of annual
export earnings.
7.        After registering a slight surplus in 1981, the Government's
financial situation steadily deteriorated. In 1982 despite an increase in
revenue the overall deficit approached 2 billion GS. This was largely
because of transfers of 5.5 billion GS to the public enterprises following
the liquidation of the accumulated debt to the banking system of the
sectoral holding companies. which were abolished in 1981. In 1983. Govern-
ment revenues were about 11 percent lower than in 1982. This reflected
lower direct tax collections as well as falling customs duties and taxes on
foods and services, as unrecorded private trade transactions grew to
dominate the consumer sector. Non-tax revenues consisting of transfers
from the parastatals to the equipment budget fell by 25 percent following a
reduction in profits of Importex, the state trading company, as its de jure
monopoly was eroded by private importers. The overall Government deficit
tripled to 6.3 billion CS, or 38 percent of expenditure, the largest
deficit recorded in recent years. In 1984 Government revenues continued to
decline from 10.6 billion GS to 9.1 billion GS following a drop in profit
taxes paid by the parastatals. The deficit, however, was contained at 4
billion GS by a reduction in capital expenditures and a sharp reduction in
subsidies to the public enterprises.
8.        Other than the enclave mining projects, most productive invest-
ment in Guinea is of a public and parapublic nature. During the last
development plan (October 1973 to December 1978), public and parapublic
investment reached US$478 million (55 percent of planned expenditure)
averaging 10 percent of GDP. Total investment was modest at 15 percent of
GDP on the average. Two-thirds of centrally-planned investment was fi-
nanced by foreign assistance. The ongoing plan (1981-85) projected much
higher investments of US$1.6 billion (in 1980 prices), favoring collectiv-
ized agriculture (31 percent) and industry (14 percent). As many of the
proposed projects remained in preliminary stages of preparation, however,
and their financing was not sure, the proposed investment targets could not
be reached. During the 1981-83 period, public and parapublic investment
represented about US$200 million per year in current terms, about the same
proportion of GNP as in the previous plan exercise. The new Government has
reviewed the investment program and, with the help of the Association,
reassessed its project priorities, deciding in April 1985 to severely limit
investments to on-going, viable projects with assured foreign financing.
Investment planning and programming are to be improved under the Technical
Assistance Project for Economic Management (Credit 1559-GUI) recently
approved by the Executive Directors.
9.        Recognizing the need to maintain and use existing capital assets
better, the Government has increased the proportion of its recurrent budget
for maintenance and repair. It is also undertaking a serious examination
of the viability of state enterprises. The least successful ones (includ-
ing the entire network of retail trade enterprises outside Conakry) will be
closed down, while others have embarked on rehabilitation programs, mostly
with external assistance. Recent policies in the parapublic sector aim at
making parastatals financially self-sufficient, autonomous in their



-4-
management, more responsive to market mechanisms, and more receptive to
technical assistance.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
10.       Since 1975-76, Guinea has been diversifying its sources of
foreign assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized
countries. expanded relations with Arab nations and with multilateral
sources. Guinea qualified for drawings under the IMF first credit tranche
and trust fund facilities, and successfully negotiated a Stand-By Agreement
in 1982. However, this Agreement lapsed owing to the Government's inabili-
ty to meet some of the agreed financial performance criteria, and to reach
an understanding with the Fund on the issue of adjusting the overvalued
exchange rate. A new Agreement with the IMF is being actively negotiated.
11.       The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investments in
infrastructure and public enterprises, as well as consumer goods, has
resulted in a burden of foreign obligations which is, and will remain for
years, a major problem. Guinea's outstanding public and private external
guaranteed debt exceeded US$1.5 billion as of December 31, 1983 of which
US$1.2 billion (66 percent of GNP) was disbursed. Service obligations on
this debt are projected at US$132 million per annum over 1985-87. Foreign
exchange shortages have hindered the payment of debt service, and outstand-
ing arrears totalled US$220 million at the end of 1983. The ratio of
public and publicly guaranteed debt service obligations to gross export
earnings in 1983 was about 24 percent. Actual service payments on this
debt amounted to about 17 percent of export receipts. Private non-
guaranteed debt is estimated at US$300 million in 1983 (20 percent of GNP),
and its debt service represented about 10 percent of the 1983 export
earnings.
12.       Although Guinea's debt servicing has shown some improvement,
accumulated arrears are likely to increase in absolute terms unless there
is new debt rescheduling or major changes in the present allocation of
foreign exchange. In the past, the Government addressed the problem
through bilateral debt rescheduling, and measures to improve debt manage-
ment by the External Debt Department in the Central Bank, to which the Bank
provided technical advice as part of its economic work. Government has
also undertaken a stricter control of investments financed by external
credits.  The pressure on imports was somewhat relieved in recent years by
official toleration of some private exports at the free rate outside
official foreign exchange channels. However successful these operations
may be, Guinea will have to rely on substantial amounts of foreign assis-
tance on concessional terms during the next few years. This will be needed
not only for investment purposes, but also to provide foreign exchange for
intermediate and consumer good imports which are vital to stimulate econom-
ic activity and relieve supply constraints, particularly in the rural
sector. Furthermore, net public savings after debt service will be inade-
quate until at least the late 1980s, and local cost and recurrent expendi-
ture financing by external sources will be needed.



-5-
Prospects
L3.       Guinea's long-term development possibilities are substantial
based on its agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential. However,
with 80 percent of the population in the rural sector, and with modest
national savings (about 9.4 percent of GDP in 1983) combined witk an acute
shortage of foreign exchange, the exploitation of this pocential hinges on
the country's ability to provide incentives to agricultural producers and
to attract foreign capital for investment in mining, agroindustry, and,
eventually, petroleum development.
14.       During the 1980s Guinea will continue to face a serious foreign
exchange constraint, despite the entry into operation of a diamond mine in
1984. Existing mining operations have few prospects for expansion in the
coming years, and the downward trend in agricultural exports will be hard
to reverse immediately. At the same time price distortions linked to the
over-valued exchange rate discourage the substitution of the large food
imports by domestic production, while the debt service ourden remains
heavy.
15.       At present Guinea is excessively dependent on bauxite mining for
its foreign exchange. Diversification of its mineral production is thus a
key element in the country's longer-term development strategy. Iron ore
mining is one possibility now under active investigation, as are oil
exploration and development of other minerals.
16.       The Association and the IMF are helping the Government formulate
and implement an economic reform program aimed at further encouraging
private sector development, notably in agriculture, while at the same time
increasing the efficiency of the public sector and improving resource
management. Particularly crucial will be a major monetary reform, with
accompanying measures to correct price distortions, and thereby reform the
structure of agricultural incentives. The authorities also plan to
introduce rigorous budgetary measures and the rational programming of
public investments. To reverse the previous regime's economic policies,
the new authorities plan to open up the economy to the private sector and
greatly reduce the scope of the Government's direct involvement in the
productive sectors, by a large-scale public enterprise divestiture program.
The success of these reforms will depend on the program's ability to
attract and encourage private entrepreneurs. To emerge from its burden of
external debt, Guinea plans to seek a multilateral debt rescheduling in
1985 and subsequently limit its foreign borrowing at appropriately
concessional terms. At the Association's suggestion, the Government has
examined these interrelated problems, and has prepared a coordinated
economic reform program eligible for donor support. This program will be
the basis for an IMF Standby Arrangement in 1985, and the Association will
soon appraise a Structural Adjustment Credit and help mobilize balance of
payments support from other donors. Following the major Agricultural
Sector Review organizFd by the Bank with the support of several other
agencies (CIDA, USAID, CCCE, IFAD, UNESCO). its report (GUI-4672, April 15,
1984) also represents a significant step in assisting the Government to



- 6 -
reform agricultural sector policies. A long-term strategy and agricultural
investment program are now under preparation with the Association's help.
17.       However, once the Government embarks on major reforms, Guinea
would face a difficult transition period during the late 1980s when in-.
creased foreign assistance. on concessional terms, would be needed to ease
the balance of payments difficulties and contribute to a gradual realiza-
tion of the country's considerable development potential.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
18.       The first Bank Group operation in Guinea comprised two loans in
FY68 and FY71  for tL2 profitable bauxite mining project at Boke. This
project was foliowed by IDA credits in the mid-1970s for pineapple produc-
tioa and the rehabilitation of roads. Encouraged by the first results of
these projects. the Bank Group began to diversify and expand its lending
program, based upon broad priorities agreed with the Government: (i)
reha4ilitation and maintenance of basic infrastructure; (ii) improvement of
human resources; (iii) mining development; and (iv) development of the
rural sector. IDA operations in each of these areas have been approved,
with particular emphasis on sectoral planning, institution building and
training. The FY79 First Education Project was very satisfactorily imple-
mented, and provided a sound basis for the Second Education Project, which
is proceeding well. The First Power Project (FY8I) is rehabilitating the
Conakry power system. Following the conclusions of the UNDP-financed Water
Resources Master Plan, for which the Bank was executing agency, the pro-
posed project would help prepare a long-term electric generation and
transmission program to exploit Guinea's substantial hydroelectric poten-
tial, as well as promote the efficient management of the sector by SNE. A
Water Supply project (FY79) provides similar assistance, and was partially
the precursor of the Conakry Urban Development project (FY84). which
assists the Government in managing urban growth in the capital region. The
Second Highway Project was successfully completed in 1984 and Highways III
(FY84), which includes the reconstruction of the country's first priority
road link, continues with a third phase of maintenance and rehabilitation
under a revamped highway organization. Implementation of the renovation
works under the Conakry Port Project (FY83) is also on schedule. Public
enterprise rehabilitation programs under the Industrial Rehabilitation
Promotion Project (FY81) have begun. Recent operations to assist efforts
to promote private investment, a first IFC loan and investment for the
AREDOR diamond mining company, and the Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project (FY84). have also started well.
19.       It is in the rural sector that the Government has experienced the
greatest difficulty in harnessing its development potential. Support for
smal'l private producers, including marketing and financial incentives, and
access to modern technology and applied agricultural research, has been
almost nonexistent. To deal with these fundamental problems, the Associa-
tion has supported intervention in two sub-sectors with substantial growth
potential. The Livestock Development Project (FY81) aimed at strengthening
the national livestock planning institutions, improving animal health and
productivity, and training livestock sector staff. However the continuation



of enforced government cattle purchasing created significant implementation
problems and the Credit was cancelled on September 12, 1983. The new
Government has removed these obstacles, and a Livestock Sector Rehabilita-
tion Project has just been approved. The Rice Development Project (FY80)
stresses national institution-building and introduces pilot low-cost
improved rice production methods in an area with high potential. In
addition, as part of the intensive dialogue between the Bank Group and the
Government. the Agricultural Sector Review (para. 16) provides the focus
for new directions for agricultural development and policy formulation.
The Governament has accepted the need for improved incentives and the
absolute priority of smallholder agriculture. These discussions will be
pursued and supported by the lending program, inter alia, in a Second Rice
Development Project and a First Agricultural Services Project, which have
recently been appraised. Other agricultural projects addressing the
sector's institutional and training needs are being prepared- in the context
of a long-term program to revitalize smallholder agriculture.
20.       Bank Group operations in Guinea now include fifteen IDA Credits
totalling US$199.7 million, and two Bank loans totalling US$73.5 million.
Guinea's disbursement rate (disbursements in relation to the undisbursed
balance) compares very favorablv with that of other countries at similar
levels of per capita income and development. Its disbursement profile
matches the Regional profile.
21.       Current Assistance Strateg.  The proposed Bank Group lending
program, supported by zn expanded program of economic and sector work, is
based on a strategy of encouraging key policy reforms at the national.
project and sector levels. These aim to improve economic mechanisms by
promoting market forces, and thus would begin the structural adjustment of
the Guinean economy. Support to the directly productive sectors would
increase the rate of economic growth. Specific targets are: (a)
providing. vith other donors. financing for imports needed for the success
of the economic reform program (para. 16); (b) giving priority to policy-
based projects that increase production; (c) introducing technical
assistance directed towards policy reforms, improved economic management
and resource allocation; (d) improving absorptive capacity in those social
and infrastructure sectors which support the productive sectors, through
*             rehabilitation, and technical and managerial training; and (e) improving
capital flows through the promotion of private investment and increasing
the level of cofinancing. During the preparation of the economic reform
prugram, the Association will help the Government mobilize the necessary
increased financial support from other donors.
22.       The Association is planning to expand agricultural operations
once the monetary reform has created the needed incentive structure for
smallholder agriculture, in the context of a long-term strategy for agri-
cultural development, which is under preparation. It is equally important
for the Bank to deepen its understanding of the industrial sector through
additional sector work and policy discussions. possibly leading to a second
industrial rehabilitation operation once the Government has defined its
industrial policy and the role of public enterprises (para. 46). The
Association is also providing technical advice to Government for possible



- 8 -
diversification of mining activities.  A mineral development project which
has recently been appraised includes promotion of secondary minerals and
further work on the proposed Mifergui-Nimba iron ore project.
23.       The Bank Group's share of Guinea's external debt (public and
private guaranteed) at the end of 1984 stood at about 13 percent (including
undisbursed). Its portion of external debt disbursed is expected to be
11 percent by 1987 compared with 8 percent in 1981; its share of debt
service on public debt and private debt guaranteed, 6.6 percent in 1980. is
expected to decline to 3.5 percent by 1987.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTOR
The Energy Sector
24.       Demand and Supply.  Statistical information about the energy
sector is poor and incomplete. Total energy consumption is estimated at
1.2 million tons of oil equivalent (toe). Most of Guinea's energy demand
is residential (60 percent) or industrial (24 percent). the latter mainly
for bauxite mining and processing; the remaining demand is from the
transport and commercial sectors. Firewood and charcoal provide about
64 percent of energy use; they are the primary fuel sources for cooking for
almost all Guineans. While firewood supplies will, in general, be adequate
for the near future, intensive use of firewood Is leading to significant
depletion of forestry resources around towns. Additional energy supplies
come from petroleum products (34 percent) and hydroelectricity (2 percent).
25.       All oil products are imported as there is currently no oil
production in the country. Imports in 1983 totaled about 365,000 tons, of
which the bulk was fuel oil used by the two major bauxite companies for
processing alumina and power generation. The value of oil product imports
was US$83 million in 1983, representing about 17 percent of export
earnings. A Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1438-GUI)
financed by IDA began in 1983. Its aim is to compile geological and
geophysical data to demonstrate the country's potential to the oil
industry.
26.       Guinea has abundant hydroelectric resources.  Due to favorable
topography and high annual rainfall, potential is estimated at about 26.400
GWh per annum. However, only about 300 GWh have so far been developed.
With appropriate upgrading of existing plant and expansion of capacity,
more of the country's hydro potential could be utilized to substitute for
existing diesel generation and to meet increases in energy demand.
27.       Institutions in the Energy Sector.  Responsibilities in the
sector are fragmented and poorly coordinated. The mining service of the
Ministry of Planning and Natural Resources (MPNR) is responsible for
exploration for hydrocarbons and other mineral resources. The Ministry of
Trade arranges oil product imports except for the mining companies and
approves the power tariff structure and levels. The Secretariat of State
for Energy (SSE) in the MPNR is in charge of planning and executing the
power investment program and is also responsible for overall technical



- 9 -
supervision of the power sector. The Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNE)
is the state enterprise in charge of operating the power system. The
National Hydrology Service (SNH) in MPNR is responsible for the collection
and analysis of the hydrological data on the water resources.
28.       Sector Investments.  There is no coherent investment strategy for
the energy sector. However, the IDA Technical Assistance project will help
Government elaborate comprehensive rolling three year public investment
programs by mid-1986.  Investments in petroleum exploration include the
exploration work of Societe Guineenne des Hydrocarbures (SGH) - a joint
venture between GOG and Mobil Oil Co., - and the activities financed under
the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (para. 25). In power, the
major investment being implemented is the First Power Project, for which a
Credit (1085-GUI) of SDR 22.1 million was approved in 1980. The Federal
Republic of Germany (KfW) and France (CCCE) are providing parallel
financing which totals US$27 million equivalent (para. 33). Including the
proposed and ongoing projects, investment required in the power sector to
meet demand through the early 1990s is estimated at about US$225 million at
1984 prices.
29.       Energy Pricing.  When converted at the official exchange rate,
retail petroleum product prices at the US dollar equivalent appear high
relative to international prices. However, under a more realistic exchange
rate, prices would be low. The structure of oil product prices will be
rationalized when the economic reform program, now agreed by the Government
on the basis of IMF and IDA staff recommendations containing specific
proposals to align petroleum product prices to appropriate levels, goes
into effect. There has been no clear pricing policy with respect to
electric power. A study, financed by CCCE, will analyze the power tariff
structure and the level of LRMC on the basis of the investment program to
be determined by the power planning study (para. 51). A World Bank/UNDP
Energy Assessment is planned for FY86 to review energy demand and supply,
sector institutions, investment plans and pricing.
The Power Sector
30.       Background.  After independence and the nationalization of the
power facilities in 1961, SNE was created as a state enterprise charged
with operating the Guinean public power system. During the following two
decades, lack of foreign exchange, constant government interference,
ineffective management, inadequate staff compensation, absence of leader-
ship and discipline, paucity of professional capability and haphazard
investments, have led SNE to a disastrous condition. Development of the
power sector has been further inhibited as the authorities focussed their
efforts on the US$3 billion development of the Konkoure hydro-power and
aluminum smelter project. In late 1983 following UNDP-financed studies for
which it was executing agency, IDA conveyed to the Guinean Government its
view that the project was not economicallv viable. However, it was not
until the new Government took power in April 1984 that IDA's advice was
accepted.



- 10 -
31.       Existing System. The country's electric power sector is divided
into the public system operated by SNE, with a capacity of 64 MW (40 MW of
hydro capacity and 24 MW of diesel) and three isolated captive diesel and
steam plants operated by the bauxite mines, totalling 70 MW. The former
consists of three separate systems (Conakry, Kinkon, and Tinkisso) and 12
towns scattered throughout the country which are supplied by small diesel
units totalling about 10 MW. The existing system and the towns with
electricity supply are shown on IBRD Map 18167.
32.       The transmission system consists of about 83 km of 110 kV, 83 km
of 60 kV and 300 km of 30 kV lines. The primarv distribution system
consists of 20 kV and 15 kV in Conakry and 5.6 kV in the rural areas. SNE
serves about 30,000 customers nationwide of whom about 55 percent are in
the Conakry system. Only 6 percent of the total population is served by
the power system, concentrated mostly in the Conakry area where 60 percent
of the population has access to electricity from both legal and illegal
connections.
33.       Under the First Power Project, IDA joined with CCCE and KfW to
rehabilitate the existing facilities and provide training and technical
assistance to SSE. IDA financing (Credit 1085-GUI) includes the reha-
bilitation of the distribution system in Conakry, construction and equip-
ment of a training school and houses, technical assistance, training and
studies for the establishment of accounting and billing systems. CCCE is
financing the renabilitation of Grandes Chutes Hydro Plant and its 60 kV
transmission system to Conakry, a study for the optimization of the
development of the Samou river, and an analysis of the power tariffs.  KfW
is financing the rehabilitation of the Donkea Hydro Plant and the 110 kV
transmission system to Conakry, the rehabilitation of the Tombo diesel
station, the provision of spare parts, and the rehabilitation and extension
of public lighting for Conakry. GOG has also signed a contract with
Energoprojekt (Yugoslavia) for the supply and erection of a 2 x 2.5 KW
hydroelectric plant at the foot of the existing Banea Dam.
34.       The rehabilitation of SNE's Conakry system should be completed bv
1987. The installed generating capacity would then amount to 47 MW hydro
and 14 MW diesel which would be sufficient to meet the Conakry system
demand through the late 1980s.
35.       Future Development.  SNE's medium and long term strategy aims at
taking maximum advantage of the country's hydroelectric energy to meet
essential power demand, while maintaining the existing thermal plant as
standby capacity. Future generation expansion is being examined by a power
planning study carried out by HQI and financed under a PPF advance. The
study, which started in September 1984, is expected to be completed by
October 1985. Its purpose is to determine the least cost program for the
development of generation and transmission facilitv in the country with
special emphasis on the Conakry system, the mining load and the Kinkon
system. The study draws on the Water Resources Master Plan (WRMP) that
inventories Guinea's hydro resources and assesses the potential sites for
hydroelectricity, irrigation and water supply. The WRMP was financed by
UNDP with the Bank as executing agency. In September 1985, GOG. CCCE,



- 11 -
CIDA, KfW and IDA would review the power generation and transmission
program resulting from the study and agree on the sequence of projects in
the sector. The Government has agreed to study and to implement only the
agreed priority projects (Section 3.04 of draft Development Credit
Agreement). The proposed project includes financing for detailed
engineering of the first generation project in the program.
36.       An indicative system development plan over the next 10 years was
prepared by IDA staff. It assumes economic recovery and a resulting annual
growth rate in electricity demand of 7.5 percent p.a. The IDA staff plan
has as a main objective the reduction of generation costs by substituting
hydropower for thermal generation in addition to meeting incremental
demand. It projects interconnection of the Conakry System with the mining
loads and the Kinkon system by early 1990, to further reduce dependence on
diesel oil. Additional diesel capacity of four MW will be needed by 1989
to meet the Conakry system load. By the early 1990s, additional capacity
of 25 to 40 MW and an average output of 200 GWh would be required to meet
the interconnected system load. This will be verified bv the ongoing
planning study.
37.       Sector Responsibilities.  Responsibility for the power sector is
divided between the Secretariat of State for Energy (SSE), under MPNR, and
SNE, a legacy of the "Concession Systemu. This has not been conducive to
the efficient operation and development of the sector. SSE is in charge of
sector planning, investment decisions, and arranging the financing and
construction of power facilities which are transferred after completion to
SNE for operation. SNE has no autonomy as: (i) day to day decisions are
made by the Secretary of State for Energv; (ii) tariff structures and
levels are approved by the Ministry of Trade; (iii) SNE's accounts are
audited by the Ministry of Economy and Finance; (iv) SNE's managers are
appointed by presidential decree; and (v) all other personnel are appointed
and administered by the Ministry of the Public Service.
38.       SNE's operations are organized on simple lines under three
directorates - Finance, Commercial and Technical - reporting to a Director
General.  Under the First Power Project, a project implementation unit
reporting to the Director General, was created within SNE. It is expected
to evolve into a construction department that will eventually take over
responsibility for implementation of all of SNE's investments. Respon-
sibilities within SNE are ill-defined. Clear job descriptions, work
assignments and delegations of authority are lacking. Staff are in-
adequately compensated, lack leadership and discipline. In addition, they
spend only a fraction of the official working hours at their jobs.
39.       In an attempt to address the above problems, the First Power
Project included financing for a technical assistance team and an
organizational and institutional study. Under that project, SNE employs 15
expatriate personnel from Hydro Quebec International (HQI) to fill key
positions and train Guinean counterparts. During project implementation,
it became apparent that additional funds of about US$1 million were needed
to maintain the momentum of the rehabilitation effort by the technical
assistance team through mid-1985. These funds were included in the



- 12 -
Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (Credit 1438-GUI). An additional
US$1.5 million has also became available under the Petroleum Project due to
modification of the seismic program following the availability of data from
studies financed from a PPF advance. Government has asked that the savings
be applied to continuation of the technical assistance to SNE to pay for
the period between the exhaustion of the SNE category under the Petroleum
Project and the time when activities to be financed under the Proposed
Credit begin. The technical assistance program is progressing well and the
efforts of the technical assistance team have already led to improved
electricity supplies in Conakry. Total system output increased by about 40
percent in 1983 and 29 percent in 1984. In addition. the TA team can be
credited for improved accounting which made possible the discovery of the
diesel oil losses at Tombo (about seven million liters in 1983), and the
underbilling of about 31 GWh of electricity.
40.       HQI also carried out studies for the complete overhaul of SNE's
billing, stock control and accounting systems. The studies, completed in
1984. are now being implemented. Several SNE staff members have been
trained to implement the new systems at Hydro Quebec in Canada and the
technical assistance team has been expanded to include a store manager who
vill implement the stock control system-
41.       The First Power Project's training component is proceeding
satisfactorily. The training center is functioning and a training
specialist and three instructors from HQI are preparing staff training
programs. About 60 SNE staff members have already been trained abroad. In
addition, three students are attending the Ecole Superieure Interafricaine
d'Electricite (ESIE) in Abidjan. These efforts have to continue, and wi11
be extended in the proposed project to include eight more engineering
students at ESIE, three accountants and two computer programmers at an
equivalent school.
42.       As priority was rightly given to the rehabilitation of SNE's
installations, the organizational and institutional study was postponed and
began only in October 1984 under a PPF Advance for the proposed project.
Phase I of the study will review the organization of the sector and the
roles and responsibilities of the different agencies as well as address
SNE's internal problems including overstaffing and inadequate compensation.
The consultants (Tractionel, Belgium) have already submitted a preliminary
report which makes recommendations on the institutional environment and the
organizational structure of SNE. The report was discussed by GOG. IDA and
the other co-financiers at negotiations. Agreement was reached on the
basic principles which the consultants would follov to finalize their
recommendations on the institutional framework and SNE's autonomy and its
organizational structure. By September 30. 1985. the consultants would
submit a final report incorporating these recommendations together with a
draft implementation plan. GOG would submit by Februarv 28, 1986, a
timetable satisfactory to IDA to implement this plan (Section 3.05 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
43.       During the pre-negotiation discussions, a Recovery Plan prepared
by SNE in cooperation with the HQI team and Tractionel, was submitted for
IDA's review. The Plan covers all systems and functions and includes
target dates which end in 1987 when all the operational areas are expected
to have reached an acceptable state of efficiency.  The Recovery Plan is
complementary to the new institutional structure of SNE but is not
dependent on it, as the operational functions and areas exist no matter
where they may be placed in the institution.  The Government and SNE have
agreed to implement the Plan in accordance with an agreed timetable.
(Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       SNE's financial and statistical data base is not reliable.  It
does not provide accurate information on power plant operation and costs,
distribution costs. energy sales in total and by consumer category. average
prices per kWh sold, age of receivables and the value of inventories.
However, the situation should improve substantially when the new accounting
and billing systems are introduced in 1985 (para. 40).
45.       Accounts and Audit Arrangements.  Income statements and balance
sheets for 1981 and 1982 were not audited because of the poor quality of
accounts. Therefore, the first audit was only performed on the 1983
accounts. The auditors were unable to express an opinion on the accounts
as, inter alia, detailed consumer and inventory records could not be
reconciled with the balance sheet totals. The new accounting and billing
systems should remedy these and other deficiencies. SNE's annual accounts
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year
after verification by auditors acceptable to IDA (Section 4.01(d) of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
46.       SNE's Past Financial Performance.  SNE did not perform well
during the period 1981-1983 and did not meet the earnings covenant under
the First Power Project. From 1981, SNE's revenues were to cover operating
expenses, taxes, maintenance, depreciation (revalued), the excess of debt
service over depreciation and produce rates of return of 2 percent for 1983
and 3 percent thereafter, on average revalued net fixed assets in
operation. Despite tariff increases in 1981 of about 38 percent and a
further 62 percent in early 1983 leading to a price of about USg18/kWh 1/
SNE incurred large operating deficits during 1981-83. 2/  In addition, SNE
wrcte off in 1981 and 1982 bad debts of GS 345 million, excluding
Government accounts. At the end of 1983. SNE's liquidity was unsatisfactory
1/   The official exchange rate of GS 24 = US$1.00 compares to a
parallel market rate of GS 260. The average price per KWh is
estimated as the records do not yield accurate information on KWh
sales.
2/   The audited accounts for 1983 show a loss of GS 333 million
(US$14.5 million).



- 14 -
with receivables of GS 344 million (US$14.3 million), equivalent to 10
months' billing. To finance the serious shortage of working capital. SNE
had to resort to short term bank borrowing of GS 262 million (US$10.9
million). In addition, bills of GS 737 million (US$30.7 million) had not
been paid - mainly for diesel oil.
47.       SNE's poor financial situation is primarily due to lack of
electricity output, poor cost control and inadequate metering, billing and
collection, which has rendered tariff increases ineffective. The main
increase in costs has been for diesel fuel as the hydro plants which are
being rehabilitated have either failed to generate at expected capacity
levels or been out of service. Fuel costs were about 60 percent higher
than they should have been because of losses of diesel oil at the Tombo
diesel plant. Fuel consumption, which has already been reduced from
450 gm/kWh to 268 gm/kWh, will need to be further reduced in 1985 to reach
the manufacturer's rated consumption and to be maintained at that level
thereafter (Section 4.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). SNE's
revenues were also lower than they should have been because increased
electricity production in 1983 was not billed accurately. Revision of
bills to reflect present consumption and installation of meters in the
premises of 70 percent of large commercial and industrial consumers have
been completed.
48.       A further write-off of SNE's bad debts for non-government
customers amounting to about GS 140 million has taken place and Government
has settled its outstanding debts to SKE, leaving GS 55 million to be paid.
These steps reduced accounts receivable to an estimated 6.5 months billings
at the end of 1984. Government and SNE have agreed to submit a plan to
reduce SNE's receivables to the equivalent of not more than three months
billings by mid-1986. (Section 4.04 of draft Development Credit
Agreement).
49.       SNE's unpaid bills amounting to about GS 1.5 billion (mainly for
oil, accumulated depreciation and bank short term borrowing) due to
Government and its agencies would be written off during settlement of debts
among state enterprises that GOG intends to carry out as part of the
economic recovery package. Government has agreed to such a write-off.
(Section 3.03 (a) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
50.       Future Finances and Tariffs.  Preparation of meaningful financial
forecasts for SNE over the project period is impossible because of the
uncertainty regarding the impact of the forthcoming major monetary reform,
the resultant tariff increases, and the poor quality of financial
information. Until such time as satisfactory accounting systems are fully
operational, it would be inappropriate to continue with the current
requirement to base SNE's earnings on a rate of return covenant related to
revalued net fixed assets in operation. The financial objective for SNE
over the next three years (1985-88) would be to overcome SNE's serious
liquidity problems and strengthen its creditworthiness to enable it to
undertake future investments without reliance on financial support from
GOG. SNE and GOG have agreed to ensure that SNE's revenues would be



- 15 -
sufficient in each future year to cover operating expenses including
interest, the greater of depreciation or amortization of debt, working
capital requirements including cash, unfunded interest during construction,
and contribute an amount to capital investment equal to the local cost of
the investment program. (Section 4.05 (a) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). To meet this goal an increase in SNE's tariffs to the higher
of GS 6/kWh or US018.0 equivalent, is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed Credit. (Section 6.01 (e) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
A series of targets in the Recovery Plan (para. 43) will be used to monitor
SNE's financial performance. These were agreed in principle with SNE and
GOG at the time of negotiations and will be reviewed every six months
during project supervision. The existing data base and condition of the
power system may not allow the earnings covenant to be fully met during the
next two or three years but will form the target base which Government and
IDA will try to achieve. SNE's records and operations are expected to be
in a condition by the end of 1987 to allow agreement on a specific earnings
covenant for the next power project.
51.       Following completion of the ongoing power generation and trans-
mission planning study, a tariff study based on long run marginal cost
(LRMC) principles will be carried out (para. 29) with an expected comple-
tion date of end-1987. Recommendations arising from the study will be
discussed by GOG, SNE, CCCE and IDA, and agreements would be implemented by
December 31, 1987 (Section 3.07 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
52.       SNE's diesel costs are expected to peak in 1985 at about 25
percent of operating costs and thereafter fall to about zero in 1987, when
the hydroplants will be fully rehabilitated. Unexpected changes in the
hydrolthermal mix could occur in future as a resnlt of extraordinary
droughts. Current tariff schedules do not include a fuel adjustment clause
to enable SNE to recover additional costs arising from such fluctuations.
Consequently, GOG has agreed as a condition of effectiveness to incorporate
a fuel adjustment clause in the tariff schedules which would adjust
electricity prices quarterly to meet such changes in fuel costs. The
approach would be to divide the tariff into two parts - a base tariff and a
fuel component. The latter component would consist of the estimated fuel
bill for the coming quarter adjusted for over or under estimates in the
previous quarter, divided by the estimated kWh to be sold. (Section
4.05 (b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.       The retention of an oil price for SNE several times the inter-
national level (as at present 3/ ) is not justified. GOG. therefore,
agreed that the diesel price charged to SNE would be at a level equal to
the CIF price in Conakr-y plus reasonable handling and mark-up charges.
These are now estimated at 10 percent. (Section 4.07 of draft Development
Credit Agreement).
3/   When converted at the official exchange rate.



- 16 -
54.       As SNE needs to purchase the spare parts, equipment and materials
needed to operate effectively, GOG agreed that SNE be permitted to purchase
annually, foreign exchange equivalent to the amount to operate and maintain
its plant and equipment at acceptable power utility standards (Section
3.03 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The amount, now
estimated at USS2 million equivalent, will be reviewed annually and
adjusted by GOG and SNE in consultation with the Association.
55.       Bank Group Objectives and Rationale for Involvement.  IDA's
objectives in the sector are to help Guinea to complete rehabilitation of
the power system, while building the institutional framework necessary to
exploit its abundant hydroelectric resources in the most economic manner.
IDA's involvement would help create a power utility and power sector to a
standard of efficiency sufficient to operate, maintain and administer the
systems already rehabilitated. This is a necessary pre-condition for the
expansion of the sector based on hydro power. The resources required to do
so will be large and the Association is well placed to take the lead in
mustering the financing required from interested donors.
56.       IDA involvement in the power sector in Guinea started in 1979
with the First Power Project which aimed at putting SNE on the road to
recovery. This has turned out to be a longer and costlier process than
expected. The technical assistance team financed under the First Power
Project has been at work in Conakry since 1982. The team has had to spend
a great deal of time dealing with technical problems and eouipment
breakdowns rather than concentrating on the task of rebuilding SNE into a
viable public utility. Progress has been made across the board (para. 39),
but several tasks remain to be completed. These include the completion of
the rehabilitation of SNE's installations, the planning of the future
development of the sector and the strengthening of SNE's institutional
structure and finances. It is clear that the continued presence of a large
technical assistance team will be necessary for several years despite the
high cost of such an approach. In cooperation with CCCE, CIDA, KfW and
AGCD, IDA's continued involvement in the sector would ensure that all
projects undertaken are in line with the power planning study mentioned in
para. 35 and are affordable both as regards investment and recurrent costs.
By the time of the next major investment toward the end of the 1980s, SNE
and the sector would be in acceptable operating condition and capable of
successfully undertaking such a major project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.       A project appraisal mission visited Guinea in November 1983, with
follow-up missions in June and December 1984. Negotiations were held in
March 1985 with a Guinean Delegation led by the Secretary of State for
Energy, Lieutenant J.G. Zoumanigui. There is no Staff Appraisal Report.
Annex 3 contains supplementary data.



- 17 -
Objectives
58.       The purpose of this project is to continue the rehabilitation
efforts started under the First Power Project. The project would:
(a) strengthen the power sector's organization and management; (b) plan the
development of Guinea's most abundant energy resource - hydroelectric
power - to reduce dependence on imported oil; (c) improve system efficiency
and reliability through cost reduction, training, and provision of
technical assistance, vehicles, equipment and spare parts; and (d) provide
technical assistance, hydrometric equipment and vehicles to the National
Hydrology Service (SNH).
Description
59.       The project would comprise the following components:
a)   Consulting Services and Studies
vi)       the preparation of a power generation and trans-
mission planning study to the year 2000 and the
investment program required for the first 10
years; 4/
(ii)     a study of the organization of the power sector,
including the organization and management of SNE,
the relationship between SNE and its supervisory
ministries, and manpower needs for SNE; 4/
(iii)    a study of the rehabilitation and reinforcement of
priority subtransmission and distribution systems;
(iv)     a feasibility study and detailed engineering of
the next generation project as defined by the
Power Generation and Transmission Planning Study;
and
(v)      a study of the tariff structure.
(b) Technical Assistance and Training for SNE Staff
(i)       extension of the technical assistance contract
between SNE and HQI 5/ , and
4/  Both studies above are underway and being financed by a PPF advance
dated August 2, 1984.
5/  Financed under Credit 1085-GUI.



- 18 -
(ii)      extension of the training program as recommended
by the preliminary results of the power sector
organizational and institutional study. including:
-    scholarships for eight students (or 40
student-years) at ESIE to prepare future
engineers for SNE, and continuation of
financing for three students already there;
-    scholarship for accountants, and computer
personnel (20 student-years);
-    purchase of equipment needed to complete the
Training Center; and
-    10 staff-years of specialized training for
SNE's managers and senior engineers.
(c) Technical Assistance and Training for the National Hydrology
Service (SNH) Staff
Mi        technical assistance to SNH from a developed
institution to provide advisory services in
technical and managerial matters over a three year
period; and
(ii)      six staff-years of scholarships for SNh manage-
ment.
(d) Spares, Equipment and Haterial
i)        spare parts (a) immediately required for the
generating stations and distribution system,
including service vehicles and other transport,
and (b) to build up stocks for emergency needs;
and
(ii)      hydrometric instrumentation, vehicles and boats
for SNH.
(e) Buildings
(i)       warehouse rehabilitation and equipment; and
(ii)      construction of a wall and lighting around the
Tombo power station.
Status of Preparation
60.       The power planning study and the power sector organizational and
institutional study financed by the PPF advance are underway. Contracts
for the two studies were signed in September 1984 and work should be
completed by early 1986. Terms of reference for the subtransmission and
distribution systems rehabilitation as well as the partial stock list was
confirmed with SNE during negotiations. Detailed lists of spares
immediately needed for the system have been prepared by SNE and agreed with



- 19 -
IDA, CIDA and KfW. A preliminary program for the scholarships has already
been prepared. The detailed program is under preparation. A list of
equipment, vehicles and instruments for SNH has been prepared and agreed
with IDA.
Cost Estimate
61.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$20.00 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$18.35 million (92
percent), and is detailed in the Credit and Project Summary. The project
is exempt from local taxes and duties. Cost estimates are based on January
1985 prices with about 5 percent added for physical contingencies. This is
reasonable as studies at fixed contract prices have already started under
PPF financing and the technical assistance contract will be an extension of
the existing one. Price contingencies are based on the following inflation
rates: 1986 - 7.5 percent, 1987-1990 - 8 percent.
Financing Plan
62.       The IDA credit of US$8.00 million equivalent would be onlent to
SNE for 20 years, including a five year grace period at 9.29 percent. the
Bank's prevailing interest rate. SNE would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOG and SNE would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 3.02 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
63.       Financing from France (CCCE) at terms yet to be agreed, is
estimated at US$5.20 million equivalent, including contingencies. The
project will also be supported by the following grants: US$3.75 million
equivalent from Canada (CIDA), US$0.70 million equivalent from the Federal
Republic of Germany and US$0.70 million equivalent from Belgium (AGCD).
The local cost of the project (US$1.65 million equivalent) would be
financed by SNE from internally generated funds. Agreements with CIDA and
KfW have already been signed, and CCCE has agreed in principle to finance
its share of the project.
64.       The proposed IDA would finance the cost of the power planning
study, the power sector organizational and institutional study, the study
of the rehabilitation of the priority distribution sybtems, training of SNE
staff, stocks for SNE, the technical assistance team (with the exception of
four experts who will be financed by CIDA) and vehicles SNE's transport
needs. CCCE would finance the feasibility and detailed engineering of the
next power project and the tariff study. KfW would finance the urgent
spare parts for Tombo diesel station. Besides the cost of four experts
(three for training and the stock control manager), CIDA would finance the
urgent spares related to the distribution/transmission systems, office
equipment, and the renovation of Tombo yard and warehouse. The Government
has sought AGCD finance for the technical assistance, training and
equipment for SNH.



- 20 -
Implementation
65.       SNE. with the assistance of the technical assistance team, would
be responsible for project implementation. Terms of reference for the
engineering studies to be financed by CCCE will be reviewed and cleared
with IDA. Annex 4 shows the implemntation schedule with completion in
June 1990.
Procurement
66.       The rehabilitation study for the subtransmission and distribution
systeas will be awarded according to IDA Consultant Guidelines. About 50
percent of the IDA-financed spare parts for SNE will be procured by ICB.
the balance vill be procured from the original manufacturers in order to
maintain standardization of equipment. Procurement of spare parts.
equipment, material and studies financed by co-lenders will be in
accordance with thefr procureament guidelines. Annex 5 shows the amounts
and methods of procurement.
Disbursement
67.       The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of
the foreign exchange cost of studies. technical assistance and tralning for
SNE and stocks. Prior to effectiveness, SNE would establish a Foreign
Currency Special Account of US$100.000 to pay for spare parts. IDA would
disburse the initial amount and replenish this account upon presentation of
supporting documentation from SNE (Sections 2.02 (c) and 6.01 (b) and
Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The estimated
disbursements (Annex 6) are derived from the existing disbursement profile
for power projects in the West Africe Region. IDA has agreed to administer
CIDA disbursements related to the technical assistance under an administra-
tion agreement drawn up according to the 1978 Memorandum of Agreement
between the Association and CIDA. Disbursement against IDA funds would be
fully documented and SNE will handle all disbursement requests. The
closing date for the IDA credit would be December 31. 1990. Any funds
remaining undisbursed after project completion would be cancelled.
Project Benefits and Risks
68.       Fragmented responsibilities for the power sector have created a
lack of sound long-term power planning and uncertainty about future
investment requirements. The proposed project would assist in filling the
planning vacuum and would pave the way for essential institutional reforms.
Organization and management problems within SNE would also be addressed.
Bottlenecks and high loss areas in the distribution syscems will be studied
for rehabilitation. Extension of contracts for the technical assistance
team in Conakry, and expansion to include badly needed expertise for stock
management, would allow continuation of the transfer of technical know-how
to Guinean staff and fill positions that cannot be filled immediately by
Guinean personnel. Financing of spare parts. equipment and tools will
improve the effectiveness of the technical assistance team and the
efficiency of SNE's operations. The main project risk is the continuation



- 21 -
of Government interference in SNE's planning, operations and compensation
policy which could lead to unsatisfactory results from the technical
assistance and the training programs. The new Government's commitment to
grant autonomy to SNE and Its agreement to implement the Recovery Plan
(paras. 42 and 43) w-ould reduce these risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Guinea and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
70.       Special conditions of the Project are noted in Section III of
Annex 3. Special conditions of effectiveness would be the signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement between GOG and SNE (para. 62), the opening of
the Special Account (para. 67), and the initial tariff increase (para. 50)
incorporating the fuel adjustment clause (para. 52).
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 18, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                             Annex 1
T A   L I  3Llrl
of 5
Cua                    -SOCV    DlV  W        A -RS OM So=
-=    105 I~~ AIe=C            338911      /C
I94~~    137~   Z322842&        002 or SAEA3         AluXM  S. OF SAaaaA
am   C m   ~. m~                                   2419m       249 b-
:TaL                                 245.9      25          2 S.
AGICC!CAL                            44.0       45.7        45.7
GO  mt   }    CM                          0.0      12L0.       310.0             249.1                  IIILD
-om cmommz "a FITA
(KILOGRAM  OF OM E-VAZXM              35_0       58.         55.0              62.6                  59.0
POVc=ATIOffZXD-YEA  CTinmeA0S)     3a50o0      40.        S704.0 Ic
MM3 POPULT20  (: OF TZAL)              9.9       13.9        20_3              19_2                    29.7
POMPULATIO PROJECTIONS
P S LATOX EIN WA  2000 oaL.)                                8..
STArI03AXT PO91A21   (M.LM)                                28.0
FPGLSUrtS DENSSITt
PER SQ. 13.                         15         15-3        22_7              32_5                    55.3
PEz SQ. X. A1. IAN                 87.5       98.2       122.0             119.2                   L11.5
POPgLATIoS AGE SThIVCU3E l
0-14 uS                            42.0       42.5        44.0              45_6                    45.6
15-64 US                            55-1      5.7         53.0              51.5                    51.7
6S ASDD AE                           2.8        2.8         2.9               2_9                     2.9
PopULAZS GRu RAME C=)
TOL                                  1_1        L.5         2_0 Ic            2_.                     2.3
URBJ 7.0                                        4.9         5.1               6.2                     5_2
CDE 31T  RATE3 (113  H)               48.3       49.3        49.1              48.6                    47.0
CRUDE O 1T RE  (PM  T0S)              34.9       31.8        27.0              17.7                    15_2
GOS mEP3OCr1aS RATE                    3.2        3.2         3.1               3_2                     3.2
FA1TLY FPABDIC
ACCEPrOS  A.UL (OMS)                  ..                      - .
1533( OF 10F1a    1  C_p_                                    -_
L3=(   OD PRD   M CrA
(1949-n-100)                          97.0      101.0        89.0              35.8                    91.6
MM CAPTA SPPLY OF
CALORIES (: OF Zl=aEMENS)           74.0       78.0        75.0              8634                    98S2
2TEDS (c*u5  PER DAY)               37_0       38.0        36.0              49.9                    56_7
Ge WICK ASIIaL AND PULSE           7.0        6_0         7.0 Id           18.3                    17.0
CIHILD (ArES 1-4) DAT  RIAT           6550       58.0        50.0       S      238                     18.7
LXFE XEC:_ Ar DIH C3E*5S)               .3       34.4        37.5              48.4                    517
DIFANr M!E?. RaT! (ER TSCS)           .2.0      206.0       190.0             117.5                  102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE VA-MR (POP)
TOTAL                                 -_         -         10.0 I.           21.8                    35.6
URBN                                                       44.0 T-           61.5                    54.1
RitAL                                 --                    2  5 7a          14.2                    27.3
ACCESS TO EROIA DISPOSAL
(- OF PO10LATION)
TOTAL                                 -        13.0          __              32.0                       -
L"                                             70.0             _            69.2
RmRAL                                 - _       2.0          _.              24.8                      _ 
POPLA*10  PEM PTSCIA               33770.0   35460.0    17110.0 Id          21477.8                 11943.3
Pop. PER ROESDIC  E1W3505           40.0    2220.0         2570.0 71         3396.'                  2243.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL IED
TOTAL                              1410.0     670J0       660_0 if         1069.0                   9S6.9
URBAN                              260.0      240.0       400.0 7!          395.2                   368.7
*RL                               2760_0      940.0       760.0 If         3094.0                  4012.L
A1503S PER HDSPITAL MID              --       16.0
AVIRACE SIZE OF r SEMOLD
TOTAL                                 .          ..
LIMAN
RU.AL                                 ..         . ..  
AVERAC HO. OF PERSONSIROGf
TOTAL                                 '. '                    ''                       
DiM                                   .     _ __. __. _
RmUL                                  ''         '''''''
ACCSS TO   EC   (:01 orLIS)
TM'AL                                   '         -         5.01.
RURAL                                 ..         ..
RURAL                                  ..



- 23-                                                 Annex I
TABLE 3A                                         Pa  Ez  of 5
cmXWA                  -    AsCIL INOI  S DMT sE
0U15KA                              il GROUPS (MEIcIE  AVEffAS) &
OsT RET ESTIM     /b
ECEr         LI iUE  AFRIXCA           D E
196       E97           M Dlb        SOUTH OF SAgn&       AFCA S. oar S5RL
ADJUSIED E0LLET RATIOS
PR IAX!:  TOTAL                    30_0       33_0       33.0              69_Z                   9t.0
MALE                     44.0      45.0        44.0             78.8                   90.5
F ULE                    16.0      21.0        22_0             57J6                   73-6
SECODIAZY: TOTAL                    2.0       13.0        16.0             13.1                   17.4
XALE                      3_0      21.0        23_0             17_6                   23.7
FEMLE                      _        5_0         9.0             83                    14.8
VOCAIMAL C: OF SECOIA                21.T       312          2.7              7.2                    5.3
PP1IL-T_E.CfE aATIO
PRMMAIY                            66.0       440         36.0             46.1                   38.6
SECONDAMt                          2S60       23_0       24.0 le           25.9                   24_3
ADCLT LITERACr RAME ()                7-0        9/0    20.0 lb              44.3                   35.6
PASSERC  CARSITCSA0D POP              1_4        2.2         __               3.8                  Z07
oCADIO RECEIVErSOVSASD POP           102       20-3       22_2              41.9                  100.8
TV    E1ERSMOUSAM POP                   .                    11               20                    18_5
sEhSPAPEIL (-DULY CERAL
INTEREST) C1RLATI0
PER THOUSAB  POPMATIOE              0.2        1_1         3.7 /h           5.4                   17.2
CISEMA AESUAL ATTE5DE/CArA Prr,                                               1.4                    0.3
TOTAL LAWit FORCE (TMS)            1910.C    2140.0       2494.0                _                      _
FEIALE (PERCEST)                   40.4       40.3       40.5              36.5                   33.8
A*CCLrIIE (PERCEST)                88-0       85.0       92.0              77.4                   57.1
I  STI r (PERCT)                    6.0        8.0       11.0               9.8                   17.4
PARTICIPAT'OV RATE (PERCETr)
TOTAL                              L9_6       47-7        43-7             41.0                   36_3
KALE                               59.4       57.4        53.6             52.1                   47.6
F!IL - F39.9                                 38.1       34-4              30.2                   25.1
EDNOXIC  EPESDEC  RATIO               0_9        1_0        1_1               1.2                    1.4
PEDEr OF PRITArE IXCa
RECEIiED 37
HIGHEST 52 OF  OUSEMOLDS             _           _          _
LOWEST ZlO OF SMENOLDS               -.          _           _               _
LOEST 40 OF HCOEOLDS                 _                       _               _                       _
ESTrTED ABSOLLTE POGENT! INCOE
LEEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
RBA                                  _          ..          ..            168.3                  525.3
RURAL                                                                      90.8                  249-0
ESTLMATED RLATIVEE POVEET! 1tE
LEVEL (USS PEB CAPITA)
URBA!.                                                    70.0 /I         107.7                  477.4
mumRAL                                                      __             65.0                  186.0
STLMATED POP. BELOW ABSOVUTE
PO1MDTY INCtME LEVEL (:)
UR3AS                                __         __          ,,             34.7
RURAL                                _ _           _ _      _ _                                     . _
__ 0WT AVA;IALE
NOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
(a  The group averages for each lndleator are population-wlghted arithcetic means. Coerage of countries no  the
Indicators depends on aw1ilabll2ty of data and is not uniform.
tb  Unless otherwise noced. -Ata for 1960 refer to any year between l959 and 1961; -Data for 1970- betwen 1969 and
1971; and data for Most Recent Etluate- between 1980 and 1982.
fc  Recent Govertnnt etimtte. froa AdmInIstratlve  onsus Indlcate a resident popUtlon (excludlg snon-Guesan) of
4.53 million In 1977 and population growth rate of 27 Pa.; Id 1977; le 1978; If 1976; A 1965; Ab 1979.
JUNE. 1984



-24 -                                                                                 Annex I
,,,,,,,,_,_ ,,,                                                                               Page 3 of 5
tam,  stlt_   t_-   -  dtn  feat .1it.a  maatmy _ d  ti   -a IV t.t_  _                            -Cm . *      t Id .5         -  --    t.  Im _         -  - t.lr
wa atn at m               .. tta            _.                                               * i   t. m.- t t   _a_ *._m   .
'It  amawa   Lan   -tttta.-    -   .m   ~m  ..j.a           U-M(1.              r  a.n. att   n - b.ba               teI         -          aw mn.
lm                                                                                                                                                             -_  t.n     tat-tl t  t  '.   a   a    a t.  d  m .  --  .
a.tt_ _tliaa   ta  ama ..Eai   man  at             -in-a.        wamal.wlam  m.tat_   atit    _   La tt illmmt -                       .at 9-    latm  _l                   . 
Kk_ -                                                                      uc.rLt n                     :attm  -     atci                                                t __ tati     d tm tr .  I t_- -
-  _ta_, _. ml  naamr:                 _      tam.rtl  a   :1m .                             adqlt,  f..L  attadm   .m.n                 .         .    iaS         m
1         4- _  .wn. namI a,   *asaai Scam.  ;t a, __. _afl.   U.                                  'c.
:_i         _U  edosa- ta.                                                                         Lmaat- .   rt _tt. -  , _tattt. minad   _  _tmit -                2a      (_t _t.
.. at              _ d    d      _t_                        tn, t.t  9-
c    - C:. _nt  -  w  .a taat  amtata   _t tarm   _ala  =                     .                       tamati t_*  ttX Wad _wa                   l _O maatSlI             t
_amsa   __          _ cmaamrl   mttd  -1 mad            al:   i In-r  c_t,:ri lft                                         at.  tmtti   awE nU                    yaaI.nd aIt  talf
19)1. _id I       tIm  daa -_  at_  lt   -  .tm.a.                                                                                     matm.mat                  mt.mt = _.
_t_                                                                       r  _~~~~~~~~~~tt  am _    tatl 1-at  tak..           _ itSt   __. 
m t  adra  ca  er-I  - a..  ..maa Z'a  e.int.    or ft:-                                             ad,.  at..  *   .f . r atafa  a  * _i,ta  _bu  _- **  ac*-
pfa   mat:                  Srt-  .att.l.a   _... dam _   m.-.    1a.a                                     taa1. aamm. _tha   et-  _d    _ri   m-alt                   a at
t:t_ :a.                                 __9Q-malta S. -a?I )aaat   9)  - _It _._                                                              ead t   -U a_ _.          m_
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt taattt_ _d dtata                                                                 t _    t_ a-t |_ .
_at: Laal.  al.a    Itamtada  r -: ai I.:  I. t, Ir_ _  -L1 |lid:
lt    inalrta  tna.t at aati- ta.  a-.l ta                                ;                      - a*i 4          mta      i aes wn_l  t  te           a_ _       _ t.        ta
dttt   daittl    t _r. aa               matt  c.itUt-  dl                                             atai ada  mit   _ mada  -_ wta                 OS            atal        id
rtt           am.' _a           smaat.a 'at:_  fart_ rro J1- r-__r  ;_ atati                                                    mama_ _-
L! ta  Si, aatti                                                                                 tat _tatm   nt   atrT wama    -X  -__ , _a.   .9-   -f ta   e
tat..  _  -_ r  - rr        at_ m      idtt mahlt   _tmt tttt _r                                      tSt.. . matcl.t, 'itt'l _          fmd _     am            atm_      _
_.i~          n r.  arl_a.a  Sit   a-anaw  ala  t.m                         -e                  atcm  at tltt . aCtaa.a   t aai.a  -  *t_                    t         n.  *-
celi   tam  lami             n:. ta    a_1-:_  *iabttlst1_. ma rUt                  l            Cat.atat ailn  1:   ttatlttt    aIc _nai                             macc
atna        iltc  a-a tat_t   attaA?  r_t1,r_ __ .     r..        ml. t.__a
t- It9  .ttawrm     .  -ath        r_ _t r_t.    .taa        :t tt_et  lma                 __:__*_r_rt _Ct_
_a.          a           _*t   a_1   awlad  tll,t-t.t t  adnila                                    m._lm    at :            -r te   flmy l_. _. u a                ar *m.,r _m
t__   tit           ta.  _.    ._ ata.,t _. .da  cetc                     It.                    cmam   mitt_t.l a t-  mitain                                   tat   9   
L.f
- Iitat  wiSt., tt in.tlatm.  .amt Iat.ailnt        tt.atattet             t        l'-tn  ---I-; r 
-._ :r t -.                                                                                      t..tt-.__ tt   atela _ i- _:    *etrtl   -    r . __- ica     _ I m.aa  at
pm... a_1 . aat.za i_         t  - t,aat  -  a.a tat tdt.taa _I               d                     a tatasat  atr t_  ast  tatal                 d aS ynmz *_        t.
it C ci a).: data.~~                                                                        LI               cm
ttttitlm  tcrd.   awi.)  _-_ _ f.ttm  (~t   m.t. m._lt                         _ rt-             __w__tr_r  =  _-tt_-____
it_:,)      _L:Id_. it)       _I_a:1 daa                                                           ta  .a.c       S.c in  al)    a_                                              _ a   - n
_ 10 _ ____rl
*=-   a al_   _a  Ilt-mi  ;.f :-r_    at   1,.a                                               matit r     .m!amw   Ima liet  atwt_ *   am -   11 _,m  at:l  ta      i _ ,  * l t a._
-ma  a          ; 7 : . l1,.  -   ma:1_ da               _       - - - - -                            . ...  ...           *__0 Ita_la_.
C-m    atdc tamta.  _.i                 t rL  !.mwaat at w5 at i_     t  n_iS   2.                  Ia tamaitita  aad  _t l.a  am ret    rf ratwt         1 9- I    atfat. 
t_ a.m _     twct   wawlat a.  aal at:at.             : -tat:  at-mal I.                         naem    Ctttata _l.  iaaa   atiit-
fttw,t..             alttt-at  tat..  tad!?  ta    C._e ,t:   .                                                                                   _a !tai    tatt  atf I..t.  -. dafta  a awtat
_a a1.                                                                                              watilt1  e  la_ma   amiat titattil-aI    I-   tawadla ,i. _ _: t_  Uee   tdw
atES  tiIttt_ daica   .t  n..a     aw .amtaa:_ _ a_ taaa,a _l,    a...   attaat                                          a  ma it,t   .t t5    t  -_   _d am itt teat
mt.-am       _ttt  a.: dr_i  ta  ta,  _tlta :_ma     ma datat.t _'l_    _a  __fi_m 1                                      __tf:_
_a:  _ _wa   -zwf_ at-  tittm   a:0 _,ia               - a_ttt   S et-a                 :       _       tt ula
ttht m               at.- _: aa!tsfla     t_-   Vil   -  - .' rat am                              ra.  ta.  i.t.  'ta              - _r lta yata   _aan  Ichtt   t
*1:_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..a   ma at_ aLt tyr).  'mialti   Ia tada    _ itt_.> a- ma
e  :~~~~~O -3 tg t-rt                                             -lZ 
am._1_: ti.ttt .t__ .w lft.Ita    _itt 1a  t._ Sada  aat t                                       aata.r        __ _ mll- __ta  watl  Itd _aati Iaraatit             _lma__ggv
Stdtd  ta -       atit t1:                                 _at__ I_aa    tmtt  .atrm-ad  ';_I t.ta  r- ,..ama   at                l ..t  taa  ftta rSt  it. ad im t dta
at    amd   taiiaitatadi -r_.   .taa   at_ tt     'ti                                      tttatt    tt-r:l-     -~ ttt)  tan. ta     s      -ratm.. tettlm   ina
It.                                              _at, -tat- _ t Ia.a  ttw _!  _ _tr  - taa    ala                                                  eti     r- tatttmt   at
at~~~~~~~~~~~~~-. . -aVi  mat,  -tf .!-ata    t*~-a  e-. - 1-ac-it' -= ta.   ta           'taiita.n dataa.ma x  taalai.it.
mitt .titiata -@            !    tat&a   atattl _- -aat _w -a)! _at1                                tai.ta. 1! raal  ala marr  _S    ama!aa   t    a  aw
dat  rtlat .at:e 1tat.1  o _fhta   a.11'  fwa-.. -_ *. ia'-:   C_am.l                  _       1         .:t.    1. t_m  dt.    .... a-X            a   r'ttltltat tt
a.-Itttti a       _ t..:ti    1 tmtlt'  ,_:t.actta  tam.aat   tadv  .  1_-a ..                           mta   i   aiata          !ata.   t.,
ctt      le!.5m   A_.1.. a r n: .    a__   a,_.  ..  __.am   at  :'.'0 _....ttta                                   tmt.mi.  d   at..atdmtm   5    amt
Itm.  a! it aim   a i:etl wImiala tat dam ad  ViSta  -' Siam:  atft
_r:a  ttta*  ..t  _L   :- ti    _aa:  _  aai    tt.ial            ?%aaa                       alt        at  .tri
dta t;t .t_-t, t5                                                                                        t !_ ,  . 
Cht   a.  I-atr  _t _taa   rc   r_cai  -t at_.ma   at..  it. Itt:_. _          aI'mtdmtwa    itt    aa.iaIrtm    -Il-ati                                                        t
.I   tmt  I. catl.          :tai  -a-.r.               .t t.ia..iatt.'a-ta.tt  -c                                                   am tamta.   ttm                 artta



M I
- 25 -                                           * of 5
EC 
c~S N~1imL I          N 1983 -i                        kzml b?  of -x                 P wi1m)
Ms MRL :               973-77    1977-1      1973.81    I91R-5
aE  t   e                    1756       100        4.59      -02Z    2.16            2..
ct      o       _             Z  16      12       -6.S        7.09        0.01       T.01
CWin       A swf   -          179        10       -3A         0.01       -LO           -
AUU   him                   -37         -2       212Z      -39.77       4.92
'ort Ef Gx:ds. MS             513        29       3D.41  '      33       15.3        1.0
1urm  of  ;. as             -3M         -22     -20m          3.16       L&.
wmrr, u4M a   A PMzV=
Value A                      Tadtr, I                    VA p
Awlcu--             710         4L38             2              82.0                           5
Tzmy a              383         2Z.86            271            10.99  m 
sov1m               582         34.75            173             7.           35           -   6
rzd/hM=P           1675         100.0           2466            I00.00         677         10.W
B4LIEn Syiu                                      W, of (W
1980      1961      192       1963      1960     1961      1912      1983
-:ra NAmpts              11.09     LZ32       15.85      U.15    34.51    31.95    42.32    ZS.2S
Om=it a      imr.e_        7.74      7.21       9.42      8.59    26.11    3D.45    2S.23    L9.45
QW--W  Smwpha    5f1       3'35      5.11       6.43      2.56    10.43    14.50      17.16      5.80
cawtal Eb rt:e-           3.77      5.96       5.00      4.12    11.74      16.91    13.35      9.32
bE . 2      e              0.97      1.80       0.83      0.83      3.01    512       2.21      1.88
Bmlum Syiu
DW. 1990           Dec. 1961          D. 1982           Dec. 1983
!ay and q2mi-x     y                12.50              17.19              16.16              17.55
i2  Cr at o Ebuc setor             18.50               18.28              15.59             17.78
lik Crf t     Pto     Sop S -w      1.21                L.02               0.59              0.63
1960              1981                1982              1983
1my aB  qlw    - 2 of              77.4              49.69               39.86             40.20
CGml Pt. Iudm (198-!0)            91.9            110.0                106.4             116.4
A1  2 G_  ta.
-.k Cot t P1c C                 114.90            -6.65              -10.00             14.3t
lok   to P 5m S w                60-3             -16.0D              -4216              &in



-26 -                                                       AE3 1
sat or rwoJ
1m        gm    tnt    Luz           tm
tD - * Ca D )
buena of C-ia                            348     688     693     444    s5    s527
ena ml Gouge                          33s    35    -_S3   -30    -30    4:=
~~ Nalome. ~~~~~~~~31                 101     1.8             U 13 
S_g,-     MI _      C.    -uL    ..17    -138   -153    -tS   -Ut
C-gregg ft~                          6-        S1    -S   -St4         44    -52
t     _wm.mmz len                     4 -t     40     -S3      S4      70    49
Oehr mowlege  (ago                   -69      -2      -41     -38    -40    -40
.L.                                       -7      -       -4              -9    -to
OffideL. ? fEn  ramw)                      9      17      to       :i      to     19
Dealag an CaeenM Account                -33       -9    -93              - -      33
Dtz-.ct rbeoup !a,mcwbe                   1        2      30               -1    36
wte I= iuremag                        to    -34        4     -i         59   29
D5       _, 7chJ.5m  Ugg smatw       t12      1S0     148     to3      135   t16
-rt1zat     . PubLic U.reoiac         -q   -152    -11    -tLL    -92   -t27
Su,-aL. Ptblic sUmnulag                67     -z       2       -3      43  ;4
Ptwata Set  (Sc)                      -29     -32     -23     -t1      t1    -2
0th. CMPItaL cmer4                        -1       I      Li       31     -3    -:
othar ttm   .m i-f                        Z9    _-5      -        -       9
lavtrin     am,..!i                      -29     -36             -11      --2    -4
CroamU rume    I an     ar)               is     lot      92     133      129    tit
Sot aeerums (mug  mar) !                -z0O    -z4o    -Z0     -:zz    -333    11L
rue" And Relaed Matrials
MNo -                                  35      64               n      53      6T
of .65tch   PareLom                    58 3o           97      66      63      87
a       a       a       a       a       a
SK      Or  10tmm
1975    1975    197     !919    1979  IIU0   16t   192    9!3   194
SlaInSS   ZO.33  U2.3     2L.16 U 9.72   9.11  18.97  20.93  22.3   23.37 J 4.23
.UWADZrs     Wars  (Aeago 1990-8') [               L    oU. D_camr 31. 1963
(    t eame   1932 prtscea
tIS c c    * tI S2 
US lt               336.4       70.1          PubLc   6 Pri.sto
Deft Coa_m
ALIo3                wr7.0      26.4          teclagSs taglarsba_        15338.
otnmsa               646         1.6          Ouca          Disburse    L'21 5.
AarIcuLtoral
cainiLtla           9.:        1.9
Tacal               677.2      100.0         DOT SICE 3r0To            1VW 3
t3RDmtIA LThC (Septeer 30. 1963)              schuled Service Paymt
tMS sla               Publitc ad Prvace Debt
- G .~~~aset_od                     .      ...:1.2
ID19  =A         Privace Debt Sb
G  zraatea              3.0
omtcscmatiSs 4
Disbursed           . I        5.55         -.ocal Debt Oetandlg 
0 Isbauru                 26.2
gadishurmd            0.0       63.0
undasbi  r s* 1.7.1          138.5          ActuaL Service l P*an
-         PubLic and Prvace
Debt GuCIUaraae            13.4
Jtwob   et  C  -gate   U.S
,ttw         D*bc mmCutne          0-8
-.cal Debt Otatdlag 6
0 1sburani              1._2
if Pr.lUIadwv 0arCttMO
'E  Ust semi   CD- L plea Cero    AcCnt elmte
'Ti Lcal ~adiletut3ee e: ac Imimi"
Zi lacljiag cegital tre.atfr  to. to     ta_vetwnr oR behal of. * cta
si  fia_bramism e                      .........mrizatias pUl  Zacteme 1 OTeTe
iI CU  i_lict  delluro
71 Toe"mWY a"pe    a" i.et could,"g
ii  Kacluje  goa allCaearia. nerre anM doleign e. chamrm Ia crmemte  
as-tw debt service
', tiatteitiaO  It  to 4111n   meebmeg twow
Toi leaie   s      _meei  a ou_p
Pebutm is. 193



- 27 -
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA                           ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PRJECT
sm  or rD  Lk 0PwUT IN mm
A. Scatmet of Beak 10ee and IDA ClditS (Ca of  S!eder 30. 196) '
*inUmr Ces. cancellations)
(USS Milion
Credit
.mer         mem   sBarrow                                          !k         MID 1/  ad      d 1it
Tee loans and thre  Cedits have been fully disbursd                73.50     28."
870-m        1979   02inea       First Water Supply and Santatin             12.50        2.75
ff2-         1960   Guie         Rim D lomen                                 10.40        .08
9S3-G        1960    aine        second Ri*va                                13.00       0.41
1f63-=l      1961   caime        Livestock Delopmt                            2.1        0.17
10s-=       1961   Gnea         Poesy                                       26.50        3.87
13-l         1962   Cuine        Industrial Rhftbilitation                   19.00      14.10
and PErmn
13L-G        1963   Guina        Sfecu' Edwatio                              11.00        9.50
1382-GI      19U    Guins        Canakry Pot                                 13.00        7.SS
1138-G       1965   Guiea        Petralom Exploration Promotio                8.00        7.62
1457-=  21 196k    Cui           Tird Hiay                                   26.00       28.00
1466-GUI Z/  196b   Gaine        Conakry [rba Developent                     10.70       10.70
Total                                         73.50    185.20       88.75
of which has been repaid                    30.09      0.00
Total nom held by Bank and MA 3/              43.41    185.20
Total undisbursed                              0.0      88.75       33.75
Be Bginig vith Credit 1063-M, Credits "ave been  dtoinated in Special Drawing Rtits. 'le dollar
amonts In these columns represent the dollar equivalent at the tim  of credit neotations for the
ID mt mts and the dollar equivalents as of Septober 30, 1984, for the undisbursed amtots
(1 SDI - USS.99900S).
2J 4ot yet effective.
3/ Prior to excha   adjuscmnts.
*   he status of the projects Ilsted in Part A is described In a separate report on all nktKmk
financial projects in execuion. which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directos on April 30 and Occobr 31.



- 28 -
ANM  2
Page 2 of 2-
B. Statemen  of IFC inystmnts (as of October 31. 1984)
Fiscal Year     Obior                                      of DuSaiIS.     Loan    Equity         Total
1983         Soci4ti MxCe, Aredor Gainde, S.A.  Diamond NIU*ug         13.9
1983         Aredor Holdings                      Diamond mining         -          1          (15.3
Total Gross Couinnents                                    13.9        1.4          15.3
Less Caucellations, Terminations,
Repsyments and Sales
Total Couinirments nov held by IFC                        13.9        1.4          15.3
Undisbursed SaLance                                        0.0        0.0           0.0



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I
(a)  Project first presented to IDA                July, 1983
(b) Agency which prepared the project              MPNR/SNE/IDA
(c)  Time taken to prepare project                 Three months
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission                October 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations                    Mfarch 1985
Cf)  Planned date of effectiveness                 September 1985
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) SNE would increase the average tariff per kWh to the higher
of GS 6 or the equivalent of USJ18.0 (para. 50);
Cb) The fuel adjustment clause would be established in a manner
acceptable to IDA (para. 52);
(c) Signing of the subsidiary loan agreement between GOG and SNE
(para. 62);
(d)  Opening of a Foreign Currency Special Account at the Central
Bank, to pay for spare parts (para- 67);
Other Conditions
{f) GOG and SNE would study and implement only those projects
included in the Master Plan (para. 35);
(g) A satisfactory timetable to implement the agreed recommenda-
tions of the organization and institution study would be
submitted by February 28, 1986 (para. 42);
(h) GOG and SNE would implement the SNE's Recovery Plan in
accordance with the timetable it contains (para. 43);



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
(i) SNE would reduce diesel consumption at the Tombo plant to
the manufacturer's rated consumption by not later than
December 31, 1985 (para. 47);
(j) SNE would reduce and maintain receivables for energy billed
to the equivalent of not more than the total of billings for
the previous three months (para. 48);
(k) GOG would write-off SNE's unpaid bills due to Government and
state agencies (para. 49);
(1) GOG and SNE would fix average tariffs at levels sufficient
to meet the earnings covenant each year (para. 50);
(m) Recommendations of the tariff study agreed by GOG, CCCE and
IDA would be implemented by December 31, 1987 (para. 51);
(a) GOG would make adequate foreign exchange available to SNE
for purchase in Sylis to enable it to operate ard maintain
its facilit"s to acceptable power utility standards
(para. 54.
r



;--         f  '   -' -  l     t r8 r  n-r    t-    -7 '--t-r -Iorrm-rrT1'rrr-T- rrT=r
|                 }     ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~SECODU IOE  eNleel   IW                    I eP L     *'!8'|          
I~~                   ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            I be r   :,                       , 11llltl 1115l!,  
-14   PO~WER ENOINEE .'4,                  its                             I
I..,8....,  .  ,.  |  t t ' l'tl t;1-r-'1* m--rT 1T-I  g I  I
I   !      t            !            l           ,   !.      ,    " ;'!'b      "l  |itl|    |l 1 ll|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I,
FY8 a                                                                          ;vF8  ~ Y 8I  
PR(j4cT  )VPOrgN~Tf
|   tP       0            >1-2l3l4lil~~~~~~~~~~~~.12l   E 2 1 12  3F41 '1'1'91 [4  '1llI Pil 14  1:1  iltl    RZ    
ICONSU1TNlNGSERVICES SE,,Ii                                                                                   1 STU
POWiR PLANNING        I STUID
t  p"k,RP;NNNGSTUPY                                                                     V _ w!Is |I          I |i VIlI      
|  INSTITUTWONAL STUDY        .         i  '- _1                                I
DISTRIBUMtoN STUDY                              I        U l  t FNA                                    fj
DETAILED ENGINEERING aF                                                           . A'                    I 4-    t  p
EER  LON PROJEICT
TECHNICAL  .SSISTANCE   D TRAIN                                 I                                                      I
TECHNIAlC, ASSISTANCE TO SNE       I                               ,.-r?..             !|     rh        '''ii''    I       I
THMINLIGIOF SNE STAFI W|
_ _            ,                                                   -  t-r~t   r~T'I  --tUr                 r-rT-'r'-'-' lrj+rr
ILNVESTHENTS           .              ,                                       I            | !T   ' - i-1  II
SUPPLY OY SPARE PART3                             f4 0F! !_r_J ,W                                                           I.,, ,i|
RENOVATION O' TOMBO 4TA. YARD                                |                            .                        I|i     I|
* | |   -1   >   hT-r   -   -   -1  --  r'  |  T  -  T  1l-l 1 | I | I t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii   T  III
I   ,           ,             .            I      ,            .     l   I   .      l   ,   l   ,   l  ,   ,   ,,  .,   l   |   l   l   l   .I  ."  I
i   !           l             I            I            1l           4   11        1   1II~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~I II  .  1iljii
1  .   '~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I                                                      ,I  I ''1     I  ,,  1,kllllItill
I  i                    |    8 l '                                  ,, , ,, ; Xt; ' i ' !, 1 l ! ! | 1 1 1 ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I II  ''I II
I     .            I            I             ,            I            I   'g' '    ll1 ,  I*    I',,II  III
! 0 ~~~~~~~. !                            .    .!..  .  ......                   _   !_.__ .l L L  
47~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*I



- 32 -
AMNEX 5
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Amounts and Methods of Procurement a/
(US$ Millions)
ICB        LCB           Other     Total Cost
a. Engineering Studies                                    6.2          6.2
(1.3)       (1.3)
b. Technical assistance                                   5.6          5.6
(3.3)       (3.3)
c. Training                                               1.7          1.7
(1.5)       (1.5)
d. Spare parts, equipment
material                   0.9                       5.3          6.2
(0.9)                     (1.0)       (1.9)
e. Warehouse building                        0.3           -           0.3
Total      0.9          0.3         18.80        20.0
,0.9)         -           (7.10)      (8.0)
a/ Figures in brackets represent proposed IDA financing.



- 33 -
ANNEX 6
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER ENGINEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE (SNE)
Disbursement Schedule a/
(US$ millions)
IDA FY and Semester   Semester Disbursements  Cumulative Disbursements
1986      Q 1                   -
Q 2                 0.70 b/                    0.70
Q 3                 0.20                       0.90
Q 4                 0.22                       1.12
1987      Q 1                  0.60                      1.72
Q 2                 0.60                       2.32
Q 3                 0.50                       2.82
Q 4                 0.60                       3.42
1988      Q 1                  0.60                      4.02
Q 2                 0.50                      4.52
Q 3                 0.50                       5.02
Q 4                 0.50                       5.52
1989      Q 1                  0.40                      5.92
Q 2                 0.40                       6.32
Q 3                  0.34                      6.66
Q 4                 0.30                       6.96
1990      Q 1                  0.24                      7.20
Q 2                 0.24                       7.44
Q 3                 0.16                       7.60
t                    Q 4                  0.16                      7.76
1991      Q 1                  0.15                      7.91
Q 2                 0.09                       8.00
a/ Using disbursement profile for power projects, West Africa Region.
b~/ Includes reimbursement of US$0.68 million PPF advance.



- 34 -
ANSM 7
Page 1 of 3
THE REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND POWER E__INEERING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
File Code Number
A.   Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A.1  List of Studies in the Power Sector being
considered by the Government.                          220.459 (A-1)
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.1  Soukou.Doukoura - Prelmi-n-rv Report by EDF
and DAFECO, April 1979.                               220.459 (B-1)
B.2  Transmission and Distribution for Dabola, Dinguiraye
and Bissikrima by the Direction of Electric Energy,
Pekin, China.                                          220.459 (B-2)
B.3  HT Transmission Line for Dalaba-Mamou - Report
by the Administrative Bureau for Electricity of
Tchouynan. China.                                      220.459 (B-3)
B.4  Banea Hydro-project and Kindia Distributlon:
Contract for Studies and Construction with
Energoprojekt. Yugoslavia.                             220.459 (B-4)
B.5  Tariff Schedule from January 1, 1983. and
Consumer Connection Charges.                           220.459 (B-5)
B.6  Consumer Categories and Application of Tariffs.         220.459 (B-6)
B.7  Financial Report for Year Ended December 31, 1982.    Guinea-SNE Yearly
Financial Report 1982
B.8  Operating Budget for 1982.                              Guinea-SNE Yearly
Financial Report 1982
B.9  Operating Budget for 1983.                              Guinea-SHE Yearly
Budget Report 1983
B.1C  Financial Report for the Six Months ended              Guinea-SNE Yearly
June 30. 1983.                                         Financial Report 1983
B.11 Load Forecast and Details of the Conakry/Kindia
System - SNE and HQI.                                  220.459 (B-11)
B.12  Budget of Production at Tombo for 1984.                220.459 (B-12)



- 35 -
AXKEX 7
Page 2 of 3
File Code Number
B.13 Prices of Petroleum Products - Calculations
from CIF to Retail Prices.                              220.459 (B-13)
B 14 Balance Sheet and Income Statement Summaries
for 1978-1982.                                          220.459 (B-14)
B.15  GWh Sales and Revenues for Conakry, 1980-1983.          220.459 (B-15)
B.16 Diesel Losses at Tombo: Calculation of Losses
for Six Months Ended, June 30, 1983.
B.17  Consumption Tests at Tombo by SNE.                      220.459 (B-17)
B. 18 SNE: List of Personnel Numbers and Categories
at November 7, 1983.                                    220.459 (B-18)
B.19 Report by SNE to the National Ecoromic
Conference. 1980.                                       220.459 (B-19)
B.20  Report by SNE to the National Economic                  Guinea-SEE Yearly
Conference, 1981.                                       Financial Reports 1981
B.21 Details of Foreign Exchange and Import
Licences for SNE for 1982.                              220.459 (B-21)
B.22  Ordinance of January 31, 1961 establishing SNE.         125.805 (I)
B.23  Decree of August 31, 1982 re-establishing SEE.          125.805 (H)
B.24 Text on the Statutory Operation of SNE as a
State Enterprise.                                       125.805 (J)
C.   Selected Working Papers and Studies
C.1   Answers to Questions put by the Mission.                220.459 (C-1)
C.2  Compte rendu de reunion tenue a Washington du
19 au 22 wars 1985 entre SNE, TRACTIONEL, AID and
CIDA.
C.3   Evaluation du rapport de TRACTIONEL sur
l'organisation et la gestion de la SNE par
Claude Alarie et Thanh Vo-Van. 15 mars 1985.            129.883 (G)
C.4   Rapport provisoire TRACTIONEL. phases I et II;
commentaires relatifs au rapport provisoire
(phases I et II) etabli par TRACTIONEL Electrobel
Engineering, mars 1985.                                 129.883 (E & F)



- 36 -
AME  7
Page 3 of 3
File Code Number
C.5  Comments on the organization study report prepared
by TRACTIONEL of Belgium (Guinea - Power Sector
and Guinea - SSE - draft by J. Sneddon).
March 12, 1985.                                        220.459 (C-6)
C.6  Plan de recouvrement des arrieres de la SNE,
mars 1985.                                             220.459 (C-9)



MAURITANlA
_ 8s  i   _                 s ~~~~~~~~S  E  NE  G  A  L  
SENEGA. Y     NI GERE_
~^  0 - ws    o-riURKiNA- -\                  -)
GONE,    ,    ,    F-ASO         K      &     '
G          -."      -<            r              
~~       VL.                                -            %~~~~-~ e- 
. I 5 5 A U
CON4   \    -/  2   /'               --       -
GUINEA    X       ~~--                         Dolob - 
SN_GUNE ?21AT       POWERr~                                     SIERRA
-   *              DIESEL                      -  -RIVERS
A              OIL FIRED STEAM PLANT            MA;N ROADS
-               ~~~~HYDRO                    - RAILWAYS|
= HYDRO STUDIED                e    REGIONAL CAPiTA*LS|
e                _:~~~~ HYDRO IDENTIFIED           6@   NATIONAL CAPITAL|
rRANhSMISSION LINES                       -*-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESS
360 kV                                  0   25  xC  75   m
~t- 2..-..-- -*
I                                   |                    ,/~~~~~~~~~Lb



_  0                                          IBRD 18167
AUGUST 198:1
)                                                     M      A      L     !
.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Y                             _
,,,~ ~ ~~~P~ - -- 
rS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
0~~~~                                                      ~        ~~~ i.!.I  X''r  '-J,_'     |
Kouroourousss  J                     a
i.---. c k X f 0 'C'1'
j                  4f~~~~~Voucme
)  ~~~t  i   _-     /    <-~~~~~~~ evic 
)ARIES                     j
N                                                     IC~~~~~~~~~~~
|   L  I B  E  R  IA         j        eef                          
-  -'                lo-       -/.g.5                      \,        8.
10*                                        8*~~~Yono






