CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 601 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 9, 1976


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 601 TA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 9, 1976


﻿I
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 1976, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF
TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by Tanzania Investment Bank
(hereinafter called TIB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to TIB the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and TIB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to    Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and TIB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TIB pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(c)   "Project Unit" means the unit to be set up and maintained by TIB
in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.0 1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works or services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 1 and August I commencing
February 1, 1986 and ending August 1, 2025, each installment to and including


﻿the installment payable on August 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. TIB is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
TIB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable TIB to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit available to TIB
under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and TIB
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿6
(a)   TIB shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
of TIB under the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that TIB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of TIB or for the suspension
of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof,
namely, that any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and TIB.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of TIB
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Agreement on behalf of
the Borrower and TIB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)   the head of the Project Unit shall have been employed.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, TIB, and is legally binding upon TIB
in accordance with its terms; and


﻿7
(b)   That the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and TIB, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and TIB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date May 14, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.0 1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaarn
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿8
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s / Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
0


﻿9
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Consultants' Con-             4,800,000            100% of foreign
tracts (including                                  expenditures or
contracts with                                     80% of total ex-
Project Unit's eco-                                penditures
nomist/financial
analyst, engineer
and lawyer)
(2)   Overseas fellow-                200,000            100% of foreign
ships                                              expenditures and
75% of local ex-
penditures
(3)   Vehicles and equip-             100,000            100% of foreign
ment for Project                                   expenditures and
Unit                                               75% of local ex-
penditures
(4)   Unallocated                     900,000
TOTAL         6,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower;


﻿10
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an     amount of the Credit or the
disburs.ment percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Categoiry and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿11
7.    The following provisions shall apply in respect to any of the Consultants'
Contracts (including contracts with Project Unit's economist/financial analyst,
engineer and lawyer) for which the Borrower shall apply for withdrawal under
Category (1) above:
(a)   when submitting to the Association the first withdrawal application
with respect to each such contract, the Borrower shall notify the Association as
to whether the Borrower elects 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of total
expenditures for such contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(b)   no disbursement for any such contract shall be made before the
Association has been notified of the Borrower's election with respect to such
contract; and
(c)   the Association shall take note of such election by the Borrower with
respect to each such contract, and any and all withdrawals with respect to such
contract shall be made in accordance with such election.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in the planning and
implementation of its economic development programs and consists of the following
Parts:
Part A.     The provision of grants to parastatal enterprises and governmental
agencies in Tanzania to assist them in carrying out preinvestment and
feasibility studies for high priority investment projects as well as special
studies designed to improve the implementation of the Borrower's
development programs.
Part B.     The provision of about 20 man-years of overseas fellowships for the
training of Tanzanian nationals in the preparation, implementation and
evaluation of investment projects and in related techniques.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.
0


