CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 601 TA
Project Agreement
(Technical Assistance Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
DATED JANUARY 9, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK (hereinafter called TIB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between United Republic of Tanzania (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that TIB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS TIB, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the term "sub-project" means any of the studies to be financed
under Part A of the Project.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TIB shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out of


﻿4
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the Borrower's
usual procurement procedures.
Section 2.03. (a) TIB undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for
the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by TIB to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to TIB by the Borrower
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.04. (a) TIB shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   TIB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project, and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds.
Section 2.05. TIB shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, TIB shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) TIB shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   TIB shall promptly inform    the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the


﻿5
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TIB of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
Section 2.07. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, TIB shall:
(a)   establish and maintain a Project Unit to be responsible for the
supervision of Parts A and B of the Project;
(b)   cause the Project Unit to be staffed and to operate in accordance with
the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the Association
and TIB;
. (c)   make available to the Project Unit 'he necessary supporting staff, office
space, equipment, vehicles and housing;
(d)   employ, or cause .to be employed, consultants in accordance with the
provisions set forth in paragraphs 5 and 6 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)   not enter into any agreement with a parastatal enterprise or a
governmental agency for the financing of sub-projects without having previously
obtained (i) the approval of TIB's Board of Directors, and (ii) if the sub-project
is estimated to involve expenditures in excess of the equivalent of $50,000, the
approval of the Association; and
(f)   no later than June 30, 1976, or such later date as the Association
shall agree, make available to the Association, for its review and comment, the
staff training program referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule I to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. TIB shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. TIB shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the


﻿A
6
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of TIB and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of TIB thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify TIB of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension tinder the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,


﻿7
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For TIB:
Tanzania Investment Bank
P.O. Box 9373
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
INVESTMENTS
Dar es Salaam
Section 5.02. TIB shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of TIB, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by TIB pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿8
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the      parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
TANZANIA INVESTMENT BANK
By /s / Paul Bomani
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Project Unit
Staff
1.    The Project Unit shall consist of an economist/financial analyst, an engineer
and a lawyer (all of whom shall be recruited in consultation between the Association
and TIB) as well as of the necessary supporting staff. The economist/financial
analyst or the engineer shall be appointed head of the Project Unit. The Project
Unit shall report to TIB's Director of Planning.
2.    The Project Unit's lawyer shall be attached to the Tanzania Legal Corporation
(the Corporation) under an arrangement between TIB and the Corporation, which
shall be satisfactory to the Association and the two parties and which shall inter
alia provide for the Project Unit to have the priority in the use of such lawyer's
services.
Sub-Projects under Part A of the Project
3.    The Project Unit shall assist in the preparation and the supervision of the
sub-projects included in Part A of the Project. It shall without limitation be
responsible for:
(a)   selecting  parastatal enterprises  and   governmental agencies    and
sub-projects to be carried out by them;
(b)   negotiating agreements between TIB       and any selected parastatal
enterprise or governmental agency providing for TIB to make available to such
parastatal enterprise or governmental agency in the form    of a grant the funds
disbursed from  the Credit Account for the purpose of assisting such parastatal
enterprise or governmental agency in carrying out its sub-project;
(c)   assisting any selected parastatal enterprise or governmental agency in
drafting terms of reference for its sub-project, in selecting consultants to be
employed by such parastatal enterprise or governmental agency to carry out the
sub-project, in negotiating contracts with such consultants and in supervising their
services; and
(d)   identifying potential sources for the financing of viable projects that
might emerge from sub-projects.


﻿10
Training under Part B of the Project
4.    The Project Unit shall (a) prepare a program for the staff training included
in Part B of the Project and (b) propose for the selection by TIB's management
such members of the staff of national development banks and of parastatal
enterprises and governmental agencies as would be qualified to receive the staff
training fellowships included in Part B of the Project.
Use of Consultants
5.    The Project Unit (a) may, on behalf of TIB, employ consultants to assist
it in carrying out its functions, and (b) shall cause parastatal enterprises and
governmental agencies selected to carry out sub-projects to employ consultants for
the purpose.
6.    The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of
the consultants referred to in paragraph 5 above shall be satisfactory to the
Association if the total payments estimated to be made to such consultants for
their services shall exceed the equivalent of $50,000.


