D rOMMt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4347-MOR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
EN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$12O MILLION
TO
CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
June 3, 1986
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Calendar 1985      June 4, 1986
Currency Unit   =   Dirbam (DH)              DH
US$ 1.00         =   DH 10.00               9.09
DH 1.00          =   US$ 0.10               0.11
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       :   African Development Bank
ASAL          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
BNDE      :   Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique
CIH       :   Credit Immobilier et H6telier
CLCA      :   Caisse Locale de Credit Agriccle
CICA      :   Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole
CRCA      :   Caisse Regionale de Credit Agricole
DPA           Direction Provinciale de l'Agriculture
INRA          Institut National pour la Recherche Agricole
ITPA      :   Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment
KfW       :   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
Nis           Management Information System
OERMVAs       Offices R6gionales de Mise en Valeur Agricole
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Kingdom of Morocco : January 1 - December 31
CNCA: September 1- August 31



- i _          FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (CNCA VI)
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY
Borrower:             Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole.
Guarantor:            Kingdom of Morocco
Loan Amount:          US$120.0 million equivalent.
Lending Terms:        20 years, including a 5 year grace period, at the
standard variable interest rate.
On-lending Terms:     Most of the proceeds of the loan would be onlent to
project beneficiaries for up to 20 years, at interest
rates acceptable to the Bank.
Proiect Description:  The proposed project would pursue the Government's
sectoral objectives being supported by the Bank through
the recent Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan
2590-MOR). The project would : (i) increase
institutional credit penetration in rainfed areas to
help increase agricultural production and to assist
Morocco towards reaching self sufficiency in food
stuffs; (ii) augment non budgetary financing of
agriculture through increased credit extension to small
farmers; this is aimed at increasing production and
farmers' income; (iii) upgrade the technology being used
by small farmers in rainfed areas and increase land
productivity by financing more intensive use of chemical
fertilizers, high yielding seeds and small scale
mechanization; (iv) generate value added by financing
individual and cooperative on-farm storage to safeguard
the prices of cereals obtained by farmer, small- and
medium-size agroindustry, construction and equipment of
greenhouses for the production of vegetables and
flowers, mainly for export; and (v) provide for
institutional development already started during CNCA V
by: strengthening CNCA's management structure;
improving its lending appraisal procedures; completing
the installation of the management information system in
CNCA; and increasing domestic resources mobilization
activity. The major risk of the project is that of
adverse weather conditions, which on average occur once
in every five years and which has been taken into
account in the financial and economic analysis. A
second risk which could affect CNCA's performance in the
long term would be the failure to strengthen CNCA's
management committee sufficiently so as to develop a
long term policy and banking structure. To reduce this
risk, an appropriate mandate and membership of the
management committee will be maintained.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank aut"'rnzation.



- ii -
LocalL'  Foreign        Total
US$ million
Estimated Proiect Costs:
A.   On-farm investment                       411.6        171.0        582.6
Agroindustry                               7.2         17.1         24.3
Rural housing                             12.8          6.0         18.8
Total Base Costs                    431.6       194.1         625.7
Price Contingencies                  62.7        22.5          85.2
Total Cost                          494.2       216.6         710.8
B.   Physical Infrastructure                    3.3          2.7          6.0
Institutional Development                  0.3         1.1           1.4
Total Base Costs                      3.6         3.8           7.4
Physical Contingencies                0.5         0.5           1.0
Price Contingencies                   0.5         0.5           1.0
Total Costs                           4.6         4.8           9.4
C.   Total Project Costs                      498.8        221.4        720.3
Financing Plan:
LocalL'  Foreign        Total
US$ million
Sub-borrowers equity                     211.3         -           211.3
CNCA own funds                           288.0         -           288.0
IBRD                                       -         120.0         120.0
ADB                                        -          66.0          66.0
KfW                                        -          35.0          35.0
Total rinancing                     499.3       221.0         720.3
Estimated Disbursements :
Fiscal Year
1987       1988      1989        1990
US$ million
Annual                                  15.0     35.0          45.0         25.0
Cumulative                              15.0     50.0          95.0        120.0
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 6094-MOR dated May 28, 1986
Map: IBRD No. 19570
1/ Cost estimates include taxes and duties of US$78.3 million.



ITERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEiT
REPORT ANID RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$120 MILLION
TO CAISSE NATIONALE DE CREDIT AGRICOLE
WITH HE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA), with the guarantee of the
Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$120 million to help finance the
Sixth Agricultural Credit Project. The proposed Loan would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Most of the proceeds of the Loan to CNCA would be onlent to project
beneficiaries for up to 20 years, at interest rates acceptable to the Bank.
Co-financing is expected from the African Development Bank (ADB) through a
$66 million equivalent loan and from the Federal Republic of Germany,
Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), through loans totaling $35 million
equivalent, to CNCA.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1'
2.       An economic report, entitled "'Morocco: Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued on June 15, 1983. Another
economic report entitled "Morocco: Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
(No. 4893-iMR) was distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984. An economic
mission on financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its
report (No. 4957-MOR) was issued on December 12, 1984. The following section
reflects the findings of an economic updating mission that went to Morocco in
July 1984 to prepare a paper, entitled "Morocco: Medium-term Adjustment
Policies and Prospects", for presentation to a meeting of the Consultative
Group for Morocco in Paris on January 9-11, 1985. Data and analysis have been
updated to reflect the findings of the ITPA II appraisal mission that visited
Morocco in March 1985. Country data are given in Annex I.
Introdution
3.       During nearly two decades after Independence in 1956, Morocco
followed relatively conservative economic policies. Cautious external
1/ Part I is essentially the same as Part I in the Education Reform Program
Loan (Report No. P-4240-MOR of February 25, 1986)



borrowings supplemented a weak savings effort to permit only a slow rise in
investment, so that the economy grew only at about 4 percent per annum.
Primary prbducts - principally phosphates - accounted for 90 percent of
merchandise exports. During the mid-1970s, after a sudden increase in
phosphate prices, Morocco launched an ambitious public investment program
which boosted GDP growth to 7.5 percent annually during the period 1973-77.
The phosphate boom, however, began subsiding as early as mid-1975. Meanwhile,
the petroleum import bill, which had quadrupled in 1974, continued to place
considerable pressure on the balance of payments, and the current account
deficit reached 16.5 percent of GDP in 1977. Domestically, the large public
investment program and increased defense expenditures in the Western Sahara
caused the treasury deficit to rise to 15.8 percent of GDP in 1977. Morocco
resorted to considerable foreign borrowings to finance these deficits.
4.       To redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation, the
Moroccan Government introduced a three-year stabilization program in 1978
centered on reductions in public sector outlays and stricter import controls.
These reforms were only partially successful. They did little to stimulate
exports. The exchange rate was kept overvalued and trade barriers were
raised. They did not adequately tackle the excessive budgetary exposure and
made inadequate attempts to increase the efficiency of resource use. The
agricultural sector failed to grow, while value-added in manufacturing
declined. Meanwhile, public investment was not restrained; a number of
costly, poorly-targeted social programs were expanded and investment in
infrastructure was undertaken often well ahead of need. Efforts to stabilize
the economy were compromised by severe external shocks - most notably the 1979
oil price increase, the rise in international interest rates, the
international recession which reduced phosphate earnings and workers'
remittances, and the prolonged drought. Continued internal pressure to
provide social services and affordable basic foodstuffs to a rapidly growing
population put considerable strains on a budget already stretched by the need
to finance expenditures in the Sahara. The 1981-85 Development Plan aimed at
an ambitious 6.5 percent per annum growth rate in GDP. Notwithstanding the
difficulties confronting the economy, Morocco did not appear willing to
introduce a comprehensive program of policy measures which could have
confronted the economic crisis. The shortcomings in the adjustment
performance caused the IMF to convert a three-year EFF ii%to a one-year Stand
By Arrangement in 1982 and prevented the Bank from proceeding with a SAL at
that time.
Recent Emonomic Developments
5.       By 1983 it had become clear that the Government's room to maneuver
was becoming very restricted by debt service payment requirements. In 1982
external public long-term debt (excluding military debt) had risen to about
two-thirds of GDP and 235 percent of exports of goods and services while the
debt service ratio reached 35 percent. Morocco was confronted with the
prospect of a very large external payments gap for 1983. With exchange
reserves virtually depleted and debt service rising, the Government imposed
emergency import controls and budgetary cutbacks in early 1983. In November
1983 the Government entered into an 18-month standby agreement with the IMF



-3-
(SDR 300 million, or 98 percent of quota) supporting a stabilization program
which included fiscal and credit restraints and a flexible exchange rate
policy. Shortly thereafter, official creditors agreed to reschedule external
debt interest and principal payments coming due between September 1, 1983 and
December 1984, as well as arrears as of August 31, 1983. Commercial bank
creditors agreed in principle to provide comparable relief on amortization.
The total amount of debt relief obtained in 1983-84 under these agreements was
estimated at more than $2 billion (including $575 million of relief on
military debt). In November 1983, a Donors' meeting sponsored by the IMF,
generated pledges of about $500 million of exceptional balance-of-payments
assistance for 1983-84. To meet its fiscal targets the Government restricted
public service recruitment and salary increases, raised the prices of
electricity, water, petroleum products and subsidized foodstuffs (by between
17 percent and 60 percent), and cut capital outlays by one third. At the same
time, it began a significant adjustment effort supported by the Bank program,
along with the January 1984 ITPA I (No. P-3707-MOR), to improve its balance of
payments situation with a package of measures to restructure its trade
regime. This included a reduction in import taxation, an easing of
quantitative restrictions, and a reduction in export licensing. Following a
Financial Sector Study conducted by the Bank in 1984 (No. 4957-MOR), the
Government extended these reforms to the Financial Sector with the objective
of raising domestic resources and improving resource allocation. Greater
flexibility was introduced in setting interest rates, measures were designed
to increase competition among banks, and taxation reforms to benefit the
financial sector were implemented.
6.      As a result of the policies adopted since 1983, macroeconomic
balances improved. The economy's resource gap shrank from 13 percent of GDP
in 1982 to 8 percent in 1984 (at constant 1980 prices). This was achieved
through a significant decline in the GDP share of consumption and investment
relative to their high levels earlier in the 1980s. Meanwhile, import growth
has been restrained by appropriate demand management and by the depreciation
of the exchange rate, while the share of exports and gross domestic savings
increased substantially. The Government budget deficit was reduced from 12
percent of GDP in 1982 to about 7 percent in 1984 (8 percent before taking
into account the impact of external debt rescheduling on interest payments).
Although the improvement stemmed chiefly from a sharp reduction in investment
outlays, there was also a significant slowing down in the rate of growth of
current expenditures. As was to be expected, the rate of GDP growth has been
low (a little over 2 percent p.a.), reflecting the impact of stabilization
policies on consumption and investment demand, along with the effect of
drought on agricultural sector incomes in both 1983 and 1984. A good harvest
is expected to help boost the growth rate to about 4 percent in 1985.
7.      The current account of the balance of payments improved considerably,
reflecting both the better resource balance of the economy and the impact of
the debt relief obtained by Morocco from its official creditors on interest
and military debt service payments. In 1983, the external current account
deficit was reduced by half, from $1.9 billion and 12.7 percent of GDP in 1982
to $873 million and 6.6 percent of GDP. The balance subsequently worsened in
1984, particularly in relation to GDP, but still remained under $1 billion.



- 4 -
In both 1983 and 1984, about half of the roughly $1 billion improvement in the
current account in relation to 1982 was attributable to debt relief. 1-' The
net inflow of public medium and long-term capital (including grants) has
declined sharply from about $1.5 billion in 1982 to an average of only $400
million during 1983-1984. In 1985, the net inflow rose to about $1 billion,
including an exceptional $300 million grant from Saudi Arabia. Nevertheless,
these inflows had to be supplemented by continued debt relief along the lines
of the 1983-84 debt rescheduling, and demand management policies to keep
import growth under control.
8.      Further progress in reducing both external and fiscal imbalances is
envisaged under a new stand-by arrangement with the IMF approved on
September 13, 1985. Preliminary data indicate some slippage in fiscal
performance in the first half of 1985 and disappointing results on external
trade, attributed essentially to weak demand in the phosphate market. These
suggest that stronger corrective measures would be needed to keep tue
stabilization program on course including, in particular, restraining current
expenditures and reducing subsidies on foodstuffs and public services. A
formal debt rescheduling through the Paris Club covering maturities from
September 1985 to February 1987 was agreed on September 17, 1985. Ninety-five
percent of the total debt due were rescheduled along lines similar to those
obtained under the 1983-84 debt relief arrangement. The 1983-84 rescheduling
agreement between Morocco and the commercial banks was signed, after long
delays, on October 21, 1985. These recent developments should help Morocco
reach a balance in its external accounts for the next two years.
Medim Term Policies and Prospects
9.      Since 1983, the Government's objective of achieving viable external
and fiscal positions along with satisfactory growth has been translated into a
coherent medium-term strategy to restrain domestic absorption and increase the
efficiency of resource throughout the economy. The principal elements of
Morocco's medium-term adjustment program involve a shift to outward-looking
trade and exchange rate policies; far-reaching reforms of price, credit, tax
and regulatory policies to remove institutional and other obstacles to
efficient mobilization and use of resources in key productive sectors of the
economy; considerable improvements in the efficiency of government investment;
more cost-effective methods and better targetting of social programs; and a
thorough overhaul of the public enterprise sector.
10.     The shift to an outward-oriented development strategy is the
cornerstone of Morocco's medium-term adjustment program. Continued
adjustments in trade and exchange rate policies will be made to complete the
reform of the overall incentive framework designed to accelerate export growth
and reduce and rationalize import protection. Key instruments are to be a
flexible exchange rate, the elimination of the special import tax (expected by
1/ Over $200 million in interest payments were rescheduled in each of the two
years. In addition, the current account balance benefitted from military
debt relief in the amount of $325 million in 1983 and $250 million in 1984.



- 5 -
January 1987); a general reform of the tariff level and structure, with the
objective of reducing the overall level of protection to 25 percent through
decreasing maxiumum duty rates and evening out the spread in tariff rates
within and between sectors; and finally, a phasing out of quantitative
restrictions on imports. Domestic price controls, which were already removed
in 1983-84 on many manufactured products, are planned to be fully eliminated,
in parallel with progress in import liberalization. Remaining export
licensing requirements will be abolished, with exporters to be entitled to
import all inputs on a duty-free basis.
II.     At the same time, appropriate sector strategies for the key
productive sectors, particularly agriculture and industry, will be promoted.
In industry, although the development of Morocco's potential for export of
phosphate fertilizers will continue to be an important objective, the  \
contribution of this highly capital-intensive sector to employment and to the
establishment of a broader industrial base through forward and backward
linkages will remain limited. Moreover, a high degree of dependence on
phosphate and phosphate fertilizer exports has made Morocco extremely
vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations in the volatile world phosphate market.
For this reason, the industrial strategy must be based on the diversification
of manufactured exports, including processed foods and nontraditional
manufactures where Morocco may have a comparative advantage on world markets.
In agriculture, Morocco needs to continue developing an appropriate package of
policies designed to overcome existing constraints to rational land use
patterns, to ensure that farmers have adequate incentives to improve farming
techniques and use modern inputs, and to provide the support services needed
to bring about these changes. A first Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(No. P-4032-MOR) in line with such policy direction was extended by the Bank
in June 1985.
12.     The low productivity of investment has been one of the major factors
in the poor performance of the Moroccan economy in the past ten years. The
allocation of capital and the efficiency of investment need to be improved
considerably both in the public and in the private sector. In the private
sector, the reform of the protection framework described above should go a
long way towards removing distortions in investment patterns. However, it
will also be necessary to review the bias in favor of capital-intensive
activities inherent in the current investment incentive system, including tax
exemptions and interest rate subsidies which artificially depress the cost of
capital.  In the public sector, increasing the efficiency of investment will
require a considerable improvement of existing planning and budgeting
mechanisms, including better procedures for setting investment priorities,
strengthening of project preparation and monitoring capability, and placing
more emphasis on the economic evaluation of projects before they receive
Government sanction. Policy actions to improve the public investment and
enterprise framework as well as continuing reform of trade policy and a
comprehensive approach to financial sector reform are supported by the Bank's
second Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment loan approved in July 1985.
13.     An exceptionally strong savings effort will be essential for the
success of Morocco's adjustment process. In the private sector financial



- 6 -
savings have been repressed in the past due to inadequate financial policies
and negative real interest rates. Savings are now being encouraged through
increases in deposit rates and a program of financial sector reforms to
improve financial intermediation and develop the domestic money and capital
markets. But the most intense savings efforts in the next few years will have
to take place in the public sector, which continues to be a major source of
dissaving, particularly through the Government budget. In the medium term,
sustained improvement in the mobilization and utilization of resources by the
public sector will require fundamental reforms in a number of key areas,
including social expenditure policies, taxation, and cost recovery and
efficiency in the public enterprise sector. In the social sectors, where
coverage of the population is still inadequate, Government activities need to
be restructured so that basic services (particularly education and health) can
be delivered more effectively but at substantially lower cost. More
cost-effective methods and better targeting will be prerequisites to a further
broadening of access to these services in the future. Food and other
subsidies also need to be targeted to the groups most in need rather than
directed to the general population.
14.     Macroeconomic projections based on the Government's reform programs
indicate that it may take the better part of the next ten years for Morocco to
complete its adjustment process. The growth of the economy is likely to be
severely constrained in the early years of the adjustment process. However,
as the restructuring measures designed to promote exports, improve resource
use and increase domestic savings begin to work their effects through the
economy, the external imbalance should lessen, and restraints on domestic
demand could gradually be relaxed. Moreover, the growth of external demand
expected to result from the trade liberalization and export promotion
policies, and the switch in the composition of domestic demand from imported
to domestic goods, fostered by the adjustment of relative prices, should help
mitigate the temporary negative impact of slower public expenditure growth on
incomes and employment.
15.     The projections suggest that GDP growth is likely to remain low
(below 3 percent p.a.) until 1990, accelerating thereafter. Domestic demand
is expected to grow very slowly until 1990, reflecting the impact of
stabilization policies on both investment and consumption. Investment, which
has been declining since 1978, should continue to fall in real terms and in
relation to GDP until about 1987, then rise somewhat until 1990, recovering
strongly thereafter. Assuming that central government investment expenditures
would remain constant in real terms in the medium term, the adjustments would
occur primarily in the public enterpises and private sectors. Government
consumption, which had grown very rapidly until recently, is projected to
decline marginally in real terms and to drop by 3 percentage points in
relation to GDP between 1985 and 1990. The growth of private consumption,
which already slowed significantly in the early 1980s, would remain just below
that of GDP in 1985-90, and accelerate only slightly in the 1990s.
Restructuring policies should bring about an acceleration in the growth of
exports of goods and nonfactor services. The acceleration of export growth
would help sustain a modest recovery of imports, the overall trend of which
has been downward since 1978. Imports, however, should rise much more slowly
than exports between 1985 and 1990, as a result of the demand restraint and
expenditure switching policies.



- 7 -
16.      As a result of the drop in the GDP share of both investment and
consumption, there should be a steady decline in the economy's resource gap,
with a small surplus projected for 1990. Gross domestic savings are expected
to rise much faster than GDP throughout the period, initially as a result of
improved savings mobilization by the public sector, and later reflecting
continued substantial improvements in private savings as well. The marginal
savings rate with respect to GNP will need to be very high (about 50 percent)
in 1985-90, as a necessary concomitant to reducing the external deficit; it
should slacken slightly thereafter. High domestic savings should enable the
economy to finance the recovery of investment without recourse to external
savings in the early 1990s. This will be essential, since, throughout the
remainder of the 1980s, the balance of payments will remain under considerable
pressure because of continuing high debt service payments. By the end of the
decade, reforms of the overall economic incentive framework and increased
efficiency Af public investment should have raised the productivity of new
investment considerably, and the ICOR should drop substantially from the high
levels prevailing in the early 1980s.
17.      It is important to recognize that the implementation of the
stabilization policies and measures for structural adjustment envisaged in
this scenario will entail some transitional social costs. With population
growth at about 2.5 percent p.a., GNP and consumption per capita, which have
been essentially stagnant since 1980, are not likely to show much improvement
in real terms until the end of the present decade. Stabilization policies and
measures to increase efficiency will initially be reflected to some extent in
depressed domestic demand, increased unemployment, and some decline in real
incomes, particularly the real income of urban populations, Government
employees, and workers in less competitive industries. On the other hand, the
real income of farmers, who constitute by far the poorest segment of the
population, should rise as a result of incredses in agricultural producer
prices and improvements in support services and marketing institutions and
infrastructure. This will be particularly true of farmers in rainfed areas.
The political and social implications of these welfare shifts are likely to be
significant, and to keep them manageable will be a major concern of the
Government in the next few years. While the cost of not undertaking the
required economic adjustments would in any case be greater in the long run, it
will be important to minimize the negative short-term impact of these
adjustments on the poorest groups. After 1990, as a result of the reforms
undertaken in the 1980s, the economy could return gradually to a higher growth
path without endangering external equilibrium. Per capita levels of income
and consumption could begin to rise again, and the restoration of economic
dynamism would greatly improve Morocco's ability to deal with its serious
unemployment problem.
18.      A steady improvement in Morocco's external payments position should
result from the acceleration of export growth relative to import growth
anticipated in 1986-90. The economy's negative resource balance, which
averaged more than $2 billion in 1980-82, and dropped to $1.2-1.3 billion in
1983-84, is projected to decline steadily, and virtually disappear by 1989.
Assuming that the growth of workers' remittances can be sustained at a modest
pace, the current account should improve roughly in parallel with the overall



- 8 -
resource balance and could reach approximate equilibrium around 1989.
However, the overall balance of payments can be expected to continue to show
large deficits because of the heavy principal repayments coming due on the
external debt, including substantial repayments to the IMF.  Because of
mounting debt service obligations, gross public long-term capital requirements
are projected to average close to US$2.5 billion annually during the period
1985-90.
19.      It is clear, under these circumstances, that Morocco will continue to
require debt relief for seve-al more years. The projections include the
effects of the recently concluded 1985-87 debt rescheduling agreement through
the Paris Club, and assume debt relief from private creditors during 1985-87,
essentially along the lines of the debt reschedulings obtained in
l983-84.1' Normal public long-term capital inflows could then be
approximately sufficient to cover the remaining financing requirements in
1985-87 (about US$1.2 billion annually), assuming that new loan com aitments
from Morocco's official lenders can be maintained at their current rate (about
US$800 million a year). Recourse to comnercial bank financing, outside of
these guaranteed programs, is likely to remain constrained and overall private
capital flows are expected to remain sporadic, at US$100-300 million
per annum, probably strongly conditioned on, if not directly tied to, specific
adjustment programs.
20.     For the years 1988-1991, Morocco is going to need around US$2 billion
annually to meet its capital requirements. Providing that US$800-900 million
a year are forthcoming from official creditors; and assuming a reasonable
recovery of private source financing of about US$700 million a year, around
US$400 million still remain to be generated each year to cover the gap. With
Bank and IMF transfers stretched to the limit, Morocco's remaining financing
requirements will have to come in the form of further debt relief, grants, or
some concessional assistance. Only beginning in 1992, with debt repayments
from past borrowings and successive reschedulings starting to level off, could
equilibrium in the overall balance of payments appear assured on the basis of
normal official capital inflows and a sustainable recourse to private
financing. If the envisaged external capital flows do not materialize, the
Government will have to resort to severe corrective measures to finance its
resource gap.
21.     In view of the continuing large capital inflows required in the next
few years, the long-term external debt outstanding and disbursed would
continue to rise rapidly until 1988, but would begin to stabilize thereafter.
The ratio of debt outstanding and disbursed to exports of goods and services,
which had risen to 260 percent in 1984, would start to decline, progressively
dropping to 175 percent by 1990 and 114 percent by 1995. In the absence of
debt rescheduling, the long-term debt service ratio would have risen above
50 percent of exports of goods and services in 1985 and 1986. With debt
relief obtained for the period 1985-87, on the other hand, the debt service
1, About US$230 million of military debt service payments comiug due each
year until 1988 are assumed to be rescheduled along the same lines as
other obligations.



ratio could be kept manageable at 24-25 percent during the next few years.
Assuming no further debt relief, it would rise sharply in 1988, with
repayments on the 1983-84 rescheduled maturities (including military debt)
falling due, but would then start declining gradually in the 1990s. Given
this difficult debt situation, Morocco's commitment to an aggressive program
of structural adjustment is essential for the country to be considered
creditworthy for continued Bank lending. Bank exposure amounted to 1 of
total debt outstanding in 1985, and would increase to about 17% at the end of
the decade, with the current lending program.
PART H - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO 1'
22.      Bank lending to Morocco has supported 65 projects, financing a total
of $2,654.3 million (net of cancellations), of which 125 million from a Third
window loan. IDA credits, totalling $45.2 million, have been made available
for five projects. IFC investments have amounted to $104.7 million
($59.9 million after cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales).
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits, and of
IFC investments, as of March 31, 1986.
23.      Until recently, performance in project execution has been
satisfactory overall, although in some cases management problems have caused
delays in project implementation, and in others insufficient tariff
adjustments have affected project entities' financial performance. However,
during 1983, as budgetary constraints became more severe, projects relying on
the Government budget for a substantial part of financing have been seriously
delayed because of inadequnte budgetary allocations. The appreciation of the
dollar vis-a-vis the dirham in recent years has reduced considerably
reimbursable expenses in dollar terms, thus lowering disbursements vis-a-vis
appraisal estimates. The ratio of disbursements to appraisal estimates
averaged 54 percent as of March 31, 1986, close to the regional average.
24.      The objectives of Bank Group activities in Morocco are to support (a)
investments and policy reforms aimed at structural adjustment and
strengthening the balance-of-payments; (b) measures to reduce the Treasury
deficit; and (c) efforts to redress poverty and improve income distribution,
particularly through lowering the unit costs for the delivery of basic
services, in order to increase access by lower-income groups. Important
structural reforms must be undertaken in the coming years, in order to return
to a path of reasonable economic growth compatible with a sustainable external
payments position. A major objective of Bank economic and sector work is to
provide the analytical basis for the development of specific proposals for
structural reform, which in several cases is being supported by Bank lending.
At Government's request, in addition to ongoing work on the public investment
1/ Part II is essentially the same as Part II in the Education Reform Program
Loan (Report No. P-4240-MOR of February 25,1986).



- 10 -
program, the Bank is assisting in developing reform proposals relating to the
public enterprises. Because severe budgetary constraints are likely to
persist over the medium-term, projects now under preparation or consideration,
like the proposed project, are designed to be consistent with the investment
strategy which aims to minimize their reliance on incremental budgetary funds
and support Morocco's efforts to reform its public enterprises.
25.     Agriculture continues to represent an important sector in Bank
lending for Morocco. Past Bank lending has primarily supported rural
development and irrigation projects focusing on particular geographical
regions, in parallel with successful series of agricultural credit projects.
There are no major covenants in default. New Bank's operations in those
fields will continue at a pae4 consistent with the country's investment
capacity while paying special attention to maximiziag non-budgetary financing
and improving cost recovery.  At present increased attention 's being given to
agricultural support services at the national level, which are essential for
backstopping regional development projects. In parallel, the Bank has helped
the Moroccan authorities to review the sector policy framework and to
formulate its medium-term adjustment program covering investment strategy,
pricing and incentive policy and role of the public sector. The recently
approved Agricultural Sector Adjustment (ASAL) loan was in support of a first
phase of such a sector adjustment program and is expected to be followed by
similar operations, as further specific measures to adjust the prices and
incentives framework are developed.
26.     Energy and mining. The Government has given high priority to
reducing the oil import bill, a major factor in the current account deficit,
through development of domestic energy supplies. The Bank has supported this
e-fort through loans for the exploration and appraisal of petroleum (primarily
natural gas) and oil shale resources as well as for power generation and
transmission and coal mining modernization and expansion. Future projects
would assist in the development of domestic energy supplies, including gas,
and bydropower. Through these projects as well as in our sectoral policy
dialogue, efficiency in energy development and use would be promoted through
attention to pricing, cost recovery and management issues.
27.     Bank lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of technically competent agencies in the fields of road transportation,
electricity, water supply, housing finance, and community infrastructure
finance, as well as to expand the provision of essential services. Projects
like the recently approved Port project will place greater emphasis on
improving the productivity and efficiency of existing infrastructure through
improved fi-nancial and management performance. Mobilization of private and
non-budgetary financing as well as improved cost recovery in these subsectors
through tariffs should also help reduce the Treasury deficit. In addition to
continuing support for the above-mentioned subsectors and the proposed
project, projects are under preparation for telecommunications, railways and
sewerage.
28.     Industrial development in Morocco has been supported in the past
through strengthening the financial and institutional resources of the Banque



- 11 -
Nationale de D6veloppement Economique (BNDE), the major source of industrial
medium-term credit. In addition, policy changes were introduced to widen
access to credit by small-scale labor-intensive industries. Other projects
focused on phosphate processing and cement production. The Bank's efforts are
now focused on the development and implementation of medium-term policy
reforms aimed at encouraging exports and improving incentives to domestic
production. The first phase of such reforms was supported by the Industrial
and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) loan of 1984 and was successfully
implemented. Further stages of reform of trade policy, as well as a
comprehensive reform of the financial sector, and policy actions on public
investments and public enterprises are supported by the on-going Second
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan.
29.      Education, health and urban development projects will increasingly
concentrate on lowering unit costs in order to widen the access by low-income
groups. Policy dialogue in these sectors continues to encourage the shift
away from capital-intensive investments benefitting limited clientele and the
development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services. While
previous Bank-financed projects have supported technical education, rural
primary education and improved teacher training, these will be complemented by
efforts to expand basic education and skill training, as well as restructuring
of the formal education system, which has represented a major drain on the
recurrent budget through the recently approved Education Reform Program Loan.
The recently approved first health development project will test new health
care delivery systems in order to improve basic health services in rural
areas. Finally, the experience of projects in urban upgrading will be
continued and expanded, with increased efforts to mobilize private financing
in order to reduce budgetary costs.
PART m - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR AND AGRICULTURAL CREDrT SUBSECTOR
30.      Of Morocco's 60 million ha some 8 million have soils and moisture
suitable for cropping, with another 20 million ha in semi-arid or mountain
regions suitable for grazing and forests. Of the cultivable land, about half
normally receives a good rainfall, while the other half receives an erratic
rainfall of under 400 mm, which can only be put under a relatively high risk,
low value barley/fallow cropping system. Only about 1.3 million ha are
estimated to be irrigable economically. Fruits, vegetables, forage crops and
industrial crops are grown under the more favorable irrigated conditions; but
cereals and pulses dominate the cropping pattern on 80% of the land under
rainfed conditions.
31.      The recent poor performance of Moroccan agriculture can be divided
into two contrasting trends between the modern irrigated sector, which now
covers 10% of the cultivated land, and the traditional rainfed sector.
Government has concentrated 60-75% of its investment and most of the producer
subsidies in the irrigated sector. As a result, considerable progress was
made in farming techniques and yields, output from this sector grew at 5.5%



- 12 -
during 1971-85, and production of sugar beet, sugar cane, and dairy cattle
showed rapid progress. Morocco now obtains 45X of the total agricultural
value added and 60S of its agricultural exports from the irrigated areas.
Rainfed cultivation, on the other hand, which involves 751 of the rural
population and provides the bulk of the country's basic internal food supply
(cereals, pulses, oil seeds and red meat), remains largely traditional. Low
yields are the result of a combination of factors: climatic constraints, in
which 7 out of the past 14 years have been drought years, fragmentation of
holdings (typical plot size is 0.6 ha), insecure land tenure, poor farming
practices, inadequate use of modern inputs and poor support services, except
in small areas of special development projects. Potential does exist,
however, in both the irrigated and rainfed sectors to increase yields: in the
rainfed areas, mechanized land preparation, use of modern inputs and selected
improved seeds and a more intensive and rational land use would improve
productivity; in irrigated areas, improved farming techniques, gre.-ter
cropping intensity, development of complementary infrastructure and better
maintenance could expand production by as much as 100% over the next decade.
32.      In response to the worsening macro-economic situation and recent poor
performance by the sector, the Government developed in 1984 a five-year
agricultural sector adjustment program which has been supported by the Bank
through a Sector Adjustment Loan (2590-MOR) in June 1985. The program's prime
objectives are: (a) to restructure the public investment and expenditure
program in agriculture towards quick maturing and high return investments;
(b) to correct the prices and incentives framework to encourage economically
sound shifts in agricultural activities; (c) to strengthen the agricultural
support services offered by the Goverment while rationalizing the role of the
public sector in provision of commercially viable services, and improving cost
recovery in other services; and (d) to build up institutional capacity for
agricultural policy planning and analysis.
Sector Issues Relevant to Agricultural Credit
33.     A key element in Government strategy for structural adjustment is to
rely more on private investment channelled through institutional credit, as
opposed to public sector investment. CNCA is the major institutional source
of funds to the agricultural sector. One of the obstacles to expand the role
of CNCA, however is the limited savings and debt servicing capacitv of many
rural families, which is aggravated by the lack of documented title to their
lands and by the criteria used so far by CNCA to determine such capacity
through their fiscal income. Recent 1985 data indicate that CNCA is lending
to only about 30% of potential small-farmer borrowers. To increase
accessibility of farmers to credit, CNCA has begun to expand its physical
network, open temporary credit outlets and to develop a new policy on
eligibility based on a direct assessment of farmers credit needs and repayment
capacity. These measures, which are supported by the proposed project should
increase the number of eligible borrowers and the ceilings on the loan amounts.
34.     Another constraint to expanding CNCA's role is its ability to
mobilize deposits and savings in order to provide an increasing share of
domestic resources to finance its lending program. Efforts in that direction
have met so far with moderate success. Recent initiatives, such as raising
interest rates on deposits by 1-2X, creating a savings passbook system and



- 13 -
upgrading the physical conditions of existing branches to provide this
service, are expected to bring additional results. However, a medium- and
long-term strategy to increase savings mobilization is required and would be
developed under the proposed project. Such a development would be fully
consistent with the Government's priority concern of increasing private
savings mobilization to finance investments.
35.      Financing the development of small-scale, relatively labor intensive
agroindustrial activity complementary to primary production was promoted under
the Fifth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 2367-MOR) with encouraging
results. Mostly through the establishment of a special office in the Meknes
region, lending for agroindustrial activities nearly doubled from DH
25 million in 1983 to DR 48.9 million in 1985. In addition, USAID is
financing technical assistance to entrepreneurs on legal, financial, technical
and marketing matters. There is, however, a need to expand assistance and
access to credit to small entrepreneurs to other areas of the country, and
under the proposed project, it was agreed that CNCA would open by December 31,
1986 and June 30, 1987 two additional agroindustries units, respectively, in
regions with sizeable and untapped potential.
36.      Land distribution in Morocco is relatively skewed with 742 of farm
families owning 5 ha or less and accounting for 25Z of cultivable land. The
average farm size is about 5 ha, but farms are highly fragmented, with an
average size of parcels being 0.64 ha., too small for efficient rainfed
farming. Most private farmers do not have registered legal titles to their
land and cannot offer guarantees to obtain credit for on-farm investments. In
addition, absentee landlords and tenancy arrangements offer tenants little
security and consequently no incentive to improve the lands. Government is
aware of this situation and under the ASAL is taking the following actions: a)
acceleration of collection of statistical data base on land tenure; b) land
consolidation schemes to restructure farms into viable units; and c)
introduction of new legislation regulating relationships between lessors and
lessees of land.
37.      Other sector issues which are relevant to agricultural credit and
which are being dealt with under the ASAL are the improvement of the
agricultural extension services and research, and the rationalization of the
price and incentive system.
The Agricultural Credit Bank-Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA)
38.      CNCA, an autonomous Government owned institution, was established in
1961 to provide loans for agricultural inputs, on-farm investments and
marketing to individual farmers, farmers' groups and cooperatives, and
companies. Its Board of Directors is chaired by the Minister of Agriculture
and includes representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance,
Interior, the Central Bank and local agricultural credit institutions.
Certain Board functions are delegated to a Managing Committee presided by the
Director General. CNCA staff numbered 2,159 as of the end of 1985. Staff are
qualified and productivity is high. Loans to companies, cooperatives, and
very large farmers are handled at CNCA's headquarters, located in Rabat.



- 14 -
Tans to farmers with a fiscal income above DR 6,000 1L and cooperatives are
processed and supervised by CNCA's 38 regional branches, the Caisses
Rhgionales de Credit Agricole (CRCAs). Loans to small farmers with a fiscal
income between DR 50 and DR 6,000 are processed by 99 Caisses Locales de
Cr6dit Agricole (CLC4s) and 146 seasonal credit outlets. Credit is not
extended to farmers with a fiscal income below DH 50.
39.     Decentralization of lending responsibility, simplification of
procedures and expansion of the range of investments financed have been the
main characteristic of CNCA's credit policies since 1975. CNCA's objective
has been to provide maximum access to credit, make the provision of credit
rapid and simple and adapt credit norms to regional agroeconomic conditions.
By and large, CNCA has been successful in this effort.
40.      Over the period of 1981-85, total lending increased at an annual rate
of 9 percent in real terms, reaching DO 2,638 million in 1984/85. Over the
same period, the share of short-term loans in total lending decreased from 61Z
to about 431. Loans received by CLCA's clients increased from 27 percent of
total CNCA's lending in 1980/81 to 32 percent in 1984/85.  CNCA's lending
procedures are governed by "credit guidelines" which are revised every year in
collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, and basically aim at covering
70 percent of estimated production costs or investment costs. Overall, CNCA's
appraisal criteria and procedures are adequate. Loans to small farmers are,
in most cases, based on their estimated fiscal incomes, and ceilings are set
for maximum borrowing. In order to expand credit coverage to small farmers,
pilot schemes were introduced in 1981 and 1983 under the Bank-financed
Fez-Karia-Tissa and Oulmes-Rommani Agricultural Projects, respectively, under
which the farmers' eligibility for loans is based on projected annual
operating revenues rather than on the fiscal income. In the project area this
has led to a doubling of the unit size of short-term loans to CLCA clients,
and loan recoveries appear satisfactory. CNCA aims now at expanding the
coverage of this system to the whole country; however, as this would have to
be done gradually, if only because of staff constraints, it was agreed that
CNCA would introduce the new system in the two highly productive regions of
Meknes and Settat, which account for about 401 of all CNCA lending, by
June 30, 1987 and June 30, 1988, respectively.
41.      Interest rates vary according to the type of investments, ranging
from 8 to 12 percent for short-term loans (3 to 18 months), and from 13.3 to
141 percent for medium- and long-term loans (2 to 20 years). These rates,
which were introduced in 1985, are similar to those charged by commercial
banks and the industrial development bank for similar loans, and are positive
in real terms.
42.      CNCA's resources more than doubled since 1982 to a total of DH
6,453 million as of August 31, 1985. This increase was mostly due to the
growth of long-term borrowing (51 percent p.a.) and deposits (26 percent
1/ Fiscal income is based on predetermined values for agricultural assets
held by farmers. It is estimated for tax purposes. Depending upon the
crops grown, real annual net farm income ranges from 3 to 20 times more
than fiscal income.



- 15 -
p.a.). As of August 31, 1985, long-term borrowing represented about 52
percent of CNCA's total resources, short-term borrowing 14 percent, deposits
14 percent, equity and special funds, including provisions for bad debts,
19 percent.
43.      CNCA's financial position is good, reflecting its efficient
management and excellent loan recovery rate (77-83 percent annually in
1982-1985) with only 6% of its portfolio oustanding more than 15 months.
Although the equity to total assets ratio decreased from 13.9 percent in 1982
to 12.3 percent in 1985, it remains satisfactory and reflects adequate
capitalization. CNCA's long-term debt to equity ratio is at 5.1, within the 6
to 1 ceiling set under the Fifth Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No.
2367-MOR), and its current ratio of 1.3 indicates a favorable liquidity
position and complies with the requirements under the Fifth Agricultural
Credit Project. Net profits increased from DH 19.1 million in 1981/82 to
DH 70.8 million in 1984/85, an increase of 552 p.a. In 1984/85, profits
represented a 13.6X return on equity as compared to 5.3X in 1981/82. This
increase in profitability has made possible an increase in reserves of about
52X during the period.
Performance under previous Bank financed agricultural projects
44.      Bank group lending for agriculture began in 1965, and to date 10
projects have been completed and 11 projects are underway. They include seven
irrigation projects, five agricultural credit projects, and agro-industries
and flood control project, five rainfed agricultural development projects, an
export-oriented project, a Forestry Project, and an Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan. Performance undbr these projects has generally been
satisfactory.
45.      OED reports are available for the four completed Agricultural credit
projects.L'' These reports stress the contribution made by the projects to
agricultural development, their success in introducing institution building
measures, and the expansion of credit to small farmers. The first and second
projects (Loan 433-MOR, and Loan 961-MOR, Credit 338-MOR) financed
mechanization and modernization of medium and large farms resulting in a
maximum short-term production impact in an effort to meet urgent domestic food
requirements. Part of the Third Credit Project (Loan 1361-MOR) was directed
to meet rural smallholder needs by financing improved subsistence production.
The Fourth Agriculture Credit Project enlarged the project scope to include
small- and medium-scale, rurally based agroindustries to promote processing
and exports. The Fifth Agricultural Credit Project is pursuing the objectives
of CNCA IV and particularly strengthening the management structure of CNCA.
All five projects had a strong institutional impact by strengthening CNCA's
capital structure and its lending appraisal procedures, improving loan
collection performance and transforming it in an effilient credit institution.
1/ First Agricultural Credit Project reviewed in Background Paper No. 4 of
OED's Report on Agricultural Credit Programs; Second in Report 2543,
June 25, 1979, Third in Report 3248, December 23, 1980 and the Fourth in
report 3812 of January 21, 1985.



- 16 -
Rationale for Bank involvement
46.      Bank lending to CNCA would help fill the financial gap of the
institution and would help attract other funds from co-financiers to close
such a gap. Ensuring sufficient funds for agricultural credit in the country
is an objective fully consistent with our sector strategy, as spelled out in
connection with the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, which aims, inter
alia, at improving and rationalizing agricultural services. On the
institutional development front, the proposed loan would consolidate
achievements under past loans and would concentrate in determining the
long-term institutional development requirements of CNCA. This component
would assure the adequacy of the institution to its increasing size and role
in the future.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.      The proposed project was identified and prepared by CNCA in the
course of supervision of the Fifth Agricultural Credit project. Appraisal
took place in November 1985 and January 1986. Negotiations were held in
Washington on April 28-May 2, 1986; CNCA delegation was led by Mr. M. Bouarfa,
Director General of CNCA; Government's representation was headed by Mr.
Aissaoui, Deputy Director of the Treasury in charge of Money and Credit in the
Ministry of Finance. The main features of the project are outlined in the
Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report; a Supplementary
Project Data Sheet and Map No. IBRD 19570 are also attached. A Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 6094-MOR, dated May 28, 1986) is being circulated
separately.
Project obiectives and description
48.      The project objectives are part of the overall objectives agreed upon
with Government on a sectoral context under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan. They are: Ci) increasing institutional credit penetration in rairf'ed
areas where present CNCA lending is estimated to reach only about 302 of
eligible farmers, and to increase dairy, meat and cereal production and self
sufficiency in food stuff availability; (ii) maximizing non budgetary
financing of agriculture through increased credit extension to small farmers;
(iii) improving the pattern of cultivation of small farmers in rainfed areas
to increase land productivity by financing more intensive use of chemical
fertilizers, high yielding seeds and small scale mechanization;
(iv) generating value added by financing individual and cooperative on-farm
storage to prevent the collapse of the prices of cereals at cropping time,
small- and medium size agroindustry, construction and equipment of greenhouses
for the production of vegetables, bananas and flowers mainly for export; and
(v) emphasizing institutional development already started during CNCA V by
strengthening CNCA's management structure, improving its lending appraisal
procedures, completing the installation of the management information system
in CNCA, and increasing domestic resources mobilization.
49.      To achieve the above objectives, the proposed project would support
over a three-year period (September 1986 through August 1989) the investment



- 17 -
credit operations and the institutional development activities of CNCA by
financing:
a)    on-farm investments by farmers and co-operatives;
b)    investment in agroindustries;
c)    investment in rural housing;
d)    procurement and installation of microcomputers in CNCA's branch
offices;
e)    CNCA's 1986-1988 program of construction and rehabilitation of CNCA's
branch offices and part of the construction of new headquarters and;
f)    technical assistance for the establishment of an MIS, and a budgetary
and medium- and long-term planning system, and other consulting
services for the infrastructure activities. The Project is expected
to be completed by September 30, 1989.
Project implementation and CNCA institutional development
50.      CNCA would be the Borrower and would be fully responsible for
implementing the Project using its existing organization and network of
agencies. CNCA is fully capable of implementing the project as shown under
the previous five credit lines. However, to improve efficiency under the
project, CNCA would pursue a number of institution building activities, some
of which were initiated during CNCA V, including specifically: (a) the
maintenance of an effective management committee to determine medium and long
term development plans, annual budgets and organizational, operational,
financial, staff recruitment and remuneration policies; (b) the introduction
of an overall management information system; (c) the rehabilitation and
extension of its branch offices network; (d) the adoption of new lending
policies; and (e) the development of CNCA banking activities.
51.      Although CNCA has operated efficiently with its current institutional
structure, the very growth and increasing complexity of its operations calls
for a reinforcement of its management tools to make the institution capable of
coping with its increasing responsibilities in the future. To meet the
challenge of future growth, CNCA: (a) is upgrading its present management
committee by staffing it with senior representatives of the Ministries of
Agriculture, Finance, Interior and the Central Bank, and has delegated to it
important functions of the Board of Directors; and b) would submit no later
than December 31, 1986 an action plan to develop and implement a budgeting and
medium- and long-term planning system. Assurances were obtained that CNCA
would maintain its management committee with membership and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; it would also employ consultants as needed to assist
in the development of a medium- and long-term planning system. Regarding
CNCA's long term development, it was agreed that the Guarantor would
(a) establish by January 1, 1987 a task force to develop proposals to enhance
CNCA's development as an agricultural financing institution and to enable CNCA
to meet effectively the needs of Morocco's agricultural sector; (b) exchange
views with the Bank on the task force's program of activities, by January 30,
1987 and thereafter anoxally on the task force's progress.



- 18 -
52.      Under the fifth agricultural credit project, CNCA started to overhaul
the entire manaRement information system to make it suitable to the needs of
the institution, and a plan of action is being prepared for its
implementation. Under the proposed project, assurances were obtained that
CNCA would continue to employ consultants for its implementation; a management
control unit would be operational by December 31, 1988; and the MIS would be
introduced in 3 branches by January 31, 1987.
53.      For the construction of CRCA and CLCA offices included in the
project, and the headquarters building, it was agreed that CNCA would employ
on its staff an architect and an engineer to review design and specifications
of each building and to supervise their construction. These offices would not
be constructed/rehabilitated unless CNCA has submitted an ecor:mic
justification acceptable to the Bank. CNCA would also recruit consultants to
prepare adequate technical specifications for the new headquarters building in
Rabat and a cost benefit analysis for this investment. The headquarters would
be constructed only after CNCA furnished the cost benefit analysis and plans
to the Bank and the Bank approved the constructions.
54.      Through the implementation of the proposed project a number of
lending policies would be adjusted or introduced. It was mentioned above that
new methods of appraising creditworthiness of borrowers (para. 40) would lead
to increased volume of lending and that financing of agroindustrial activity
would be vigorously expanded (para. 35). Subloans for agroindustry would be
made only to enterprises satisfying the criteria for a small and medium scale
enterprise as set forth in the Industrial Investment Code, except that up to
$5.8 million in subloans could be made to other enterprises. Another
innovative area of lending would be for rural housing. CNCA has been lending
for rural housing on a modest scale (DH 30-50 million in 1984 and 1985) while
a considerable demand for such financing remains, and no other financial
institution is equipped to handle it. Under the proposed project CNCA
financing of up to Dirhams 200 million during the period Sept. 1986-Aug. 1988
for rural housing has been agreed upon on a pilot basis. Subloans made out of
the Bank loan proceeds would be made in accordance with agreed criteria.
Specialists would be employed by Oct. 31, 1986 to assist in appraising and
supervising these sub-loans. This would provide CNCA time to gain experience
in this field and to evaluate results before undertaking further expansion.
Also it was agreed that the 7% and 6% interest rate rebates currently in
effect for this type of lending depending on the size of the loan, would be
reduced by the Guarantor, so as to ensure that the effective interest rates
charged on such loans made on or after Oct. 31, 1986 are at least 8% and 9%,
respectively, (i.e., positive in real terms). The question of eliminating
interest rate rebates in the medium-term is being studied under ITPA II loan.
55.      To maintain CNCA's sound financial position (para. 43) it was agreed
that CNCA would: a) carry out an annual review of lending interest rates to
ensure that the weighted average rate is at least e:qual to the rate of
inflation (as measured by the Central Bank's producer price index); b) ensure
that it earns an annual return of 12% on equity; and c) keep separate accounts
for CLCA's operations and take appropriate measures to ensure that annual
revenues from such operations would cover all operating expenses of CLCAs and
CRCAs' total debt service requirements. Furthermore, to assist CNCA in
maintaining a prudent financial structure and liquidity position, assurances



- 19 -
were obtained that: (a) CNCA's medium- and long-term debt (i.e., over 18
months) would not exceed eight times its equity; (b) its current ratio would
equal at least 1.2; and c) its total financing to any one beneficiary (loans,
guarantees, investments) not secured by government or other acceptable
guarantees would not exceed 20% of CNCA's equity.
56.      Four other initiatives affecting CNCA's financial prospects have been
agreed under the proposed project which are consistent with general reforms
being introducei in the financial sector. The first one relates to the
initial steps aimed at elimination of financial privileges of CNCA which are
not available to other institutions. Given the sptisfactory financial
performance of CNCA and in order to encourage a better market orientation of
CNCA, it was agreed that a study to establish a program to enable CNCA to
eliminate gradually its recourse to 3Z bonds in which commercial banks are
required to invest will be carried out by June 30, 1987; it has also been
agreed that CNCA would establish a yearly special provision equivalent to 1Z
of these bonds to cover bad loans resulting from droughts or other adverse
natural conditions. The second action relates to the foreign exchange risk.
Traditionally in Morocco the Government has born most of the foreign exchange
risk of external debt contracted by specialized institutions. In the context
of the Second Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA II) loan, a shift
in policy to eventually make the specialized institutions and their borrowers
fully responsible for the foreign exchange risk was developed. Under the
formula developed under ITPA II to initiate the transfer of the foreign
exchange risk from Government to the institutions: (i) CNCA bears the full
cost of the foreign exchange losses incurred from variations of up to 2Z in
the exchange rate; CNCA's average lending rate (ll%) and the concessionary
interest rate in its foreign borrowings from Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
and OPEC fund (2Z) less a margin to assure adequate profitability (5.5%) would
be credited to a foreign exchange risk fund in the name of Treasury; iii) CNCA
would deposit into such a fund the proceeds of a 1% up-front commission on its
medium- and long-term loans, with the exception of loans to small farmers.
Under the proposed project assurances were obtained that CNCA would further
contribute to the foreign exchange risk fund, at the end of each fiscal year
lS of the value of the then outstanding principal amount of CNCA's above
mentioned 3S bonds. With regard to the third initiative, the Government, who
is DH 155 million in arrears with CNCA in reimbursing CNCA foreign exchange
losses on past borrowings, has agreed under the project that such arrears
would be paid by December 1987 in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the
Bank and that all fut-are foreign exchange losses payable by Government would
be paid to CNCA within six months of incurrance of the loss. Fourth.
assurances were obtained that the Government will pay CNCA a fee aeequate to
compensate CNCA for the costs incurred in administering the agr. cultural
development fund.
Project Costs and Financing
57.      Total project costs are estimated at DH 7,203.0 million (US$720.3
million) 30X of which, or about US$221.0 million, would be in foreign
exchange. Cost estimates include taxes and duties of about DH 782.7 million
or 1l1 of Project costs. Base costs are estimated at June 1986 prices. The
Project credit component is established in financial terms on projections



- 20 -
calculated on the basis of historical lending and on the increase in lending
expected to take place as a consequence of the new credit policy being applied
by CNCA (para. 40). Physical investment targets have been only approximately
estimated, therefore only price contingencies have been calculated for this
component at the rate of 102 in 1986 and 82 thereafter. For the Institutional
Development component, contingency allowances have been calculated separately;
physical contingenices have been calculated at i52 for CNCA infrastructural
development and 101 for the computer hardware.
58.      CNCA would finance about DH 2,880 million (US$288.0 million), or 40%
of total project costs, from its own resources. Sub-borrowers would finance
DH 2,113.0 million (US$211.3 million), or 30% of total project costs, as their
equity contribution to on-farm, agroindustrial and housing investments. The
remaining gap of US$221 million, or about 30% of total project costs would be
financed by the proposed loan of $120 million, a loan from the African
Development Bank of $66 million equivalent, and loans from KfW of $35 million
equivalent.  The amount of foreign financing approaches the estimated foreign
exchange component of the project.
59.      The Bank loan to CNCA would be for a period of 20 years including a
five-year grace period at the standard variable interest rate. Subloan
repayments not yet needed to service the Bank loan would be used for
additional agricultural investments. The Government would maintain with CNCA
arrangements to protect CNCA against the foreign exchange risks in connection
with the service of the Bank loan to the extent specified in para. 56. CNCA
would bear the variable interest risk. The ADB loan would be for a period of
16 years, of which 4 of grace, at an interest rate of 10 percent. The KfW
loans would be for a period of 30 years, including a ten-year grace period, at
an interest rate of 21. Government would provide or assist CNCA to obtain any
additional resources required for the project. Since the KfW loan would not
be required until April 1987, the only special condition of effectiveness is
that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADB loan have been
met. The Bank would have the right to suspend the loan if by April 30, 1987,
the conditions precedent to the right of CNCA to withdraw the KfW loan
proceeds have not been met.
Procurement
60.      The range of goods to be financed under the Project for on-farm
investments is varied and would not be suitable for bulk procurevent. There
are private dealers in Morocco who sell and service a large variety of tractor
makes and other farm equipment and implements well representing the
international suppliers market. Competition is keen and prices competitive.
Sub-borrowers would therefore purchase agricultural machinery and equipment of
their choice through existing local channels. As in the case of other
Bank-financed IDF projects in Morocco, procurement for the agroindustry, and
rural housing components would also be undertaken through existing local
channels and according to normal commercial practices in Morocco, where the
inherent self-interest of entrepreneurs has led to almost universal
competitive bidding or shopping. Electronic data processing equipment would
be purchased after ICB and technical assistance contracts would be awarded in
accordance with Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Goods and civil
works for the construction of the headquarters would be awarded under ICB,



- 21 -
provided that certain items supplied through a limited number of suppliers
estimated to cost less than $1 million in the aggregate could be procured
through limited international bidding. Contracts for goods for CNCA's branch
offices would be awarded under ICB. Civil works for new construction and
rehabilitation of CNCA's branch offices would be undertaken all over the
country and executed through small contracts of an average unit cost of about
US$0.3 million. These works, valued in total at about US$5.3 million, would
not be of interest to foreign contractors and would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally (LCB). A sufficiently large and
representative number of construction firms are operating in Morocco to ensure
competitive prices under LCB procedures, which are generally consistent with
the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the project. There
are, however, a few procedures which need to be modified so as to be
acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations agreement was reached that these
procedures would be modified for Bank financed civil works so as to be
acceptable to the Bank. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table
below:
US $ million -
ICB     LCB    Other      Total Cost
Civil Works and goods for
CNCA infrastructure                 2.21'    5.3                   7.5
(1.0)    (2.0)                (3.0)
Microcomputers                        1.0                            1.0
(1.0)                         (1.0)
Agricultural machinery                               500.0        500.0
& Equip. & implements &                           (115.5)      (115.5)
civil works under subloans
Technical Assistance                                   0.5           0.5
(0.5)        (0.5)
TOTAL                                 3.2      5.3  500.5         509.0
(2.0)    (2.0) (116.2)      (120.0)
Figures in parenthesis represent Bank loan financing.
1/ Certain goods and work. for the headquarters costing up to $1 million
equivalent could be procured under limited international bidding.
61.      Bidding packages for CNCA's works estimated to cost US$400,000
equivalent or more each would be subject to the Bank's prior approval. Prior
Bank approval would also apply to the first two contracts for civil works
regardless of cost and to the purchase of goods. This would represent prior
review by the Bank of about 60Z of total contract value. The other contracts
would be subject to random post-review by the Bank after contract award.



- 22 -
Disbursements
62.      The proposed loan would be committed over a three-year period
starting in July 1986, when the funds under the Fifth project would be
exhausted, and disbursed over a period of four years, which is consistent with
disbursement profiles of EMENA and Moroccan agricultural credit projects. The
Bank would disburse against certified statement of expenditures for 16Z of
disbursements by CNCA under sub-loans made through CLCAs, 25Z of disbursements
by CNCA under sub-loans through CRCAs (except for sub-loans for greenhouses,
when the percentage would be 75% of such disbursements), 75Z of disbursements
by CNCA under sub-loans to agroindustries, and 50S of disbursements by CNCA
under sub-loans for rural housing. Disbursements for the construction of the
new headquarters building (501 of total expenditures), branch offices (40% of
total expenditures), electronic data processing equipment (1001 of foreign
expenditures and 80X of local expenditures) and technical assistance (1002 of
total expenditures) would be made on receipt of full standard documentation
except that for contracts for CNCA's infrastructure not exceeding $400,000
each, SOEs would be permitted. No disbursements will be made for the
construction of branch offices and the headquarters building until an economic
and financial report satisfactory to the Bank justifying such investment has
been received by the Bank. Approval by the Bank of the investment and Subloan
for each agroindustry subproject estimated to cost more than $500,000
equivalent would be a condition of disbursement of such subloan. To
contribute to the timely implementation of the project a revolving fund of up
to US$10 million equivalent would be established in a special account in the
Bank of Morocco or other acceptable bank. Maintenance of the account in
Dirhams would be permitted.  Retroactive financing of up to US$12 million for
expenditures made from July 1, 1986, is permitted under the loan to avoid
disruptions in CNCA's lending program once the 5th line of credit is fully
disbursed. The loan closing date would be March 31, 1990.
Reporting, Accounts and Auditing
63.      CNCA would submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports on the
implementation of the project within three months of the end of each semester
in a format acceptable to the Bank, ananual reports on the operations of its
sub-loan monitoring system within six months of the close of the year
concerned, copies of the MIS consultants reports upon their completion, and a
Project Completion Report not later than six months after the Closing Date.
CNCA has a satisfactory accounting system. Audits of its accounts and
financial statements are done and would continue to be done annually by
independent auditors which are acceptable to the Bank. Audits of the Special
Account and of SOEs would also be made. Audit reports of adequate standards
under previous loans have been regularly received by the Bank. Audit reports
would continue to be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of each
CNCA fiscal year.
Benefits and Justification
64.      The Project would increase crop, milk and meat production in Morocco
through changed cropping patterns, increased crop yields, and livestock
improvements. Incremental annual production at full development is estimated
as follows: cereals, 329,000 tons, pulses, 8,000 tons, vegetables, 392,000,



- 23 -
milk, 127,000 tons, and meat, 17,000 tons. The major part of the incremental
production would be used to satisfy domestic demand for food, although some
pulses, fruit and vegetables may be exported. Analysis of illustrative farm
models (various farm sizes with different types of investments) indicates that
farmers incomes would increase significantly and that incentives to undertake
envisaged on-farm investments are high.
65.      CNCA's financial viability would be maintained, thus consolidating
the basis for future expansion with diminishing recourse to concessional
funding. Projected balance sheets and income statements indicate that CNCA
would preserve a satisfactory liquidity position and financial structure
throughout the Project period. CNCA's net worth would increase from
DH 750 million at end-1986 to DH 900 million as of August 31, 1988. This
increase would be mostly achieved through increased profitability and a policy
of capitalizing retained earnings. Annual net profits would remain above
12 percent of CNCA's equity.
66.      Economic rates of return (ERRs), estimated for illustrative farm
models, range from 14 to 50 percent. Financial rates of return (FRRs) range
from 15 to 53 percent. Sensitivity analysis shows that fairly large increases
in either investment or operating costs and similarly large decreases in
benefits are necessary for most mod2ls to render them uneconomic; only the
modex for investments in sheep shows a greater sensitivity to a small decrease
in benefits. Thus the economic viability of the project should not be
threatened.
Project Risks
67.      The major risk is that of adverse weather conditions which, on
average, occur once in every five years. The estimated average yields used in
illustrative farm models have taken this factor into account. Farmers'
ability to pay wou:d likely be affected in such adverse years but
historically, the delay in repayments has not resulted in losses for CNCA.
Furthermore, the Government is committed to cover CNCA's temporary liquidity
needs. A second risk, which could have substantial negative effects on CNCA's
performance in the longer term, would be the failure by the strengthened
management committee to develop its long term development plans and
operational policies. To reduce this possible outcome, the appropriate level
of representation from the various ministries, would be maintained in its
membership. The project does not present environmental risks.



- 24 -
PART V - RECOMOENDATION
68.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recomend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
June 3, 1986
Washington, DC



-25 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
TB DOLE SA 3
ID~~ - Oa4rx                        n              -   -
nok        19701t? ETtL         P. AFRICAA NED EAT      LAT. A.CA6 CAR
a(ThODMs SQ. n)
TOAL                             446.6 IC   444.6 /c   "6.6 Ic
ACRIWLURAL                      192.7      200.1      209.2
a cM   Cn)                           ..         ..       760.0            1134.9                  1875.9
CKWLAMG OF OIL  -UE'.: )         118.0      174.0      296.0             623.9                   993.6
1 10ATO ANID TI    STAEUS
POPULATIO.NLD-TtAR (TumSAIlD)  11626.0    1490.0    20601.0
URBA  POULATIoN CE OF TOTAL)      29.3       346        42.6              49.0                    67.7
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 CHILL)                        31.2
STATXCRT POPULATION ClIL)                             70.0
POPLATION NONWND                                       2.0
sOPMAIO DZNsm
PE SQ. EN.                      26.0       33.5       46.6              37.8                    48.0
Et SQ. IaK. AGRI. Lwe           60.3       74.6       96.9             470.1                    91.1
fPOPUATIOI SE STrUCTUR  (C)
0-14 iSS                       44.8       47.5        4.9              43.5                    38.5
15-64 iRS                       52.5       4.2        52.0              53.0                    57.1
65 AD ABOVE                      2.7        4.1        3.0               3.3                     4.2
POPUATION CROWTH RATE CR)
TOL                              2.6        2.5        2.5               2.4                     2.4
URLAN                            3.7        4.2        4.1               4.4                     3.6
Culls UR71 RATE CPZR TM07S)       50.3       47.5       39.7              40.0                    30.9
CRUDC DEATH RATZ (CPE  THU5)      21.2       16.9       14.3              11.5                     5.0
G0oss REUODUCTI0o  RT              3.5        3.5        2.8               2.8                     2.0
PAMIL! PUNNING
AGGRPTORS. A_UL (THOUS)          ..        25.1       76.0 Id
S=S ( OFNARRIZZD  WN)            ..         ..        26.0              21.4                    45.3
IlNE OF 00 POD. PER CAPITA
(196-71-100)                      99.0       98.0       75.0              95.1                   109.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORS (S OF REQUIIHMENS)       95.0       103.0      118.0            I16.2                   113.2
PROTEIN  (GRUMS PER DAY)        60.0       65.0       79.0              77.8                    69.4
Of SWHICH AmTL AND PU          14.0       13.0       14.0 I            17.8                    34.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       37.6       26.4       12.0              12.8                     4.8
LIF  EXPECT. AT BERTH EYZARS)     46.7       50.6       52.2              57.3                    64.8
INFArT MT. RATE (PER THWIS)      160.5      136.5       98.0              96.a                    59.7
ACCESS TO SANE MATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                           30.6       51.0       55.0 Id           67.2                    65.3
URBN                            58.7       92.0       100.0 T           93.4                    76.5
RURAL                           19.0       28.0       25.0 71           45.8                    4.2
ACCS TO EXRCEA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                            *-        29.0        ..               45.9                    56.3
URA                                        75.0         .               63.0                    73.4
RURAL                            ..         4.0        ..               28.6                    25.5
POPULUTZzg PER USTMCIAN         9410.0    12790.0    10750.0 /f         331.0                  1909.7
PoP. PER HORSING PERSON            ..      2740.0     130.0             1845.0                   808.2
POP. PER HSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          630.0      660.0      750.0 to          621.8                   362.0
UBANI                            ..       450.0      6o.0 re           545.0                   422.0
RURAL                            ..      5810.0     3010. 7;          2511.3                  2716.7
ADNISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED        ..        15.5       17.9 /a           25.7                    27.5
smml
AVERAE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            4.8        5.5
flBAD                            4.3        4.9
RURAL                            5.1        5.8
AVERAGE NO. Of PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                            2.2        2.4
URBAN                            2.1        2.1
RURAL                            2.3        2.6
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLINGS W11TH ELECT.
TOTAL                            ..         ..
UtRIN                            ..        48.4       65.0/- 
RRAL                             ..         ...



- -ANNEX I
-26-
Page 2 of 7
MOPOCCO                - SOCIAL OIMICAORS DATA SHCET
MOEOCCO                             REFERNCE GOPS (WEIGTE  AVERAGES) /a
HOBS                    (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) 7b
RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME         .MDDLC INCOME
In/b      197(tk ESSTALb    a. AFRICA & MID EAST         LAT. AMERICA 1 CAR
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMA:  TOTAL                    47.0        52.0       80.0               89.0                    10b.7
IULE                   67.0       67.0        91.0             103.7                    108.5
FEMALE                 27.0       36.0        62.0              73.2                    104.6
SECONDARYI TOTAL                  3.0        13.0       28.0               42.9                     44.:
MALE                    7.0       16.0        33.n              50.9                     42.7
FEMALE                  2.0        7.0        22.0              34.6                     44.9
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)         0.0         0.0        1.8               10.0                     13.3
FUFL-TEACNR RATIO
PRIMAWl                          42.0        34.0       36.0               29.7                     29.9
SECONDARY                         6.0        20.0       21.0               18.3                     16.7
PASSENGE CARS/THOUSAND POP         10.7        14.9       21.5 L             17.6                     46.0
RADIO NECEIVERS/TUOUSAND POP       45.8        62.5       167.7             175.9                    328.3
TV RUCCVEJS/TUOUSAD POP             0.4        11.6       41.7               51.2                    11.4
NEWSPAPI ("DAILGY GENWAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PE TROUSAND POPULATION            22.1        16.2       :2.6               37.2                     81.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCEICAPITA     1.5         1.5 /h     2.0 /a             2.4                      2.4
1An rats-
TOTAL LABOR FORCM (THOGS)   -    3389.0      3939.0     554.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 10.0        14.2        16.2              11.0                     23.6
AGRICULTUME (PERCENT)            62.0        57.0       52.0 /1            42.4                     31.4
DUMTY CPERCENT)                  14.0        17.0       21.0 71            27.9                     2;.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERT)
TOTAL                            29.1        26.3       26.7               26.2                     33.5
MALE                             52.1        45.2       44.5               46.2                     51.3
FEKALE                            5.9         7.5        8.5                5J                      15.9
ECONOMPC DEPENDCNC RATIO            1.6         2.0        1.8                1.8                      1.3
XM DmSm3uI
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOE
RECEIVED ST
HICHgST 52 OF IOUSEHOLDS         18.0 Li    20.0
HRICEST 20? OF ROUSENOLDS        43.3        49.0        ..
LOWEST 202 OF ROUSIOLDS           7.0  1      4.0 il
WEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS           18.0 7j    12.0          ..
F;i  nA-CIT
ESTIMED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LaVx (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                           107.0       157.0      389.0 /f           226.3                    288.3
RURAL                            66.0       101.0      238.0 7?           134.0                    185.3
ESTIMAED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..       242.0 /f           431.5                    519.8
RURAL4                            ..          ..       157.0 7            326.0                    359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVER! INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                            51.0        38.0       28.0 /f
RURAL                            49.0        45.0       45.0 72'           29.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
t O T E S
Ia  The group averages for each indieacor are population-weighted aritbmetic means. Coverage of countries
song the indlcators depens on availability of data and Ia not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimte" between 1951 and 1983.
Ic  Exclu   the ex-Spnish Sahara;  Id 1976; Ie 1977; /f 1979; a  1978; lh 1972; /I 1980;
fj Concuption expenditure of households.
JUNE. 1985



ANNEX I
-  27 -                                       Page  3 of  7
DMmoNs or SOCIAL INDICATORS
Natos Althoulh she darn an drawn from sour. .    lyjudg d h mt authoritative and Minbl.1  is should abo be noedsh theya nay not be ncmlionnlly
compamble bame of the lack of tandardid deinito  nd conept umd by diffrent countries in coleciing she darn. The da amr nonethekls, useful to
describc order of manitudc. indikte treas and caractaw certain major diffrec between countri.
The eference group are (1) the amme country grou   the subject country and (2) a country group with somewhat higher avyerg income than she country
group ad he subject counsty (except for "Hih Income Oil Ex poter group whlee Middle Income North Africa and Middle Eas' im choen bemuse of stronger
sociocultural allaisie). In the mfierence group data the avea   am population weighted arithmetic mans for each indicator and shown only when majority
or the coaoris in  group has dat for that indicator Since the covage ocountrie among the indicato depend on the availabity afdata and is not uniform.
caution must be csertsed in relting averags of one indicator to snooher Thee averapr ate only useful in composring the value of one indicator at a time among
the country and reference group.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crude tJit Rate (pr trhesaud)-Numberof live births in the year
Teult-Total surface area comprising land area and inbnd waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crude Deat Rate (per thousau d)-Number of deaths in the year
AgrWeurbuIL-Estimate of agricultural area used tempomrily or    per thousand or mid-year population: 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or io  Gros Reprodctin Rate-Average number ordaughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period ir she experiences
prcsent age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion nmthod as World    F.mdlp Pmmiag-Accepwrs, Ammal (thasantfl-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (198143 basis) 1983 data.                            ber of acceptors of birth-cntrol devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,     FNW  PPlar4ag-JUsers (perem of reeled women)-The percn-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothernul elec-  tage of married womnen or child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      orchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Tota Popeatiwi, Mid-Yea (hausauds)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Urban Populatino (percent of totu)-Ratio, of urban to t         IeFx of I'oodPrfoduction Per Cpta (1969-71 - 100)-Index of per
fJr   P e {ptret el etet)Rallo  f uron to otat capita annual production Of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  eclude animal feeduand seed  for Iculture. Fo d commodictie
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.     eicludes aimal ryed andseted f(er griarcaure instead of sugar)
Popuato Projetio                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Populatw  in year 2000-The projection of population for 2W00    excluded); they comprise ecreals. root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the bas year 1980, these parameters  on national average producer price weights, 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             hrn Ceapita Suy of Caoes (Percent of requiremus)-com put-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  od from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement klvel  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death .ate. the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing I0 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentwn-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Capita Sxpply of Protein (grems per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-leve fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams or total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year :. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
mes level from year i onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popuatio Dedts*                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per CapitaProtein Spply From Animuul nd  le--Protein supply
Per sq.km. agrinutural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Populaton Age Structure (perceat)-Children (0-14 years). work-  Child (ages -4) Deat Rate (perthousand) -Numberofdeathsof
ing age (I5-64 year). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popudation Growth Rate (percessr)-toral-Annual growth rates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Populat   Growth Rate (percean)v-ra--Annual growth rates        Life Expecancy at Birth (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all peopic



- 28 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
at the eime of of its birth were to stay the same throughout ius life;  Pupr-tachar Ratio - primary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and econdary levels divided by numbers of
hfat Maut  Rate (par ghaaandD-Number or infants who die    teachers in the corresponding  vels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year. 1960 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
Aem to So   Waer (prcet i!f popM   i)-rotl ura, ad             Paenr Cas (per thasand papMlalrdJ)-Psen ger cars com-
nmw-Number of people (total, urban. and rural) with reamonable  prise motor cars seating leas than eight persons; excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such a that from protected  Rai Reeivm (per thousand popsations-All types of receivers
borehoks. sprirnp and sanitary wells) as pemtenages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to geeal public per thousand of population;
dve popuationL In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licenwsd receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being withn resonable access of that house. In rudal areas  not be comparable since most countries abolshed licensing.
reasonable aemas would imnply ftat the housewife or members or the  TRcirv prtosn  .ualu-   eevr o  racs
housethold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Recies (pr   m_H          N rceivers ror broadcast
in setching the fa veily's water needs                         to general pubic per thousand populadon; excludes unbcensed TV
in fetching the fwamOiy's water needs.                         rcceivers in countries and in yeas when registration of TV sets was
Acces to Exrcera Asp.,.!5 (percent of pOpnilaffon--40sid urban,  in effect.
ad rurIL-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excret disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Newspaper Cfrcuat  (per thosand papal.riJ)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of daily general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to reckirding general news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily' if it appears at kast four times a weck.
Pouatioa per Physd.n-Population divided by number or prac-     Cnma Ammi       Aneubuce per Capita per Yea-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Population per Nrsixg Arsion-Prpulation divided by number of   drive-in cinenas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       ABOR FORCE
Population per Hospital *ed-t40al, ura, ad rWa-Population      Total Labr Foc (thousandsJ-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding arned forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private, genva and spaialized  students, etc.. covering population of all age. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not compar bk 1960 1970 and 1983 data
pemnanently staffed by at least one physician. Estabtishments prov-  Fealk (percenat-Firnale labor force as perccntage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals  force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffcd  Agri bkwe (percextJ-Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a nedical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as pecentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                         Indhnsry (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Adnissiou per Hospital BEd-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and dectricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force. 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Parrric     Rae (pere)-rt4 ak, aindfmsae-PArticipation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total, male, and female labor formc
Aveag SiZe of Houoldw   (permss per hauseold)-total, urban,    as percntages of total, male and fenalc population of all ages
andrwrur-A household consists ofa group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimnates are from national sources.
Araee Nuxber of Persons per Root--teoal, aro. nd rura-         Econonc Dependency Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Aveage number of persons per room in all urban. and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwelUings, respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-pernanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBtlTION
Percentae of DweliC   with Ekecricity-otral, wam, and rural-   Percenage of Tota Diosabk Inco1e (bot a cah *d hd)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A*dst  Enrolenr Ratos                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prtnary school - total. m'le and femakl-Gross total. mnale and  levels. and should be interpmeted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary lcvd as oercentages of  Estimaed Absolute Povry  rome Level (USS per capital -uran
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural--Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-1l years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-rood requirements is not affordable.
are refkcted in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relative Pvert.y Income Level (U SSper capitaJ-arbau
education. gross cnrollment may exceed 100 peroent since some  and ruraf-Rural relative poverty income level is one-th'rd of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban lcvel is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
SeonAry school - total. male and female-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Etimaed Pobpulion Below Absoirte Povery Income Level (per-
mary instruction provides general. vocational. or teacher training  cnri-arhran and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ece courses are generally exduded.
Vocational Enrollnwni (percent of second2ry)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technical industrial. or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indepndently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



- 29 -
Population        20.3 million (lid-19531                                                                                                     Pageaof
GNP Per Capite:  USS 750 (1951                                                                                                                Page S OP 7
IHflC!Cl - Ec4rDSie  IMDICATOU4
Amount                                          -            -
(million USS at                                   A,ualrtn Rt (l
Current prices. )etua1                                                        _     _    _     _     _    _    _
tndlcAtnr                     ....14            3                           l             0/     e          lili    l2 3                       1110
MATIIMAL ACCUpMTc
Gross dOmeStIC product A/            1214S                   -1.3     6.0      2.2      2.4     4.3             2.4     2.5      2.5      2.8     2.9
Agriculture                       2023                  -22.9    19.9    -4.6       2.0      6.0            2.0      2.0      2.1     2.5      2.5
Industry                          3932                   -0.1      2.2      2.1     0.e      3.0            1.5      2.0      2.5     2.5      3.0
Services                          6189                    5.0      6.1      3.0     3.4      4.7            2.0      1.0      3.0     3.0      3.0
Consumtion                           10647                    1.5     6.0      0.3      1.2     3.4             2.3     1.6      1.6      1.6     2.2
GroSs investment                      2792                   -9.4     7.1   -14.0       1.1    -5.O            -4.6    -0.6      2.9      2.0     3.0
Exports of GNFS                       3055                   0.2      5.5      7.3      3.6     6.1            6.1      7.0      0 2      7.5     5.6
Imports of GIFS                      4349                    2.0      3.7   -11.9       3.2    -4.2            2.0      2.3      3.4      3.3     3.0
Gross national savings                1026                  -32.2     4.1    21.2       7.9      1.7            3.4     7.4      0.3    12.5    11.0
GOP deflator (190O * 100)              .                    55.4    91.7   1041.0   110.    121.a             125.0   136.4   152.0
Exchange rate (USS per O)              .                     .240    .256    .254    .193    .166              .141    .114      .10
Share of GOP at Market Prices (%I                                  Averac  nnual Increase (%I
(at eurrent orireel ei                    fat rnatant l969 ortceI              flat canstant 1290 oricas)
JIZA    1975    Jim    1J70 -7S1 Ju                                       197520 132ZS       3IiLL-ie               Ji2L2
Gross domstic Product                                                                        4.9         5.5             3.1          2.7          4.9
Agriculture              19.9    17.9    18.1    1S.0    14.7    13.S                    -1.4         4.4             0.S          2.3          3.0
Industry                 27.0    35.2    32.3    30.6    30.1    31.2                     7.4         4.Z             1.9          2.3          5.7
Services a/              53.1    46.9    49.6    54.4    55.2   S5.3                      1.6         6.4             4.7          3.0          4.9
Consumptlon                 05.5    05.5    d0.5    06.0    03.5    79.6                     s.0         6.1             2.4           1.0         3.9
Gross Investment           1l.S    25.4    22.6    16.0    15.2    20.4                     13.0        -1.1            -2.6          1.0         11.2
Exports GNIFS               17.6    22.5    18.4    19.9    24.9    25.S                     0.0         4.9             4.J           7.6         5.3
Imports GNFS                21.6    33.4    29.4    23.5    23.7    25.5                     8.3         1.7            -2.0          2.9          6.4
Gross national savings    14.0    19.3    14.6    12.0    1S.B    20.6                      15.3        -4.4            -1.2          8.5         10.6
As % of GDP
1121      Jil        115        102a      lii         111
PUBULILFNhNCE
Current revenues                                  16.1       23.1      21.6       22.7       22.3       21.9
Current expenditures                              14.5      20.2       21.6       22.7       22.6       21.9
Surplus 1+) or deficit 1-1                         1.6        3.1      -0.2        0.0       -0.5        0.0
Capital expenditure                                5.7       12.2       12.2      13.0        0.4        6.6
Foreign financing                                  1.3       3.7        5.6        7.2        3.6        5.0
1970-75   197S-80   1980-5   1985          19903
nTHIER IIIDICATDR
GNP growth rate (22                                6.0        4.9        2.9       2.4        5.1
GNP per capita growth rate (2)                     3.1        1.a       0.4       -0.1        2.6
Energy consuption growth rate ISI                  6.7        5.6        3.4       3.0        4.9
ICOR                                               3.0       4.1        6.9        S.B        3.5
Marginal savings rate                              3.00      -0.15       0.14      0.48       0.36
Import elasticit,                                  1.U       0.13      -0.65       1.0o       1.32
A/ At market prices.
h/ Import taXes included in services.
cr Projected years at constant 1980 prices.
d!  Estimate.
Oeceniber 1o. 1905
MENEA CP'IB
ID 39390 pi



Population    :  20.8 million (mid-1983)                                                                                                           AhNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$ 750 (1983)                                            ,       .                                                            Page 6 of 7
UnRoccO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount
Indicator                      (million USS at                            Annual Grawth Rates (%) (at constant 1190 arices d
current prices)                              Actal                                         Pro0 ected
12"4                 1I11   1IlI                     2 1111    lA  18 l/ a, l6    1987    1988    1121    1990
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports (FOB)               2169                   2.9      1.1    10.3      5.1       5.8           8.1      7.8      8.2     7.4      5.3
Primary products                     1250                  -3.6   -11.4       5.6      3.7       5.3           4.3      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0
Phosphate rock                      524                  -5.6   -10.1       5.4     2.7       3.0            3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
Others                              726                  -2.2   -12.4       5.7      4.4      6.9            5.2      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0
Intermediate & manufactures           919                  21.9    30.0    17.7        7.0      6.5           13.3    13.7    14.0    11.9        7.4
Merchandise imports (CIFI               3904                   2.9     5.8    -8.4       7.1      -4.3           2.5      2.9      3.6     3.5      3.2
Food                                  660                  23.1   -18.8    -4.9    26.6        -8.0            3.0      3.1     3.2      3.3      3.3
Fuels                                1021                  10.6    -1.8       1.1      4.8     -2.0            2.4      2.5     2.8      2.8      2.9
Machinery and equipment               733                  -7.7    31.4   -27.2        8.5    -15.1           -2.0    -0.7      2.5      2.5      2.9
Others                               1490                  -5.0    12.7    -5.5        0.5       0.7           4.1      4.2     4.8      4.3      3.3
PRICES (1980 = lOO)
Export price index                                          120.7   124.4   135.9   166.7    173.7             206.1   249.3   276.7   307.3   341.0
Import price index                                          130.0   142.2   153.4   191.0    211.1             239.0   281.2   304.6   330.5   358.3
Terms of trade index                                         92.8    87.5    88.6    87.3         82.3          86.2    88.7    90.8    93.0    95.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                                 Averaoe Annual Increase                                    I
(at current orices)                    (Constant 1969 orieaI              (Constant I10 oricesl
1975    1980    l9B5    1990    1995   ~~1970-75    197S-90         1980-85    1985-90    1930-9S
Exports                                                                                       -1.3         7.0               5.3         7.5         5.2
Primary products                    86.9    74.4    57.3    47.2    42.6                  -2.8         5.4              -0.3         3.2         3.1
Intermediates & manufactures        13.1    25.6    42.7    52.8    57.4                   7.9        12.7              16.7        12.4         7.0
Imports                                                                                        9.0         0.7               0.4         3.2         6.6
Food                                25.0    16.9    18.3    18.3    16.0                  14.0         2.9               1.1         3.2         3.7
Petroleum                           10.8    23.6    26.0    25.4    24.3                   9.6         5.2               2.1         2.7         5.6
Machinery and equipment             24.0    18.9    15.0    13.5    18.5                  12.8        -7.3              -3.5         1.2        13.5
Others                              40.2    40.6    40.7    42.8    41.2                   5.3         2.8               0.7         4.2         5.7
Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with                       Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (1I             1eavelnlna Countries (ZI              Capital Surplus Oil Exoorters (11
1960      1970       19MB            1960       1970       19M0                196Q         1970        1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                               72.3       73.7       76.5            27.7       25.4       21.6                   ..         0.9         1.9
Imports                               76.7       74.9       72.9            25.3       25.1        8.3                  ..           ..        18.8
I/ Estimate
October 18, 1985
EMENA CPIIB. 39398



- 31 -
Pomilation        20.8 million (mId-1983)                                                                                                        ANuEXu
GNP Per Capita:  USS 7s5  (19BX1                                                                                                             Page 7 of 7
SawneD - ea inCE OF PAzWEMTS rirrEm CPITAL p10 OE T
,mllion    a*t  urrent prices
Indicator                                             Actual                                                   Projerted
L        211    13    12    131  3D  liMit                     1931    1.12    133    1219    1
R LANCE OF PAYMENTS
EkPorts of goods and services          4364    4122    3843    3921    3975        29U                4528    5209    6036    6978    7977
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.    2414    2283    2042    2016    2169          2106                2457    Z935    3525    4205    4912
Imeorts of goods and services          5912    6095    $912    48U8    5so        4787                Sill    5648    6393    7060    7753
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.    4284    4363    4335    3627    3934          3637                3829    425s    4781    5366    6005
net current transfers                   12e      102     170      94       61        64                 69       75      a)l      87      94
Current account balance               -1420   -1861   -1399    -873    -964        -73S               -514    -364    -277         6     318
Net Direct Foreign Investment           109      73      102       47      51        56                 62               75       82      91
Official Grants                          97     313      124      142      16       300                  -        -       -        -       -
MLT loans (net)                        1036    1103    1S54      230      442       781                656     564      32B      182    -121
Official                             722    1032      740     340      372       595                648    s55        58    -236    -699
Private                              314      70     614    -110        70      186                   8       4      270     568      57B
Other capital (net)                      22     336      395     297      46b      -212               -125    -232    -154    -I79    -152
Change in reserves                      156      36      -76     157      -13      -191                -69      -26      28      -91    -136
International reserves                  814    s51       540     376      266      457                 526     $62      534     625      761
Of which:  Gold                      415     210      322     269      217      217                 217     217      217     217      217
Reserves as months imports              1.7     1.0      1.1     0.9      0.6       1.1                1.2     1.2      1.0      1.1     1.2
EXTEONAL CAPITAL AND BEBT
Gross disbursements                    1711    2047    2230      982    1105       1565
Official Grants                      97      313      124     142       16      300
Concessional loans                   761     889      s57     209      274      378
DAC                              100      1ZD     125       49      134      177
OPEC                             584      746     401      11S      79       124
IDA                                1        1       1        1        3        2
Other                             76       16      30       43      58        74
lon-concess1onal loans              854      845    1549      631      81s      387
Official export credits           12       54      103      s0      135       85
IORD                              64       99     134      174     240       402
Other multilateral                13      123      70       23      24        47
Private                          765      s70    1Z43      383     416       354
Suppliers credits               8       Z6      52        8      16        19
Financial credits a bonds   758       543    1191      375      400       335
Ebternal Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed   7109    7983    9054    9445   10347    11513
Official                        3496    4373    5004    5894    6579        7450
Private                         3612    3610    4049    3552    3768        4062
Undisbursed debt                   2154    3146    2487    3658    3093        2359
Debt service
total service payments I/          1193    1266    1334    1120    1196         990
Interest                         614     634      58l    s5o       546       506
Payments as S exports of G+S zr  27.3    30.6    34.7    28.6    30.1          24.8
Average interest rate on new loans (13  8.2        8.4    10.1       7.4     7.4       8.4
Official                                3.8     3.7      6.9     S.5      6.7      n.a.
Private                               13.4    13.7    11.8    10.5    11.B         n.a.
Average maturity of new loans (years)  13.7        9.5    11.0    15.9    17.5        12.6
Official                               18.6    11.6    19.7    21.1    20.3        n.a.
Private                                7.9      7.1     6.3      7.6      6.1      n.a.
As 1 of Debt Dutstandina at End of MsgL Recent Year 119831
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                   49.4
Matur'ties due within 10 years                                  e0.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                   5.8
gl Estimate
I/ After rescheduling                                                                                                                  October 30. 198S
2/ Servtces include workers' remittances                                                                                                   RENA CP Il-B
ID 3939092



- 32 -
Morocco                                                                            ANNEX II
STATUS OF RBANK OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1986
Loan or                                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                USS Millian
Number  Yar         fBorrower             Purnose            Bank      iD       Undisbursed
Thirty five Loans fully disbursed                         1,047.47
Five Credits fully disbursed                                          4S.16
1416    1977    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           41.0                   8.89
1602    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            50.0                 33.35
1681    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Education              88.0                 46.33
1695    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Power                  37.0                  8.42
1724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply          49.0                   8.94
1757    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           44.0                   8.98
1830    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways               57.2                  6.64
1848    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            24.0                 15.77
1943    1981    CIH                     Tourism             100.0                 27.76
1944    1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  25.0                     19.16
2006    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply           87.0                 60.43
2037    1982    ONDE                    DFC                  70.0                 30.22
2038    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)              40.0                 37.11
2082    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            24.0                 21.20
2109    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                  9.5                  6.49
2110    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Forestry               20.5                  16.34
2114    1982    ONAREP                  Oil Shale             8.2                  1.08
2149    1982    Kingdom of Morr-co    Education              38.0                 26.72
2217    1983    Kingdom of "   zco    Agriculture            30.0                 28.79
2245    1983    CIN                     Housing Devt.       60.0                  56.31
2253    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            42.0                 40.63
2254    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways               76.6                 71.02
2271    1983    ONAREP                  Oil Exploration    75.2                   32.04
2272    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Village Infrastr.  16.0                     14.77
2367    1984    CNCA                    Agric. Credit       115.4                 34.57
2477    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Voc.Training           27.1                 21.82
2487    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Elec.& Mec.Ind.    25.1                     25.04
2508    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Jerada Coal Min.   27.0                     25.73
2572    1985    Kingdom of Morocco    Health*                28.4                 28.40
2590    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    Agr.Sec.Adj.          100.0                 60.03
2604    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    2nd Ind.&Trade    200.0                     80.00
2656    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture*           46.0                 46.00
2657    1986    Port Authority          Port of Casa.*       22.0                 22.00
2664    1986    Kingdom of Morocco    Education*            150.0                150.00
Total                                                2900.67    45.16
of which has been repaid                            498.76      2.71
Total now outstanding                                2401.91    42.45
Amount Sold                        20.11
of which has been repaid         20.11                0.0       0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       2401.91    42.45
Total undisbursed                                                           874.S8
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Mach 31. 1986)
USS Million
Fiscal Year                                                    LQan    mEuity   Total
1985            Frumat               Food & Food Processing   6.5                   6.5
1963/1978/1984  BNDE                 Oevelopment Bank          84.1       0.0      84.1
0.0      2.9        2.0
1976            Marrakech Cement   Cement Factory                -        1.2       1.2
1977/1980       Temara Cement        Cement Factory             4.7       3.5       8.3
1980            SOMIFER              Copper Mining             12.9       2.3      15.2
1981/1983       Casablanca Cement  Cement Factory              15.8       Z.O      17.8
Total Gross Commitments                                     124.0      11.9     135.1
Total comuitments now held by IFC                            48.2      11.1      88.2
Total Undisbursed                                             5.7       0.3       6.5
* Not yet effective.
ID.04798 p2
06/02/86



- 33-
Annex III
page 1 of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Proiect Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
a)   Project identified:                     June 1984
b)   Agencies responsible for
project preparation:                    CNCA
c)   Time taken to prepare project:          10 months (January 1985 to
October 1985)
d)  Date of Appraisal Mission:               November 1985 and January 1986
e)   Date of Completion of Negotiations:    May 2, 1986
f)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:          Sept. 30, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Imlementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Special Condition of effectiveness
a)  Effectiveness of ADB loan agreement;
Conditions of disbursements
b) (i) no disbursements would be made for (A) the construction of branch
offices and headquarters building until such investments have been
justified and the Bank has approved the investment; (B) agroindustry
subprojects costing over $500,000 until the Bank has approved the
subproject and subloan; (ii) retroactive financing of up to
*12 million would be allowed (para. 62);
Other conditions
c)   CNCA would put in place a management information system in 3 branches
by January 31, 1987 (para. 52);
d)   CNCA would maintain its management committe with membership and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank and the Guarantor would



- 34 -
Annex III
page 2 of 2
establish a task force to develop proposals to eciance CNCA's long
term development (para. 51);
e)   CNCA would present by December 31, 1986 an action plan to develop and
implement its budgeting and medium- and long-term planning system and
recruit for this purpose consulting services as needed (para. 51);
f)   CNCA would apply new appraisal procedures based on direct assessment
by CNCA of farmers' income potential in the province of Meknes and
Settat by June 30, 1987 and June 30, 1988, respectively (para. 40);
g)   CNCA would make subloans for agroindustrial investments on the basis
of agreed criteria (para. 54) and open an agroindustrial unit in each
of 2 provinces with agroindustrial potential (para. 35);
h)   CNCA would employ specialists by October 31, 1986 to assist in
appraising and supervising Bank-financed rural housing investments,
limit its lending for all rural housing investments to DE 200 million
in the period September 1986-August 1988, and make subloans for such
investments in accordance with agreed criteria. The Guarantor would
reduce by October 31, 1986 the 61 and 71 interest rate rebate
currently effective for this type of lending so as to ensure that the
effective interest rates charged are at least 81 and 91, respectively
(para. 54);
i)   CNCA would carry out by June 30, 1987, a study to develop and
implement a program to increase its access to funds other than the 31
CJCA bonds to enable CNCA to eliminate its recourse to such funds;,
and establish a yearly special provision to cover bad loans resulting
from adverse natural conditions such as drought (para. 56);
j)   The Guarantor and CNCA would maintain arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank to protect CNCA against foreign exchange risks. In
addition, the Guarantor would pay its foreign exchange loss arrears
to CNCA in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank and
CNCA would contribute yearly to the foreign exchange risk fund 1X of
the outstanding principal amount of 31 CNCA bonds (para. 56);
k)   in order to maintain its financial viability, CNCA would ensure that
the weighted average of its interest rates is at least equal to the
rate of inflation; ensure a 121 annual return on equity; keep
separate accounts for CLCAs and ensure that CLCAs' operations and
debt service requirements are covered by their generated total
revenues; ensure that medium- and long-term debt does not exceed
eight times its equity; maintain current ratio of at least 1.2; and
limit financing to any one beneficiary at 201 of CNCA's equity
(para. 55);



- 35-
1)   Guarantor would compensate CNCA for the costs involved in
administering the agricultural development fund (para. 56).



MOROCCO /MAROC                                                                         Tn
SIXTH AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SI/SUE PROJETDE CREDITA GRICOLE                                                                 ,M
BRANCH NETWORK OF THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT BANK
RSEAS  Of/ A CAISSE NAT/ONAWF L CPOtT AGRICOLE
CNCA NETWORK/RESEAU DE LA CNCA
* Hedorqurtn ,tre
A   CRCA A40.-                                                                                            ;
*   CLCAP0                                             -,                                         '
Sauce.aervr4sVag6cnj.e                                      
la CRCA
O    CLCA
,AIN^UFALLPWIOdMeTI                                                                           5   
-no-_ bsohyotin millimehers                                                           R
Average animal rainfallt ,Ttrl
Afopwnne OWes/b dffSAV*flbfl
_800+ DbjM i
6 400-800                                                 GCsablacoae
0 200 10-.;         .:/                                                                              *r<
g>  NetirJnel cepitnl                 ~~~~~~~El Jad id                .        t     t
0   Other tns.                                                                   thwim~                    X
Avincal sAs                                            Asla tie Sm    . 
Rivers                                  ,%
Intemational boaundaries
---Inen tinalboundaryl(ppoximate)                                                         r RY
FnrMre dint (awwnraotiwej                 ~-1-      d  !K;IC
Indicates the terriory of the fornw                              es           St ;
Spanish Sahara (Western Sahara)                      SM *m -I                            s
,,~~~  ,,nt-
.~~~~~~ -, M~~ourro9> 
TAoor don4A   TwoudnnL
r~~~~~~~~~~~~cr
A                                             _               -
~~, ~          .                     ..LGRI
** gee               I                                                  eTo .c
.  j9oulimine i.-
>9           /                     ~~~~~~~~~KUOMETERSi 0  so
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......-------- jr 



IBRD 19570
6"
*i          *kztc
Tanger  'A       I
Amfieihao
Atah
Al H4ocsima                   0 Nodor
Ksm l Kabrt r                                                                Sro   ,
0b. k --    r                                             -     Ou.      (
-        05j^Slimes        '' ; 'T             ak              oLsrcei                  w ni4dr
,:-Libnita         2ScSi Knacem                         '~aza                                              |3
0tV-,,tTIflut                                  8 hI.                         80ne  .-hi@deu               (
-dis     ~jpmX Lt.fi ,e         a1 Khenkne /se   IJ
SRW.ASooH 41Jfmrne                                                                                       /
- ~ ~ ~ tQa A.            .ouIemnIan             O9!aIa Wad d hN                            i
RA    T~~~~~~~p ~
akonot 01c&t    *   A~~athyBAsaz          knest 
.    2friKhi; .f
Khouribgar   8Cibd JZw        iKS    oF A                  ulemone
- -ljo  jQi jjj  Mellol                       e.                    ma   e
Ar             U    .              -a HBiCouck                                          -- Miguir
El KeIoaA@    *oim              uaao4izaA                                                                r-- r           - - ~                    n-_r    
i  AzsEl                                   +~~~~~~~~rrachuduo 
_e      g O.ba..                                                                    r      -
El B..i                 so riw
---A*         dvi MEld l
.  -:    , '         '
w  )                                                                    Or            I".                                         F
OuarzozarF9 
I ,SD            _aPPeOslMiN                                                              I                          ;, '
~~~~OLOOARY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPAIN
4-.       APPWbXIffPt                                                                                      *Rabot 
MOROCCO   _r
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TIM maphob  poad by S
The va Tu  * s Mah w                                    4
'as'fs w,d a advs%'w for vUse                                  -I.
ar Auiof The. toa a*I                                    ALGERIA
SW C   Nffl fwnefaMN FrereI          - -------
Cc_.peh  _e d.wm__                              I.
ICKOMETERS 0         50         100        150                ed and erh brauuaos a.. 
an k s ma   do nd w. an                r-
owt of The Vlff Bet  se  Su
MILES 0       25       50       75       100                h       crwmw   s   Cmw            I             r-N.
ALGERIA                                                                     any*                                                         N V
Of NW  cdr-r ' 
_ c=m mf        r                   ( MAURITANIA
_F-.-.-.l   MALI
MARCH 1986



I



