                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                           Report No: ICR2798



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H2800)



                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 26.9 MILLION
                        (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI

                                     FOR A

            COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                  June 26, 2013




Post-Conflict & Social Development Practice Group(AFTCS)
Eastern AFR 1Department
Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 15, 2013)

                       Currency Unit=Burundi Francs (BIF)
                              1.00 BIF = US$0. 643
                              US$1.00 = 1.556 BIF

                                 FISCAL YEAR


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ABUTIP    Burundian Public Works Agency
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDC       Communal Development Committee
CDD       Community Driven Development
CDP       Communal Development Plan
CMU       Country Management Unit
DGMAG     Directorate General of Decentralization and Mobilization of Self-development
EA        Environmental Assessment
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU        European Union
FA        Facilitating Agency
FM        Financial Management
GIZ       German Development Cooperation
GoB       Government of Burundi
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDP       Internally Displaced Person
IEC       Information, Education, and Communication
IFAD      International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFR       Interim Financial Report
IRC       International Rescue Committee
ISN       Interim Strategy Note
ISR       Implementation Status Report
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MIPS      Ministry of Interior and Public Security
MoH       Ministry of Health
MTR       Mid-term Review
NOSC      National Orientation Steering Committee
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PRADECS   Community and Social Development Project
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
QALP      Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio
RF        Results Framework
SIL       Specific Investment Loan
SMU       Sector Management Unit
TTL       Task Team Leader
USAID     United States Agency for International Development

                                        ii
      Vice President: MakhtarDiop
    Country Director: Philippe Dongier
     Sector Manager: Ian Bannon
Project Team Leader: PiaPeeters
   ICR Team Leader: Leanne Bayer




                    iii
                          REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
                COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information…………………………………………………………………………v
    B. Key Dates………………………………………………………………………………….v
    C. Ratings Summary……………………………………………………………………….....v
    D. Sector and Theme Codes………………………………………………………………….vi
    E. Bank Staff…………………………………………………………………………………vi
    F. Results Framework Analysis……………………………………………………………..vii
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs…………………………………………………..xi
    H. Restructuring ……………………………………………………………………………..xi
    I. Disbursement Graph………………………………………………………………………xi

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 15
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 16
 6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 18
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 19
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 20
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component .............................................................................................. 21
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 25
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 27
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 29
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 30
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 31
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 40
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. 41
 MAP




                                                                  iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Community and Social
Country:                Burundi                 Project Name:
                                                                          Development Project
Project ID:             P095211                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H2800
ICR Date:               06/11/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          FINANCE
Original Total
                        XDR 26.90M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 26.68M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 26.90M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Communal Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:         07/26/2005   Effectiveness:             08/28/2007       08/28/2007
Appraisal:              11/27/2006   Restructuring(s):
Approval:               03/21/2007   Mid-term Review:                                09/2009
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2012       12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                v
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General education sector                                              16                  16
General public administration sector                                  15                  15
General transportation sector                                          8                   8
Health                                                                 8                   8
Other social services                                                 53                  53
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  33                  33
Decentralization                                                      17                  17
Participation and civic engagement                                    16                  16
Social Inclusion                                                      17                  17
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                               17                  17

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            MakhtarDiop                          Hartwig Schafer (Acting)
Country Director:          Philippe Dongier                     Pedro Alba
Sector Manager:            Ian Bannon                           Francois G. Le Gall
Project Team Leader:       PiaPeeters                           Valerie Marie Helene Layrol
ICR Team Leader:           Leanne Michelle Bayer
ICR Primary Author:        Leanne Michelle Bayer


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
As per the Financing Agreement, the overall objective of the project is to establish and operate a
decentralized, transparent, and participatory financing mechanism that empowers local

                                                vi
governments and Communities for purposes of improved and more equitable local service
delivery. ISR reports include the following PDO, which shows small differences, based upon
advice from AFTRL during the first year of project implementation: The project development
objective is to promote better and more equitable local service delivery. The project will achieve
its objective by establishing and operationalizing a decentralized participatory and transparent
financing mechanism that empowers local governments and communities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The original PDO did not change.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally     Actual Value
                                              Values (from         Revised     Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target     Completion or
                                               documents)          Values      Target Years
                  At least 15% of targeted communes have obtained funding for Communal
Indicator 1 :
                  Development Plan activities from outside the project.
Value
quantitative or   0                         15%                                 100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/13/2007                12/31/2012                          12/31/2012
Comments
                  All communes have obtained at least one additional financing to their Communal
(incl. %
                  Development Plan from outside the project.
achievement)
                  At least 70% of infrastructure financed under subprojects is maintained and
Indicator 2 :
                  operational two years after completion of the respective Subproject.
Value
quantitative or   0                         70% yearly                          95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/13/2007                                                    12/31/2012
Comments
                  95% of sub-projects finalized are operational, based upon subprojects finalized
(incl. %
                  and in use. Maintenance measures and committees are in place in each commune.
achievement)
                  At least 70% of targeted communes show an increase in access to and use of
                  primary health, primary education, and water services, since time of conclusion
Indicator 3 :
                  of as compared with that at the time of conclusion of the respective subproject
                  Grant Agreement.
Value
quantitative or   0                         70% yearly                          97%
Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/13/2007                  12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments          97% of infrastructure related to health, education and increased access to water
(incl. %          are functional, accessible, and in use. Break down: primary health (74%
achievement)      achieved), primary education (99%), water (100%)
                  At least 50% of the targeted Communes have integrated the concerns of
Indicator 4 :
                  Vulnerable Groups in their Communal Development Plans.
Value
                0                           50% yearly                          100%
quantitative or

                                                  vii
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/13/2007                12/31/2012                          12/31/2012
              All targeted communes included the concerns of vulnerable groups in the
Comments
              Communal Development Plans - both in terms of ensuring the participation of
(incl. %
              vulnerable groups in meetings and identified projects within the plans that target
achievement)
              vulnerable groups.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 : People in project areas with access to Improved Water Resources
                                          Not applicable,
Value
                                          subproject
(quantitative   0                                                           347,800 people
                                          selection is
or Qualitative)
                                          demand driven.
Date achieved 09/13/2007                  12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
                740 water sources finalized. Each source serves on average 94 households with
(incl. %
                an average of 5 people per household.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Direct project beneficiaries.
Value
(quantitative   0                         Not applicable.                    3,485,042
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/13/2007                  12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        1,707,671 male beneficiaries and 1,777,371 female beneficiaries.
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Latrines built
                                          Not applicable,
Value
                                          subproject
(quantitative   0                                                           3131
                                          selection is
or Qualitative)
                                          demand driven.
Date achieved 09/13/2007                  12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments
                526 for primary schools, 482 communal colleges, 342 health centers, 1701 in
(incl. %
                housing for vulnerable group members, 80 public.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Improved community water points constructed or rehabilitated under the project.
                                          Not applicable,
Value
                                          subproject
(quantitative   o                                                           740
                                          selection is
or Qualitative)
                                          demand driven.
Date achieved 09/13/2007                  12/31/2012                        12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        662 water sources and 118 water points rehabilitated and functional.
achievement)

                                              viii
Indicator 5 :   Roads rehabilitated, rural.
                                              Not applicable,
Value
                                              subproject
(quantitative   0                                                          102 kilometers
                                              selection is
or Qualitative)
                                              demand driven.
Date achieved 09/13/2007                      12/31/2012                       12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        20 rural roads rehabilitated, totaling 102 kilometers.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Health facilities constructed, renovated, and / or equipped (number).
                                            Not applicable,
Value
                                            subproject
(quantitative   0                                                              74
                                            selection is
or Qualitative)
                                            demand driven.
Date achieved 09/13/2007                    12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %        74 health centers constructed, 55 functional.
achievement)
                Each audit report is unqualified following the audit stipulated by the project
Indicator 7 :
                Financing Agreement.
Value
(quantitative   N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 08/28/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Audit reports submitted to the Bank unqualified.
achievement)
                A communication strategy targeting all Project stakeholders has been developed
Indicator 8 :
                and implemented.
Value
(quantitative   N/A
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments        100% strategy completed. Assumption that 30% completed means framework
(incl. %        was adopted and conceived, and 100% means completely implemented. Project
achievement) also added an additional communications strategy for project close-out.
Indicator 9 :
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                At least 60% of targeted communes that provide robust monitoring and
Indicator 10 :
                evaluation information in an appropriate timeframe.
Value
                0                           60%                                100%
(quantitative

                                                  ix
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/13/2007                  12/31/2012                       12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %          34 out of 34 communes provide regular reporting information.
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    At least 70 subprojects targeting vulnerable groups have been completed.
Value
(quantitative     0                           70                               249
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/13/2007                  12/31/2012                       12/31/2012
Comments
                  A total of 249 subprojects projects targeting vulnerable groups have been
(incl. %
                  completed.
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    At least 430 community and commune level subprojects completed.
Value
(quantitative     0                           430                              812
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     09/13/2007                  12/31/2012                       12/31/2012
Comments
                  812 finalized under component 2a. While 818 subprojects were signed, 812 were
(incl. %
                  completed.
achievement)
                  Training plan of DGDMAD (the direction general for decentralization within the
Indicator 13 :
                  line Ministry) has been finalized and implemented satisfactorily.
Value
(quantitative     0                           100%                             100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved   09/13/2007                   12/31/2012                       12/31/2012
Comments        Full training satisfactorily completed. Assuming that 30% adopted means that the
(incl. %        framework has been conceived, and 100% means the training has been
achievement)    completely implemented. The planned training was entirely completed.
                At least 90% of targeted communes that have developed or updated their
Indicator 14 :
                Communal Development Plan on a participatory basis.
Value
(quantitative   0                            90%                              100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/13/2007                     12/31/2012                       12/31/2012
                All targeted communes developed their Communal Development Plans at the
Comments
                start of the project. Towards the end of the project the communes were
(incl. %
                developing their second five-year CDP's and the project assisted 37 communes
achievement)
                across six provinces.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     10/12/2007             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     2.83


                                                    x
  2      01/30/2008        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     3.12
  3      07/29/2008    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              3.76
  4      10/20/2008        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     4.59
  5      04/21/2009    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              6.58
  6      12/23/2009    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             11.96
  7      05/27/2010    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             18.96
  8      03/27/2011    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory             29.64
  9      11/01/2011    Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    33.09
 10      04/11/2012    Moderately Satisfactory            Satisfactory                    35.19
 11      09/22/2012        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    38.08
 12      04/24/2013        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    41.11

H. Restructuring (if any)

The Financing Agreement was amended four times. The first amendment of February 11, 2008
reallocated grant proceeds. The second amendment of December 23, 2010 changed the name of
the line Ministry from the Ministry of Interior and Public Security to the Ministry of Planning and
Communal Development, revised budget ceilings for subprojects, and lowered the community
and communal contributions for subprojects. The third amendment of August 1, 2011 specified
that the Second Vice President (as opposed to the First Vice President in the original FA) would
chair the NOSC. The final amendment of November 26, 2012 again revised the name of the line
Ministry to Ministry of Communal Development and completed a reallocation of proceeds.

    I.      Disbursement Profile




                                                 xi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.       The Community and Social Development Project (PRADECS, known by its French acronym in
Burundi) was developed following civil conflict in the country and in the midst of a major political
transition. In 2005 the newly elected Government revised the electoral code prior to communal elections,
and later approved a new Communal Law. The decentralization process initiated by the Government
aimed to empower communities to improve local governance and social cohesion, and to improve access
to socioeconomic infrastructure. PRADECS was designed as a Community Driven Development (CDD)
project with a two-pronged approach to support the new national decentralization strategy and to ensure
improved and more equitable access to local socioeconomic infrastructure and service delivery in rural
areas where over 90% of the Burundian population live.

2.       Country context. At the time of project appraisal, Burundi was emerging from more than a
decade of civil conflict that started with the 1993 coup d’état against its first elected government. A
decade of civil war resulted in the killing of an estimated 300,000 people and the displacement of 1.2
million (16% of the population) during the conflict. The Arusha Peace Agreement of August 2000
initiated a peace process that was successfully concluded with the promulgation of a new constitution in
February 2005 and the installation of a democratically elected government in August 2005.

3.      Burundi was, and still is, one of the poorest countries in the world due to the devastating effects
of the war on its economy. GDP per capita had fallen by almost 40% from US$180 in 1994 to US$110 in
2003. The percentage of people living on less than one dollar a day had nearly doubled, from 35% overall
to 68% in 2005. The country’s social indicators were among the weakest in Sub-Saharan Africa.

4.      Sector context. At appraisal, the new Government was embarking on an ambitious
decentralization process. In 2005 the Government of Burundi (GoB) adopted a new administrative
structure through a Communal Law and a new electoral system at the communal level. Burundi’s 129
communes (116 of which are in rural areas) had been plagued by low capacity and a lack of transparency
in public resource management. It was within this context that GoB launched a decentralization process to
empower communes to improve local governance and social cohesion, and improve access to socio-
economic infrastructure and services.

5.      The conflict had gradually destroyed human, physical, and social capital, and created a growing
population of vulnerable groups. There were numerous sources of insecurity and instability at the time of
appraisal: lack of physical, food, social, and environmental security; extreme land scarcity; unequal
access to services; return of refugees and internally displaced people (IDPs); high population growth
(2.7% annually in 2003); and unequal access to resources related to gender, regions, and vulnerable
groups. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) noted that exclusion and inequity reinforce poverty and
that rebuilding social capital at the community level was critical to restore adequate delivery of social
services and consolidate the peace process.

6.        At appraisal, communities lacked basic social services (education, health, and water). In health,
years of conflict had destroyed the health care system due to lack of resources and adequate health care
personnel. As stability and peace were being restored in the country the new health authorities were
confronted with the challenge of responding to emergency needs, including those of returning refugees
and IDPs, while ensuring the sustainable development of the system. For water, sanitation services in
rural areas were limited. Only 22% of the population had access to functional facilities, and 90% of these
facilities were traditional pit latrines. In rural areas, only 43% of the population had access to potable
water. The education sector was being squeezed by a highly popular policy of the new Government to
                                                          1
eliminate primary school fees from September 2005, which led to an immediate and dramatic increase in
first grade enrollment. The primary school enrollment rate had surpassed the pre-crisis level, with a gross
enrollment close to 100% in 2005-06. Basic infrastructure severely deteriorated during the conflict, and in
2003-04 only 40% of the schools in Burundi were built of hard or semi-hard materials with adequate
roofs. Electricity and potable water were almost non-existent in schools.

7.      Project context. Burundi’s 2005 Interim Strategy Note (ISN) set out a road map for Bank
support for the period FY06-07. The ISN had two main objectives. First was to consolidate the
achievements of the past three-year transition period and, in particular, to ensure that communities and the
population had access to basic services and were supportive of the peace process and the economic reform
agenda. Second was to lay the foundation for sustained economic recovery and growth. The ISN was fully
aligned with the priorities set forth in Burundi’s 2006 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).

8.      The Community and Social Development Project came at a critical moment to address the
weakened socio-economic service delivery. The project fit within the parameters of the ISN and the PRSP,
leveraging three PRSP pillars: (i) improving governance and security, (ii) promoting sustainable equitable
growth, and (iii) developing human capital. The project supported the first objective of the ISN by
increasing communities’ access to basic socio-economic services, as well as enhancing social stability. At
appraisal, other donors had also engaged with CDD projects, and PRADECS was seen as a mechanism to
assist GoB to better coordinate donor interventions at the communal level and lay the foundation for
longer-term communal development.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
9.      As per the Financing Agreement, the overall objective of the project is to establish and operate a
decentralized, transparent, and participatory financing mechanism that empowers local governments and
Communities for purposes of improved and more equitable local service delivery. ISR reports include the
following PDO, which shows small differences, based on advice from AFTRL during the first year of
implementation: The project development objective is to promote better and more equitable local service
delivery. The project will achieve its objective by establishing and operationalizing a decentralized
participatory and transparent financing mechanism that empowers local governments and communities.

10.      Key performance indicators at the PDO level include at least: (i) 70% of the targeted Communes
show an increase in access to and use of primary health, primary education, and water services, as
compared with that at the time of conclusion of the respective Subproject Grant Agreement; (ii) 70% of
the infrastructure financed under Subprojects is maintained and operational two years after completion of
the respective Subproject; (iii) 15% of the targeted Communes have obtained funding for Communal
Development Plan activities from outside the Project; and (iv) 50% of the targeted Communes have
integrated the concerns of Vulnerable Groups in their Communal Development Plans.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO was not revised.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
11.      The main beneficiaries were located within government, at multiple levels, and within
communities. At appraisal, the PAD captured well the vertical relationship among the government actors.
The Ministry of Interior and Public Security (MIPS) was the original line ministry, with the Directorate
General of Decentralization and Mobilization for Self-development (DGMAG). However, this portfolio
moved several times between Ministries, finally settling at the Ministry of Communal Development, the
last line Ministry for PRADECS and acknowledged as the principle partner in the final amendment to the
                                                       2
Financing Agreement. Beneficiaries of the capacity building component were government officials from
three levels: communities, communes, and line ministries (at the central and decentralized level). The
main beneficiaries of subprojects for social services were the 116 rural communes in Burundi, and the
communities serviced by these communes. Vulnerable groups, including destitute women, youth, disabled,
people living with HIV/AIDS, orphans and the Batwa (an ethnic minority in Burundi), were specifically
targeted as beneficiaries to promote social cohesion and social inclusion.
1.5 Original Components
12.      The project as approved consisted of three components: 1) Capacity Building; 2) Financing
Subprojects for Local Development; and 3) Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation, and
Communication. Both components 1 and 2 were further broken into two sub-components to reflect
specific support to vulnerable groups.
13.      Component 1: Capacity building aimed to empower stakeholders for decentralization, focusing
on strengthening the capacities of communes and communities to facilitate local development, and
augment social cohesion and inclusion. The performance indicators are, at least: (i) 90% of the targeted
communes have developed or updated their Communal Development Plans on a participatory basis, and
(ii) 50% of targeted communes have developed a strategy to ensure the participation of vulnerable groups
in their decision-making process, notably with respect to Communal Development Plans.

14.     Sub-component 1a: Capacity building for local development (US$4.8 million) aimed to assist
communities and communes undertake participatory planning, as well as initiating, preparing,
implementing, managing, and monitoring subprojects. Through the recruitment of Facilitating Agencies
(FAs), field-based facilitation teams strengthened local technical and fiduciary skills to implement local
development activities. Institutional support was also provided at the national level to the corresponding
line Ministry responsible for decentralization.

15.     Sub-component 1b: Capacity building for social inclusion and cohesion (US$1.2 million)
was designed to strengthen social inclusion and cohesion by targeting vulnerable groups, focusing on
information, education, and communication (IEC) activities for vulnerable groups to benefit: (i) local
government actors, (ii) organizations that represent or support vulnerable groups, and (iii) associations of
vulnerable groups.

16.     Sub-component 2a: Financing public subprojects (US$27 million) aimed to provide financial
support to communes and communities to implement demand-driven subprojects in: health, education,
transportation, water and sanitation, culture and sports, and collective economic infrastructure (markets,
slaughterhouses, bus stations). Financial support was provided through a grant and complemented by a
contribution from the beneficiaries. The selection of subprojects was carried-out under a participatory
mechanism and approved by the respective Communal Councils. The performance indicator is at least
430 communal subprojects have been completed.

17.     Sub-component 2b: Financing subprojects to strengthen social inclusion and cohesion
(US$3 million) aimed to provide financing for subprojects targeting the special needs of vulnerable
groups but unlike Component 2a, beneficiary contributions were not required. Potential subprojects
included schooling, housing, professional and vocational training, and alphabetization programs. It also
funded community services for counseling, particularly legal aid for vulnerable groups. The performance
indicator is at least 70 subprojects targeting vulnerable groups have been completed.

18.  Component 3: Project management, monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and
communications (US$3.4 million) directly supported the technical, administrative, and financial

                                                       3
management of the project. An integrated M&E system was established and a communication strategy
was developed and executed. The M&E performance indicator is at least 60% of the targeted
municipalities provide robust monitoring and evaluation information in an appropriate timeframe.
1.6 Revised Components
19.     Components were not revised throughout the duration of the project.
1.7 Other significant changes
20.      The main programmatic changes during the project were related to the shift in project coverage
between what was referred to as low- and high-intensity provinces. High-intensity intervention provinces
would benefit from capacity building and subprojects, but low-intensity intervention provinces only from
subprojects since other donors were providing similar capacity building support as envisaged in
PRADECS. During implementation, the coverage of high and low intensity provinces shifted to address
the exit or start of other donor programs. Annex 2 includes coverage by province.

21.     The thematic working group on decentralization brought together the main actors supporting
decentralization (namely GIZ, Swiss Cooperation, the EU, Belgium, the IRC operating with USAID
funds, and PRADECS) and information flowed among the working group and the Ministry of Communal
Development to ensure coverage across the country. PRADECS was viewed as flexible enough to
respond quickly to changes on the ground, especially donor coverage.

22.     The Financing Agreement was amended four times. The first amendment (February 11, 2008)
reallocated grant proceeds. The second (December 23, 2010) changed the name of the line Ministry from
the Ministry of Interior and Public Security to the Ministry of Planning and Communal Development,
revised subproject budget ceilings, and lowered community and communal contributions. The third
amendment (August 1, 2011) specified that the Second Vice President (as opposed to the First Vice
President originally) would chair the Steering Committee. The final amendment (November 26), 2012
revised the name of the line Ministry to Ministry of Communal Development and reallocated proceeds.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
23.      Project preparation. At the time of project preparation, Burundi’s social sector needs were
enormous. Project preparation took place during the immediate post-election period of 2005 when the
country was optimistic about its future and development prospects. The new Government had moved
quickly and by February 2007 had completed the national policy on decentralization and community
development, which was followed by a process for all communes in the country to prepare their own
Communal Development Plans for the first time. In essence, project preparation was being done in
parallel with the Government’s roll out of its decentralization strategy within the context of the first PRSP.

24.     As reflected in the PAD, a strong analytical base underpinned project design. Analysis was
undertaken to draw from and situate the project vis-à-vis other Bank projects (Burundi Social Action,
Agricultural Rehabilitation and Support, and Emergency Demobilization, Reinsertion and Reintegration).
An analysis was also done to review donor interventions in Burundi in terms of scope and geographic
coverage. This analysis led to the adoption of eight low-intensity and eight high-intensity provinces in
project design. The Ministry of Interior also completed an extensive 80-page study on decentralization
and CDD to inform the preparation of PRADECS.

25.    Design. Project components were unchanged throughout the project. A Quality Assessment of
Lending Portfolio (QALP) carried out in May 2010 rated the project’s overall design as Moderately

                                                        4
Unsatisfactory. QALP criticized the design of the project as overly complex for Burundi’s conditions,
track record and absorptive capacity, and argued that the project should have a better balance between
building local capacity, community participatory approaches, and service delivery. Support to
decentralization should have been more gradual, using a transitional approach where the capacity of
communes would first be strengthened, before the gradual transfer of responsibilities. Prior to the mid-
term review (MTR), the tension between the two main components – capacity building and subprojects –
became evident. While in essence PRADECS was conceived as a capacity building initiative, and the
project spent its first year of implementation dedicated mostly to this task, the perception remained that
PRADECS was an infrastructure project to finance construction of schools and health clinics. Capacity
building was thus seen as a pre-requisite for receiving subproject funding, instead of supporting the
overall decentralization process in the country.

26.     Although the project designed framework implementation and supervision by Government was
complicated, it worked well and remained in place throughout the project. The structure comprised the
NOSC, a Technical Execution Monitoring Committee, the Executive Secretariat (Project Implementation
Unit, PIU), and interactions with provincial and communal authorities. In fact, this framework appears
heavy on paper but was operationalized within the project context and proved effective in keeping the
project on track. This supervision structure also mitigated many of the high risks identified at project
entry. The concern centered on the management of funds when creating a decentralized financing
mechanism in a post-conflict, fragile context. The supervision framework mitigated the risk of funds
mismanagement. During the ICR mission officials from the Ministry of Communal Development noted
the funds flow mechanism and the tight control the project maintained on financial oversight.

27.      The detailed flow of funds mechanism is a source of contention however for local actors.
Considering the risks identified at entry it was necessary to put in place a detailed system for tracking and
accounting of project resources being transferred to local communes. Feedback from communal
Administrators and their Technical Advisors however points to the complexity of the flow of funds
system and a lack of understanding from communal officials on the mechanism, steps, and timing of fund
disbursements to local subproject accounts. The appraisal summary in the project document states: “The
guiding premise of the project is that there is considerable latent technical and managerial capacity at the
local level that could be released through a participatory strategic planning process, followed by a
predictable investment envelope to finance activities.? Communal officials had difficulties, especially at
the start of the project, in managing procurement and the flow of funds. It seems that the starting premise
of the level of capacity existing among communal officials was overestimated.

28.     This point feeds into a final comment on project design. It was deemed that enough capacity
existed in Burundi among local actors to manage the design of the training curriculum. This capacity
seems to have been overstated. Certainly training and facilitation would need to be done in the local
language and with knowledge of the local context. However, local organizations had limited prior
experience in decentralization and capacity development of local government officials. They were strong
on conflict resolution and facilitation, very important aspects during the start of the project in a post-
conflict context, but the project could have benefitted from more professional curriculum design,
standardization, and training of trainers. This issue was eventually corrected after the MTR.
2.2 Implementation
29.      During the five-year project implementation period, Burundi went through significant changes in
the political and institutional setting that directly affected the project. The Ministry of Interior and Public
Security was initially the line Ministry for the project, but this changed a year later with the creation of a
separate Ministry for Decentralization and Communal Development. This reflected the increasing
importance of decentralization. Following the change of line Ministry, the national steering committee
                                                        5
switched from the First to the Second Vice-Presidency, since the Ministry of Interior reported to the First
Vice-Presidency, while the Ministry of Decentralization and Communal Development reported to the
Second Vice-Presidency.

30.     Overall, the project was implemented successfully. Three factors contributed to this success. First,
Government project “champions? emerged early and remained involved. Second, the PIU was staffed by
a competent team with strong technical skills. Third, PRADECS underwent a shift in focus and many
corrective measures were taken following an early MTR.

31.      Government ownership. PRADECS benefitted from high level Government ownership
throughout the project. The Director General from the Directorate General of Decentralization and
Mobilization for Self-development (DGMAG) from the Ministry of Interior who was involved with the
project since its inception, moved with the decentralization office to the Ministry of Communal
Development and remained the technical contact point for both the Bank and the PIU teams during
project implementation. In addition, NOSC supervised the project closely. The Second Vice President
chaired the Committee, bringing relevant Cabinet Ministers together for field visits to review the work of
PRADECS and address specific problems. For example, when local health clinics that were non-
operational due to lack of trained personnel and medical equipment, the Minister of Health was requested
to attend the NOSC meeting and participate in a field visit with the Second Vice President to address the
problem. Officials from the Ministry of Environment would tour randomly selected projects at least twice
a year with the PIU Safeguards Specialist to monitor environmental compliance of subprojects.
PRADECS was a highly visible project that was closely supervised and managed by the Government.

32.      Technically strong PIU. The PIU was staffed with competent and skilled personnel and largely
avoided political appointments. While the PIU was technically strong, the project struggled with
management in 2009 and 2010, and in 2011 the Ministry replaced the Executive Secretary. The change in
PIU management led to a more open, technically sound, and productive collaboration between the project
and IDA. Overall, the technical strength of the PIU, combined with Government ownership, was a key
factor in successful project implementation.

33.     MTR refocusing. The MTR was initially scheduled for early 2010, but it was advanced to
October 2009 as the Task Team had identified several short-comings, particularly that the project had
strayed from its original design. The MTR was a turning point in terms of bringing the project back on
track. At the point of the MTR, disbursements were low (15.9%), and there were concerns over attaining
some of the performance indicators.

34.      In mid-2009 the Task Team had concluded that the project had lost its focus on supporting the
decentralization process and social development. The project had become a fund primarily for larger
municipal infrastructure investments (with pressure to deliver larger health and education infrastructure),
to the detriment of capacity building to support decentralization, and smaller subproject at the community
level. In addition, while the project had been successful in promoting social inclusion, the cohesion aspect
through advocacy and social marketing remained almost neglected in program implementation.

35.      As per MTR recommendations, an in-depth analysis of capacity building activities, including an
assessment of FAs as well as a training needs assessment, was completed. This resulted in a
comprehensive capacity building strategy which was implemented throughout the remainder of the
project. Capacity building at the central level was also strengthened.

36.    Social cohesion, particularly in terms of capacity building, seemed to have been interpreted as a
form of “social inclusion?, indicating the underlying assumption that promoting the participation of
                                                       6
vulnerable groups in the local decision making process would be sufficient to address social cohesion.
While PRADECS was very successful in ensuring representation and inclusion of vulnerable groups in
preparation of Communal Development Plans, the MTR recommended strengthening of IEC activities for
vulnerable groups to enhance social cohesion at all levels, as well as include subprojects to establish local
mechanisms for provision of community services, such as psychosocial counseling and legal assistance.

37.      The MTR also re-focused the selection of subprojects, emphasizing smaller community
infrastructure projects, as well as diversification from health and education to other sectors such as
transport and water and sanitation. A key issue identified during the MTR was the sustainability of health
centers—only 2 out of 10 health centers were functional, largely due to lack of equipment and personnel.
As per MTR recommendations, the Minister of Health became directly involved with PRADECS, and
MoH prioritized provision of equipment and personnel for health centers built by PRADECS. In addition,
the MTR recommended not supporting new health centers unless specifically approved by MoH at the
central level, instead of at the provincial level as previously required. Finally, the MTR emphasized the
need to respect the subproject selection criteria, to establish a committee for management of the proposed
subproject, and put in place arrangements, including financial and human resources, for maintenance of
the subproject. Recognizing the potential for political capture during upcoming elections in 2010 the team
recommended a freeze on new subprojects during the campaign period.

38.      Although significant issues were raised during the MTR, the Task Team and the GoB agreed not
to restructure the project as the PDO could be met if the recommended changes were implemented. This
was especially relevant for capacity building, where significant re-focusing and strengthening of the
process was needed.

39.     In early 2010 the project underwent a Quality Assessment of the Lending Portfolio (QALP)
review which mirrored many of the MTR concerns. Several recommended actions, and identified
solutions by the Task Team, were addressed during the remaining two years of the project, e.g., lowering
community and communal contributions, ensuring sustainable maintenance of infrastructure, and ensuring
that health clinics became operational. The QALP review rated Bank supervision as Moderately
Satisfactory, and noted that the significant staff turnover and managers (four TTLs at MTR since project
preparation) did not seem to have significantly affected the quality of supervision or client support.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
40.     Design. The M&E system was based on an extensive results framework that captured the data to
monitor progress toward achieving the PDO. The PAD states that the M&E system intended to: (i) inform
stakeholders of the progress made by the project in achieving its objectives; (ii) provide information to
evaluate the efficiency of implementation; and (iii) build M&E capacity within the line Ministry. To
achieve this, a baseline study was to be completed before effectiveness to establish the value of the main
indicators and to design a system of data collection at the national, provincial, and communal level.

41.      Implementation and utilization. At project outset and as stipulated in the Financing Agreement,
an M&E manual was prepared and approved in mid-2007 and updated in September 2008 for use at the
decentralized project levels. The baseline study was completed at the beginning of the project. The data
collection system was put in place and followed, including communes submitting monthly reports to
PRADECS. One difficulty was the lack of electricity in several communes who relied on paper reports.
At the decentralized level it was impossible to institute a database. The MTR Aide Memoire notes
however that the quality of reporting from the communes improved following training and capacity
reinforcement. One project indicator states that at least 60% of targeted communes provide robust M&E
in an appropriate timeframe. This was 100% achieved as all communes began sending regular reports of
increasingly better quality. The project M&E Specialist and the final report submitted by the Government
                                                       7
(Annex 7) note that the M&E system improved following a dedicated M&E mission in early 2010. Until
the MTR, no regular quarterly reports were delivered to the Bank, but since then, quarterly reports were
consistently submitted on time and with complete data on indicators. Progress toward achievement of the
PDO is easily tracked through these quarterly reports and all ISRs.

42.      ICR mission interviews with donors supporting decentralization confirmed that many of the
studies and reports generated by PRADECS were of use for the broader decentralization thematic
working group. German Development Cooperation (GIZ) noted that they did not know of another project
that was as closely supervised and evaluated. Also, having these reports and studies shared among the
working group was acknowledged and appreciated. The M&E reports cited as salient for both the project
and other actors include a review of the capacity building Components as recommended by the MTR, a
beneficiary survey, an impact evaluation on the ability of subprojects to augment service delivery, an
infrastructure audit of all subprojects that ultimately led to a new draft law on the maintenance of
infrastructure, and a national mapping exercise to identify social infrastructure supported by the project.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
43.     Safeguards. The project was classified as Category B and triggered three safeguard policies:
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01), Indigenous Peoples (OP 4.10), and Involuntary Resettlement (OP
4.12). The project developed an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF), a Plan
concerning the Batwa population to address OP 4.10, and a Framework for Involuntary Resettlement and
Compensation to address OP 4.12. All subprojects underwent an environmental assessment (EA) and
completed an environmental and social evaluation form. The EA and environmental and social screening
were designed to be done by provincial level authorities, but due to lack of capacity and training the
project Safeguards Specialist completed all of the work with officials from the Ministry of Environment.
The Ministry collaborated closely with PRADECS and benefitted from capacity building as community
environmental committees were established to monitor subprojects and an expert consultant worked with
the Ministry and PRADECS to develop an environmental screening system. Specific attention to the
Batwa population was strengthened in the project in 2009 through the recruitment of a consultant to
specifically address issues related to the Batwa population, resulting among others, in support for housing
of vulnerable Batwa. Safeguards compliance is rated as satisfactory.

44.      Financial management. The overall financial management aspects (budgeting, accounting,
internal control, funds flow arrangement, reporting and external auditing) improved throughout project
implementation. The implementing entity was compliant with the Bank’s financial management
requirements. The project external auditor issued a clean opinion on the financial statement for the last
years of implementation and the management letter did not raise any major issues. Unaudited Interim
Financial Reports (IFRs) for the project were submitted on time, reviewed and found to be satisfactory;
there are no overdue audit reports.

45.      The project used the accounting software TOMPRO which helped to maintain proper books of
accounts; and the financial management manual details key internal control procedures from transaction
initiation, review, approval recording and reporting. The manual was updated to take into consideration
changes during implementation. There was a clear separation of duties within the fiduciary unit, all
fiduciary functions were well staffed with one financial and accounting officer, one chief accountant, one
accountant and one procurement specialist; they were all trained on the use of Bank fiduciary procedures.

46.    Although the flow of funds to communities was complicated, with support from the Fiduciary
Agency of the project and regular support from the PIU to the communes when needed, the system
performed well. The Final Independent Evaluation of the project noted that the incidence of corruption is

                                                      8
not present in the project. The consultant further noted that this was significant on a US$40 million
project channeling funds to communal bank accounts for community subprojects.

47.      With regards to funds flow, the overall disbursement rate as of December 31, 2012 was 99.08%.
Some categories such as Consultant, Training and Operating Costs have been overdrawn due to the high
cost of FAs which was underestimated. The total undisbursed amount of US$370,812.94 will be canceled.

48.    Based on the above analysis, the overall financial management system for the entire project
implementation period is rated as satisfactory.

49.    Procurement. Procurement activities were conducted at implementation unit level (using Bank
procurement and consultants guidelines) and commune/community levels with support from FAs (using
community-based procurement guidelines). Despite the high procurement risk identified during appraisal,
the adoption of mitigation measures resulted in a smooth implementation of procurement activities, for
example the hiring of a procurement specialist at the PIU and intensive procurement training at
commune/community levels. The procurement risk was moderate during the last three years of the project.

50.      With regards to Bank support, four post procurement reviews were carried out in April 2010,
May 2011, May 2012 and November 2012. Findings were reported in Aide Mémoires of supervision
missions and pointed out some weaknesses in procurement planning, processing and record keeping,
which the project gradually corrected. As a result, no major procurement shortcomings have been
identified at the closing date and all contracts were already completed as communicated by the client
during the last Bank supervision mission of November 2012.

51.     Community-based activities require strong knowledge and familiarity with communities and local
context. For this reason the project elected to renew the annual contracts of the FAs recruited after
effectiveness. This could have posed a potential reputational risk in not opening up the process to
competition. However, procurement training delivered by FAs to communes and communities was very
well appreciated as reported in the independent final project evaluation.

52.    Based on the above analysis, the overall procurement system and process for the entire project
implementation period is rated as satisfactory.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
53.     While in a letter dated June 2012, the Minister of Finance requested follow-on support for
decentralization and community development from the Bank, the discussions held during the preparation
of the new CAS led to the decision to not consider a follow-up project, given that other donors remain
engaged in decentralization. However, the decision was made to focus on two areas of related support.
First, Economic and Sector Work on fiscal decentralization is under way. Second, Pillar 2 of the CAS
reinforces improved access to social services and a program that addresses social protection is being
developed. The Bank is therefore not disengaging, but re-focusing through the current CAS.
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Satisfactory
54.     The PDOs, which were drawn from Burundi’s 2005 ISN and aligned with the subsequent CAS
and the first PRSP, were and remain highly relevant to Burundi’s conditions. The project spanned a
period of two CAS documents and both maintained Objective Two: Improve Access to Social Services
and Consolidate Social Stability. Furthermore, the PDOs maintained their relevance during the PRSP-II
                                                    9
process concluded in January 2012, specifically a focus on improving access and quality in basic social
services. The relevance of the PDOs is also deemed satisfactory due to their alignment to the on-going
decentralization process that in the last year developed a new three-year strategy, adopted a national
capacity building plan, and outlined a strategy to provide quality social services at the decentralized level.

55.      The relevance of original project was substantial. The project addressed the need to provide
funding to support economic and social recovery in Burundi and to rebuild social capital after more than a
decade of war. The project design supported the newly established institutional framework around
decentralization put in place by the new Government, identified a five year timeframe in order to be
realistic on the time required to build local capacity in a fragile context, and identified activities to target
the provision of social infrastructure and simultaneously build capacity and support to vulnerable groups.

56.     The relevance of project implementation was substantial. As stated earlier, prior to the MTR in
late 2009 there were concerns of achieving at least two PDO level indicators. Measures taken at this point
in the project have already been covered, but the link here is to acknowledge that the successful
implementation of the project, particularly in the final two years, led to the attainment of all indicators.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory
57.     The Results Framework (RF) shows that the PDOs were achieved. Details are provided below.
Component 1a: Capacity building for local development
58.      This sub-component lagged behind others, receiving a rating of moderately satisfactory until the
final year. The assumption at appraisal was that latent talent existed within local communities and among
communal officials to be able to operationalize the new decentralization policy. Two problems emerged
that were eventually overcome. First, mid-way through the project over 85% of communal level officials
changed. During the 2010 elections a major shake-up occurred among locally elected officials, essentially
removing thousands of officials and communal staff who had been trained by the project and who were
managing on-going subprojects. Second, the quality of the capacity building provided by the FAs varied
significantly, each using different training manuals.

59.      The 2010 elections, which coincided with the MTR period, re-focused this component to analyze
the training curriculum and standardize all modules across all FAs and re-assess areas of low and high
intensity to better address shifting donor interventions. For example, the Province of Bujumbura Rural
was originally a province of low intensity, but after the 2010 elections most of the newly elected
commune officials in the province had never worked in local government. The donor originally covering
this province had ceased operations. This is only one example of how the component re-focused to
pragmatically analyze coverage, but also the content of support provided. By the end of the project, 10
different training modules were produced in French and Kirundi and absorbed by the Ministry of
Communal Development in their development of a National Capacity Building Plan.

60.     This Component successfully supported the Government in the process of developing Communal
Development Plans for all communes across the country. These plans then acted as the local framework
for the selection of subprojects. The related project indicator states that at least 90% of targeted
communes would develop or update their Communal Development Plans on a participatory basis. Early
in the project 100% of targeted communes had completed their plans, and at project close a second
generation of Communal Development Plans was being initiated. Furthermore, training was conducted on
financial management and budgeting, procurement, project design, and monitoring. During the ICR
mission several communal Administrators attested that they were able to obtain funding for other
communal projects through their training and experience with PRADECS. Both GIZ and Swiss
                                                   10
Cooperation confirmed to the mission that in developing greater fiscal decentralization with the
communes it is apparent that the management of the subproject funds, combined with technical support,
has been the only concrete experience of communal officials in managing projects with regards to
procurement procedures and managing funds. One of the related PDO level indicators is that at least 15%
of targeted communes have obtained funding for Communal Development Plan activities from outside of
the project. Before the end of the project, all communes (100% attainment) had obtained funding outside
of the project to finance the Communal Development Plans.

61.      Institutional support was provided to the Ministry of Communal Development and open
communication seems to have prevailed between the PIU, the Ministry, and NOSC. Although much of
the success in implementation from a technical perspective is due to the strength of the PIU team, the
Ministry navigated the broad decentralization process and was pragmatic in managing the project.
Ministry staff was exposed to a training program, with one project indicator being that the training plan be
finalized and implemented satisfactorily. This was 100% achieved.

62.     The early ratings in the ISR of moderately satisfactory are directly tied to the view that the
outputs being produced (training of officials, but not generating increased capacity, or existence of
modules, but no standardization or quality assurance of training materials) did not create a causal link to
the intended outcome. The Government and the PIU team took adopted a more strategic approach and
moved away from a series of scattered trainings toward technical support and coordinated to support the
ongoing decentralization process.
Component 1b: Capacity building for social inclusion and cohesion
63.      This component was designed to strengthen social inclusion and cohesion by targeting vulnerable
groups. This sub-component created a link between national policies addressing vulnerable groups and
legal support to these groups after the post-MTR corrective measures. The project also created a link
between Components 1b and 2b, meaning capacity building around social cohesion was augmented by
financing subprojects that supported vulnerable populations. Examples include national workshops on the
legal rights of vulnerable groups and financing legal costs for 1,250 orphans to be registered in the civil
registry. A national association for albinos was supported and later homes for the most vulnerable albinos
were constructed. Specific attention was paid in the preparation of Communal Development Plans
supported by PRADECS to ensure that vulnerable groups were included in the consultations and their
concerns addressed. Specific set-asides were made in subproject allocations for activities to support these
groups, surpassing the target of 50%. PRADECS adopted this approach with the Ministry of Communal
Development, and through the thematic working group on decentralization all development partners
financing the Communal Development Planning process emphasize inclusion of vulnerable groups.
Component 2a: Financing public subprojects
64.     This sub-component aimed to provide financial support to communes and communities to
implement demand-driven subprojects. The target was to complete at least 430 community and commune
level subprojects—the project was able to complete 818 subprojects.
                                Table 1 – Breakdown of subprojects by sector
              Sector         Signed        Sector (%)       Functional         Functional (%)
           Education           333             41                327                 99
           Health               74             9                 55                  74
           Water                56             7                 56                  100
           Roads                69             8                 69                  100
           Other               286             35                286                 100
                Total          818            100                793                 97



                                                       11
65.      The more salient analysis is the review of increased access to quality social services – with the
emphasis on quality, meaning functional infrastructure. The related project development indicator aimed
to achieve 70% of targeted communes showing a significant increase in access to and use of primary
health, primary education, and water services. Achievement was 97%. The indicator was broken down by
sector. The project struggled early in health, but the Bank worked closely with the PIU and MoH to
ensure health centers were operational. The project reached the 70% target, but with 18 of the 74 health
centers constructed not operational, the Government still has work to do.

66.     All subprojects financed under the project were included in the Communal Development Plans.
With the assistance of FAs and the PIU team, communal Administrations undertook public consultations
to identify priority projects for financing. A significant achievement under this Component was that
following technical support from a Bank disability expert, since 2010 all building designs were modified
to ensure accessibility for disabled people. The Government is proud of this accomplishment.
Component 2b: Financing subprojects to strengthen social inclusion and cohesion
67.      This sub-component targeted the same beneficiaries as component 1b, aiming to provide
financing for subprojects targeting the special needs of vulnerable groups. The target for an intermediate
results indicator at the outset of the project was to complete at least 70 subprojects targeting vulnerable
groups. The project was able to complete 289 subprojects.

68.     This component worked in synergy with component 1b, and in fact the staff member on the PIU
team responsible for both components remained on the project from start to finish. There was an evident
evolution over the years toward support to local associations advocating for vulnerable groups, and the
financing of subprojects to leverage the advocacy work. Examples include the funding for national Batwa
and albino organizations and the construction of houses for the most vulnerable Batwa and albinos. Small
enterprise projects were also developed for these groups, e.g., a local flour mill run by albinos.

69.     The financing of subprojects made more visible issues affecting vulnerable groups and provided
these groups leverage within the local community. The Bank team often recommended caution in terms of
potential resentment that could emerge around the selection of beneficiaries, but the project was able to
address this concern by partnering with reputable national associations and working with the FAs that had
developed strong relationships with local communities.
3.3 Efficiency
70.      At appraisal, a cost effectiveness and financial analysis was not carried out as the project did not
lend itself to such analysis for three reasons: (i) all investments would be demand-driven, and their nature
cannot be known beforehand; (ii) all eligible subprojects would be non-productive; and (iii) the economic
benefits of capacity-building are difficult to quantify. The project aimed to ensure cost efficiency through
robust financial control by the PIU and a Fiduciary Agency that verified the communal accounts
financing of all subprojects. Also, the adoption of competitive procurement procedures at the local level
helped communes to adopt the least cost approach in the selection of contractors, and it was assumed
community and beneficiary involvement would be a powerful accountability mechanism to ensure
transparency and cost efficiency.

71.     A comparative analysis of unit costs of subprojects implemented by PRADECS suggests the
project was cost effective in the Burundi context (details in Annex 3). Primary schools, rural roads and
water subprojects were compared to projects funded by other partners or Bank projects:
   The average cost of building a primary school under PRADECS was US$59,610, compared to
    US$88,254 under another Bank project working with ABUTIP, Agence Burundaise pour les Travaux

                                                       12
      d’Interet Publique, (Burundian Agency for Public Works). For PRADECS the cost per primary
      school classroom was US$8,516 and for ABUTIP US$14,709.
     Both PRADECS and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) rehabilitated rural
      roads. The cost under PRADECS for the rehabilitation of one kilometer was US$16,461 while
      IFAD’s average cost was US$23,458.
     PRADECS and the Ministry of Water, Energy, and Mines, rehabilitated water sources to bring
      potable water to population centers in rural areas. The cost of rehabilitating one kilometer of water
      under PRADECS was US$6,334 while the average for the Ministry was US$9,640.

72.     All cost comparisons for sub-component 2a point toward PRADECS being more efficient than
other partners, for similar projects during the same time period. An infrastructure audit was done on
PRADECS in 2011 and overall the quality of construction was confirmed as good.

73.       Three reasons explain greater cost efficiency by PRADECS.
     PRADECS targeted smaller local firms. Bidding documents encouraged local firms to apply and
      achieved this by putting a lower threshold for the business turn-over. This attracted small companies
      to apply for the construction of subprojects. These smaller companies had lower over heads and
      administrative costs and were able to provide the same quality for less cost. ABUTIP and the GoB
      seem to have worked with the larger, national construction firms for similar subprojects, resulting in
      higher costs.
     PRADECS elected to hire one consultant per province as an Engineer/Supervisor to supervise all
      subprojects in each commune within the province, lowering the cost of supervision as other projects
      opted to recruit consultancy firms for each subproject at much higher cost.
     Project design was such that communal Administrations were directly involved in the planning,
      procurement, supervision, and maintenance of subprojects. Local community committees were also
      established for supervision and maintenance. This accountability mechanism created greater local
      ownership over the subprojects and encouraged on-time delivery, the use of quality materials, and the
      rapid correction of faults.

74.     A final comparator is that of the cost of developing the Communal Development Plans.
Significant resources were allocated to capacity building. The average cost per commune of developing a
Communal Development Plan under PRADECS was US$17,352. GIZ provided data showing that their
average cost per commune was approximately US$20,000.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
75.     The overall outcome rating of the project is satisfactory. This rating is based on the analysis of
the on-going relevance of the project, both in terms of the relevance of the PDOs and its design, as well as
the achievement of all PDOs. Although efficiency is more difficult to assess under this type of operation,
no deficiencies were identified. A qualitative and quantitative assessment of outputs by component
(Annex 2) confirms the completion of all anticipated outputs within the original timeframe and budget of
the project, a significant achievement for a CDD project in a post-conflict environment.

76.     The institutional setting in Burundi has matured around decentralization, with the Communal
Law and the National Policy firmly rooted. The Government’s PRSP-II maintains a focus on community
development and access to social services. Likewise the project maintained direct relevance to the ISN at
appraisal, the CAS of FY08-12 (Pillar 2), and most recent CAS for FY13-16 (Pillars 2 and 3). Feedback
from Government officials and donor counterparts during the ICR mission confirms the strong relevance
of PRADECS today. PRADECS was the largest project in the sector and the intervention directly
                                                        13
supported the Ministry of Communal Development and local communes in 16 of Burundi’s 17 provinces.
A widely held view emerged from interviews on the relevance of the project in supporting the
decentralization agenda in Burundi, and collaboration with other development partners to support
decentralization.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Gender Aspects, Poverty Impacts and Social Development
77.      Gender aspects. The project was effective in addressing gender throughout all components and
the outcome was strong participation by women. Burundi’s constitution sets minimum gender thresholds
for women in elected office. This rationale translated into the project, to the same level of 30%
participation of women targeted in several activities. Specifically, in the development of the Communal
Development Plans women were particularly targeted and the needs of women in development planning
were addressed by the FAs during their local facilitation between members of the community and local
authorities. It is estimated that women participated upwards of 40% during the community meetings for
communal development planning. The structure of Communal Development Committees (CDCs)
established by the project in all target communes comprised a minimum of 30% female members. This
allowed women at the local level to engage in decision-making. Activities that targeted vulnerable groups
provided support to local associations for advocacy and income generating projects. The project targeted
vulnerable women and more than 40% of the members of the associations were women. A specific target
group was identified as female victims of violence and assistance was provided in the form of legal aid,
psychosocial assistance, and support for vocational training. The number of direct project beneficiaries is
recorded as 3,485,042, with more than half (1,777,371) women.

78.      Poverty impacts. Burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world. Prior to the conflict, the
percentage of people living below the national poverty line was 36.4% (1990). During the conflict, this
had increased to 68% in 1998. Prior to the start of the project in 2006 the rate was still high at 67%.
Anecdotal evidence from interviews during the ICR mission notes a profound impact on the lives of rural
Burundians. Project data confirms this with a detailed break-down included in quarterly reports. With a
population of approximately 9 million, the direct project beneficiaries are over 3.4 million people. The
Final Independent Evaluation of the project estimates indirect beneficiaries around 6 million people. For
example, the project calculated that each rehabilitated water source (total of 740) impacts 94 households,
with an average of five members per household. This translates into 347,800 people in rural areas have
better access to safe water. A study on the impact of subprojects on communities found that the average
distance to access health centers and primary schools was reduced from 5-10 km to less than 5 km.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
79.     Through PRADECS, the communal administrations were able, for the first time, to take direct
responsibility over funds for subprojects. This included the development of the first Communal
Development Plans, the identification of priority subprojects through participatory community meetings,
managing the procurement process, monitoring subprojects, and finally guaranteeing the maintenance of
newly built communal infrastructure. This comment was provided by donors (GIZ and Swiss
Cooperation), by communal administrators and technical staff, and cited in the Final Evaluation Report of
the project. In fact, GIZ reiterated that the only practical experience that communal authorities have in
managing procurement is through PRADECS. It seems that this practical approach to programming
strengthened the capacity of local officials to manage Communal Development Plans.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not applicable.




                                                      14
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
80.     Stakeholder workshop. A formal beneficiary survey was not carried out, nor was a stakeholder
workshop held for this ICR. However, a member of the ICR team participated in a stakeholder workshop
organized by the project in December 2012 just a few weeks before the close of the project. The
workshop brought together over 200 communal Authorities from all communes targeted by the project.
Four key messages from project stakeholders emerged from the workshop: (i) the 1,067 subprojects
realized through the project had a direct impact on improving access to social services in rural areas
where 90% of the population live, (ii) the needs remain great and stakeholders argued for continued
support through PRADECS to accompany the communes in the on-going decentralization process, (iii)
the impact of social services, particularly schools and health clinics was of urgent priority at the start of
the project, but the diversification of projects for more water, transport, and local economic initiatives had
tremendous gains for the local population, and (iv) communal officials expressed that their capacity to
manage local public administration was augmented due to the training provided by the project.

81.      Participants of the stakeholder workshop, as well as interviews conducted in four communes
during the ICR mission (two low-intensity and two high-intensity communes) elaborated on point 3 above
– the impact of subprojects on local economic development. For example, the communal Administrator of
Makebuko, in the Province of Gitega, explained how a subproject to provide electricity to the commune
office and surrounding area sparked economic growth. Where two years earlier there had been little
activity, now buildings were going up and small businesses were emerging. A hair salon, a flour mill, and
a small motel had recently been established down the road from the communal administration
headquarters. The electricity connection also provided lighting that has augmented security for the local
community and allowed for economic activity to continue into the evening hours. A communal
Administrator from Bujumbura Rural spoke of the impact of a new rural market area. Before, vendors
displayed products on small wooden tables and mats on the ground. The new market, with a cement floor
and roof sheeting to protect against the elements, has increased the number of vendors on market days.
Communal officials explained the necessity of continuing to improve social infrastructure where needed,
while simultaneously financing subprojects that target local economic development, particularly in areas
that have been historically more isolated. Communal Administrators indicated that these subprojects
financed by PRADECS had the double effect of improving the livelihoods of citizens, while bringing in
revenues to the commune through local taxation. The line Ministry for PRADECS echoed these same
views and during the last year has created a second Directorate General for Local Economic Development.
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
82.     Risks identified during project preparation were appropriate, as they reflected the post-conflict
environment of Burundi and the Government’s own limited capacity at that time, as well as the significant
fiduciary risks involved in adopting a decentralized financing mechanism. Four risks were rated high, two
as significant, and three as moderate. The overall risk rating was high. The identified risks played out
over the life of the project with much focus during implementation spent on fiduciary accountability.

83.      The risk to the project’s development outcome is rated as substantial for three reasons. First, a
lasting impact of the project is the existence of newly built social infrastructure at the commune level that
provides access to social services for citizens. The likely sustainability of this infrastructure is enhanced
because communal administrations have taken over their management. A significant level of Government
and community ownership was developed through the project’s implementation modalities. The project
was successful in supporting the development of a new draft law for the maintenance of communal
infrastructure. However, limited communal budgets will remain a challenge. In August 2007, a national
decree was passed which foresaw that approximately 15% of the national budget transferred to the
                                                        15
communes directly. Since the approval of this project, no actual transfer mechanism is functional. The
reforms cited are substantial, but without financial means to support the new laws it will be difficult for
the Government at the local level to ensure the sustainability of social infrastructure.

84.      Second, although capacity at the commune level needs to be further strengthened, Government
counterparts confirmed the technical skills learned and adopted (specifically on procurement and
budgeting) through the training delivered under the capacity building component was absorbed by
communal administration officials. Other donors also noted that the communes who were targeted as
high intensity communes are ahead of counterparts in low intensity communes in terms of budget and
project management. On the other hand, upcoming elections in 2015 could result once again in a high
turn-over of currently trained local government representatives. The capacity of local public
administration officials remains at risk due to an overly politicized culture where bureaucratic stability is
not yet the norm.

85.     Finally, the risk to the project’s development outcome is mitigated by a stronger institutional
structure that is in place for decentralization in Burundi. The political risk referenced earlier in the text
remains in place, but has been mitigated somewhat by developing clearer roles and responsibilities for
Ministries involved in the decentralization process. However, the political-institutional tension within the
context remains and the Ministry of Communal Development could benefit from a political champion
from senior Government advocating for the decentralization process.
5. Assessment of Bank and Grantee Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
86.     The Bank team had the appropriate background and technical expertise to prepare and appraise
the project. The preparation phase was sufficient in length, and included numerous missions. The
necessary studies and analyses were conducted to develop a solid framework for the operation; the
development objective and indicators were properly identified; and the appropriate components were
devised to achieve the project’s goal. The operation was properly aligned with the country’s ISN and
PRSP, and responded to the Government’s expressed development goals. The Bank team put in place
mitigation measures that addressed the project overall high risk rating, focusing on the recruitment of a
strong technical team for the PIU, the establishment of a sound financial management system, including
the recruitment of external auditors, and the establishment of a baseline for the M&E system. No
standardized training curriculum was put in place at the outset. QALP rated Bank performance in
ensuring quality at entry as moderately unsatisfactorily, and found that project design was overly complex
for Burundi’s conditions. However, during project implementation, these challenges were overcome.
Thus, the Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
87.      Overall the Bank carried out 12 full supervision missions, plus an MTR mission, and more
specific missions such as an M&E mission. In each case the missions were comprised of team specialists
and complemented by the FM and Procurement Specialists. In its final report (Annex 7) the Government
made special mention of the frequency and quality of supervision support to the project. However, there
were four project TTLs which the Government admitted was complicated during the first half of the
project. From the MTR phase onwards one TTL was in place for the remainder of the project.
Additionally, the project benefited throughout implementation from field-based technical specialists
based in the Burundi Country Office which assisted in fostering regular contact with the PIU and line

                                                       16
Ministry. It also allowed the Bank to more effectively engage in the thematic working group on
decentralization. TTL stability and field presence enhanced the Bank’s capacity and quality of supervision.

88.      Regular reporting of Aide Memoires and ISRs maintained a clear view of project implementation,
particularly the progression of PDO indicators. ISR ratings and write-ups also indicate the evolution of
the capacity building component, which required a concerted effort from the Bank to re-focus. The Bank
team also undertook regular field visits as part of formal missions and as specific issues emerged. Many
of the communes were visited in order to assess the capacity building component and to inspect social
infrastructure. Bank staff often participated in project workshops, including a national workshop for all
communal Administrators in the country, and a workshop on environmental and social safeguards.

89.     QALP rated Bank supervision as moderately satisfactory, and noted that the significant staff
turnover and managers did not seem to have affected the quality of supervision or client support. A key
issue of concern for QALP was the need for the CMU and SMU to determine whether fundamental
changes and or restructuring would be needed. The Task Team, SMU and CMU decided after the MTR
that no Level 1 restructuring was needed to address implementation issues. The corrective measures put in
place after the MTR, as well as before and after the 2010 election period, and close supervision of the
project until closing, resulted in the project achieving all its development objectives.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
90.      Although some deficiencies were identified in quality at entry, these were corrected during
project implementation and Bank supervision was strong and responsive. On balance, Bank performance
is rated as satisfactory.
5.2 Grantee Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
91.      The Government was actively involved in the preparation of the project, and maintained
ownership, particularly at the technical level. The Ministry of Communal Development (and the Director
General who followed changing Ministries and Vice-Ministries on decentralization throughout the years)
actively engaged in project management and closely monitored the work of the PIU. This involvement
was stronger during the last two years of project implementation. Likewise, NOSC maintained an
oversight function over the project. When problems arose (e.g., switching of the project coordinator, a
review of communal contributions on subprojects) open communication between the Bank and the
Government proved effective for taking corrective action. The Government moved quickly and
transparently in most cases. Public reports were disseminated following NOSC meetings and information
regarding PRADECS was widely available. Although strong Government performance on PRADECS
was demonstrated, as of today there is no operational mechanism for financial transfers to the communes
– this reality weakens the overall ability of local administrations.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
92.     The PIU performed at a high technical level. FM and Procurement reviews consistently
confirmed the performance of the team according to fiduciary guidelines. Team coordination was strong,
particularly when a staffing change was made around mid-way through the project. The reports prepared
and disseminated by the PIU were of a high standard. The PIU team participated in the thematic working
group on decentralization and often led specific committees. In short, the team managing PRADECS was
an enormous resource to the Government and proved highly effective at implementing a complex project.

                                                      17
The core team remained with the project from start to finish, ensuring a high level of institutional memory
and the development of working relationships with communal officials and local communities.

93.      In terms of implementing partners, the first Fiduciary Agency did not perform and the contract
was not renewed. However, this was corrected and a new Fiduciary Agency completed the work to the
end of the project under stronger leadership and more clear Terms of Reference. The FAs performed well
overall. The critique mentioned earlier in terms of their ability to design and develop training modules
was addressed by the recruitment of expert consultants to revise all training modules.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Grantee Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
94.    On the basis of the performance ratings of both the Government and the main implementing
agency (PIU), and the development objectives achieved under the project, the overall rating for Grantee
performance is satisfactory.
6. Lessons Learned
95.      A SIL operation on its own is not a sufficient vehicle to promote broad policy and
institutional reforms needed for effective decentralization. PRADECS contributed significantly to
supporting the young decentralization process in Burundi. However, to generate the required policy
momentum in a newly launched decentralization process, it would have been more effective to combine a
SIL operation with other mechanisms to promote policy changes, such as DPLs. The decentralization
process is still challenged by lack of coherence on fiscal decentralization, including the mechanism for
fiscal transfers and local tax collection, and policy stagnation on devising clear roles and responsibilities
for decentralized services such as health and education. The limited transfer of funds from the national to
the local level, although required by law, severely constrains local government to carry out their new
responsibilities. A CDD project, combined with a mechanism to support policy and institutional reforms
could have better supported the development of a fully effective decentralization process.

96.      In a low capacity environment, CDD projects should use a gradual, transitional approach.
CDD approaches have proven to be effective in low capacity, post-conflict environments. They transfer
financial resources directly to communities to address their most important needs, rebuild social
infrastructure, make government presence visible at the local level and contribute to peace building.
However, sufficient time needs to be given to develop effective mechanisms at the community level and
build the capacity of local authorities. Only in a second phase should responsibilities be transferred,
including developing and implementing construction for social infrastructures. Otherwise, capacity
building will be seen only as a pre-requisite to obtain funding for infrastructure subprojects, instead of as
a key objective on its own to support sustainable local development.

97.      A comprehensive assessment of actual capacity among local officials in a fragile context is
essential to avoid over-optimism and an unrealistic design at entry. The success of a CDD operation
partially hangs on the capacity and ability of local officials to manage resources and provide technical
inputs. Over estimating the ability of local officials does more harm (do no harm principle) and will
ultimately waste time and resources at the start of a project while modifications are made to address
capacity constraints.

98.      CDD projects need to be flexible during periods of elections in post-conflict settings. CDD
projects are especially vulnerable to political interference and corruption during election periods, even
more so in post-conflict countries. Bank and government teams need to take pro-active actions to avoid
these potentially negative impacts on project performance, such as putting on hold selection of

                                                       18
infrastructure projects at the community level during a significant period before elections, and foreseeing
additional capacity building for newly elected officials at all levels following elections.

99.     Bank presence in-country, particularly in a post-conflict environment, is important. This
lesson has been repeated in several recent Burundi ICRs, and no doubt from other countries. Complex
operations, such as a large-scale CDD project, require closer guidance and mentoring by Bank staff than
more straightforward projects or when working in a more stable context. In-country staff allows real-time
technical support.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Grantee/implementing agencies
100.    The Government confirmed by letter their satisfaction with the ICR report and had no comments
to provide. Additionally,the Government provided the ICR team its completion report which is included
in Annex 7.
(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
101.    The ICR mission consulted partners in the thematic working group on decentralization. GIZ and
Swiss Cooperation, who have taken turns chairing the group, are familiar with PRADECS from its role
supporting the Ministry of Communal Development in the working group, as well as its role financing
subprojects in communes where GIZ and Swiss Cooperation manage capacity building activities.

102.     GIZ specifically focused on the support role that PRADECS provided the Ministry of Communal
Development, stating that members of the PIU often led working groups on specific topics – for example,
developing the national capacity building plan, or devising a draft law on the maintenance of communal
infrastructure. GIZ stated that they saw the activities of PRADECS as tightly aligned with the policies and
work of the Ministry and the welcomed the project’s role as technical advisor.

103.    The Head of Swiss Cooperation was very direct in stating that PRADECS was an opportunity for
the other donors working in the sector, and that the resources and approach used in the project was a
“force de frappe?. Additionally, it was acknowledge that PRADECS followed principles of the Paris
Declaration, in terms of Government ownership, in a genuine way by having the NOSC operationalized
and involved in practical project supervision, as well as being established in a manner that provided
guidance to the project.




                                                      19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                            Percentage of
            Components                                         Estimate (USD
                                       (USD millions)                                Appraisal
                                                                  millions)
Capacity building                             6.00                    5.50               92.0
Financing subprojects for local
                                             30.00                   30.00              100.0
development
Project management, M&E, and
                                              3.40                    3.80              112.0
communication
               Total Baseline Cost           39.40                   39.30               99.8
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.14                    0.00               0 .0
Price Contingencies
                                              0.16                    0.00               0.0
                Total Project Costs          39.70                   39.30
Front-end fee PPF                             0.30                    0.30              100.0
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                    0.00               0.00
        Total Financing Required             40.00                   39.60              99.0




(b) Financing
                                                            Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                            Type of                                     Percentage of
            Source of Funds                                 Estimate       Estimate
                                          Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                          (USD millions) (USD millions)
Grantee                                                       0.00           0.00            0.0
IDA Grant                                                     40.00          39.60          99.0




                                                     20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
The project has three main components, each with sub-components.
Sub-component 1a: Capacity building for local development. This sub-component aimed to assist
communities and communes undertake participatory planning, as well as initiating, preparing,
implementing, managing, and monitoring subprojects. Through the recruitment of Facilitating Agencies
(FAs), field-based facilitation teams strengthened local technical and fiduciary skills to implement local
development activities. Institutional support was also provided at the national level to the corresponding
line Ministry responsible for decentralization. The major outputs of this component include:
      The development of Communal Development Plans in 34 communes in provinces of high-
        intensity intervention within the first year of the project.
      A further 37 Communal Development Plans were prepared in 2012 as part of the second
        generation of the five year Communal Development Plans.
      10 training modules on capacity building were designed and disseminated to the Ministry of
        Communal Development to feed into the National Capacity Building Plan.
       The drafting of a new law on the maintenance of infrastructure has been completed. PRADECS
        identified a consultant to work with the Ministry of Communal Development to prepare this new
        law. The draft law will now be considered for legislation.
Sub-component 1b: Capacity building for social inclusion and cohesion. Through targeting vulnerable
population groups, this sub-component was designed to strengthen social inclusion and cohesion. The
focus was on information, education, and communication (IEC) activities with respect to vulnerable
groups for the benefit of: (i) local government actors, (ii) organizations that represent or support
vulnerable groups, and (iii) associations of vulnerable groups. The major outputs of this component
include:
       The project has provided legal assistance to 106 individuals, most of whom are orphaned
        children, as well as securing the registration of 1250 orphans and other vulnerable people in the
        civil registry. An additional 600 people have been trained at the commune level on the legal
        rights of vulnerable people, bringing the total of those trained to 1370.
       The project has supported 136 associations with either technical assistance and/or by providing
        materials to support productive activities. Examples include assistance to draft legal texts of the
        association, assistance to register the association with the authorities, and provision of materials
        to leverage productive activities such as mills, soap-making ateliers, and bakeries.
       The project has constructed homes for vulnerable people, including the Batwa and the most
        vulnerable members of the albino community.
Sub-component 2a: Financing public subprojects. This component aimed to provide financial support
to communes and communities to implement demand-driven public subprojects. The following sectors
were identified: health, education, transportation, water and sanitation, culture and sports, and collective
economic infrastructure (markets, slaughterhouses, bus stations). Financial support was provided through
a grant and complemented by a contribution from the beneficiaries. The selection of subprojects was
carried out under a participatory mechanism, and approved by the respective Communal Councils. The
performance indicator is: At least 430 Communal level subprojects have been completed.
The Table below provides the detail of subprojects completed by the project. The total number of
subprojects signed is 818, and 812 were completed.




                                                       21
                                                                            Table 2 – Breakdown of subprojects sub-component 2a
                                                                                                                  NUMBER OF
                                                                                                 NUMBER OF                         NUMBER OF
                                                                                                                 SUBPROJECTS
                                                                                                SUBPROJECTS                       SUBPROJECTS
                                                 TYPES OF SUBPROJECT                                              COMPLETED
                                                                                                 SIGNED BY                            NOT
                                                                                                                     BY
                                                                                                 CATEGORY                          COMPLETED
                                                                                                                  CATEGORY
                                                 Communal Colleges                                    86              82               4
                                                 Primary Schools                                     106               104             2
                                                 Pre-school                                            1                1              0
                                                 Technical Secondary School                            1                1              0
                                                 Health Centers                                       35               35              0
                                                 Living Quarter for Health Center                      1                1              0
                                                 Rural Roads                                          14               14              0
       Communes of High-intensity Intervention




                                                 Bridges                                              29               29              0
                                                 Water connections for Drinking Water                  9                9              0
                                                 Water Source Rehabilitation                          12               12              0
                                                 Non-medical Equipment for Health Centers             28               28              0
                                                 Equipment for Primary Schools                        50               50              0
                                                 Equipment for Communal Colleges                      43               43              0
                                                 Equipment for Secondary Schools                      28               28              0
                                                 Equipment Vocational Training Center                  2                2              0
                                                 Vocational Training Centers                           2                2              0
                                                 Latrines                                             14               14              0
                                                 Warehouses                                            2                2              0
                                                 Markets                                               1                0              0
                                                 SCEP                                                  2                0              0
                                                 Slaughterhouse                                        1                0              0
                                                 Water Reservoir                                       1                0              0
                                                 Sport Facility - Stadium                              2                0              0
                                                 Sports Facility - Field                              10               10              0
                                                 SUB-TOTAL                                           480               474             6
                                                 Communal Colleges                                    53               53              0
                                                 Technical Secondary School                            2                2              0
Communes of Low-intensity




                                                 Primary Schools                                      83               83              0
                                                 Pre-school                                            1                1              0
     Intervention




                                                 Health Centers                                       39               39              0
                                                 Rural Roads                                           8                8              0
                                                 Bridges                                              18               18              0
                                                 Water connections for Drinking Water                 10               10              0
                                                 Water Source Rehabilitation                           7                7              0
                                                 Living Quarters for Teachers                          3                3              0
                                                 Rural Electrification                                 9                9              0

                                                                                                      22
Sport Facility - Stadium                                                                   3          3              0
Markets                                                                                    1          1              0
Warehouses                                                                                 2          2              0
Wall Construction                                                                          1          1              0
Sports Facility - Field                                                                   9           9              0
Equipment EQPEP                                                                           29         29              0
Equipment Communal Colleges                                                               19         19              0
Equipment Primary School                                                                   9          9              0
Non-medical Equipment Health Centers                                                      17         17              0
Equipment Vocational Training Center                                                       2          2              0
Slaughterhouse                                                                             1          1              0
Latrines                                                                                  12         12              0
SUB-TOTAL                                                                                 338        339             0
TOTAL                                                                                     818        812             6

Sub-component 2b: Financing subprojects to strengthen social inclusion and cohesion. This
component targeted the same beneficiaries as in component 1b. The aim was to provide financing for
subprojects targeting the special needs of vulnerable groups but unlike Component 2a, no contribution
was required by the beneficiaries. Identified potential subprojects included schooling, housing,
professional and vocational training, and alphabetization programs. It also provided financing for the
provision of community services for counseling and assistance, particularly legal assistance for vulnerable
groups. The performance indicator is: At least 70 subprojects targeting Vulnerable Groups have been
completed.

The Table below provides the detail of subprojects completed by the project. The total number of
subprojects signed and completed is 249.

                                                            Table 3 – Breakdown subprojects sub-component 2b
                                                               TYPES OF SUBPROJECT                          NUMBER OF
                                                                                                           SUBPROJECTS
                                                                                                            SIGNED BY
                                                                                                            CATEGORY
                                          Construction of socio-cultural centers                                5
Communes of High-intensity Intervention




                                          Lodging for vulnerable groups                                        58
                                          Support for school fees for vulnerable groups                        18
                                          Support to persons living with HIV/AIDS                               1
                                          Youth vocational skills training                                     14
                                          Construction of sports fields                                         8
                                          Support to sports teams                                              10
                                          Support to IDPs and returnees                                         2
                                          Support to vulnerable children in schools                             3
                                          Education support to Batwa children                                  11
                                          Legal assistance to vulnerable groups                                 4
                                          SUB-TOTAL                                                            134

                                                                                          23
                            Construction of socio-cultural centers            5
                            Lodging for vulnerable groups                    50
Communes of Low-intensity


                            Education support for vulnerable students        26
                            Youth vocational skills training                 15
     Intervention




                            Support to sports teams                           4
                            Construction of sports fields                     1
                            Education support to Batwa children               5
                            Computer equipment                                1
                            Support to street children                        1
                            Legal assistance to vulnerable groups             7
                            SUB-TOTAL                                        115
                            TOTAL                                            249




                                                                        24
           Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
           A comparative analysis of unit costs of subprojects implemented by PRADECS and that of other projects
           underscores some cost efficiency. Table 4 below outlines in detail a cost comparison for the unit costs of
           specific subprojects under PRADECS compared to those of other donors. 1
                             Table 4 – Cost comparison between PRADECS and other donors on subprojects
Type of                                                                                                 COST
                                                                                           COST                       TOTAL             # OF                 COST PER
Infrastr   PROVINCE            COMMUNE              PROJECT          SUBPROJECT                        SUPERVI
                                                                                          WORKS                        COST         CLASSROOMS              CLASSROOM
 ucture                                                                                                  SION

Primary Schools
                                                                   Extension Ndava
           GITEGA          BURAZA                 PRADECS                                                                                   7                     7,700
                                                                   Primary School            51,992        1,911        53,903
                                                                   Extension
           RUYIGI          NYABITSINDA            PRADECS          Murama Primary                                                           7                     9,331
                                                                                             63,834        1,484        65,317
                                                                   School
                                                                                            AVERAGE COST PRADECS PER PRIMARY SCHOOL                              59,610
                                                                                                AVERAGE COST PRADECS PER CLASSEROOM                               8,516
                                                                   Kabuye Primary
           KAYANZA         KAYANZA                ABUTIP                                                                                    6                    13,769
                                                                   School                    78,114        4,499        82,612
                                                                   Ceyerezi Primary
           KAYANZA         MURUTA                 ABUTIP                                                                                    6                    13,321
                                                                   School                    75,430        4,499        79,928
                                                                   Mihigo Primary
           KAYANZA         KAYANZA                ABUTIP                                                                                    6                    16,767
                                                                   School                    96,103        4,499       100,601
                                                                   Ryamukona
           KAYANZA         KABARORE               ABUTIP                                                                                    6                    15,187
                                                                   Primary School            86,621        4,499        91,119
                                                                   Rugazi Primary
           KAYANZA         KABARORE               ABUTIP                                                                                    6                    14,501
                                                                   School                    82,509        4,499        87,008
                                                                                             AVERAGE COST ABUTIP PER PRIMARY SCHOOL                              88,254
                                                                                                  AVERAGE COST ABUTIP PER CLASSEROOM                             14,709
Health Centers
                                                                   Nyabikenke
           KIRUNDO         VUMBI                  PRADECS
                                                                   Health Center             55,277        3,728        59,005
                                                                   Buheka Health
           MAKAMBA         NYANZA-LAC             PRADECS
                                                                   Center                    59,200        2,576        61,776
                                                                                            AVERAGE COST PRADECS PER HEALTH CENTER                               60,391
                                                                                      AVERAGE COST GOVERNMENT PER HEALTH CENTER                                 112,468
                                                                                              AVERAGE COST ABUTIP PER HEALTH CENTER                             160,668
Rural
Roads
                                                                   Rehabilitation
                                                                   Rural Road RN
           CIBITOKE        MUGINA                 PRADECS
                                                                   10-Mugina ( 1             15,035          695        15,729
                                                                   km)
                                                                   Rehabilitation
                                                                   Rural Road
           KARUSI          GIHOGAZI               PRADECS
                                                                   Ruvubu-                   16,027        1,167        17,193
                                                                   Ruganira ( 1 km )
                                                                                       AVERAGE COST PRADECS PER KM REHABILITATED                                 16,461
                                                                                             AVERAGE COST IFAD PER KM REHABILITATED                              23,458

Water Rehabilitation




           1
             All costs in Annex 3 are only for subproject or activity costs, and do not include costs of the PIU. Comparative costs for other donors also
           exclude project management costs and are therefore comparable.
                                                                                       25
                                        Water
                                        rehabilitation
BUBANZA    MPANDA           PRADECS
                                        Butembe-               57,187   1,621   58,808
                                        Kanenga (9 km)
                                        Water
                                        rehabilitation
CIBITOKE   MUGINA           PRADECS
                                        Rushima-               22,249   1,285   23,535
                                        Rubirizi ( 4km)
                                                          AVERAGE COST PRADECS PER KM REHABILITATED          6,334
                                                    AVERAGE COST GOVERNMENT PER KM REHABILITATED             9,640

The table elaborates the costs of primary schools, health centers, rural roads rehabilitated and water
sources rehabilitated. For all four types of subprojects, PRADECS was more efficient than the other
donors.
   The average cost of building a primary school under PRADECS was about US$59,610, compared to
    US$ 88,254 under another World Bank project working with an implementing body called ABUTIP,
    Agence Burundaise pour les Travaux d’Interet Publique, (Burundian Agency for Public Works). The
    breakdown of cost per classroom is also available. For PRADECS the cost per classroom for a
    primary school is US$8,516 and for ABUTIP US$14,709. Compared to ABUTIP, PRADECS is
    approximately 42% less costly.
   Both PRADECS and the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) rehabilitated rural
    roads. The cost under PRADECS for the rehabilitation of one kilometer was US$16,461. IFAD
    rehabilitated one kilometer of rural road for an average cost of US$23,458. Compared to IFAD,
    PRADECS is approximately 30% less costly.
   PRADECS and the GoB, through the Ministry of Water, Energy, and Mines, rehabilitated water
    sources to bring potable water to population centers in rural areas. The cost of rehabilitating one
    kilometer of water under PRADECS was US$6,334. The GoB rehabilitated the same distance for
    US$9,640. Compared to The GoB, PRADECS is approximately 34% less costly.
All cost comparisons for sub-component 2a point towards PRADECS being more efficient than other
partners, for similar projects during the same time period. An infrastructure audit was done on PRADECS
in 2011 and overall the quality of construction was confirmed as good.
Sub-component 2b, financing subprojects to strengthen social inclusion and cohesion, also provides cost
data in terms of a light economic analysis to show how the investments into small economic initiatives
lead to real change for beneficiaries. Two examples, for illustrative purposes, provide this analysis. One
subproject trained a group of 60 youth in skills training (tailoring) for a cost of US$170/person. The
revenues per month from graduates fluctuate depending on rainy season (a low of US$12/month) to the
dry season (high of US$26/month). On average, if a graduate makes US$19/month then the initial
investment is recovered in 9 months. A second project financed a mill for an association of vulnerable
albinos. The cost to finance the start-up of the mill was US$2,585. The mill started producing in February
2013, again with lower revenues during the rainy season (low of US$129) and higher revenues during the
dry season (high of US$193). After 16 months the association is able to generate enough revenues to
cover the initial cost.
A final comparator is that of the cost of developing the Communal Development Plans. Significant
resources were used in the project for component 1, capacity building. The average cost per commune of
developing a Communal Development Plan under PRADECS was US$17,352. GIZ provided data that
their average cost for producing the same plan per commune was approximately US$20,000. The cost for
capacity building under PRADECS to that of GIZ, a partner implementing complementary capacity
building activities in provinces of low-intervention, is therefore similar.



                                                          26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
            Names                             Title               Unit
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Pin Foon K. F. Ah-Kee       Procurement Analyst                  AFTA1   Procurement
Mohamed Arbi Ben-Achour     Consultant                           AFTN2   Social Safeguards
Yvette Laure Djachechi      Social Development Specialist        AFTCS   Social Safeguards
Sameena Dost                Counsel                              LEGES   Legal
SoulemaneFofana             Rural Development Specialist         AFTA1
Michael P. Fowler           Finance Officer                      CTRDM   Disbursement
MathurinGbetibouo           Consultant                           LCCHT
PamphileKantabaze           Operations Officer                   AFTHE
Toni NtagandaKayonga        Consultant                           AFTCS
Joseph KizitoMubiru         Sr Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM   Financial Mgmt
Prosper Nindorera           Procurement Specialist               LCSPT   Procurement
Africa EshogbaOlojoba       Environmental Specialist             MNSEN   Environ. Safeguards
Korotimi Sylvie Traore      Program Assistant                    MNAFM   Team Assistance
Supervision/ICR
Andrew OseiAsibey           Monitoring & Evaluation              AFTDE   M&E
OtienoAyany                 Financial Management Specialist      AFTME   Financial Mgmt
Jean-Claude Balcet          Consultant                           LCSTR
Pamela OrdingBeecroft       Operations Analyst                   AFTCS
Marcelo Jorge Fabre         Sr Operations Officer                OPSFC   Team Leadership
Toni NtagandaKayonga        Consultant                           AFTCS
MelanceNdikumasabo          Procurement Specialist               AFTPE   Procurement
Marco Nicoli                Sr Knowledge Management Officer      LEGVP
Prosper Nindorera           Procurement Specialist               LCSPT   Procurement
Deo-Marcel Niyungeko        Sr Municipal Engineer                AFTU1
Marie-Claire Nzeyimana      Communications Associate             AFRSC
PiaPeeters                  Sr Social Development Spec           AFTCS   Team Leadership
Dominique Puthod            Operations Officer                   LCSHE
Sylvain AugusteRambeloson   Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPE   Procurement
Thomas Jeffrey Ramin        Sr Operations Officer                HDGPE
Chantal Rigaud              Communications Associate             HDGPE
Fanny Robert                Consultant                           AFTCS
ClaretteRwagatore           Program Assistant                    AFMBI   Team Assistance
Cheikh A. T. Sagna          Sr Social Development Specialist     AFTCS   Social Safeguards
AuroreSimbananiye           Program Assistant                    AFTN3   Team Assistance
Emmanuel Sinzohagera        Consultant                           AFMBI
                                                                         Team Leadership (Co-
Leanne Michelle Bayer       Sr Social Development Specialist     AFTCS
                                                                         TTL)




                                                  27
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                   37.95                         248.14
  FY07                                   39.68                         319.84
                          Total:         77.63                         567.98
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                    9.1                       31,042.00
  FY08                                   26.9                      122,074.00
 FY09                                    25.16                     115,984.00
  FY10                                   35.36                     139,004.00
  FY11                                   26.54                     147,511.00
  FY12                                   21.29                     110,108.00
  FY13                                   14.85                      67,901.00
                          Total:        159.20                     733,624.00




                                         28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                          30
Annex 7. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
The GoB submitted to the Bank a final report on PRADECS to include in this ICR report. Below, a
summary of the Government’s report is included.
I.   Evaluation of the objective of project operation and design
1.1. Consistency of the objective with national priorities
The project’s objective was to help reduce poverty through the setting up and the operationalization of a
transparent, participatory and decentralized funding mechanism that allowed capacity building for
decentralized local communities in order to improve access to basic socio-economic services. The PRSP-
I, which coincides with the project period, established the country development priorities in four areas: (i)
improvement of governance and security, (ii) promotion of sustainable and equitable growth, (iii)
development of human capital, and (iv) the fight against HIV/AIDS.
The first area gives importance to capacity building at all levels, particularly at community level to
strengthen their participatory process in the local development process. For the third, the government has
set the objective of restoring pre-conflict performance and achieving the millennium goals by 2015 in the
areas of education, health and drinking water, hygiene and sanitation. The same area establishes as
government priority the action of putting in place mechanisms that will take into account the needs of
conflict affected vulnerable populations. Furthermore, the letter of national decentralization policy and
Community Development, adopted by the Government in February 2007, as well as the national
decentralization policy paper, adopted in 2009, establishes decentralization as a pathway toward
development in that it allows the transfer of powers, authority, responsibilities and resources from the
central government to the decentralized administrations in order to promote community development.
1.2. Logic of a differentiated intervention per province
The project design had planned that the project would intervene in a strong way in eight provinces and in
a lighter way eight others. This logic was relevant in itself, considering the complementarity approach
advocated by the project with other donors.
These donors include the Gutwara Neza Program deployed in the eight provinces of the project’s lighter
intervention. The complementarity approach was also considered with the Swiss cooperation in Ngozi
province, with the Dutch cooperation in Muyinga province, with the Belgian Cooperation in Cibitoke
province and with the UNDP / UNCDF project in Rutana province. In reality, this differentiated
intervention has been detrimental to the provinces of lighter intervention. On the one hand, the Gutwara
Neza Program withdrew from 4 provinces when PRADECS was at midterm; on the other hand some
TPFs like Gutwara Neza did not fund subprojects and, no other partner besides PRADECS took into
account the inclusion and social cohesion component. Complementarity based on geographical
distribution of interventions cannot be fair if it is solely based on a harmonization of the size of funding
and the content of programs. If the exclusion of Bujumbura Town is justified by the district’s centralized
structure, it could also be revisited. In fact, access to basic social services is almost as problematic in this
district as in the other provinces, if one would refer to classroom occupancy rate in public schools, for
instance.
1.3. Institutional implementation arrangement
The institutional arrangements favored the implementation of the project by a project management unit
instead of implementation by the Ministry. It is possible that this choice explains the level of results
achieved by the project. This choice does not pose the problem of ownership because the viability of
interventions was provided by the effective participation of senior officials from the Ministry of
Communal Development in the project activities, the connection of the implementation unit with sectorial
ministries, the interface role played by the Provincial Office of the Cooperative and Associative
Movement which are a provincial branches of the MDC, as well as the participation of beneficiaries in the
                                                         31
choice and funding of subprojects. On the other hand, the strategy of involving project implementation
service providers helped not to burden the management unit and to gain in terms of cost. The services of
facilitation agencies cost a total of 3.184 billion Burundi francs. It is certain that this cost would have
been exceeded if the Executive Secretariat had positioned their own staff with the accompanying
logistics.
1.4. The choice of funding instrument
The project received a total of $ 40 million funding for a 5-year period. This instrument was preferred to
the alternative of a long-term adaptable program (Adaptable Program Loan). Decentralization is a long-
term process that could have justified the choice of the second form of funding. However, compared to
the type of funding chosen, the duration and amount of funding are relevant to the project objectives. A
question arises, however, regarding the amount of funding allocated to vulnerable groups. Given the
proportion of the Burundian population likely to fall within this category, which alone could justify a
large income creating project, it may appear that the $ 4.2 million allocated to social cohesion and
inclusion, all components included, was insufficient.
II.   Evaluation of Results with Regard to Key Project Indicators
The project development objective evolved around three main areas, namely, the improvement of access
to basic social services, capacity building of local actors and of communities to make them able to be
responsible for their development, and the consideration of vulnerable groups for inclusion for the sake of
social cohesion. The achievement of this objective would be measured by a set of indicators defined in the
Grant Agreement. As shown in the results developed below, the indicators have been fully achieved, with
some even exceeding the targeted figures.
Indicator N°1: At least 70% of the communes targeted see an improvement in access and use of
primary health care, primary education and water, this in relation to the signing of a subproject
funding agreement. This indicator was redefined in the mid-term review for the sake of clarity and was
reformulated as "The targeted communes see an improvement in access and use of primary medical care
(a), primary education (b) and water (c), this in relation to the rate of access and use at the signing time of
a subproject funding Agreement." Moreover, the evaluation takes as reference 2010, which is the year in
which the first subprojects were made functional.
a) Improving access to primary health care
To reflect the achievement of this indicator, Table 5 shows the progress of health centers built by
PRADECS in number of infrastructures, in functionality and number of beneficiaries.
Table 5 – Progress of primary health indicators from March 2010 to December 2012
Subproject Status                              March-10          Dec-11           Dec-12
Subprojects registered                             67              69               74
Completed and functional Subprojects               8               31               55
Functionality rate                                12%             45%              74%
Number of direct beneficiaries                  67 543          422 237           550 791

Table 5 shows the progress of the indicators at three levels: the construction of 74 new health centers
which have allowed to reduce access distances, the progressive opening services of these infrastructures
to reach a 74% functionality rate, the gradual progress of direct beneficiaries increases, hence going from
67,543 direct beneficiaries in March 2010 to 550,791 direct beneficiaries in December 2012.
b) Improving access to primary education
Achievements in the field of primary education are reflected in Table 6 which shows the number of
schools built and their functionality.

                                                         32
Table 6 – Progress of primary education indicators from March 2010 to December 2012
Subproject status                           March-10              Dec-11            Dec-12
Subproject registered                          103                 154                189
Completed and functional Subprojects           18                   95                184
Functionality rate (%)                        17%                  62%               97%
Number of direct beneficiaries               148 654              662 705          1 170 179


As shown in Table 6, 189 primary schools to be built with the financial support of PRADECS were
selected. The number of functional schools went from 18 schools in March 2010 to 184 primary schools
in December 2012, which corresponds to a 97% functionality rate in December 2012. Moreover, with 184
primary schools newly built or rehabilitated, it was possible to produce 712 new classes that are now all
occupied; which corresponds to a 14.4% contribution by PRADECS compared to the national need for
4,932 class rooms estimated at the start of the project in 2007. Then, the number of direct beneficiaries is
increasingly growing because it went from 148,654 people in March 2010 to 1,170,179 in December
2012.
c) Improving access to drinking water
This indicator is measured by the improved or rehabilitated water points by PRADECS as well as by the
beneficiaries of these developments as reflected in Table 3 below.
Table 7 – Progress of access to drinking water: indicators from March 2010 to December 2012
Subproject status                           March-10         Dec-11               Dec-12
Subprojects registered                        368                 755              831
Completed and functional subprojects           95                 496              812
Functionality rate (%)                        26%                 66%              98%
Number of direct beneficiaries               45 321          233 120              382 580
Out of a total of 831 water points expected (664 managed sources and 167 tap-stands), 812 water points
(98%) could be made functional in December 2012 (655 managed sources and 157 tap-stands), which
made it possible to reach 382,580 people served with drinking water in December 2012.
Indicator 2: At least 70% of infrastructures funded under Subprojects are maintained and are
functional two years after completion. Table 8 below summarizes the local development subprojects
implemented at the communal and hillside levels as well as at the level of their operationalization.
Table 8 - Infrastructure built and their status on 31 December 2012
                                  Total             Subprojects          Subprojects
      Type of subproject                                                                       % functional
                                 Number              completed            functional
Education                          333                  328                  300                   91%
Health                                 74               74                   55                    74%
Drinking water                         56               56                   54                    96%
Tracks                                 69               67                   67                   100%
Other                              286                 286                  280                    98%
Total                              818                 811                  756                   93%

At the end of December 2012, 93% of infrastructures built or rehabilitated are maintained and functional,
even if maintenance problem is not yet an issue since the infrastructure is still new. It should also be noted
that almost all of the infrastructure and other works are immediately functional as soon as construction is
completed and the construction deadline is usually between 2 and 6 months. There were some exceptions
                                                        33
where health centers were not immediately functional after construction, mainly because not only the
technical equipment that should be provided by the Ministry of Health and Action against AIDS were
slow to come, but also the medical staff was not quickly deployed. Note that here also, 74% of health
centers are maintained and functional after completion and efforts are underway to make them all
functional.
Indicator N° 3: At least 15% of the targeted communes received funding outside the Project for
activities in their Communal Community Development Plan (PCDC).The PCDC development process
was accompanied by stakeholder and community leader sensitization on the use of PCDC as an
instrument of advocacy and fundraising outside PRADECS. From 2009, systematic observations in the
communes demonstrated that all communes (100%) were able to obtain funds outside PRADECS in order
to fund activities under their PCDC. In its area of intervention, PRADECS funded provincial planning
and evaluation meetings of their development program with the participation of other TFPs, with results
on PCDC funding.
Indicator N°4: At least 50% of the targeted communes have included the concerns of vulnerable
groups in the Communal Community Development Plan. The results achieved in relation to this
indicator are linked to a series of awareness actions by PRADECS, including technical notes on taking
into account the concerns of vulnerable groups, the action plan for vulnerable groups, the setting up of
thematic groups specialized on issues of vulnerable groups as well as relevant training activities. The
result is that all 34 PCDCs supported by PRADECS integrated subprojects for vulnerable groups and that
289 subprojects from these PCDCs were funded by the project.
Indicator N°5: At least 430 hillside and commune subprojects were completed under the Project. Table
9 below shows the progress of subproject infrastructures over 3 years from 2010 to 2012 to provide an
idea of comparison between the target value for the entire project period and the actual value achieved by
the Project.
Table 9 – Evolution of subprojects
Subproject Status                    March-10        Dec-11         Dec-12
Recorded subprojects                   182            594            818
Completed subprojects                    70            393            782
% of subprojects completed against      16%           91%            182%
the target indicator (430 MP)

At the end of December 2011, the number of subprojects already recorded (MP completed and MP
underway) had already exceeded the number of 430 subprojects targeted for the entire project period. At
the end of 2012, the percentage of subprojects completed had already reached 182% with regard to the
target value of 430 subprojects.
Indicator N°6: Not less than 90% of the targeted communes developed or updated their Communal
Community Development Plan in a participatory manner. The initial target was of 50 communes of
major intervention provinces but, the Swiss Cooperation supported the communes of Ngozi and the Dutch
Cooperation through IRC, an international NGO, supported the communes of Muyinga. The development
of PCDC followed an inclusive, participatory and bottom-to-top approach, a process that combined all the
layers of the population, regardless of their socio-economic status and vulnerability.
Indicator N°7: At least 80% of the targeted communes have set up a strategy to ensure the participation
of marginalized groups in the decision-making process, particularly in relation to the Communal
Community Development Plan. It should be noted that 100% of the targeted communes have set up a
strategy to ensure the participation of marginalized groups in the decision-making process, particularly in
relation to PCDC and for the following reasons: (i) activities related to local planning of the PCDCs have

                                                      34
consistently started in the census hillsides to give opportunity to all vulnerable people to be present and
participate, (ii) techniques and strategies to give voice to the floor to the weak were used, (iii) the
community development structures put in place during the process systematically included representatives
of vulnerable groups, (iv) an actual awareness and training campaign for vulnerable groups was
conducted before and after the production of PCDCs to raise their awareness on their own development,
inclusion and social cohesion.
Indicator N°8: At least 70 subprojects for vulnerable groups have been completed under the Project.
With regard to the targeted 70 subprojects for the entire project period, the figure of 289 subprojects was
reached over the five years of the Project, which corresponds to an excess of 219 subprojects (413%).
Indicator N° 9: At least 60% of the communes targeted provide adequate data for monitoring and
evaluation within the time required in the implementation of their development programs. With the
systematic support of facilitation agencies, consulting engineers, financial controllers of the Trust Agency,
provincial offices of cooperative and association movement, it should be noted that although the
beginning was difficult for some communes, in the end, 100 % of communes have managed to provide
adequate data for monitoring and evaluation in a timely manner. Monthly, quarterly and annual project
reports were made based on data from the communes.
Indicator N°10: A communication strategy taking into account all stakeholders has been developed and
implemented. From a study conducted at the start of the project, a communication strategy and an action
plan on communication have been developed. Then, the implementation of this plan involved major
communication agencies in the country on the basis of a contract between the project and media agencies
specialized in the production of programs, magazines, advertisements and newspaper articles. Periodic
assessments of the strategy took place to improve the performance of each communication sector and
adjustments were made whenever needed.
III. Evaluation of Government performance
PRADECS acted as the operationalization of the government's commitment to support grassroots
communities in decentralization and the provision of both social and socio-economic community
infrastructures, as reflected in the February 2007 national decentralization policy and community
development paper. It thus played a leading role both in the preparation and the implementation of the
project.
Conduct of project preparation activities: The government has put in place an appropriate institutional
framework to ensure a design that is consistent with national priorities and sectorial needs of the project
scope. The process was under the coordination of a preparation unit whose team was set up competitively,
supported by a preparatory committee representing the various sectorial ministries. Various studies were
conducted to secure the implementation framework of the project, including (i) a study on the social
impact to identify the socio-economic variables to be taken into consideration in the preparation of project
(ii) an institutional assessment to determine the appropriate institutional framework and the strengths and
weaknesses to be taken into account in the definition of a capacity building program, (iii) a study of the
decentralized financial management systems to provide the operational mechanisms for the transfer of
resources, and (iv) an environmental study leading to the design of an Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF).
Setting up the conditions for project implementation: While negotiations on the Grant Agreement took
place on 8 February 2007, the government took steps to fulfill the implementation of the project in set
timeframe. A project management unit was set up in February 2007 and the national supervisory bodies
were established proactively to the project implementation, namely the Order No. 04/VP1 of 22/01/2007
of the First Vice-President of the Republic by establishing the National Project Steering Committee and
the Ministerial Order 558/530 of 18/5/2007 for the Technical Monitoring of Project Implementation.

                                                       35
These bodies, as well as the Monitoring Committee of the IDA portfolio, accompanied the project
implementation.
Key strategic government intervention during project implementation: The government took action
both at the institutional and operational levels to ensure proper implementation of the project. Without
being exhaustive, the following may be mentioned:
-   Reinforcement and operationalization of the Provincial Offices of Cooperative and Associative
    Movement (BPMCA). The institutional arrangement of PRADECS chose not to create branches of
    the Executive Secretariat at the provincial level, but rather rely on BPMCA as a decentralized
    structure of the Ministry of Communal Development. From the start of the project, the government
    redeployed staff to put the best people in the provinces of strong PRADECS intervention. These
    structures played an important role in supporting the communes in all project related activities, in the
    vertical communication between the ES and the communes as well as in the monitoring and
    evaluation of Project activities.
-   Coordination of actions through the Thematic Group "Decentralization and Community
    Development." The government coordinated the Technical and Financial Partners working in the
    area of decentralization through monthly thematic meetings. These meetings allowed the
    implementation of the complementary approach between the project and other TFPs. Under this
    approach, the provincial advisors of the Gutwara Neza Program played the role of facilitation agency
    for PRADECS in the provinces of minor intervention where these advisors were present.
-   Mobilization of communal contributions. Initial previsions had set the contribution of communes
    and communities to funding local development subprojects at US$1,465,000 against US$27.7 million
    for IDA, i.e. a total contribution of 5.3%. The achievements are such that the actual contributions
    totaled 1,554,908,945 BIF against 36,997,439,980 BIF, representing 4.4% of participation. These
    figures show that the government has far exceeded its expectations in both absolute and relative
    terms, taking into account the fact that rates have been halved in the process. In many cases where
    communes were not able to pay their contribution, the government supplemented their efforts by
    calling upon FONIC to make available their financial contribution. It turned out that the communes
    could not keep up after participation in the financing of two to three subprojects, and the financial
    support of FONIC served to give them a boost.
-   Collaboration agreement with sectoral ministries: the decentralized sector ministries (education,
    public works, water, transport, youth, national solidarity, health and others) have played an important
    role in providing technical advice to communes with regard to compliance with quality standards and
    national standards. Cooperation agreements were signed in the early days of the project between the
    project and those Ministries. Under these agreements all electrification subprojects and all drinking
    water subprojects were respectively carried out under the management of REGIDESO and AHR.
    Moreover, despite the difficulties, the Ministry of Public Health continued to equip health centers
    built under PRADECS to the extent that, at the end of the project, 74% of health facilities were
    functional.
-   Achievements of quantitative and qualitative objectives of the project: The quantitative
    objectives for the project were achieved in all its components. The "capacity building" component,
    reached 69,934 men/training days on 21 topics that can be classified into two groups: the
    reinforcement of commune project management and the reinforcement of civic consciousness. For the
    "subproject" component, while the targets were respectively 430 commune and hillside subprojects
    and 70 subprojects for vulnerable groups, the achievements reached 818 subprojects in the first
    category and 289 in the second, respectively, double and quadruple of the expected number. In
    connection with the "management, M&E and communication" component, the first major indicator of
    government performance is the funding consumption rate that reached 99%; the second is the quality
                                                       36
    of management as evidenced by the unqualified opinion of the auditors on all financial years of the
    project.
In conclusion, the Government expresses its satisfaction with the role played by mandated actors in the
preparation and implementation of the project. A key lesson learned is the level of representativeness of
the government in the project steering bodies. Indeed, the National Steering Committee (CNOP) was
chaired at the Office of the Vice-President of the Republic and was made of members from ministerial
level. This high representation is an advantage in that it can follow up the project at the highest policy
level, but at the same time a disadvantage on the regularity of statutory meetings.
IV. Evaluation of IDA performances
Support for project preparation: IDA has made available to the Government an advance of
US$579,420, as well as US$265,000 from the Japanese Grant. This funding helped to set up a project
preparation unit, to carry out the main studies in order to better define the project concept, to prepare the
implementation manual, the manual of administrative, financial and budgetary procedures and the
monitoring and evaluation manual, all three conditions for project implementation and to recruit key
project personnel. Therefore, the provision of an advance for project preparation (PPF) was a factor
promoting the respect of key dates in the project implementation process. With the technical support of
IDA, the work plan for the first eighteen months of the project was developed, hence providing an
introduction to monitoring project implementation by the team put in place. It should be noted that the
Japanese grant was poorly executed. Indeed, out of an amount of US$265,000, disbursement was limited
to US$75,000.
Regular supervision in the form of support and advice: Project implementation was facilitated by the
support and advice of IDA project managers in the form of supervision missions conducted every six
months, after which an action plan for the next 6 months was developed. Various forms of communication
(e-mail, teleconference, etc.) punctuated this interval. This ongoing communication between the project
management and IDA supervision helped solve problems as they arose, but also and more so, to act
proactively in anticipation of problems. Occasional technical support missions supplemented regular IDA
missions. These include a support mission for the improvement of M&E indicators of the project and a
mission that strengthened the inclusion of vulnerable groups in the construction of community facilities
(access ramps, wider doors, appropriate latrines, etc.).
Support in resolving crises: during the project life cycle, three events are identified as having been
major factors affecting the success of the project. Bank Team contributed in finding solutions to critical
situations.
-   Communal and Community Contributions: Halfway through the project, the communes were unable
    to mobilize their contributions in cash and in kind for the communities, especially when they were in
    the second or third subprojects. The Grant Agreement was amended to reduce the rate of these
    contributions. This measure had a positive impact on the result of subprojects, so mobilization of
    communal and community contributions were not a problem.
-   Institutional dysfunction: The IDA team which initiated the modification of the Grant Agreement also
    amended it in response to institutional dysfunction when the change in government structure placed
    the project under the Ministry of Communal Development instead of the Ministry of Interior and
    Public Security, at the same time blocking the functioning of project organs.
-   Crisis of Trust Agency: The IDA team invested in finding a temporary solution to restart
    disbursements that had stopped for two months following the non-renewal of contract of the Trust
    Agency for incompetence. During the recruiting process of another agency, an individual consultant
    was hired to act as a Trust Agency for urgent disbursements.


                                                       37
Points of disagreement: Overall, the project implementation benefited from the consistency of the views
of IDA and government staff. However, these points have not converged on the eligibility of homes for
health personnel. While IDA argued that these homes are not eligible for funding as homes for officials,
the government continues to maintain that the homes are integral part of the health infrastructure and
essential to their functioning.
In conclusion, the government expresses its satisfaction with the role of IDA both during the preparation
and implementation of the project. Two main lessons are to be learned from the performance of the World
Bank. On the one hand, the Government recognizes the benefits of a decentralized supervision unit put in
place at the local office of the World Bank. Such close supervision can act on problems in real time and
even anticipate them together with the project management unit; it allows the World Bank to be present in
the reflections of the decentralization thematic group and be in close contact with other TFPs involved in
the sector.
V. CONCLUSIONS
5.1.   Key lessons
Successful operation despite the high degree of identified risks: The preparation of the project
described as "substantial" the inherent risk in its implementation. Among them was the risk of seeing
resources monopolized by communes with more active leaders than others, political interference in the
project implementation, the low technical and financial capacity of the communes, the risk of exclusion of
vulnerable groups, the risk of communal tension between the allocation of resources and the risk of
misuse of resources. The project has established control mechanisms of these risks to the extent that no
major event has come to hinder the smooth running of the project. Transparent implementation and
apolitical project management is a key factor in its success. In addition, transparency and objectivity that
characterized the allocation of resources, both at the initial allocation and the level of allocation of bonus
helped ease tensions on the allocation. Special incentives for considering the needs of vulnerable groups
have been initiated. These incentives include the extension of a specific action plan for vulnerable groups,
the establishment of a thematic groups specialized on problems of vulnerable groups and the
determination of prior allocation to activities related to this category of beneficiaries.
A pioneering experimental funding approach for other donors: of all identified risks, the
accountability of communes in the management of funds was the most critical, both in terms of
management capacity and security of funds. This accountability is also a source of very exciting
satisfaction on the part of local actors. For the first time, they have experienced the true role of managing
a local community outside of routine administrative acts. Trial and error has been observed at the outset in
terms of abiding by the procurement and financial management reference principles (transparency,
efficiency, economy and fairness), but the training and supervision of the Executive Secretariat allowed
the maturing of the system. The PRADECS is a successful experiment of this accountability that could
inspire and strengthen other donors. Important lessons could be learned by evaluating PRADECS and
PADLPC interventions that took place in the same province of Cibitoke, with different approaches.
Subprojects with visible economic impacts and with domino effects that can serve as a model for the
promotion of the local economy: one of the impacts directly measurable of the project is the creation of
employment and revenues induced by the implementation of subprojects. Of the US$37 million dollars
for the implementation of subprojects, about US$26 million were injected in the local economy in the
form of labor and purchase of materials. Some community facilities such as markets and electrical
connections have led to the emergence of income-generating activities such as workshops, welding and
carpentry, hairdressing salons, mills, as well as entertainment activities such as film projection. From this
perspective, the project has completed a dual purpose of providing basic services to the population, while
serving as a model that can inspire interventions promoting the local economy. However, substantial

                                                        38
results in terms of promoting the local economy could only be achieved with an approach focused on
strengthening local entrepreneurship, an approach that was outside the field defined for the project.
5.2. Key challenges
A drop of water in an ocean of needs: The PRSP-II recognizes a significant advance in terms of peace
building and progress in the restoration of basic social services with regard to the context of the PRSP I.
The contribution of PRADECS in the progress of certain social indicators is remarkable as evidenced by
the results presented in Section 3. However, these indicators remain below normal standards: infant
mortality is 59 deaths per 1,000 live births, the infant and child mortality rate at 96 deaths per 1,000 live
births and maternal mortality at 499 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births (PRSP-II). The completion
rate of school enrollment remains 47.7% and makes it impossible to achieve the millennium goals in this
area in 2015 (PRSP-II). Access rate to drinking water is limited to around 50% with the goal of reaching
70% in 2015 (PRSP-II). As for the implementation of decentralization, the new law on the transfer of
powers from the state to communes raises new challenges in terms of empowerment of local authorities
and communities to take charge of their development.
The other side of participatory planning: participatory planning is an approach that empowers the
hillside population in prioritizing their development needs through CDP’s. The hillside consultations also
create at the same time expectations of a population that awaits positive returns through the
implementation of subprojects originally included in the CDP’s and the satisfaction expressed needs. If
substantial funding does not follow the ongoing planning process, these people will end up five years later
with the same needs and the same state of vulnerability, to the extent that the CDP’s will eventually be
seen more as a tool for propaganda rather than a development tool.
Maintenance of infrastructure as the best indicator of ownership: the project has established
mechanisms for the appropriation of achievements such as contributions in kind and cash to finance
subprojects and monitoring of implementation of subprojects by beneficiary committees. However, it
appeared that the best indicator of ownership and the best guarantee of the sustainability of infrastructure
is the development of a culture of maintenance and repair. The fact is that despite the awareness raising
and training on the subject, there is lack of little gestures like cleanliness and small repairs for which
omission may cause more material damage. In addition to the continuation of awareness raising and
training, the government is preparing to issue an order establishing the obligations of communes and
communities in terms of infrastructure maintenance.
5.3. Conclusion
PRADECS is an operation that has achieved remarkable success in all aspects of project management: its
efficient and effective implementation, the achievement of its development goal and the materiality of its
impact, the high degree of satisfaction of beneficiaries. The government hopes that the World Bank
continues its support in the area of decentralization in order to maintain and consolidate project
achievements. A request to this effect has been sent to IDA.




                                                       39
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Comments by local officials from a stakeholder workshop: A member of the ICR team participated in
a stakeholder workshop organized by the project in December 2012 just a few weeks before the close of
the project. The workshop brought together over 200 communal authorities from all communes targeted
by the project. Four key messages from project stakeholders emerged from the workshop: (i) the 1,067
subprojects realized through the project had a direct impact on improving access to social services in rural
areas where 90% of the population live (2008 census), (ii) the needs remain great and stakeholders argued
for continued support through PRADECS to accompany the communes in the on-going decentralization
process, (iii) the impact of social services, particularly schools and health clinics was of urgent priority at
the start of the project, but the diversification of projects for more water, transport, and local economic
initiatives had tremendous gains for the local population, and (iv) communal officials expressed that their
capacity to manage local public administration was augmented due to the training provided by the project.
Comments by GIZ: GIZ specifically focused on the support role that PRADECS provided the Ministry
of Communal Development, stating that members of the PIU often led working groups on specific topics
– for example, developing the national capacity building plan, or devising a draft law on the maintenance
of communal infrastructure. GIZ stated that they saw that the activities of PRADECS were tightly
aligned with the policies and work of the Ministry and without the role of PRADECS as technical advisor
there will now be a void.
Comments by Swiss Cooperation: The Head of Swiss Cooperation was very direct in stating that
PRADECS was an opportunity for the other donors working in the sector, and that the resources and
approach used in the project was a “force de frappe?. Additionally, it was acknowledge that PRADECS
followed principles of the Paris Declaration, in terms of Government ownership, in a genuine way by
having the NOSC operationalized and involved in practical project supervision, as well as being
established in a manner that it provided guidance to the project.




                                                        40
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
A. Project Documents
                                                          Date/period
Title

Project Appraisal Document                                February 2007
Financing Agreement b/w GoB and IDA                       May 22, 2007

Aide Mémoire – Mid Term Review Mission                    October 13–25, 2009
Aide Mémoire – ISM                                        April 29 – May 12, 2011
Aide Mémoire – ISM                                        December 12 – 20, 2011
Aide Mémoire - ISM                                        May 21 – 25, 2012
Aide Mémoire – ISM                                        November 26 – December 5, 2012



Implementation Status and Results Report # 1              10/12/2007
Implementation Status and Results Report # 2              01/30/2008
Implementation Status and Results Report # 3              07/29/2008
Implementation Status and Results Report # 4              10/20/2008
Implementation Status and Results Report # 5              04/21/2009
Implementation Status and Results Report # 6              12/23/2009
Implementation Status and Results Report # 7              05/27/2010
Implementation Status and Results Report # 8              03/27/2011
Implementation Status and Results Report # 9              11/01/2011
Implementation Status and Results Report # 10             04/11/2012
Implementation Status and Results Report # 11             09/22/2012
Implementation Status and Results Report # 12             04/24/2013


B. World Bank documents (analytical and operational)
IEG 2011.Preparing High-Quality Implementation Completion and Results Reports.Perspectives from the
Independent Evaluation Group.Handouts from the IEG Workshop. Washington DC: The World Bank.
OPCS. 2006. Implementation Completion and Results Report Guidelines. Last updated on 10/05/2011.
Washington DC: The World Bank.
OPCS & IEG. 2006. Harmonized Evaluation Criteria for Bank Operations. Washington DC: The Word
Bank.
World Bank. 2013. Designing Community Driven Development Operations in Fragile and Conflict
Situations: Lessons from a Stocktake, Pre-review Draft. Washington DC: World Bank.
World Bank (2012) Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Burundi for the Period FY13-16,
Report No. 72334-BI, Washington DC: the World Bank.
World Bank, (2008) Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Burundi for the Period FY09-12.
World Bank, (2007) Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Burundi for the Period FY07-08.




                                                    41
C. Government of Burundi documents

République du Burundi, (2012), Enquête auprès des Bénéficiaires du Projet d’Appui au Développement
Communautaire et Social, PRADECS, CURDES, Bujumbura: Burundi.

République du Burundi, (2012), Evaluation Finale du Project, PRADECS, Egis Bdpa, Bujumbura:
Burundi.

République du Burundi, (2010), Programme et Plan d’action opérationnel de renforcement des capacités
des acteurs en charge de la mise en œuvre de la politique de la décentralisation et du développement
communautaire, PRADECS , Consultants Gérard Baltissen et Elias Sentamba, Bujumbura: Burundi.

République du Burundi, (2006), Cadre Stratégique de Croissance et de Lutte Contre la Pauvreté, CSLP II,
Bujumbura: Burundi.

République du Burundi, Ministère de l’Intérieure et de la Sécurité Publique (2006), Analyse de l’Etat des
Lieux des Projets de Développement Décentralisé dans le cadre de la Préparation du PRADECS,
Bujumbura: Burundi.




                                                     42
Annex 10. List of People Met During the ICR Mission
The ICR Mission took place during May 12-17, 2013. The mission met with key members of the
PRADECS PIU, the Ministry of Communal Development, and other development partners in the
decentralization thematic working group. A field trip was undertaken to visit four communes to discuss
with communal administrators, communal technical advisors, and chief of hillsides where subprojects and
project activities were implemented. The four communes were broken down to visit two communes of
high-intensity intervention and two communes of low-intensity intervention. The list of people met during
the ICR mission and their respective affiliation is provided below.

             Name                            Title        Ministry / Department / Agency
                                   Government of Burundi
Son Excellence Jean Claude         Minister                 Minister of Communal
Ndihokubwayo                                                Development
Son Excellence Martin              Ex-Minister              Minister of Communal
Nivyabandi                                                  Development
Monsieur Jean Marie                Director General         Ministry of Communal
Ntihirageza                                                 Development
Monsieur Serges Karikurubu         Chief of Zone            Commune of Rutegama
Monsieur Diomède Muzigira          Chief of Hillside        Hillside of Munanira II,
                                                            Commune of Rutegama
Monsieur FrancoisNinzigamye        Chief of Hillside        Hillside of Camunandu,
                                                            Commune of Rutegama
Monsieur Thomas Bukuru             Chief of Hillside        Hillside of Gashingura,
                                                            Community Development
                                                            Committee Member
Monsieur Célestin Ntirandekura     Chief of Hillside        Commune of Rutegama
Monsieur Tite Nsengimana           Chief Hillside           Hillside of Bubanda,
                                                            Community Development
                                                            Committee Member
Monsieur Sylvestre Bukobero        Chief of Hillside        Commune of Nyarunazi
Monsieur Roger Nijimbere           Chief of Hillside        Commune of Nyarukere
Monsieur Diomède                   Member of the Communal   Commune of Rutegama
Ntibanezerwa                       Development Committee
Monsieur Bonaventure               Chief of Hillside        Hillside of Munanira I
Nduwimana
Monsieur Nestor Nshimirimana       Director of Primary School     Commune of Rutegama,
                                                                  Communal Development
                                                                  Committee
Monsieur Emmanuel                  Agronomist                     Community Development
Ndabambarire                                                      Committee Member
Monsieur Vital Nsengiyumva         Technical Advisor in           Commune of Giheta
                                   Charge of Development

            Name                               Title              Ministry/Department/Agency
Monsieur Stanislas Niyondezi       President of the Communal      Commune of Giheta
                                   Water Utility
Monsieur Cyriaque Birushe          Technical Advisor in           Commune of Giheta
                                   Charge of Social Affairs and
                                                     43
                                Administration
Monsieur Balthazar Nihenda      Director of the Communal       Commune of Mutaho
                                College
Monsieur Fidèle Nizigiyimana    Technical Advisor in           Commune of Giheta
                                Charge of Development
Monsieur Emery Placide          Director of the Vocational     Commune of Giheta
Ntakarutimana                   Training Center
Monsieur Jean Marie Vianney     Communal Administrator         Commune of Mutimbuzi
Mutabazi
Monsieur Nathanael Manirakiza   Technical Advisor in           Commune of Mutimbuzi
                                Charge of Development
Monsieur Joel Habiyambere       Technical Advisor in           Commune of Mutimbuzi
                                Charge of Social Affairs and
                                Administration
Monsieur Jérémie Hakizimana     Community Development          Commune of Mutimbuzi
                                Committee Member
Monsieur Onesphore              Communal Administrator         Commune of Makebuko
Ntakiyinanira
                       Project Implementation Unit (PIU) PRADECS
Monsieur Thomas Minani           Executive Secretary                 PRADECS
Monsieur Guido                   Infrastructure Specialist           PRADECS
Ndayihanzamaso
Monsieur Bernard Ndikumana       Procurement Specialist              PRADECS
Monsieur Cyrille Sindahabaye     M&E Specialist                      PRADECS
Monsieur Tharcisse               Social and                          PRADECS
Barakamfitiye                    Environmental Specialist
Monsieur Emile Gahungere         Capacity Building                   PRADECS
                                 Specialist
                                   Development Partners
Monsieur Claudio Tognola         Head of Cooperation       Swiss Cooperation
Madame                           Deputy Head of Office     Swiss Cooperation
AnnonciataNdikumasabo
Monsieur Philip Kusch            Technical Advisor for     GIZ
                                 Decentralization
Monsieur Léopold Bapfutwabo      Program Officer on        GIZ
                                 Governance




                                                  44
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 33380


                                                                                             BURUNDI
                                               SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                      MAIN ROADS

                                               PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                              PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                               RIVERS


           29°E                                                                                                                30°E                                                                                                                  31°E

      Lake                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                          Kigali
      Kivu                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                           To
                                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                           Gitarama
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kagera
                                                                                                                                                                             Lake
                                                                                                                                Lake                                        Rweru
                                                                                                                               Cohoha

                                                                     R WANDA                                                                    KIRUNDO
           To
        Cyangugu                                                                                                                             Kirundo

                                                                                     To
                                                                                    Butare                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Rulenge
                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                ar
                                                                                                                y                                                                                     u
                                                                                                           an                                                                                       uv
                                                                                                                                                                                                  uv
                                                                                                   K




                                                                                                                                                                                              R
                   CIBITOKE                                                                                                                            MUYINGA
                                                                                                       NGOZI                                                        Muyinga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         To
                           Cibitoke                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nyakanura
                                                                                                       Ngozi
                                                                     Kayanza
                                      Rusiba
3°S                                   Musada                                  Ruvuvu                                                                                                                                                                        3°S
                                                                                                                                                   Buhiga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             To
                                                Bubanza
                                                                        AY
                                                                        AYA N Z A
                                                                      K AYA                                                                    Karuzi                                                                            si        Kakonko
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       M w eru
                                          BUBANZA
                                izi




                                                                                                                                     KARUZI                                                   CANKUZO
                            Rus




                                                                                                                                                                       vu                 Cankuzo
                                                                                                                                                                     vu
                                                                          Muramvya
                                                                                     V       YA                                                                    Ru


                                                                              R   AM
                                                                     MU
                    To
                   Uvira
                                                   BUJUMBURA
                                                                                                   L uvironza




                                                                                                                         Gitega
                                                                            WA R O
                                                                          M WA
                                                               RA




                                                                                                                                                            Ruyiga
 DEM. REP.                                                                           Mwaro
                                                                                                                                                              RUYIGI
                                                           BU




OF CONGO                                                                                                GITEGA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                Kibondo
                                                           M




                                                                                                                                                                                         gu
                                                    JU




                                                                                                                                                                                     p un




                                                            Mt. Heha
                                                       U
                                                                                                                                                                                    Rum




                                                            (2,670 m)                                           Bukirasazi
                                                   B
                                                                         Matana
                                                                                                                                                                                                            TA NZA NIA
                                                               BURURI                            Mutangaro
                                                                                                                                 R U TA N A
                                                                     Bururi         Most distant                                  Rutana
                                                           Rumonge                headwater of
                                                                                  the Nile River
4°S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4°S




                                                                                   Makamba

                                                                                                                                                                                              BURUNDI
                                                                                   MAKAMBA                                           z   i
                                                                                                                                 ara
                                                                                             Mabanda                         r ag
                                                                                                                        Mu
                                         Lake                              Nyanza-Lac
                                      Tanganyika

                                                                                         To
                                                                                        Kasulu                      0        10               20        30           40 Kilometers


                                                                                                                    0               10                      20               30 Miles


           29°E                                                                                                                30°E                                                                                                                  31°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SEPTEMBER 2004
