FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 19a-ET
APPRAISAL OF A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
ETHIOPIA
May 31, 197 3
Regional Projects Department
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           =           Eth$2.07
Eth$1          =           us$o.48
MEASURES
1  eteer (m)            =           3.28  Feet
1 Square Mleter (m2)               10.76  Square Feet
1 Mile (mi)             =           1.609 Kilometers
1 Acre (ac)                         0 Q.405 Hectares
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CADU     -      Chilalo Agricultuzal Development Unit
CBE      -      Commercial Baak o' Ethiopia
SUPC     -      Educational M4aterials Production Center
BOC      -      Ethiopian Orthodox Church
HSIU     -      Haile Selassie I University
HFE      -      Minimum Formation Education
NCTE     -      National Council for Teacher Education
SCDC     -      Science Curriculum Development Center
A section o-' the Curri.culum Division
of the Ministry of Education respon-
sible for development of science
programs, writing of handbooks and
in-service training of teachers.
TTI      -      Teacher Training Institute
WA W     -      Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit
GOVERNMFET OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL Y3LR
July & to July 7



APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT IN ETHIOPIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS           ...................      i - ii
I.  INTRODUCTION .......................................     1
II.  THE SETTING ........    ................................  1
Socio-economic Background  .....................   1
Development Objectives ............. ...........   2
Human Resources Needs .........................    3
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR ..................    4
The System and its Problems      ...................  4
Education Development ........    ...... .. ..     5
An Interim Investment Program ... .............    6
IV.  THE PROJECT .........................* . ...........    8
Objectives . ..................... .    ...... .   8
Project Items .. ... **. * . * .. ....... * ......  9
Cost  of  the  Project   *. *.............. ..   ..........   .  15
Implementation of the Project .................    18
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS .....................   ......... ..    20
/
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Ethiopia in July, 1972. The mission consisted of Messrs. A. de Capitani
(economist) B. Newbry (general educator), R. Welter (architect) of the Bank,
Messrs. R. Lesire (agricultural educator) and E. Knudsen (veterinary education
specialist) of FAO and Mr. D. Osborne (university specialist, consultant)
and was assisted by Mr. G. Pennisi (economist) of the Bank.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
APPENDIX
The Education and Training System.
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   The Education System, 1970-71.
3.   Expansion of the Present System:  actual and projected
expenditure, 1966-1978
4.   Three Alternative Strategies:  a comparison
5.   Education Strategy Recommended by the Sector Review
Conference
6.   Technical Assistance
7.   Haile Selassie I University:  actual and projected
enrollments, 1969-1982
8.   Scientific Manpower Supply
9.   High and Middle Level Manpower for Agriculture:  needs
and supply, 1973-1983
10.   Summary of Project cost
11.   Unit Capital Costs in New Project Schools
12.   Contingency Allowances
13.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Education Pyramid, 1971-72
2.   The Present Structure of Education
3.   The Implementation of the Project
MAP
Location of project schools



ETHIOPIA
BASIC DATA (Est.) - 1971
General
Area                                                   470,000 sq. miles
Population                                                  25   million
- of which rural                                          22.5 million
Literacy rate                                                7%
Population growth rate                                       2.5%
Education (including private schools)
Enrollment in primary schools (grades 1-6)             655,500
- as a percentage of the 7-12 age group                  16%
Eirollmeint in secondary, technical, vocational
and teacher training schools (grades 7-12)           135,600
- as a percentage of the 13-18 age group                  5%
Enrollment in post-secondary institutions                6,200
Recurrent expenditure (Ministry of Education and
Haile Selassie  I University)                        Eth$  65.2 million
- as a percentage of total government
recurrent expenditure                                  19.5%
Total expenditure on education and training            Eth$ 158.9 million
- as a percentage of GDP                                    3.7%
- of which foreign assistance                              24.0%
Domestically financed expenditure on education
ar.d training                                        Eth$ 120.7 million
- as a percentage of GDP                                    2.8%






APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT IN ETHIOPIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a third education project in Ethiopia for
which a credit of US$10.0 million is proposed.
ii.       Ethiopia is one of the least developed of all developing countries.
Per capita income is about US$76 and the economy is largely based on agri-
culture. No more than 16% of the relevant age group are enrolled in primary
schools and about 5% in secondary, technical and teacher training schools.
Imbalances exist between general and technical/vocational education and
in educational opportunities among the various provinces of the country.
Although present enrollment figures are low, additional resources for ex-
pansion, especially for recurrent expenditure, are extremely limited. Some
20% of the central government budget is devoted to education but about 24%
of estimated national recurrent expenditure on education is dependent on
foreign assistance. Furthermore, there is increasing evidence that the
existing education system is not suited to Ethiopia's development require-
ments and that major reforms are needed to develop a diversified national
system, including more effective use of all the existing education networks.
iii.      The need for major reforms is strongly felt by the government which
has carried out a comprehensive review of the education and training sector
with the aim of developing a new long term educational strategy in harmony
with the socio-economic circumstances and objectives of the country and the
stringent financial constraints. This Education Sector Review was completed
last year; the government has accepted its major recommendations and is now
planning its implementation.
iv.       While a major investment program can be prepared only after the
government's decisions on the implementation of the Sector Review recommenda-
tions, there are obvious and urgent needs to be met which would be of high
priority within any long-term strategy that might be adopted. Specifically,
the teaching of science and the supply of textbooks and other instructional
aids need to be improved; a larger output of trained manpower is required to
implement the agricultural investment program; the existing and potential
educational resources of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church should be used more
effectively for rural development.
v.        The proposed project would assist an interim investment program
addressed toward these needs. It would complement the two education proj-
ects already assisted by IDA in Ethiopia; these projects, financed in 1966
and 1971 respectively, are helping secondary, technical, agricultural, and
teacher education and assisting a broadening of the curricula at various
levels. The first project has been successfully completed. Implementation
of the second project is proceeding satisfactorily.



- ii -
The proposed third education project would provide:
-    renovation and expansion of the Science Center
of Haile Selassie I University;
-    expansion of the Science Curriculum Develop-
ment Center of the Ministry of Education;
-    an Educational Materials Production Center;
-    three Agricultural Training Centers,
-    expansion of the Animal Health Institute;
-    a Training Center for the Ethiopian Orthodox Church
Development Commission; and
-    technical assistance for programming the educational
reforms developing from the Sector Review; reinforcing
physical planning, and the training of laboratory techni-
cians at Haile Selassie I University; carrying out
a feasibility study of local production of science equip-
ment, supporting the initial stage of operation of the
Educational Materials Production Center and providing
staff and training Ethiopian teachers for the Animal
Health Institute.
vi.       A project unit already established in the Ministry of Education
would be responsible for the implementation and overall supervision of the
project. Contracts for furniture and equipment and where possible for civil
works would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding ex-
cept in cases of civil works amounting to less than US$200,000 and furniture
and equipment contracts costing less than US840,000. It is likely that all
the civil works contracts would be won by local contractors. Construction
would be completed within four years after the effective date of the Credit
Agreement. Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be awarded
a margin of preference equivalent to the existing custom duties applicable
to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is the lower.
vii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$12.7 million.  The pro-
posed IDA credit would cover 79% of these costs and would meet the foreign
exchange component (US$6.7 million) and 55% of the local expenditure cost.
viii.     The proposed project is suitable as a basis for a development credit
of US$10.0 million to Ethiopia.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Ethiopia has received two IDA credits for education.  The first
project, financed in 1966 and now successfully completed, assisted the expan-
sion of secondary, technical and teacher education and the diversification of
the curricula at various levels. The second project, financed in 1971, is
assisting teacher and agricultural education and a limited growth of secondary
education to improve its quality and geographical distribution. The imple-
mentation of this project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1.02      At the time of the appraisal of the second project (1970) it became
apparent that Ethiopia needed to carry out a comprehensive examination of its
education system and to restructure it with the view to attaining maximum de-
velopment impact from scarce resources. This examination has taken the form
of the sector review organized and conducted almost entirely by Ethiopians
but assisted by foreign advisers. The sector review, which was completed last
year, has recommended a new long-term educational development strategy, the
implementation of which is now being studied by the government. Although any
major investment program should await the completion of further government
planning there are obvious priority areas for which the government does not
wish to postpone urgently needed investments.
1.03      Therefore, the proposed third project would assist in implementing
an interim investment program to meet urgent needs which would be of high
priority whatever might be the government's decision on the implementation of
the review recommendations. The aims would be: (a) to improve the teaching
of science and the supply of textbooks and other learning aids at various
educational levels; (b) to expand the supply of manpower needed for carrying
out the agricultural investment program; and (c) to make effective the exist-
ing and self-supporting rural education network of the Ethiopian Orthodox
Church. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.7 million and
the foreign exchange component at US$6.7 million.
1.04      The project was identified with the assistance of a Bank mission
during the first part of the sector review work. It was appraised in July,
1972, by a mission composed of Messrs. A. de Capitani (economist), B. Newbry
(general educator), R. Welter (architect) of the Bank and Messrs. D. Osborne
(university specialist, consultant), E. Knudsen (Veterinary education special-
ist) and R. Lesire (agricultural educator) of FAO, and assisted by Mr. G.
Pennisi (economist) of the Bank.
II. THE SETTING
Socio-economic Background
2.01      Virtually isolated from modern science and technology until almost
the middle of the twentieth century, Ethiopia remains one of the least devel-
oped of all developing countries. The Empire extends over an area of 470,000
sq. miles, and has a population of many differing ethnic groups living in



regions of different ecology. The most important ethnic groups are the Amhara
and the Tigre, both descendents of early Hamitic inhabitants and later Semitic
immigrants, the Gallas, and the Somali and Donakil nomads. The main Christian
denomination is the Ethiopian Orthodox Church but there are also many Moslems.
The educational profile of the population is one of the lowest of the world
with an illiteracy rate estimated at 93% of the adults.
2.02      About 90% of the total population (estimated at some 25 million) are
engaged in agricultural and pastoral activities, mostly outside of the money
economy. Due to the underdeveloped communication system, marked differences
in cultures and vernacular languages still exist in spite of the secular
history of independence of the country and the establishment of Amharic as
the "lingua franca" of the Empire. The highly centralized system of govern-
ment has very little effect on life and development in the villages, where
self-governing community organizations have a strong historical tradition
and which are often reached, especially in the highlands, mainly by the
Ethiopian Orthodox Church. The government is now considering a decentralizar
tion program in a few awrajas (a sub-division of a province) on a pilot basis.
2.03      The per capita income is estimated at about US$76 and, with popula-
tion growing at about 2.5% p.a., is increasing at about 2% p.a. in real terms:
it is expected to reach about US$130 (at 1972 prices) only at the end of the
century. The economy is still largely based on agriculture (representing
about 60% of GDP.)  Modern manufacturing, despite rapid growth in the sixties,
accounts for a mere 5% of GDP and consists mostly of agricultural processing,
such as sugar. Nearly all commodity exports are agricultural products, with
coffee accounting for about 60% of total value. Farming and herding practices
are backward and agricultural labor productivity is very low. Modernization_
and an improved exploitation of agricultural resources require well-trained
agricultural technicians and improved learning systems for the farm population.
Development Objectives
2.04      Ethiopia has produced three five-year development plans.  The first
two gave priority to the development of basic infrastructure (roads, tele-
communications and power) and the establishment of manufacturing industries,
mainly financed by the government and based on import substitution. The
Third Five-Year Plan (TFYP), which the government has recently revised and
extended for a sixth year to 1973-74, aims at strengthening national unity,
broadening the monetization of the economy, expanding employment and reaching
and sustaining a 5.5% annual growth in GDP. The Third Plan gives priority
to agriculture and to infrastructure which directly supports agriculture,
such as feeder roads, research and training. In agriculture, emphasis is
given to developing commercial agriculture and modernizing peasant farming.
This change in emphasis is the core of a new economic strategy, and this is
likely to continue into the future.
2.05      The primary objective of the economic strategy is the maximization
of the rate of economic growth and of per capita income; it is also directed
at solving long-term development problems, such as unemployment and income



-3-
inequalities. Unemployment figures are of dubious validity but the manpower
Task Force of the Sector Review suggests effective unemployment, already
nearing 20% of the work force will rise to 33% by 1990, if development pat-
terns are not changed and if, as in the past, peasant incomes grow at only
half the rate of the growth of income in industry and services. By giving
highest priority to rural development, Ethiopia aims at both increasing in-
comes and at least keeping their distribution from deteriorating.
2.06      Although the economic strategy appears to be consistent with long
term development objectives, growth in the medium term is likely to have a
slower pace than that expected by the government. Major obstacles to financ-
ing and implementing a large investment program are: (a) the scarcity of
public savings; (b) the budgetary difficulties in meeting increasing recurrent
expenditure; (c) the shortage of trained local manpower to plan and execute
development projects; and (d) a likely shortage of foreign exchange.
Human Resources Needs
2.07      Lack of an adequate education and training system is one of the
main constraints to the implementation of the development strategy summarized
in paras. 2.04 - 2.05.
2.08      Manpower and the monetary sector.  Information on the existing
labor force, wage employment and future manpower requirements for growth in
the monetary sector of the country is scanty but the completion of an on-
going manpower survey is expected to improve it substantially. It is known,
however, that the present situation is characterized by two contrasting fea-
tures: (a) insufficient supply of middle and high level manpower; and (b)
growing unemployment of general secondary and technical school graduates and
"dropouts". These problems stem from the inadequacies of the existing educa-
tion system (paras 3.01 - 3.03), the weaknesses of the employment exchange
service and salary classifications which are too rigidly bound to formal
education attainments.
2.09      Available data on wage employment show clearly the anomaly noted
in the previous paragraph i.e., that in spite of growing unemployment, serious
manpower shortages exist in industry, teaching, science-related fields and
agriculture. In modern manufacturing, more than 30% of professional and tech-
nical workers are expatriates and most skilled workers have received rudimentary
training. In teaching, about 40% of primary school teachers are unqualified
and only 9% of secondary school teachers are qualified Ethiopians. A large
proportion of the professional staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and most
of the staff of externally-aided projects such as CADU (Chilalo Agricultural
Development Unit) and WADU (Wolamo Agricultural Development Unit) are also
foreign.
2.10      Human resources and rural development.  The development strategy
recognizes even in 1990, 80% - 85% of the Ethiopian labor force will earn
their livelihood on the land. It faces the fact that nearly all the peasant
population is illiterate and that this will continue to be the case unless
a massive attack is made on the problem. An improvement in the services



- 4-
related to agricultural production (credit, marketing, extension) may have
only a limited impact in improving productivity and standard of living on
the land if it is not supported by provision for training of farmers related
their work requirements and geared towards a gradual modernizazation of their
attitudes.
2.11      In summary, the Ethiopian Government recognizes that a long-term
strategy for human resources development is a necessary condition for the
successful implementation of Ethiopia's development policies. Such a strategy
is being developed by the government as a result of the Education Sector
Review (paras. 3.04 - 3.08) and takes account of the diversified ecological
and ethnic composition of the country, the existing inadequate education
system, the limitations on government finance, the manpower requirements of
the modern sector of the economy and the particular need for an improved
rural educational system.
III. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
The System and its Problems
3.01      The Ethiopian education system (Appendix and Charts 1 and 2) in
terms of numbers enrolled and participation rates, is one of the least de-
veloped in all developing countries (Annex 1). Enrollment in primary schools
is equivalent to about 16% of the 7-12 age group and almost one-third
is in private schools. At the secondary level, enrollment is equivalent
to some 5% of the 13-18 age group and more than 95% is in general secondary
schools. Dropout and repetition rates are high. A large proportion of the
teachers are unqualified or expatriate (Annex 2).  In spite of a primary
school buildirn progran assisted by. thie Swedish International Development
Authority and the secondary education expansion and improvement helped by
the first two IDA education projects, facilities remain inadequate and
overcrowded: 4n additinn, little use is made of modern equipment and audio-
visual aids.  The two universities enroll soTmze 6,000 students in facilities
that were plansned for about 4,O00 and teaching suffers also from the poor
preparation of incouiing students Ln science and languages and from lack
of cohesion in the prog rams resulting from a wide diversity of aid sources.
3.02      Detail s of the cost anm  financiig of education are given in paras.
47-57 of the Apw7*sndJ.x  tch s0-i  (na-a. 50) that despite its small size,
the education system airejy ebsor'bs a lacge part of Government revenues.  A
projection of trends in erirolImern.  and expenditures (Annex 3) and of expected
financial resources indicates that, unless drastic changes are made, along
the lines of the sector review, 25% of government revenue would have to be
devoted to education in 1977 (19.5 in 1971-72) in order for 20% of the
relevant age group to find places in government primary schools.
3.03      It is not only for budgetary reasons, however, that the linear
expansion follawed in the sixties should not continue. The main reason is



-5-
that the existing educational system is not adequately responding to the
socio-economic needs and targets of the country (paras. 2.04-2.06). The
primary education curriculum is designed mainly to prepare students for gen-
eral secondary education; although IDA assisted in broadening the programs
at the secondary level to include practical subjects, instruction is still
basically urban-oriented. The technical schools have not developed proper
communication with industry and their curricula are often inappropriate, as
indicated by the growing unemployment of their graduates. More attention
needs to be given to agricultural education at all levels and to improving
the existing learning system for rural areas, including the use of new media.
Education Development
3.04      The Ethiopian government is aware of these problems and has carried
out a critical review of its education and training sector. This sector
review was organized and conducted almost entirely by Ethiopians but was
assisted by foreign advisers most of whom were financed under the second IDA
education project. For the review, 14 task forces were established under the
overall guidance of a Directorate. The members of the task forces came not
only from the education sector but also from various ministries and semi-
government agencies and the business community at large. The review started
in October, 1971 and its draft report was discussed at a review conference
in July, 1972.
3.05      The report proposed to the conference three alternative strategies
(Annex 4), worked out within a realistic financial framework. The three
strategies had many common features: (a) the emphasis on expansion of the
first level of education while pegging the secondary and tertiary level to
manpower needs; (b) the provision of work-related courses and the more ef-
fective use of existing and self-supporting learning channels; (c) the adop-
tion of arrangements to use radio and other aids as an integrated part of a
national learning system; (d) the introduction of tuition fees and a student
loan scheme; (e) the administrative reform of the Ministry of Education as a
part of the government decentralization plan (para. 2.02); and (f) the streng-
thening of the professional orientation of the programs at the university
level with priority given to medicine, agriculture, engineering, science and
education and the creation of regional campuses.
3.06      The consensus of the conference was for the adoption of long-term
educational development strategy (Annex 5) which would combine elements of two
proposed alternatives. The recommendations were reviewed by the Minister of
Education and submitted to the Council of Ministers in January and February
1973.
3.07      After considering the Education Sector Review recommendations the
Council arrived at the following major policy decisions:
-    primary schooling and adult education will be given priority;
growth of secondary and tertiary education will be determined
by manpower requirements but the slowing down of expansion
at these levels to 2.6% and 5.5% p.a. respectively are considered
as long range targets;



-    education will become practical and work-oriented with
particular emphasis on rural skills;
-    rural areas, particularly the less developed, will be given
priority; where government schools do not exist, non-govern-
ment schools will be encouraged; these schools will be sub-
sidized for which purpose 2%-3% of the recurrent education
budget will be provided;
-    the radio service will be used to extend education nationwide;
-    the school system will be restructured to consist of a Minimum
Formation Education of 4 years, Middle School Education of 4
years and Senior Secondary Education of 4 years; a special 2-
year course will be provided for youth between 12 and 16 years.
Work-oriented non-formal education will be provided; the shift
system will be used and the school year extended from 180 to
210 days;
-    a mixture of teachers with high and lower formal qualifications
will be used; upgrading courses will be expanded;
-    expenditure for education will remain at about 20% of the gov-
ernment budget; secondary and tertiary education expenditure
will grow at annual rates of 6-7% and 7-8% respectively; local
communities will be encouraged to assume greater responsibility
for educational expenditure; at post-secondary level tuition
fees will be introduced accompanied by a student loan scheme;
education administration will be decentralized; the head office
of the Ministry of Education will be restructured and a number
of inter-ministerial commissions established.
3.08      To plan the implementation of these decisions the government has
established a number of task forces. It is also organizing a nationwide
orientation campaign to provide better understanding of the reforms to
teachers and administrators, parents and students and to elicit their support.
An Interim Investment Program
3.09      Any major investment program must await the work of the task forces
now planning the implementation of the government's decisions, and the pre-
paration of a detailed program of implementation of the educational reforms.
Pending the completion of such a major investment program, an interim project
was prepared to provide immediate assistance in areas where investment is
urgently needed to meet immediate educational and manpower needs which would
be of high priority within any long-term educational strategy that might be
adopted.



-7-
3.10      These areas are:
(a)  Improvement and expansion of the teaching of science at university
level. To this end, it is necessary to replace and expand facili-
ties for the training of science teachers and for science cur-
riculum development;
(b)  Improvement of teaching of science at the secondary level.  To
this end the Science Curriculum Development Center of the
Ministry of Education will be improved and expanded;
(c)  Expansion of the supply of textbooks and other instructional
aids to the schools. This requires a reorganization of the
system of production and distribution of books, teachers'
guides and simple visual aids;
(d)  Increase in the supply of trained manpower for implementing
the agricultural investment program. To meet this objective,
the training facilities for agricultural field assistants and
animal health assistants should be expanded;
(e)  More effective use of existing and self-supporting learning
channels in rural areas. For this, a scheme is needed to help
in mobilizing the human resources of the Ethiopian Orthodox
Church whose 100,000 priests have an influential role in local
communities; and
(f)  Improvement of educational planning.  To meet this objective,
technical assistance would be needed to:  (i) improve long range
physical development planning at the university, and (ii) assist
with programming educational reforms resulting from the Sector
Review (para. 3.08).
3.11      The improvement and expansion of science teaching is urgently needed
for the following reasons: (i) science teaching in secondary schools is very
poor and no improvement can be expected without the development of an appro-
priate science curriculum and an adequate supply of science teachers to replace
the many unqualified teachers now in service, (ii) training to meet the serious
manpower shortages in the science-based occupations mentioned in para. 2.09
depends on the expansion and improvement of basic courses in the university.
3.12      Expansion and improvement of the facilities for the production and
distribution of textbooks, teaching guides and audiovisual aids is urgently
needed due to the fact that at present the quality of education is suffering
from lack or inadequacy of teaching materials which are adapted to the country's
particular needs.
3.13      Implementation of the new economic development strategy (paras 2.04 -
2.06) would require especially an increased supply and a more economic use of
trained manpower (para. 2.09) particularly in agriculture and teaching in rural



areas. Therefore expansion of the training facilities for agricultural and
animal health assistants and mobilization of existing human resources in the
form of the priest/teacher are essential.
3.14      Assistance in educational planning is particularly important at
this juncture to enable the government to derive full benefit from the Sector
Review by developing comprehensive investment programs including the further
investment needs of the university for possible financing in the future by
IDA and other aid agencies.
IV. THE PROJECT
ObJectives
4.01      The proposed project would assist in implementing an interim invest-
ment program aimed at: (a) improving the teaching of science and the supply
of textbooks and other learning aids at various educational levels; (b) expand-
ing the supply of trained agricultural manpower; and (c) making more effective
the existing rural education network of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. It
would consist of:
(a) construction, furniture and equipment for:
Student Places        Boarding     Staff Housing
Present      New        Places           Units
1.   Science Center of
Haile Selassie I
University            1,100       650/1        -
2.   Science Curriculum
Development Center      n.a.      u.a.        n.a.             n.a.
3.   Education Materials
Production Center       n.a.      n.a.        n.a.             n.a.
4.   Three Agriculture
Training Centers          -        120        120               6
5.   Extension to Animal
Health Institute         60         80         80
6.   Training Center of
the Ethiopian
Orthodox Church
Development
Commission                        500         500              27
Total        1,160      1,350         700              33
/1  Existing facilities would be largely replaced or renovated; hence, the
the number of new places is not indicative of project item scope.
n.a. Not applicable.



- 9 -
(b) the cost of about 25 man-years of specialists and related
services and fellowships to (i) assist in preparing a
program for the implementation of educational reforms and
the training of the administrative personnel for the new
education system; (ii) strengthen physical planning of
Haile Selassie I University; (iii) carry out a feasibility
study on local production of science equipment; (iv) support
the initial stage of operation of the Educational Materials
Production Center; and (v) provide teaching staff to train
local instructors for the Animal Health Institute. Further
details of the technical assistance program are given
in paras. 4.22 and 4.23, and in Annex 6.
Project Items
4.02      Science Center of the Haile Selassie I University (HSIU).  The
proposed project item would assist in the renovation and expansion of the
present inadequate facilities of the Science Center of the Addis Ababa campus
of HSIU from the present capacity of approximately 1,100 to 1,750. Presently
the 1,100 students are crowded into inadequate, partially rented facilities
that are completely unsuitable for science instruction, particularly laboratory
work. Some of the existing buildings would be remodeled to provide classrooms
and other science facilities, and some would be remodeled and utilized as
offices for the Faculty of Social Sciences. The project item would provide:
(a) an administrative section; (b) a science library; (c) two lecture halls;
and (d) instructional and research laboratories, staff offices, and supporting
facilities for the Departments of Biology, Geology, Physics, Chemistry, Mathe-
matics, and Pharmacy.
4.03      The quality of science teaching is poor at all levels of education
because curricula are obsolete, and trained teachers and teaching materials
are in short supply. In particular, post secondary education in agriculture,
technical, and medical fields suffers from weak science preparation of incom-
ing students (para. 3.01). At present, almost all senior secondary teachers
of science are expatriates. It is estimated that in the long run the annual
need for senior secondary science teachers will vary from 150 to 250, depending
on which education strategy the Government adopts. A temporary crash program
to train science teachers is being started at the Alemaya campus of HSIU which
will terminate in 1980, assuming development of facilities under this project
item. However, the Alemaya program plus other science training activities
cannot provide more than 100 teachers p.a.. Furthermore, there is an urgent
need to expand the supply of technical and professional manpower in the
fields of medicine, engineering, and agriculture. Most of the available
personnel in these fields are expatriate (para 2.09).
4.04      The Science Center would meet the needs of: (a) the "freshman core
program" for all freshmen entering any one of the science fields: (b) degree
programs of the Faculty of Science in biology, physics, chemistry, mathematics,
geology, and pharmacy; and (c) science subject programs for students enrolled



- 10 -
in the Faculty of Education. The Center would enable HSIU to give high priority
to professional courses in scientific and technical fields (Annex 7) as recom-
mended by the education sector review (para. 3.06). It would contribute to
the implementation of plans to expand outputs (Annex 8) in these fields as
follows:
Field of Study                       Student Output
1971      1981
Education (Upper Secondary Teachers) 40         120
Education (Other Teachers) /1           -        13
Agriculture                            60       110
Medicine                               20        60
Pharmacy                               10        20
Technology                             70       160
Sciences                               50        85
Graduate Students                       -        15
250       583
/1   Technical institutes, agriculture institutes,
and teacher training colleges all require
graduate science teachers.
The large majority of the students (or some 900) would enroll in the degree
programs of the Faculties of Science and Education. The facilities of the
Center would be flexible to allow for modifications in enrollments and output
targets if the on-going manpower studies (para. 2.08) indicate that the de-
tailed breakdown by specialties, as planned at present, needs to be changed.
4.05      The syllabi of the individual science subjects have been modified
for relevance to Ethiopian conditions and include now an adequate emphasis
on environmental studies. The students who are expected to become teachers
would major in either life sciences (biology and biochemistry), or physical
sciences (physics and chemistry), with mathematics, in order to be able to
teach at least two subjects after graduation.
4.06      HSIU has a well conceived staff development plan providing for full
Ethiopianization of the teaching staff by 1980 through graduate studies abroad
financed in most cases by bilateral aid agencies. The University is also
preparing a plan to increase its nunber of laboratory technicians to about 70
by 1980. In addition, as the Center would serve students enrolled in various
faculties the use of its laboratories is being carefully planned. However, to
ensure that the laboratory facilities of the Center would be used effectively,
the Government gave an assurance during negotiations that within one year
from the signing of the Credit Agreement the plan for training and employing
laboratory technicians will be completed and sent to the Association for comr-
ments, and a laboratory organization expert appointed.



- 11 -
4.07      Science Curriculum Development Center (SCDC).  The proposed project
item would provide for the replacement of currently occupied temporary, dilapi-
dated facilities of the SCDC, and for the expansion of its activities through
the provision of offices, laboratories, curriculum workshops and related
facilities.
4.08      The SCDC, a section of the Curriculum Development Division of the
Ministry of Education, coordinates with the Science Center of HSIU, and is
responsible for curriculum development in science for the school system, test-
ing and evaluation of examination procedures, writing handbooks and teachers'
guides, and in-service training for teachers. Its activities will be expanded
to include the development of prototypes of locally designed science equipment
on an experimental basis and if a feasibility study proves it warranted, the
local production of science kits and other equipment.
4.09      The SCDC and the Mass Media Center of the Ministry of Education are
contiguous, ensuring a close link between audio-visual aids development and
curriculum development in science, the effective teaching of which depends
largely on visual presentation. The SCDC and the audio-visual unit would
therefore form the first stage of an integrated Mass Media and Curriculum
Development Center that, in the future, could further expand its activities
to include other subjects, such as languages and social studies, and a text-
book evaluation unit.
4.10      The project would also provide technical assistance (18 man-months)
for a feasibility study on the local production of science equipment. The
SCDC has presented a satisfactory staff development plan whereby the new staff
would be trained at the Science Education Program for Africa in Accra (a pro-
gram assisted by USAID) on fellowships financed under bilateral aid programs.
The activities of the SCDC will be closely coordinated with those of other
agencies operating in the field of science curriculum development such as HSIU,
the Academy of Pedagogy, the Junior Secondary Teacher Training Institute and
the Primary Teacher Training Institute.  The Government is preparing a plan
for the coordination of these activities through SCDC and, during negotiations,
gave an assurance that this plan will be completed and sent to the Associa-
tion for comments within one year of the date of the Credit Agreement.
4.11      Education Materials Production Center (EMPC).  This project item
would assist with the establishment of the EMPC by providing offices, working
space and meeting rooms, warehouses, and vehicles for the Center and technical
assistance (one man-year) to advise the Center's manager and technical staff
and to help develop a satisfactory accounting and control system between the
Center and the distribution points in the provinces.
4.12      A constraint to quality improvements in the Ethiopian School system
is the lack of an effective organization for the production and distribution
of textbooks and other simple visual aids such as posters and charts. Text-
book production, presently about 2.5 million books per year, is hampered by



- 12 -
lack of facilities, lack of an adequate organizational structure, and lack
of vehicles for distribution. Further, budgetary and organizational rigidi-
ties prevent the Ministry of Education, which now supervises textbook produc-
tion, from coping with this increasingly complex and rapidly expanding task.
4.13      The Government is, therefore, reorganizing its system of production
and distribution of textbooks and visual aids with a view to establishing a
business-oriented semi-autonomous Educational Materials Production Center,
operating under the Commercial Code. The EMPC would perform all the
normal functions of a publishing house; namely technical processing of educa-
tional materials (contracts with authors, review and editing of manuscripts,
lay_ut, etc.), distribution, advertising and financial control over production
and distribution. Publishing capacity of the EMPC would be 3.5 million copies
p.a. which would meet estimated textbook: requirements for primary and secondary
schools. Printing would continue to be carried out by private contractors and
the Government press. The writing of textbooks would be done by the experts
of the Curriculum Division of the Ministry of Education, teacher education
institutions (Appendix paras. 18-24) and universities and by private authors.
4.14      Under present management proposals, EMPC activities would be closely
coordinated with and responsive to the government's responsibilities for educa-
tion; it would be managed by a board with representation from the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Education, the University and the Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia (CBE). The major shareholder would be the government through the
Ministry of Finance; other shareholders would be the CBE, and Haile Selassie I
University. It would be a commercial operation operated for reasonable pro-
fit; the full cost of textbooks would be charged, with the possible exception
of subsidies to less developed regions. A revolving fund of Eth$ 3 million
would provide the working capital requirements of the company.
4.15      During negotiations the government agreed to provide within three
months of the date of the Credit Agreement, a detailed proposal for the
establishment of the Center, and by July 8, 1974, to establish a revolving
fund of not less than Eth$3 million to cover estimated expenditures for the
year. The government also agreed to ensure the appointment of a qualified
general manager acceptable to the Association, over the first five years of
operation of the Center. A supply of paper sufficient for operations through
1974 has been secured from external sources (UNICEF/Sweden), and it is expected
that additional paper would be supplied from bilateral sources after 1974.
4.16      Agriculture Training Centers.  The three proposed new agriculture
training centers would each provide facilities and equipment for 40 students
in a nine-month practical course for field assistants. Students would be at
least 19 years of age and graduates of grade 8.  The Centers would be admin-
istered by the Ministry of Agriculture and operated in close cooperation with
the extension service. Centers will be located in the provinces of Gojjam,
Kaffa, and Wollo, each with distinctive differences in ecology and culture
and also in proximity to research stations or agriculture development projects.



- 13 -
The course, to be taught at each center by two experienced extension workers
selected from the graduates of Jimma and Ambo (Appendix para. 28) would be
directly related to the type of agriculture which is within reach of the
average farmer. To this effect, the Government confirmed, during negotiations,
its intention that the Centers would complement their regular programs with
short courses for farmers.
4.17      The proposed Centers would augment the supply of trained manpower
for agricultural projects. Annex 8 shows the manpower requirements for im-
plementation of an agricultural investment program on the lines proposed in
the agricultural sector survey conducted by the Bank Group in Ethiopia. It
indicates that even after the establishment of three more Agricultural Train-
ing Centers 1/ and the extension of the Animal Health Institute - as provided
in the proposed project - there could be serious shortages, mostly at the
field assistant level. A more rapid expansion of the training capacity, how-
ever, is not advisable until the magnitude of the agricultural investment
program and its phasing (para. 2.04) are made clear.
4.18      Animal Health Institute.  The capacity of the Animal Health Institute
of the Ministry of Agriculture at Debre Zeit needs urgently to be expanded to
provide the manpower required to exploit the large livestock potential of
Ethiopia (about 25 million cattle). At present, the Institute has a student
capacity of 60 places and an annual output of 25. The proposed project there-
fore includes teaching and boarding facilities to expand the capacity of the
Institute to 140 places, and outputs to about 65 p.a. (Annex 9).
4.19      The Institute gives a two-year course for students who have completed
grade 12. It has received UTDP/FAO assistance for curriculum development and
staff training. The curriculum is well balanced and includes an on-the-job
training period during summer vacation. Due to the lack of qualified counter-
parts, the staff training program has not been completed and, therefore, 15
man-years of technical assistance and fellowships would be financed as a part
of the project to provide specialists and prospective teaching staff in the
areas of clinical veterinary medicine, parasitology and microbiology (Annex 6).
4.20      Training Center of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church Development Commis-
sion. This project item would provide a center, located on the Patriarchate's
farm at Menagasha, for training clergymen from the EOC in the teaching of
practical and applied subjects such as applied science, agriculture, community
development, hygiene, and arithmetic. The center would provide educational
and boarding facilities for 500 trainees for a one-semester (6-month) course,
and would produce 1,000 trainees per year. Trainees would be under 40 years
of age, nominated by each Archbishopric and selected by a team sent out to
provincial capitals.
1/ Three similar Agricultural Training Centers are included in the second
education project (243-ET).



- 14 -
4.21      The Ethiopian Orthodox Church (EOC), with more than 100,000 priests
spread throughout the country, has a wide national network which serves farm
families by giving advice and guidance (para. 2.02). In addition to schools
patterned on the official programs of the Ministry of Education, the Church
operates traditional "Nebab Bet" (Reading Schools) in the buildings and court-
yards of most of its 15,000 Churches and monasteries. In these schools,
children of the age of 7-12 learn to read the "holy books" often under the
guidance of one single teacher-priest who is helped by some of the older
students. The EOC is now starting to mobilize its resources for rural devel-
opment as indicated by the recent establishment of an EOC Development Com-
mission, with lay participation, whose primary task, spelt out in its Charter,
is "to aid in the general endeavor for educational economic and cultural de-
velopment". The first step in mobilizing the Church potential for develop-
ment would be directed towards more effective training and utilization of its
human resources; most of the priests now have only basic literacy and, when
trained in simple skills, they could become a self-supporting comunity devel-
opment network.
4.22      A satisfactory curriculum outline has been prepared by the Education
Department of the EOC Development Commission in cooperation with the Minis-
teries of Education, Agriculture, Community Development and Public Health.
A mechanism for continuing improvements in the curriculum and in the individ-
ual courses has been developed; since development of a sound curriculum is
essential, the finalized curriculum would be sent to the Association for re-
view and comment within one year of signing of the Credit Agreement. The
revenue of the farm would be earmarked to meet the recurrent cost of the
Center which would also receive initial support from UNICEF and the World
Council of Churches. It is questionable whether revenue from the Patriarch-
ate's farm will meet recurrent expenditures of the Center. During negotia-
tions, assurances were given that the government will enter into arrangerents
with EOC, acceptable to the Association, which will include the financing,
operation and maintenance of the project facilities.
4.23      Technical Assistance.  The project would include about 25 man-years
of specialists and related services and fellowships (Annex 6). It would provide
the equivalent of 50 man-months of technical assistance for the implementation
of educational reforms resulting from the educational sector review recommenda-
tions. In addition, it would provide 36 man-months of specialist services to
assist the university with long range physical development planning, and in
the organization of a staff development plan and training for laboratory tech-
nicians. During negotiations the government agreed that within one year of
credit signing it would provide, for the Association's comment, a plan for the
training and employment of laboratory technicians at the Science Center of
the University. Other technical assistance would include an 18 man-month
feasibility study of the production of science equipment for schools and 12
man-months of management advisory services to the Educational Materials Pro-
duction Center, both in the Ministry of Education. Under the Ministry of



- 15 -
Agriculture, 108 man-months of specialist services would be provided for the
development and initial teaching of courses in clinical veterinary medicine,
parasitology and microbiology. To provide Ethiopian replacements for these
specialists, the credit would finance three two-year post-graduate fellow-
ships for prospective professors in the same fields of study. During nego-
tiations assurances were given by the government that qualified counterparts
would be assigned to work with the foreign experts.
4.24      With respect to the technical assistance component of the project
related to educational reforms, specific needs would be clear only after the
government's decisions on implementation of the sector review's recommenda-
tions and consultations with other aid agencies. Therefore, the specif.Lca-
tions of the technical assistance program and related support would be agreed
upon between the government and the Association during the implementation period
of the proposed project. The government agreed to keep the Association in-
formed, and to consult with the Association as appropriate, as it developed
and implemented its strategy (para. 3.08).
Cost of the Project
4.25      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.7 million (Annex
10) including US$0.8 million for technical assistance and US$2.4 million for
contingencies. Imported materials for construction, furniture and equipment
and imported furniture and equipment for the project would be free of import
duties. Construction cost estimates have been derived from recent school
and university building costs in Ethiopia. During negotiations, cost estimates
were reviewed and revised to reflect the effects of the latest currency re-
valuations. The average cost per square meter is estimated at US$169 for the
Science Center of Haile Selassie I University and at about US$95 for other
project items. The proposed schedules of accommodation are functional and
economical; estimated costs per student place and per boarding place compare
well with estimated unit capital costs in similar institutions in other IDA
financed education projects (Annex 11). Estimates of furniture and equipment
costs, prepared by the Ethiopian authorities, are reasonable; detailed lists
would be prepared during the design stage and reviewed by the Association
before procurement.
4.26      Contingency allowances (Annex 12) include 10% for unforeseen factors
to the cost estimates of site development, construction and professional fees
and 5% to the cost estimates of furniture and equipment. Unit costs in both
local currency and foreign exchange, are expected to increase by 5% p.a. and
an additional 15% contingency is therefore included. Total contingencies
would represent 18% of the total project cost, 6% for unforeaeen physical
additions and 12% for price increases.



- 16 -
4.27      The estimated costs and foreign exchange components of the various
parts of the proposed project are summarized as follows:
Ethiopian Dollars           US Dollars
04illions)               (Millions)      % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign Total Total
I. Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment and Architectural/
Engineering Services
1.  Science Center of HSIU  5.57    6.62   12.19    2.69    3.20   5.89  47%
2. Science Curriculum
Development Center       0.33    0.29    0.62    0.16    0.14   0.30   2%
3. Education Materials
Production Center        0.60    0.75    1.35    0.29    0.36   0.65   5%
4. Agricultural Training
Centers                  0.64    0.46    1.10    0.31    0.22   0.53   4%
5. Extension to Animal
Health Institute         0.37    0.37    0.74    0.18    0.18   0.36   3%
6. Training Center the
E.O.C. Development
Commission               2.09    1.53    3.62    1.01    0.74   1.75  14%
Subtotal I            9.60   10.02   19.62    4.64    4.84   9.48  75%
II. Project Unit Expenses       0.17    0.04    0.21    0.08    0.02   0.10   1%
III. Technical Assistance       0.22    1.37    1.59    0.11    0.66   0.77   6%
Subtotal I - III      9.99   11.43   21.42    4.83    5.52  10.35  82%
IV. Contingencies
1.  Unforeseen factors       0.94    0.74    1.68    0.45    0.36   0.81   6%
2.  Price Increase           1.49    1.72    3.21    0.72    0.83   1.55  12%
Total Contingencies          2.43    2.46    4.89    1.17    1.19   2.36  18%
PROJECT TOTAL        12.42   13.89   26.31    6.00    6.71  12.71 100%
= ~ ~    ~~~ -                 .-_



- 17 -
4.28      The estimated costs by various categories of expenditure are sum-
marized as follows:
Ethiopian Dollars (millions) US Dollars (millions) % of
Local     Foreign       Total  Local  Foreign  Total Total
1.   Civil Works
(a) Buildings
(i) Academic &
Coiunal    5.73        3.81        9.54  2.77       1.84   4.61   36%
(ii) Boarding    0.85       0.58        1.43  0.41      0.28   0.69    5%
(iii) Staff
Housing     0.39       0.27       0.66  0.19        0.13   0.32    3%
Subtotal        6.97       4.66       11.63  3.37       2.25   5.62   44%
(b) Site Devel-
opment        1.24      0.31        1.55  0.60       0.15   0.75    6%
(c) Architectural/
Engineering
Services        0.62       0.15        0.77  0.30       0.07   0.37    3%
Subtotal         1.86      0.46        2.32  0.90       0.22   1.12    9%
2.   Furniture        0.31      0.70        1.01  0.15       0.34   0.49    4%
3.   Equipment        0.46      4.20        4.66  0.22       2.03   2.25   18%
4.   Project Unit
Expenses        0.17       0.04        0.21  0.08       0.02   0.10    1%
5.   Technical
Assistance       0.22      1.37        1.59  0.11       0.66   0.77    6%
Subtotal 1-5    9.99      11.43       21.42  4.83       5.52  10.35   82%
6.   Contingencies
(a) Unforeseen
Factors         0.94       0.74        1.68  0.45       0.36   0.81    6%
(b) Price
Increase         1.49      1.72        3.21  0.72       0.83   1.55   12%
Subtotal         2.43      2.46        4.89  1.17       1.19   2.36   18%
PROJECT TOTAL  12.42      13.89       26.31  6.00       6.71  12.71  100%



- 18 -
4.29      The additional recurrent cost generated by the project is estimated
at about Eth$2.5 million p.a. at 1972 prices or 1.3% of the estimated recur-
rent cost of education in 1979-80. These estimates do not include the costs
of the EMPC which would be administered through a revolving fund (para. 4.14).
The government should be able to meet these costs and its share of the capital
costs without curtailing expenditures for other on-going educational activities.
4.30      The foreign exchange component has been calculated as follows:
(a) site development, 20%; (b) construction, 40x; (c) furniture, 70%; (d)
equipment, 90%; (e) professional services and project unit expenues, 20%;
and (f) technical assistance, 85%. Including contingencies, the foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$6.7 million or 53% of the total project
cost.
Implementation of the Project
4.31      Administration.  The existing project unit, established within the
Construction and Maintenance Department of the Ministry of Education for the
implementation of the first and second projects, would be responsible for
overall supervision of the proposed third project and liaison with the Asso-
ciation. Supplementary operational expenses including, inter alia, salaries
of architects, engineers and building inspectors, and general expenses of the
project unit would be included in the project. The project unit would also
provide coordination with other parties concerned such as HSIU, the Ministry
of Agriculture and the EOC. Assurances to this effect were obtained from the
goverament during negotiations.
4.32      Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  Design and super-
vision of construction for the SCDC, the EMPC, the Agricultural Training Centers,
the Animal Health Institute, the Training Center of the EOC Development Com-
mission and alterations to the science center, would be carried out by the
project unit; in particular, the Agricultural Training Centers would be pat-
terned on the standardized design developed for similar institutions includ-
ed in the second project. Design and supervision of the Science Center of
HSIU would be the responsibility of a consrulting firm of architects to be
selected and coiissioLed on rexds and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
4.33      Sites.  Suitdble sites have been acquired for all project items ex-
cept the two Agricultural Training Centers in the provinces of Kaffa and Wollo.
During negotiations, assurances were given that suitable sites for these Train-
ing Centers will be selecte6 and acquired within six months from the effective
date of the Credit Agreement.
4.34      Procurement.   Contracts for furniture, equipment and civil works
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the Association's Guidelines for Procurement, except in cases of
civil works costing less than US$200,000 and in the case of furniture and



- 19 -
equipment costing less than US$40,000. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to encourage competition from foreign firms which would be attracted
only by reasonably large projects or by packages or smaller projects items.
The Ethiopian building industry is competitive and it is not likely that
foreign contractors will gain awards for civil works. The bulk of instructional
equipment is expected to be procured abroad and furniture locally. Local
manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15%, or the existing
rates of import duties, whichever is the lower, over the c.i.f. price of
competing imports.
4.35      Maintenance.  Maintenance of school building and equipment has been
inadequate and unsystematic. Appropriate maintenance procedures for the
school system are now being worked out with the establishment of a maintenance
division in the Construction and Maintenance Department of the Ministry of
Education and with the help of technical assistance financed as a part of the
second project.
4.36      Disbursements.  The proposed credit of US$10.0 mil;ion would finance
the foreign exchange component (US$6.7 million) and 55% of local expenditures.
The credit would be disbursed to meet:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported in-
structional equipment and furniture and of the ex-factory
cost of locally manufactured furniture and equipment;
(b) 80% of total expenditures for technical assistance;
(c) 80% of total expenditures for professional architectural!
engineering services;
'd) 80% of total expenditures for civil works;
(e) 80% of total expenditures for imported and locally procured
furniture and equipment; and
(f)  80% of local expenditures for project unit expenses. Dis-
bursement would be made against a certificate of expendi-
ture which would not be submitted for review, but would be
retained by the Borrower and be available for inspection by
the association in the course of project supervision.
The proposed project would be implemented during 1973-1978 (Chart 3); with
construction completed about 4 years after the credit becomes effective; the
estimated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 13. Undisbursed amounts
would be subject to cancellation.



- 20 -
V. RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, assurances were given by the government that:
(a) within one year from the signing of the Credit Agreement, a
qualified laboratory organization expert would be appointed
at the Science Center at HSIU and the plan for training and
employing qualified laboratory technicians will be completed
(para. 4.06);
(b) within one year from the signing of the Credit Agreement a plan
for the coordination of science curriculum development activi-
ties would be completed and sent to the Association for comment
(para. 4.10);
(c) within three months after the date of the Credit Agreement the
draft Charter of the EMPC would be forwarded to the Association
for review; a revolving fund of Eth.$3 million would be established
by July 8, 1974 G.C. and for the first five years of operation
the Center would be directed by a qualified general manager accept-
able to the Association (para. 4.15);
(d) regular programs of the Agricultural Training Centers would
be complemented by short courses for farmers (para. 4.16);
(e) within one year of signing of the Credit Agreement the proposed
curriculum for the Training Center of the Ethiopian Orthodox
Church would be sent to the Association for review and comment
(para. 4.22);
(f) arrangements with the EOC acceptable to the Association would
be made to include, inter al'a, the financing, operation and
maintenance of the facilities included therein (para 4.22);
(g) qualified counterparts would be assigned to work with the
technical assistance experts (para. 4.23); and
(h) suitable sites would be selected and acquired for all the
Agricultural Training Centers within six months from the
effective date the Credit Agreement.(para. 4.33).
5.02      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a credit of
US$10.0 million to the Government of Ethiopia on standard IDA terms.



APPENDIX
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
General
1.        At the end of World War II there was little modern public education
in Ethiopia. Most of the institutions at the primary and secondary levels
were provided by the Ethiopian Orthodox Church or private organizations.
Since then, however, the government has made appreciable efforts to expand
public education and training. Even so, in 1959-60 only about 6% of the
relevant school age population were receiving primary education. Since then,
the growth of both public and private education has been rapid as the follow-
ing table shows:
Enrollments    Enrollments         Index
Grades        1959-60         1970-71      1959/60 = 100
1 -  4        175,400         516,700             294
5 -  6         24,700         138,800             561
7 -  8         14,600          73,200             501
9 - 12          5,200          59,900           1,152
Higher education             827          6,500              785
Source: The Ministry of Education
These figures do not include enrollment in Nebab Bet (House of Reading) schools
operated by the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Estimates of this enrollment vary
from 300,000 to 500,000.
2.        An educational policy began to be defined with the Second Five-Year
Plan (1962-67). In addition to quantitative growth, this Plan stressed im-
provements in quality and the relationship of the system to national needs
particularly at secondary and university levels.
3.        Despite several attempts to collect and evaluate manpower data,
there are still no consistent statistics on manpower stock and requirements.
However, the situation improved considerably after the establishment of the
Manpower Coordinating Committee under the Central Statistical Office. Com-
prehensive manpower studies have also begun and will be completed with the
assistance of foreign specialists supplied as a part of the second IDA
education project.
4.        Improvements in the quality and re-orientation of the content of
education were also only partially successful. At the primary level no sub-
stantial changes occurred except for the introduction of Amharic as the
medium of instruction. At the secondary level, the first IDA education
project had a major impact in introducing a diversified curriculum including
pre-vocational streams in agriculture, industrial art, commerce and home
economics. -At the university, s  tematic planning started only in 1969.



APPENDIX
Page 2
5.        The rapid growth of enrollments at different levels reflects the
increasing social pressure for more education. It has also resulted in the
establishment of many private schools of varying effectiveness, most of them
only nominally under the authority of the Ministry of Education.
Public Education
6.        Structure.  Ethiopia's education and training system comprises:
(i) six years of primary education normally beginning at the age of seven
(grades 1-6); (ii) secondary education with a 2-year junior cycle (grades
7-o) and a 4-year senior cycle (grades 9-12); and (iii) university and other
post-secondary courses of one to eight years. Education is free at every
level and students in technical, agriculture and higher education are
assisted by a large bursary program. National examinations are held at com-
pletion of various levels and sub-levels. At the end of primary education,
the grade 6 national examination is taken. In 1970-71, about 34,000 or 50%
of the total enrollment in grade 6 passed this examination. The grade 8 exam-
ination screens junior secondary students for entry to senior secondary level.
In 1970-71 about 21,000 or about 60% of the total enrollment in grade 8 passed
this exam. The teacher training selection examination is given at the end
of grade 10 for places in primary teacher training institutes. The Ethiopian
Secondary School Leaving Certificate Examination is given at the end of grade
12. In 1970/71, 5,300 students sat for this exam and only 18% passed.
7.        The language of instruction is Amharic at the primary level and
English at the secondary level. A major problem has been that primary
teacher training is in English because of a lack of Amharic-speaking teacher
training staff. The Academy of Pedagogy, included in the second IDA project
is expected to improve this situation gradually.
8.        Administration.  The administration of public education at the
primary and secondary levels, including technical education and primary and
junior secondary teacher training, is centralized in the Ministry of Educa-
tion. Fourteen provincial education offices are required to supervise
teachers, organize examinations, and inspect schools but most are grossly
understaffed to fulfill their tasks. Although this Ministry is also respons-
ible for supervising non-government schools with the aim of assuring equiva-
lence in standards, its influence on the private sector is only nominal due
to the weaknesses of the school inspectorate. The Ministry is at present
designing a broader and more comprehensive scheme to improve the quality of
instruction offered in private schools. Improvement of the training of school
supervisors is one of the objectives of the Academy of Pedagagy and new in-
service training courses for teachers in the non-government sector are also
being planned.
9.        A number of vocational schools are administered by other
Ministries; examples are the intermediate level agriculture institutes
by the Ministry of Agriculture, the nursing and dressers schools by the
Ministry of Public Health, the Management Training Center and the National



APPENDIX
Page 3
Vocational Training Center by the Ministry of National Community Develop-
ment and Social Affairs, and the Institute of Public Administration by the
Central Personnel Agency. Some training is given by semi-governmental
organizations such as the Imperial Telecommunications Board and the Electric
Light and Power Agency. The public Haile Selassie I University and the
chartered private University of Asmara are autonomous but financially assisted
by the Government. The French Secondary Teacher Training College (Ecole
Normale Superieure) in Addis Ababa is under the administrative responsibility
of the Ministry of Education.
10.       Planning.  Education planning began in the mid-sixties (para. 2),
but it is still very weak. Better coordination between the Ministry of Educa-
tion and other agencies responsible for education and training is imperative
in order to develop a national education system responsive to long term socio-
economic needs. Even within the Ministry itself planning has had little
effect. The Planning Unit, with UNESCO assistance, has conducted preliminary
studies but needs strengthening; it should also establish better communication
with the Planning Commission, the Ministry of Finance, the Universities and
other Ministries with important educational activities. In spite of the
existence of a Major Policy Committee the department heads of the Ministry
engage in partial planning exercises. A management review of the Ministry
of Education is now being conducted.
11.       The system is likely to be replanned after the completion of the
ongoing sector review (paras. 3.04-3.08, main report). In addition, the
manpower studies that are being carried out should provide the quantitative
and qualitative objectives the system should meet to contribute to the
growth and diversification of the monetary sector of economy.
12.       Primary education (grades 1-6) is not compulsory.  In 1970-71 en-
rollments in government schools were about 470,000; in the same year, non-
9,overnment schools catered for 185,000 students or about28Z of the total
primary school enrollment. The participation rate of the school age
population (ages 7-12) is about 16%. Only 55% of the students entering
government schools complete grade 6. Although the drop-out rate is slowly
decreasing in urban areas, it is especially high in grades 1-3 of the rural
schools because of a lack of facilities and resources. The average class
size of 51 in government schools is too high, and only about 65% of the pri-
mary school teachers in government schools are qualified according to the
government standards.
13.       The primary school curriculum is oriented mainly towards the
preparation of students to transfer to general secondary education. Only
seven periods a week (20% of the time spent in school) are devoted to
practical subjects and only one or two of these to agriculture. Revision
is needed to increase the number of teaching hours in practical subjects.



APPENDLX
Page 4
This process will require trained teachers and funds to meet increasing
capital and recurrent expenditures.  Curriculum revision should be
coordinated with reforms in primary teacher training where A.Taric should
become the language of instruction. Education authorities expect the Academy
o1f- Pedagogy, with UNDP/SF technical assistance, to help solve these problems.
14.       The government has an agreement with the Swedish Internationrl Dev-
elopment Authority (SIDA) to add or replace about 5,000 classrooms by June
1973. An Elementary School Building Unit (ESBU) is implementing the scheme.
SIDA provides technical assistance and 50% of the cost. In addition to this
scaeme, community self-help efforts are reported to be effective in providing
and operating schools in rural areas.
15.       General Secondary Education.  Since 1965 the enrollment in secondary
education has more than doubled. In 1970-71, some 110,000 students were en-
rolled in government schools and 14,000, or 11% of the total, in non-government
schools.  The total enrollment represents about 4.5% of the relevant age group
(13-18 years). The drop-out rate at the junior level (grades 7-8) is low, but
at the senior level (grades 9-12) it is about 54% 1/. The uneven distribution
of students in the secondary school system (about 95T% enrollment in general
secondary education, 2% in technical vocattiouial education and 3% in teacher
training) will be improved in the next few years as a result of the first two
IDA education projects. Secondary schools are located mostly in the highlands,
and opportunities to enter secondary education differ greatly from province
to province.
-6.       A diversified curriculum including industrial arts, commerce, home
economics and agriculture was introduced in 54 new and 23 existing secondary
schools with the first IDA education project. An additional 12 new schools,
19 extensions and assembly halls for 23 existing general secondary schools
were included in the second IDA project. When these prodects are completed
and a double shift system has been introduced in secondary schools in places
with relatively high population, about 70,000 students will be in buildings
suitable for the diversified curriculum.  The use of the new curriculum has
just started, and its effectiveness and relevance cannot yet be judged. An
important factor, however, is that qualitative improvements depend upon
better utilization of the new teaching/learning equipment financed by IDA
which in turn requires a better trained teaching force. Of the total secon-
dary teachers (3,700 in 1970-71) only 9% are qualified Ethiopians and as
many as 50% are expatriates, mostly Indians and Ceylonese on contract with the
Ethiopian government.
17.       The quality of the output of the senior level is poor.  In 1970/71,
only 18% (para. 6) of those who sat for the grade 12 exam passed the require-
ments for university admission. This situation is deteriorating because
of uncontrolled quantitative growth, lack of qualified teachers, limited
availability of teaching/learning equipment and insufficient qualification
I/ Includes "take-off" to other training courses.



APPENDIX
Page 5
of the staff for its use. Qualitative improvements cannot be achieved unless
growth at this level is controlled and an in-service teacher training scheme,
recently designed for teachers of science and practical subjects, is prop-
erly implemented.
18.       Teacher Training.  There are two types of primary teacher training
programs: (a) a two-year course following grade 10 (grades 11-12) in five
Teacher Training Institutes (TTIs) with an enrollment of about 2,400 in 1971-
72 and an estimated output of about 1,200; and (b) a one-year course follow-
ing grade 12 established as an emergency program at the Haile Selassie I TTI
in Addis Ababa. Enrollment in this program is about 400 and the expected out-
put at the end of 1971-72 is about 380. Total enrollment in primary teacher
training courses is thus 2,800 with an output of about 1,600 teachers planned
for the summer of 1972. The total capacity of the TTIs will be increased by
about 1,300 students places after implementation of the second IDA project
which provides for two new TTIs and the expansion of one of the existing
Institutes. Enrollments in private institutions are reported to be about
150. In 1971-72 the staff in the government teacher training institutions
consisted of about 70 foreigners and 95 Ethiopians.
19.       The primary teacher training curriculum has weaknesses similar to
those of the primary school curriculum. Only 7 to 11 periods are devoted
to practical subjects. Rural science is given two periods per week and,
in some TTIs, no practical agricultural education is given. A curriculum
revision is needed and should be assisted by the Academy of Pedagogy.
20.       After the Haile Selassie I University phased out its program for
junior secondary teacher training, a new Institute for the training of junior
secondary school teachers was established in 1969 in provisional facilities
in the Addis Ababa Technical School. The enrollment is at present about 400
students in a two-year program following grade 12. The output in 1971 was
84, most of whom are working now under a National Service scheme, a require-
ment before fully qualifying for the diploma. The expected output at the end
of 1971-72 is 200 teachers. A new Teacher Training College at Nazareth will
be built as a part of the second IDA project. The new facilities will accom-
modate 640 students with an output of about 300 p.a.
21.       Teachers for senior secondary schools in academic and practical sub-
jects are trained at Haile Selassie I University. Teachers for academic sub-
jects are admitted to a 4-year B.A. course after grade 12 and teachers of
practical subjects are trained under a 2-year diploma course, also following
grade 12. The output of these programs has been very small. The total number
of graduates in academic disciplines has been less than 400 during the last
10 years. In 1970-71, only 45 teachers of practical subjects received a
diploma. Output from th4s program is expected to double by 1975.
22.       Teachers of industrial arts and agriculture are recruited among
graduates of Bahr Dar Polytechnic Institute and Jimma Agricultural Institute.



APPENDIX
Page 6
The second IDA project will expand the physical facilities at Jimma Agricul-
tural Institute to house inter alia a two-year teacher training course
following grade 12. Enrollment in this course is expected to be about 100
with an output of 50 students p.a. The output from Bahr Dar Polytechnic
Institute is also about 50 p.a.
23.       A training college for secondary teachers of French (Ecole Normale
Superieure) was established in Addis Ababa in 1969-70. The course is almost
entirely financed by foreign assistance and lasts four years after the
"baccalaureat" granted by a French school in Addis. The output, planned
at 50 per year, will clearly exceed requirements.
24.       The government is now in the process of establishing a National
Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) which would aim at: (i) coordinating
all teacher training activities in the country; (ii) establishing better
links between the Ministry of Education and the teacher training agencies;
and (iii) assisting in the design of both pre-service and in-service teacher
training schemes. In-service training is particularly needed for the non-
government schools where there is a high percentage of unqualified teachers.
The NCTE will be an institution with representatives from various government
agencies, the Haile Selassie I University, and the National Teacherst Asso-
ciation of Ethiopia.
25.       Technical and Commercial Education.  The Ministry of Education
operates two Technical Institutes at Addis Ababa and one in Asmara for
stuidents who have completed grade 8 and a Polytechnic at Bahr Dar for those
completing grade 12. Courses require 3 or 4 years at the institutes and 2
years at the polytechnic. Subjects offered include machine shop and bench
fitting, welding and sheetmetal work, electricity and electronics, automobile
maintenance, carpentry and building trades.
26.       The two Technical Institutes were improved and expanded under pro-
visions of the first IDA education project. Their enrollment, however, has
not increased and in 1971 was about 900. Enrollment at the Bahr Dar Poly-
technic in 1970-71 was about 650 students. Qualitative improvements are ex-
pected as new graduates from the Practical Teacher Training Institute, in-
cluded also in the first IDA project, become available. In addition, Tech-
nical assistance, financed as a part of the second IDA project, should assist
in improving the content of training, developing better channels of communica-
tion with industry and gearing more closely these institutions to labor market
demands.
27.       MRnspp1ent education and training is provided by the School of
Fusiness Administration of HSIU and by the Institute of Public Administration.
Entreoreneurship training has recently been comnenced. About 1,000 students
were enrolled (1970-71) in conmercial courses at the two schools run by the
Ministry of Education in Addis Ababa. According to the tvpe and length of
course, student intake is from secondary grades 8, 9 or 10 and courses are
usually of 3 or 4 years duration.



APPENDIX
Page 7
28.       Agricultural Education.  Two Intermediate Agricultural Institutes
at Jinma and Ambo and one Animal Health Institute at Debre Zeit operate under
the Ministry of Agriculture and provide two-year post-secondary courses.
During the last five years the Agricultural Institutes have operated at less
than full capacity: enrollment was only 190 in 1970-71 while their student
capacity is about 300 and will be increased to 400 under the second IDA
project. The two Institutes are under-utilized for lack of recurrent finance
to pav bursaries to the trainees; the government will need to give higher
priority to the two Institutes in order to train the manpower necessary to
carry out its agricultural development program.
29.       The Animal Health Institute at Debre Zeit provides a two-year post-
secondary course with an enrollment of 60. The output of graduates is about
25 animal health assistants per year and needs urgently to be increased.
30.       Other training for agricultural middle level employment is given
by the following public organization:
(a) The Ministry of National Community Development and Social
Affairs gives a two-year diploma course, after grade 12,
in community development for village level workers. The
Ministry also conducts short courses and in-service training
for its employees, and operates about 50 community development
centers.
(b)  The Animal Health Department of the Ministry of Agriculture
trains about 60 vaccinators every year. The applicants
should have completed grade 8 of general education. The
vaccinators receive six weeks of training in a veterinary
clinic and six weeks on the job.
(c) The Livestock and Meat Board arranges pre-service and in-
service courses of five months duration for its personnel,
who are mainly Ambo-Jimma graduates.
(d) CADU (Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit) and WADU (Wolalo
Agricultural Development Unit) give pre-service training for
various levels and types of extension workers.
Learning Channels other than the Government Education System
31.       General.  Private schools, church schools, community centers, and
non-formal training centers play a significant role in the Ethiopian learning
network due to the limitations of the government systems.



APPENDIX
Page 8
32.       Private Education.  Several private schools are under the super-
vision of the Ministry of Education. Their curricula must conform to those
in the government's education system or be approved by the education
authorities. The 'bulk of the enrollment is at the primary level (about
210,000 in 1971-72) and the Ministry of Education expects that more than
half a million pupils will find places in private primary schools by 1980-81.
With some exceptions, the quality suffers from the same weaknesses as do the
government primary schools: insufficient qualification of the teachers,
over-crowding, etc. It is estimated that at least 70% of the teachers in
private primary schools (or some 3,000) have had no pedagogical training.
In general secondary education, private schools cater for only 15,000
studlents (1971-72 school year) and the quality in some of the schools is
reportedly better than in government schools.  Some of these schools, however,
serve mainlv the foreign communities which have established them.
33.       Several private commercial schools were established in the last
few years:  In Addis Ababa some 15-20 schools have an enrollment estimated
at about 2,000 and give one or two-year courses after grade 8.
34.       Church Schools.  Until 1945 the Ethiopian education system consisted
of a few private schools and of the large network of traditional Church
schools (para. 1). It 4s estimated that there are about 15.000 Ethiopian
Orthodox Churches and that the largest majority of them operate "Nebab Bet"
("Hlouse of Reading") schools where children from the age of 7 to 12 learn
to read. Enrollment is estimated at about 300,000. Instruction is
carried out by priests in church courtyards and buildings. Their impact
could be very significant if the priest were teaching a broader program
including elements sf science, agriculture, rural handicraft, hygiene and
nutrition in addition to the "holy books".
35.       The Ethiopian Orthodox Church operates also some primary and general
secondary schools patterned on the government system, two handicraft schools
and a training center for community development workers. The trainees of
the handicraft schools and of the community development center are encouraged
to sell part of their products to contribute towards the cost of training;
this system is also followed in some missionary agricultural schools
operated by denominations such as the Methodist and the Evangelical Church
and with an annual output of some 200 field assistants.
36.       In-service Training and Apprenticeship.  Numerous government
departments, semi-public agencies and private concerns organize work-oriented
training schemes for their own employees, including EELPA (the power company),
the Highway Authority and Ethiopian Airlines and the Ministries of Public
Health, Industry, Commerce and Tourism and of Posts and Telegraphs.
37.       There is no national apprenticeship scheme but certain voluntary
agencies, in cooperation with employers, offer courses in various skills
for workers already in employment and operate trade centers in rural handicraft.



APPENDIX
Page 9
38.       A recent development is the establishment of a National Vocational
Training Center, under the Ministry of National Community Development and
Social Affairs. This project is receiving assistance from the UNDP, with
ILO as executing agency, for experts' services and equipment. Construction
is scheduled to start by mid-1972. The Center would give accelerated courses
for skilled workers, and the Ethiopian Federation of Employers is participating
in its planning.
University Education
39.       Haile Selassie I University.  The University, founded in 1961,
is composed of eleven colleges and faculties, several institutes and centers,
a separate program for the freshman year, and an extension division. The
enrollment has at least doubled every five years since the first intake in
1950. In the academic year 1971-72 the enrollment was almost 5,000 full-time
students on the three campuses, and some 2,800 part-time students were
enrolled in a wide variety of extension courses.
/1
Enrollment of Full-Time Students at HSIU- 1971 - 1972
Agriculture      520           Public Health       160
Arts             390           Social Work          90
Business Admin. 350            Science            380
Education        860           Technology         330
Medicine         150           Theology             40
Law              340           Freshmen Year    1370
TOTAL 4,980
/1   Includes students under National Service.
40.       The University has been under-financed and the rapid growth in
enrollment has not been accompanied by proportionate increases in appropria-
tions. External donors have helped greatly but in a few selected areas;
this type of support is decreasing. The cost per student/year is approx-
imately US$ 1,600 (US$ 1,200 from the Ethiopian government and US$ 400 from
foreign assistance). Students pay no fees, and their room and board (US$ 200
per student/year) is one sixth of the University appropriation.



APPENDIX
Page 10
41.       Ethiopians account for nearly half of the University's Teaching
staff. Most of the academic administrators (3 out of 4) are Ethiopians,
but very few (1 out of 8) of those holding positions of Professor or Associ-
ate Professor are Ethiopians. In the more numerous lower ranks of Assistant
Professor and Lecturer and Assistant Lecturer, the two groups are about equal.
Many Ethiopians are following post-graduate courses overseas and will become
available and the University plans to Ethiopianize its staff by 1980 in most,
if not all, disciplines.
42.       The University is housed in a variety of building of which only
two were built for academic purposes on the Addis Ababa campus. Many
premises are inadequate for their intended uses.
43.       In the last few years the University has altered its priorities
and policies so as to increase greatly the output of teachers for senior
secondary schools. A special selection process at grade 11 guarantees an
input of high quality, and the output is 25-30% of all the degrees awarded.
44.       Growth on the Alemaya campus is the most important element of the
University's plan to regionalize. A second regional center is planned for
Gondar where the Public Health College is now located but the new campus
there has not yet been developed. An 800-acre site has been selected, given
by the local community to the University.
45.       The University of Asmara.  The private University of Asmara was
established in 1958 and chartered in 1965, It is operated by the Piae Matres
de la Nigritiae of Verona (Italy) and assisted mainly by the Italian
Government. The University has now a total enrollment of 1,200, of whom
500 are in a "Preparatory College" (equivalent, more or less, to the last
year of secondary education). Of the 700 students in degree programs
(Arts, Science, Business Administration, Law, Economics, Architectural En-
gineering), about 130 follow an Italian-oriented curriculum leading to degrees
granted by the University of Padua. The remaining 570, and most of those
enrolled in the "Preparatory College", are taught in English according to
Anglo-American curricula. Only 30 students are boarders and about 600
students pay tuition fees (Eth. $ 140 per student/year).
46.       In addition to its regular programs, the University of Asmara
arranges extension courses for people already in employment in co-operation
with the Asmara business community.
The Cost and Financing of Education
47.       General. Education is financed by the Central Government, semi-
government agencies, churches, and local and foreign private institutions.
The Ministry of Education is responsible for financing primary and secondary
education, technical education and teacher training. Its appropriations are
equivalent to about 70% of educational recurrent expenditures directly financed



APPENDIX
Page 11
from the Central Government budget. The remaining 30% goes to Haile Selassie
I University, the Ministry of National Community Development, the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ministry of Public Health. Several agencies and public
authorities provide training programs from their operating budgets. Very
small subsidies are given to the private sector.
48.       Public education is free.  Boarding, stipends and/or in-service
allowances are provided for students in technical and agricultural education,
teacher training and higher education. The education tax - on agricultural
land - generates about Eth. $ 5 million per year and is used to help recurrent
financing of primary education in rural areas. The government has recently
introduced an education tax on urban land and personal income which also
yields about Eth. $ 5 million p.a.
49.       Total Expenditures.  Total public and private expenditures on
education in 1970-71 were estimated as follows (in Eth.$ million):
Domestic Financing  Foreign Assistance           Total       Grand
Recurrent Capital   Recurrent Capital  Recurrent Capital Total
Ministry of
Education        63.3       3.9        25.2      3.3         88.5     7.2   95.7
Haile Selassie
I Univ.          14.1       0.6         6.7       -         20.8      0.6   21.4
Other Ministries   7.8        1.8         2.8       -          10.6      1.8   12.4
Sub total    85.2        6.3       34.7      3.3        119.9      9.6  129.5
Semi-Government
Agencies       4.4       0.4         0.1      -           4.5      0.5    4.9
Churches,
Missions,
and Private
Schools       19.7       4.7          -       -         19.7       4.7    6.0
Grand Total 109.3       11.4        34.8     3.3       144.1      14.8  158.9
(Tables may not add up because of rounding)
National expenditure on education is estimated at 4% of GDP and at 7% of
monetary GDP: about 24% of the total depends on foreign assistance.



APPENDIX
Page 12
50.       Recurrent Expenditures.  Financial reporting permits only an analy-
sis of domestically financed recurrent expenditures by the Ministry of Educa-
tion and Haile Selassie I University. Expenditures on education by other
Ministries cannot be properly identified and foreign grants for recurrent
expenditures and technical assistance are not separated out from those for
capital expenditures. From 1965-66 to 1970-71, recurrent expenditures by
the Ministry of Education and Haile Selassie I University increased at a
rate of 14% p.a., while Government recurrent revenue increased at a rate
of 7.4% p.a. Their shares of government revenue and of monetary GDP grew
from 12% to 19% and from 2.3% to 3.4%, respectively. The pattern of re-
current expenditures by level and type of education has been as follows:
Percentage of Total
1965/66     1970/71
Primary education                                     35          45
Junior and Senior Secondary Education                 17          22
Technical Education                                    4           4
Primary Teacher Training                               2           4
Haile Selassie I University                           25          18
Others (Administration, overhead, grants,
to autonomous institutions, fellowships
abroad, etc.)                                    17           7
Total                           100          100
This reflects the high emphasis given to primary and secondary education and
to the University (though the University experienced a sharp drop in expendi-
tures 1965/66 - 1970/71) and the lower achievement in technical vocational
and teacher education.
51.       A division of the Ministry of Education recurrent expenditures into
salary and other costs is shown below:



APPENDIX
Page 13
1965/66        1970/71
Primary education
Salaries                              90%             97%
Other expenditures                    10%              3%
Junior and Senior Secondary
Education
Salaries                              86%             95%
Other expenditures                    14%              5%
Technical and Vocational Education
Salaries                              75%             80%
Other expenditures /1                 25%             20%
Teacher Training
Salaries                              48%             71%
Other Expenditures /1                 52%             29%
/1   Including boarding and stipends.
52.       From 1965-66 to 1970-71, while the total salary bill increased by
215% in primary education and by 170% in secondary education, the recurrent
charges other than for personnel actually decreased by 35% in primary educa-
tion and grew only by 50% in secondary education. The deterioration of cost
patterns is reflected in the lowered quality of instruction and in the almost
complete lack of maintenance and upkeep of buildings and equipment. In 1971,
in order to improve the cost distribution, the secondary school timetable
was reduced from 40 periods of 40 minutes each to 30 periods of 45 minutes
each a week-to permit a reduction in teachers' costs, and control is now ex-
ercised over increases in teachers' salaries.
53.       Capital Expenditures and Foreign Aid.  The government has no compre-
hensive records of capital expenditures and foreign aid. From 1965-66 to
1970-71, domestically financed government capital expenditures on education
have been about Eth. $ 20 million. Foreign aid - both loans and grants - for
capital expenditures is estimated at some Eth. $ 50 million over the same
period. The rapid increase in enrollment in government schools should have
required some Eth. $ 150 million only for additional facilities in primary
and secondary education. Hence, the provision for capital spending has been
much below requirements, leading to the introduction of double shift working



APPENDIX
Page 14
in many urban schools. In contrast, foreign assistance for recurrent purposes
(primarily, salaries of experts and teachers and studies) is estimated to have
been about Eth. $150 million in the last five years.
54.       Future Expenditures.  The levels of future recurrent and capital
expenditure will depend, in the long run, on the replanning of the education
and training system that will result from the sector review.
55.       A study conducted within the framework of the sector review in-
dicates that, on the basis of the present enrollment targets, direct claims
on the government recurrent budget by the Ministry of Education and Haile
Selassie I University would amount to some Eth.$200 million in 1977-78 or
25% of the projected government revenue unless new sources of finance are
tapped and cost-saving methods are adopted.
56.       To generate more funds, the sector review report proposes
inter alia: (a) to increase contributions both in cash and in kind by the
local communities as a part of the government decentralization plan; (b) to
introduce students' fees but complemented by a student loan scheme and by
fellowships; (c) to encourage, also with subsidies, fee-charging private
schools. To reduce costs, the report recommends a review of the teachers'
salary scales and the introduction of a new, and less expensive, "mix" of
teachers. To make a more effective use of the available resources, the sector
review suggests a reform of the educational administration and a better co-
ordination of foreign aid.
57.       On the assumption that these measures would be implemented,
that GDP would increase by 5.5% p.a., and monetary GDP by 7% and that the
educational claims on central government would not have to exceed 20% of
fiscal revenue, resources available for the Ethiopian learning system
would increase in real terms to some Eth.$270 million by 1985 and to some
Eth.$840 million by 2,000 and present unit costs would be considerably
reduced. The breakdown of expenditure by type and level of the system would
depend on the long-term educational development Ethiopia will adopt and on
its phasing.



-12 1.
-Z 1.                                                                                                                    19                                                                                                        11
..             ..   .. ...                                                                                                      9'i
le,I                                                                                      '4'
i-                                 I.-                                                                                                                15             11                                                                           11
4                                                                                           1.
4.                                                                         '4
4
11
4:'l                                                                                        4
14  --l.                              I-                I.,                                                                                                                11
4                                    1.                                                                                                             I
"I                                    1                 4:'l                                  14                                                                                                            I
1.                                                                                                                              4
4
41                                                                         11I              11
1                4
Z                                                                                                                                                            4: l                46    Q
4                                                                         4:1                                                    4
44              1
2:
11              4                1.               I
I.,                                                    11             41
il                 1.                   11:4            1,
1              4                                                                                        I
43
3:.' 1                                                                                         2                               3
'4                              11
1,                                                                                                                                  14              1                    I                                                     4
I                                                        ,I
3::                                                                                        41                  11                                 "I
Z                                                                                                                            4:1
4
""N ......                                      31.1                                                                                                               11                3.                                                     '3Z                 I.'            41"I
Zl'            Jl': 4' I'           'Z   I                                                                                                                                              14                  31                 11               4
(4--1) 0-1)   M-)  O-)                                                                                         "M              0-411)
4:.l
5                                 4                      I"I : I'       14                31                                  11
i
-----------
...                              ........
111 4. .911






ANNEX 2
X    E0 A - Third 3fucation Pro,ect
THE EDUCATION SYSTEM 1970-1971
Number of Schools          Enrollment               Teachers
(in thousands)
Primary Education
G6vernment                1,190                    471.1                  9,240 (65% qualified
Ethiopians)
Private                   1,107                    184.4                  2,000 (20% qQalified
Ethiovians) *
Secondary Education
Government                  286                    111.7                  3,280 ( 9% qualified
Ethiopians)
Private                     148                     14.4                    5002/ (n.a.)
Vocational-Technical
Education
Government                    32                     3.7                   n.a.
Pti*ate                      40                      2.3                   n.a.
Primary Teacher TraininR
Covernment                      5                     2.7                     170. t55% qualified
Ethiopians)
Private                         1                     0.1                    .n.a.
Post-Secondary Education        19                     6.2                    n.a.
Source: Education Sector Review
2 IDA staff estimates on the basis of education sector review data.






ETHIOPIA - Third Education Project
EXPANSION OF PRESENT EDUCATION SYSTFH
Actual and ProJection Recurrent Expenditure
by the Ministry of Education and Haile Selassie I University
(Eth. $ million)
Annual Percentage increases
1966-67         1970-71          1977-78         1966- /1970-71   1970-71/3977-
Administration                     4.4              8.0              10                  16.o                3.3
Primary Education                 17.0             34.5              go                  19.o              15.0
Secondary Education                8.4             15.0             35                  15.6               12.7
Technical-Vocational
Education                        2.1              3.4               5                  12.8                5.7
Primary Teacher Training           2.1              3.1               5                  10.2                7.1
University and other Post-
Secondary Courses2/             10.5             15.0             35                   9.4               12.2
Other Ekpondituresy                 3.2             6.2              20                  18.0               18.2
Total                        47.7             85.2            200                  16.8               13.0
As a percentage of total
government recurrent
expenditure                     13.3%            19.5%           25%
1/ Bahar Dahr Polytechnic, Academy of Pedagogy, Junior Secondary Teacher Training College.
,  Fellowships, Adult Education, ETV and Radio, etc.
Source:  For 1966-67 and 1970-71, the Ministry of Finance.  For the 1977-78, IDA, staff.  The projection is
based on the following assumptions:
- annual rates of expansion: 11% for primary education; 7% for secondary education; 12% for post-
secondary education.
-  replacement of unqualified primary teachers by 1980 and of unqualified/expatriate secondary teachers
by 1985.
-  no change in present salaries and career pattern for teachers.
- improved allocations for maintenance, supply and other recurrent items.
- a 10% annual increase in Government recurrent expenditure.



ETHIOPIA - third Educatio  Project
THE    ALTERNATIVE STRATEGIES: A COMPARISON
I-5   ---I--   III              I       II       III
Expenditures (in million Eth$)                     190     190       190          387      387       387
First-level                                     88      71        79          187     147       149
Second-level                                    39      37        37           66      66        77
Third-level                                     33      33        33           67      67        67
Non-formal                                       2      21        13            2      42        29
Other (adminiLstration, fellowships, etc.)    28        28        28           65      65        65
Enrollment (in thousands)                        2J38    3,04h    2188          3 712   477l       4,751
First-level                                 2,038   1,925    2,168          3,275   3,088    3,213
Second-level                                  193      220       250          264     301       591
Third-level                                     10      10        10           17      17        17
Non-formal                                     139     889       560          156   1,365       930
Source: Education Sector Review



ETHIOPIA - Third Education Project
EDUCATION STRATEGY REC(HIENDED BY THE SECTOR REVIEW CONFERENCE
1979/80          1984/85           1989/90          1999/2000
Expenditures (in million Ith$)             190               263               387              835
Minimum formation                       52               74                98              305
Basic formation                        19                25               42                51
Second level                           38                49               68               109
Third level                            33                47               67               139
Non-formal                              20               28                47               97
Other                                   28               40                65              133
Enrollmnt (in thousand)                   356              3,649 4.906                        7,940
First level                         1,988             2,336             3,071            5,273
Second level                          220               257              301               416
Third level                            10                13                17               28
Non-formal                            838             1,043             1,517            2,223
Enrollment Ratios for Selected
Age Group. 
Age group 7-10                          44%              45%               50%              80%
Age group 13-14                         31%              31%               40%              26%
Sourcet Education Sector Review



ETHIOPIA - Third Education Project
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SCHEDULE
(Specialists and Related Services, and Fellowships)
Institution and Service              Man       1st Year       2nd Year      3rd Year       4th Tear       5th Year
(See Annex A, Credit Agreement)      Months   1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1 2  3  4    1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4
1. Education MHterials Production
Center
- Adviaor to the General Manager    12                                                   3  3  3  3
2. Local Production of Science
EQuipMent Study
- Specialista in Science Equip-
ent Production                  18            3  3    3  3  3  3
3. Animal Health Institute
- 9pecialiot in Clinioal
Veterinary Medicine              36               3    3  3  3  3    3  3  3  3    3  3  3
- Specialist in Parasitology         36               3    3  3  3  3    3  3  3  3    3  3  3
- Specialiot in Microbiology
and Neat Hygiene                 36               3    3 -3  3  3    3  3  3  3    3  3  3
- Fellowships - for the Post
Graduate Training ot Staff       72                    9  9  9  9    9  9  9  9
4. Haile Selassie I University
- Specialists in long range
Physical Development Planning   24                     6  6  6  6
- Specialist in Training and
Employment of Laboratory
Technicians                      12            3  3    3  3
5. Implementation of Sector Heview
- Specialists in Planning, Non-
forual Sucation etc.             50            4  4    4  4  4  4    4  4  4  4    4  4  2
Wo-total Followships                 72                     9  9  9  9    9  9  9  9
Sub-total Specialiets and Related  224            10 19   25 25 22 22   13 13 13 13   16 16 14  3
TOTAL                               296           10 19   34 34 31 31   22 22 22 22   16 16 14  3
1  1     1              -             _I         I~~~~~~..



ANNEX 7
ETHIOPIA - Third Education Project
Haile Selassio I University
Actual (1969-70; 71-72) and Projected (1976-77; 81-82) Enrollment
69-70      71-72       76-77       81-82
Agriculture                     440        520         850        1200
Arts and Education             1400       1250        2000        3000
Business                        420        350         550         800
Public Health                   170        160         300         500
Science                         290        380         600         900
Other Professional Programs   770           820        1300       2000
All Other2/                    1150       1520        2400        3600
Tota'                    4640        5000        8000       12000
Extension programs             2260       2784        5000        8000
1/ Medicine, Law, Engineering.
2/ Social works, Theology, & "Freshman Program".
Source: IDA staff projections on the basis of proposed University Devel-
opment Plan. The figures include students in the Ethiopian
University Service year of field work.



ETHIOPIA - Third Edu~cation Proaect
SCIENTIFIC tNP5MER SUPPLY 1/
Year I           Year II            Year III        Year IV           Output
(20% failure)    (10% failure)      (5-7% failure)
Education (Upper Secondary)        180           145                130              120                 120
Education (Teaoher Training
Technical Institutes, eto.) -i     20            16                 14               13                  13
Agriculture                        170                 (t35)                (120)           (110)        110
Medicine                            90            70                        ( 63)           (60)          60
Pharmacy                            31            25                 22               20                  20
Technology                         240                  (190)               (170)           (160)       160
Sciences                           125           100                 90               85                  85
Graduate students  k            -             -
15        856           356                256              238                 568
GRANI TOTAL      1,721
1/ Output figures generally conform to the best nanpower estimates available as published in the
Education Sector Review {eport and in the Agriculture Sector Survey of.January 15, 1973.
2/ Two technical institutes in Addis Ababa, plus a two year post secondary polytechnic in Bahr Dar;
agriculture institutes and teacher training colleges, all requiring graduate teachers.



ETHIOPIA - Third Education Project
HIGH AND MIDILE LEVEL MANPOWR FOR AGRICULTURE
Needs 1973 - 1983                                            Supply 1973 - 1983
Other pro-
Minimum   jects under                         Faculty      Degree    Agricul-    Agricul-           Cadu, Wadu
Package   the public  Private                   of         Courses   tural         tural train-    Mission
Project     sector      Sector   Total    Agriculture    Abroad    Institutes  ing centers2/   Schools           Total
Degree          100        600          3m0    1000         800           100                                                   900-
Diploma         200       2200          500    2900                                   2500                          300        2800
Field
Assistants      400       6000         1300    5700                                                2500             8OoW/      3600
Animal Health
Assistants                 5CC)                  500                                   400                                      400
I/Includes output (120 p.a. from 1975) of the agricultural training centers
of the proposed project.
?/It assumes that the programs of these centers would be modified to ancord
with the agricultural investment programs.
NOTE:       The estimate of needs is based on the agricultural sector survey prepared by the
Bank.  It assumes that the proposed agricultural investment program will be impleemented
on its entirety and, in turn, that government recurrent expenditure on agriculture will
increase by 25% p.a. over the next decade.
The estimate of supply is based on the assumption that existing and future training
institutions will operate at full capacity (Appendix para. 28).



c   T 11  M4  a    1U          Z
in  6m  1,750   ~            ~             ~            in Aten~j
n t- o.   -631m4* 2.02 -  1 4S1
RMOMM0. ~ ~ ~ ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ & so                  an                SW                                                             WI                                  S" 
8.1Jimm   1                                     - .t6y  1  456     17 5 6s                                                                                                                                                                                         31
4)  &-.A .4Ij4                                                                          -k               060           -7           40 201                    .L                     i             3                              6.3w                                               377
2.     u.4     _ toA111    biism iC.mtw                     G.       .e      L"                39               434          2             -           sot                452               54            52                      -                       -                 4TN            2
o.    Trih     ote  for tt  he  C 'lipLef
GO3-krsioo           )-                                      40       SW             506               1157           570          49         2610               3142             218           227              -                                                 3472            1 772
__ .    sr3.6"1 t  _ .11.s                                           4_        4.                               1             57           4            2                                                 -               -                                                   2             3__
B.    ftoj.t i  to   .m2Ras  I.stit.                      N.A.      N.A        140.            56               27            3                        3235                                 410                                                           -                  200            954
4.    S-Ai.to CaS.r fR.         Slr.Iiis
PRDJECr TOTAL                             1,1.0      I,380      00          1,554              1.077       1,424           517        2,18              13,143             2562                                                                            3.427          1,752
a. r.4 o       _  i.. _   /                           .       . .          .                                                                                                       -           .-                                                                          3I
r.     FrJr  Omtk a                                       11..      9.4.      W.A.       n                       -3      .           .                  -        X *       r         6                    -               .0                              -         .0                *      17 
4.        7.llo.hp   2/^                             8..       1..       1,.              --.-.----                                                                                                                                              154l" 
10.   CDortiig.mo.                                                                           390                   S"        T.ta1                   2.906              3.298             700           932             l8I                31            238              4,.87          2#361
MJECT TOTAL                                                                 1,947                   se.       Tt.1                   14.41              1                1,213         3,598             530               231         1,832              26314          12,712
1, A.ohit.010.1/Sogio..19   &.et'.{c     for prmjt It.  1. rly.
V   224 s-       th. of spetialists and4 rl.td   -i..  .d 72 i               oth. rf f.11w.hip.



ETHIOPIA - Third Education Project
Estimated,unit Cagtsal Costs in New ProJect Schools in US$ g
Net Area per      Site                                       Fstimated Unit Capital
Student Place   Develop-  Build- Furni-  Equip-               Costa in other Bank/IDA
Type of Facilities                      m2            ment    ing      ture    ment    Total    Financed ProJecta
Academic and Communal
Agricultural Training Centers         7.3           381       884      48     411    1,724       1,500 (Tanzania)l'
1,300 (Kenya)9/
Training Center of Ethiopian          6.3           208     1;O41      83     214    1A546       3,240 (Chad)Y
Orthodox Church Development                                                                    1,750 (& dan)Z/
Coimission                                                                                     1,050 (CAR)U/
Boarding
Agricultural Training Centers         8.1           293t,    66                36    1,O077      1,940 (Chad) /
960 (Congo)g/
Training Center of Ethiopian          7.5           198       969    157        5    1,349       1,4&0 (Iran)2 
Orthodox Church Development                                                                    1,950 (CAR) 1
Commission
1/  At 1973 prices and exchange rates.  Professional fees and oontingencies are not included.
J At 1970 prices and exchange rates.
i/ At 1971 prices and exchange rates.                                                                                    ID



(USO O0'.)
f itw Y            veAr    ft _                                                                             1-. ttf 'rf t F.cV-: t *t   j   V =  nt  Servttos_     _      Y ojes t  nit  M.P---. TnY                    & 7 .er   htps                 T0 T A  L
r,o1     7cffotnx     YotcIl   Li YsE                    httel7 . 7 IrYE    t   16,  .frgo 'k .1 tO_dl                        T iA-([I  Ygebreig for.T   LocI l    l'otgn    To-il  LoTtl   lFore4 T .t.!     Local    F-riso         Totl1    Loa1         P.-is.1n     Total
_ (0__'  __%3            (1_0_0,  _  (601)      ; ) _  __0_ ._    . '    _           73.7  -~303         (i -  t(   - 9) --- -= - -0- -----    (00%)    (2f%)     (I(02%)      (80%)       (20%)     (100%)      ((I00%                             (47%)        (5_%)     (100%)
ZhfeveAweefn Ffct.- r             0          13f         10%    1W                          7       IfX            57                                            57        M           IOLY       IOX 0  1     -                                 -            -           -          9Y          6%          5%
Alloo,cco for
-rice 1 Zcoa.                    )35%        125         132       15      %   "I          1I         13, 7      1 3               j   1           13%         153.       15V         15%         15S1      15%         15%         15%        15%         i57         15t        151         157          15%
Cot.1  3OcttOgOdOy
All_o-c2%)                       252         25%          M        25%          27              2V , j  2                                           20%         20%        25X         25%         25%        15%         15%         15%       15%         152          15%       24%          21%         23%
To.lt   Po.j.-t Coat
b.fctaff   coor.cacioa           602         1)0         152      3,372        2',.2) 5, S        j              341         4iO        225        2,029      2,234       794           74        368         78           19         97        115         655         770       4,033       5,510      10,351
C. ntlngenciesi                                                                                               
a) L2:foreratea                   60          IS          75       337         2231         62          7          17         2           11       101         112         29           7         36         -           _            _         _                                 444         365         809
b)  nic-  Ib-r-e                  90          23         113       506         333         343    1    2           il         73         34         306         338         44          11         55         12            3          15        17          98         115        725         827       1,552
Total                    I50         38         188        843         562     1L402          29          68          97         45        405         450         73         1I           91         12           3          15         17          98         115   1,169          1,192       2,361
Toal1 Projfect Coat                                              4
larlodlag  Contarxlogoolo        752         18B        940    4.215        2.81fJ      7.025       1'17        '.1          5B-7       270      2.434       2,704        36/          92         439         90           2Z        112        132         753         885      6,002       6,710      12.712



ANNEX 13
ETHIOPIA - Third Education Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
1/                           Accumulated           Undisbursed
Quarter -        Disbursement        Disbursement             Balance
1                                                           10.0
2                                                           10.0
3                  -                  -                     10.0
4                  .02                 .02                   9.98
5                  .13                 .15                   9.85
6                  .29                .44                    9.56
7                  .4o                 .84                   9.16
8                  .65               1.49                    8.51
9                  .72               2.21                    7.79
10                 1.46               3.67                    6.33
11                 1.10               4.77                    5.23
12                  .67               5.44                    4.56
13                  .98               6.42                    3.58
14                  .69               7.11                    2.89
15                  .77               7.88                    2.12
16                 1.77               8.65                    1.35
17                  .29               8.94                    1.06
18                  .28               9.22                    0.78
19                  .24               9.46                    0.54
20                  .54              10.00                      0
I1 Starting from date of credit effectiveness.






ETHIOPIA: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID
STUDENTS ENROLLED IN GOVERNMENT SCHOOLS, 1971/1972
Participation Rate X                                                         I
620011
University
Grades 13 17
OA%
BOYS                                                             GIRLS
Senior Secondary                                                                              55700
12                                                                              5800             1100
11                                                                          9200                  2300
10                                                                      14400                      4000
9                                  41 15000                                               j         3900
Junior Secondary                                                                               68700
8                                                              25500                             '   8600
7                              fl r 25800                                                             8800
PRIMARY                                                                                       524900
6               ' i                                     42100                      7                              17600
4                                                        420012  40 5
1~7:7o4;t  ..AT4940                                                             25300
57006000 50000   40        000        10                          20,000   40.000   50000
8oys                                                             Girls
X Enrollments as '. of Relevant Age Group
World Bank -7074






ETHIOPIA
STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNMENT EDUCATION SYSTEMj 1971-1972
Primary                                                Secondary                                                      Higher
4E                     General                      >                              Universities
Junior -              -  Senior Cycle    -
<_ Cyclle                                                                        Medicine
Grade <   i+T1{ 
Fin Arts Schools                                         Architecture, Engineering
__________                                                                          '1_T F -1     F -
ts, cience, Low, Agriculture, Business
Post-Secondary Institutes
O Exaimination/Selective Test                                   Technical and Vocational SchoolsI=
x University Service                                                                                      | E     l   l-l
}T} {>~~~~~~1                       Commercial Schoois
Commercial Schools 
X  {i}       @       [ 9        ~~~~~~Primary Teacher Training.
Primar {
Jobs                                                     World Bank-4925t2R)






E T H I O P I A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule!/
Legend: / - Site surveys & acquisitions                  = Architects brief  (cost studies                 x = Consteuction
o = Appointment of architects                       and sketch scheme approvals)                   y - Furniture and equipment procurement
regional office organization                Preparation of drawings, tendering,             , = Furniture and equipment installation
bid evaluation, approvals, awards             + = Guarantee period
Note: Each symbol represents one month.
Year:             First               Second                 Third                Fourth                Fifth
Quarter:    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10   11   12   13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20
I.     Science Center of Haile
Selassie I University                  000  000             :          :::  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx   ..++  +++  +.   ++
I                       ~~~~~~~yyy  yyy  yyy
2.     Science Curriculum Develop-
ment Center                                       ***   *   :       :  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  +t+  +.  ++4+  +4+
yyy
3.     Educational Materials
Production Center                                           ***  ***      .       xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  +++ +++  +++  +++
yyy yyy
4.     Agricultural Training Centers (3)
A       Bahr Dar                               //   -*::::::  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  +++  +++  +++ +.         -
yyy
B       Jima                                                         /f  *    :::  :::  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  +++  +++  +++  +++
yyy
C       Dessie                                                                            f//   *    :::  :::  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  +++  +44  +++  +4+
yyy
5.     Extension to Animal
Health Institute                       --    :    :.   xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  +++  +++-  +4+  +t+
YYY
6.    -Center for the Ethiopian
Orthodox Church                        ***                  xxx  XXX  XXX  xxx  xXXY  XXX  +.+  +.-. +-   +4+
yyy
Technical Assistance (296at) p0  1r  _   3 4  A                            3   31   22    22  22   22   16  16    _)   3
1/ Implementation starts from the effective date of the Credit Agreement.
w






________________________                                                                                                  ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD  10198
$<              2/                40v                    X                */_  4*~~~~~40
-      f           E THtOPIA
AFRICA                                                               R e d                                     THIRD  EDUCATION  PROJECT
)                    N                                  j                                      > \ ,A Sciwea. Center of Hi Sellaseie  University
*     Sience Curiculum Deae bpmSet Cmwer
.16    Agricuiturl Trarining Centers
-16  R I TV F,4 /   AtoeklezomMrs  9+                                                 \      EducotioR MtbAatsio  Production Comfter
Ad ezsm                                                                   Ethiopian Orthodox Ctwxda Development
. S    U                           iD  A                                            S \ Deterom<'  e                                Ao Amo Heglh Istitut.
-   Momn R*04o$
i  \  8   t\   Adi UgHiCl ~ \   |  )                \6Seondooy goods
wKI                                                                                 O  R E ^ Ehew Roads
t  Goediszeet V }>0   L O~// Et.AyG ulIf o f A d e n
,d                         Woldip                   !
|      G9   ( O J J A MSK-tubeests rohoiloo-- ro                                          4/Bm
l*    _-~      N~rr         Shnoo            Die 4eeeo  ee TsighJb Debre S ho     Dlr ooaoa Alen Maya       $^                    C)  N   A5  L  I 
Lekeert  / 0   a    O noho    bongM4k,1
/  W  O e L S  G40  sne Shombo             S abomtmo  |~BB       )                seefrj      ublco ,
-     1f,~dIO0r,1- 4- GGmblOn h    _oo
Db.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
R,bidolloOo ~ ~    ~     AV                                                            F T A.1 Gho K  uTnsy  feo  H           f    A  d  e  n
}S _\.__ \CC (~~~~~~~~~/  MN))Xe b   ;i
0  Idiy.~~~~~~~~~~~~~0InSo
<s    KA FF~~A  - 1 \                                        h.8    \      
F-t. S.I            W-11                   tO        50                                                            I
iGANDA          beero'ero     ~   I Dbr Ao  h    O                                                                 M   A   L  I A
z->-~~~ ~    ~~~~~~                  ~            ~ ~ ~ ~~                                      ~~~~~~ gt    _SXgdr
4-  /'<'/;t               2   t             '\'G-  L k.-                                       , /k 
id\. r                                                                                 A N    AOi  h  A   n0A 4 YI 0230LOM ceL7
0                        lkim   Cb   LD/}f  e  LL  Pph  rN ns                                                       *oLeI 
M .LW                                       \KFLAtR                     ,f*4                              ;    d5;
Ag|,                                           R  .b  ,r



