Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 45 71
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT-
ETHIOPIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 417-El)
June 27, 1983
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
AAU     -       Addis Ababa University
AHI     -       Animal Health Institute
ATC     -       Agricultural Training Center
CSTC    -       Community Skill Training Center
EMPDA   -       Educational Materials Production aand Distribution Agency
(formerly EMPC - Educational Materials Production Center)
EOC     -       Eastern Orthodox Church
ICB     -       International Competitive Bidding
MOA     -       Ministry of Agriculture
MOE     -       Ministry of Education        -
PIU     -       Project Implementation Unit
RMEA    -       Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
RPA     -       Rural Project Agency (now EBCA)
SIDA    -       Swedish International Development Authority
SCDC    -       Science Curriculum Development Center
USC     -       University Science Center
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



I



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIIOPIA THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 417-ET
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE                                                                      i
BASIC DATA                                                                  ii
HIGHLIGHTS                                                                   v
I.  SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             1
Project Objectives           . . . . . . . .
Project Content              . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        1
Project Implementation    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Operational Outcome  . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Recommendations              . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Lessons Learned              . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
II.  INTRODUCTION                     . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
III.  PROJECT BACKGROUND               . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Socio Economic Setting    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Educatiion Sector            . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Project Identification    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Project Objectives           . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Project Content              . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Amendments to the Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION           . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Credit Effectiveness    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Project Management        . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Physical Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
Sites                     .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  14
Professional Services   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Equipment                  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Furniture                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Maintenance of Physical Facilities . . . . . . . .   16
Covenants                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Bank Group Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17



Table of Contents (continued)
V.  PROJECT COSTS              . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
VI.  PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOME   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
University Science Center  . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Science Curriculum Development Center  . . . . . .  21
Educational Materials Production and
Distribution Center . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Agricultural Training Centers. . . .  . . . . . . .  25
Community Skill Training Centers . . . . . . . . .  26
Appropriate Technology Center. . . . . . . . . . .  29
Animal Health Institute . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
ANNEXES
1. Amendments to Credit Agreement 417-ET .  . . . . . . . . .   31
2. Comparison of Originally Estimated and
Actually Provided Gross Construction Areas .  . . . . . .   32
3.  Implementation Schedule  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
4. Schedule of Particular Covenants and
Important Events  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   34
5. Comparison of Originally Estimated Costs and
Actual Costs  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   35
6. Comparison of Original Estimates and Actual
Unit Construction Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
ATTACHMENT I:  Comments from the Borrower  . .                  37



-i -
ETHIOPIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 417-ET
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is a project completion report on the Third Education Project
in Ethiopia for which Credit 417-ET was signed July 5, 1973 for US$10.0
million equivalent. The Credit was completely disbursed on August 5, 1981.
The project completion report was prepared by a Bank consultant on
the basis of a desk study and of a Unesco report following a mission to
Ethiopia in May/June 1981. The draft report was sent to the Borrower whose
comments were incorporated in the report.
The valuable assistance provided by the Government of Ethiopia,
particularly the Project Implementation Unit, is gratefully acknowledged.
The project has not been subjected to an audit by the Operations
Evaluation Department.



I



- ii -
ETHIOPIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 417-ET
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA
1.  Key Project Data:                                   Original Plan      Actual
Total Project Cost:  in Birr million                   26.314          26.485
Overrun %                           -           +0.6%
in US$ million equiv.           12.712          12.794 1/
Credit Amount:        in US$ million                   10.00           10.00
Date Physical Components Completed 2/                  12/31/77        8/30/81
Proportion CDmpleted by Above Dates                    41%             100%
Institutional Performance                              Generally Satisfactory
Operating Outcome                                      Generally Satisfactory
2.  Other Project Data:
Reconnaissance-in-Depth                                                Jan-Feb/72
Appraisal                                                              July 1972
Negotiations                                                           Apr-May/73
Board Approval                                                         6/26/73
Credit Agreement                                                       7/5/73
Effectiveness                                          2/1/74          8/30/74
Closing Date                                           12/31/78        12/31/80
Final Disbursement                                     12/31/78        3/31/81
Borrower                                               Government of Ethiopia
Executing Agency                                       Ministry of Education
Terms of Credit                                        Standard IDA
Fiscal Year of Borrower                                July 8 - July 7
Follow-on Projects:  Name                              4th and 5th Educ. Projects
Credit Nos.                     553-ET and 1141-ET
Credit Dates                    6/4/75 and 6/29/81
Credit Amounts                  US$23 mil. and US$35.0 mil.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ Million)
FY75   FY76   FY77   FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81
(a) Estimated at Appraisal      .02   1.49   5.44   8.65   10.0    -         -
(b) Actual Disbursements         -      .22   1.28   2.87   5.27   6.59   10.0
(c) (b) as % of (a)              0      15%    24%    33%    53%      -      -
1/ US$ equivalent costs calculated when expenditures were made.
2/ Excluding guaranty period.






- iii -
3. Mission Data:
Month /    Mission       Mission Composition -/   Report
Missions               Year         Days        A   GE   TE   AE    E        Date
Reconnaissance    Jan/Feb'72         6          1    1    1    1    1         NA
Appraisal          July 1972         NA         1    2    -    2    2        5/3/73
Supervision Missions                                                  Interval
between
Month/      Mission    Mission Composition 1/    Man              Missions
Year         Days       E   GE   TE   AE   E         Days         (Months)
1.  Sept'73       12        1    1    -    -   1          36              -
2.  May '74       11        1    -    -    -   1          11              8
3.  Oct '74        5        1    -    -    -   -           5              5
4.  Apr '75        5        1    -    -    -   -           5              6
5.  Nov '75       12        t    1    -    -   -          24              7
6.  Mar/Apr'76   14         1    1    -    -   -          28              4
7.  Nov '76       13        1    1    -    -   1          39              6.5
8.  May '77       18        1    2    -    -   -          54              5.75
9.  Dec '77       12        1    1    -    -   -          20              6.5
10.  June'78       13        1    2    -    -   -          24              5.75
11.  Feb '79       11        1    2    -    -   -          25              7.75
12.  Jun/Jul'79   15         1    1    -    1   -          45              4.0
13.  Jan '80       13        1    1    -    -   -          26              6.5
14.  June'80       12        1    1    -    -   -          24              6
15.  Feb '81        5        1    -    1    -   -          10              8
Total        171       15   14    1    1   3         376
Average      11.4                                    25.0            6.2
Completion Mission
Mission         Composition          Man
Month/Year               Days            A   GF   AE          Days
May-June 1981             17             1    1    1           51
1/ Mission Composition
Key: A - Architect
GE - General Educator
TE - Technical Educator
AE - Agricultural Educator
E - Economist






- iv -
4.   Allocation of Proceeds:
Original           Actual
Allocation        Disbursements
(US$)              (US$)
I.  Civil Works                               5,100,000       5,397,050.32
II. Architectural and Engineering
Services                                    295,000         436,170.23
III.  Furniture                                   350,000         658,277.02
IV.  Equipment                                 2,100,000       3,216,242.34
V. Specialists and Related
Services and Fellowships                    620,000          52,276.64
VI.  Project Unit Expenses                        78,000         239,983.45
VII.  Unallocated                               1,457,000              -
Total                                   10,000,000       10,000,000.00
5.   Currency and Exchange Rates:
Name of Currency
Originally   -   Ethiopian Dollars (Eth.$)
Now          -   Birr
Exchange Rates
Appraisal (1973)       US$1.00 = Eth$ 2.07
Present   (1981)       US$1.00 = Birr 2.07






ETHIOPIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 417-ET
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLICHTS
The Credit Agreement for the Third Education Project was signed
July 5, 1973 and provided for US$10.0 million equivalent to support an
interim investment program to: (a) improve science teaching and the supply
of textbooks and other learning aids at various educational levels; (b)
expand the supply of trained agricultural manpower; and (c) improve the
rural education network of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church (EOC). Specifi-
cally, the project at appraisal was expected to assist: (a) the Addis
Ababa University Science Center (USC) to increase enrollment from 1,100 to
1,750; (b) the Science Curriculum Development Center (SCDC) to improve the
production of science curricula; (c) the Education Materials Production and
Distribution Agency (EMPDA) to expand the production and distribution of
textbooks and other school material; (d) three Agricultural Training Cen-
ters (ATCs) to increase the number of agricultural field assistants; (e)
the Animal Health Institute (AHI) to train manpower for the livestock
sector; and (f) a training center for the Ethiopian Orthodox Church to
train about 1,000 clergymen annually in teaching rural development. The
project also included technical assistance for implementation of education
reform, the development of the University of Addis Ababa's physical
development planning capacity and training of laboratory technicians,
feasibility studies, and management and' staff development of project
institutions. Technical assistance and funds were also included for the
operation of the Prolect Implementation Unit (PIU). During implementation,
180 Community Skill Training Centers (CSTC) were substituted for the EOC
Training Center and an Alternative Technology Center was added to the
project (PCR, para. 3.09).
The project was completed with a cost overrun of less than 1% (PCR,
para. 5.02), although two years later than anticipated, and the PIU
executed the project with dedication and competence. Buildings have on the
whole been satisfactorily completed although some design and materials
deficiencies hamper effective operations. The procurement and distribution
of equipment has been less successful. Funds for technical assistance were
not used because acceptable alternatives or other sources of technical
assistance were found.
With regard to the project's operating outcome, the USC serves 50%
more than its intended number of students and research and community serv-
ice activities have been improved and expanded (PCR, paras. 6.01-6.05) The
SCDC has developed a revised general curriculum in addition to the planned



- vi -
science curricula; this added output has led to overcrowding and additional
facilities were financed for this well-run center under the Fifth Education
Project (Credit 1141-ET) (PCR, paras. 6.06-6.10). The EMPDA has fulfilled
its objectives, particularly in increasing textbook production from a
target 3.5 million books in 1980 to 11 million titles in that year (PCR,
paras. 6.11-6.16). The ATC component has not been successful; its build-
ings are ill-suited, its programs undeveloped, and its purpose in rural
training unclear (PCR, paras. 6.17-6.21). The CSTCs appear to be providing
fora for community development in rural areas although there is a clear
need for more evaluation of their programs (PCR, paras. 6.22-6.27). The
Appropriate Technology Center and the AHI are both functioning well (PCR,
paras. 6.28-6.31). The Bank's supervision has been flexible in responding
to changes in Ethiopia during the period of project execution although
there was a need for more missions by staff experienced in agricultural
training (PCR, para. 4.19).
The following points may be of particular interest:
(i)  The final inspection of facilities following completion of
construction should have resulted in the correction of many
relatively minor defects which now cause considerable
inconvenience to users (PCR, para. 4.06);
(ii)  While upkeep of University buildings is satisfactory, insuf-
ficient priority is given by the Ministries of Education and
Agriculture to maintenance of both buildings and equipment
(PCR, paras. 4.15 - 4.16). A school maintenance service has
been established in MOE and is receiving assistance under the
Fifth Education Project (Credit 1141-ET);
(iii)  Evaluation of project items needs to be done both to monitor
project components and to provide lessons for future
educational development (PCR, paras. 6.05, 6.16, 6.21,
6.26 and 6.29).



I.  SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project Objectives
1.01    The project was identified and prepared during a period in which
Government was considering decisions on implementation of reform proposals
as a result of an education sector survey and manpower studies, both
assisted under the Second Education Project (Credit 243-ET). The Third
Education Project was to assist an interim investment program aimed at:
(a) improving the teaching of science and the supply of textbooks and other
learning aids at various educational levels; (b) expanding the supply of
trained agricultural manpower; and (c) making more effective the existing
rural education network of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church (EOC). Project
components were chosen to meet immediate educational and manpower needs
which would be of high priority within any long-term educational strategy
which Government might adopt.
Project Content
1.02    The project as appraised consisted of the construction and equip-
ping of: (a) the Addis Ababa University Science Center (USC) to increase
enrollment from 1,100 to 1,750; (b) the Science Curriculum Development
Center (SCDC) to improve the production of science curricula; (c) the
Education Materials Production Center (1) to expand the production and
distribution of textbooks and other school materials; (d) three Agriculture
Training Centers (ATC), each for 40 students, to enlarge the number of
agriculural field assistants; (e) the Animal Health Institute (AHI) to
train manpower for the livestock sector; and (f) a center for the Ethiopian
Orthodox Church to train about 1,000 clergymen annually in the teaching of
practical and applied subjects for rural development. The project also
included technical assistance to assist: (a) the implementation of educa-
tion reform; (b) Addis Ababa University-s (AAU) long range physical
development planning and the organization of a staff development plan for
laboratory technicians; (c) a feasibility study for the local production of
science equipment for schools; and (d) EMPDA. Specialist services and
fellowships were funded for the development and initial teaching of courses
in veterinary sciences at AHI. Technical assistance and funds were also
included for the operation of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
During implementation, Community Skill Training Centers (CSTC) were sub-
tituted for the EOC Training Center and an Alternative Technology Center
was added to the project.
1. which became the Education Materials Production and Distribution Agency
(EMPDA).



-2-
Project Implementation
1.03    The project was declared effective on August 30, 1974, seven months
after the original effectiveness date because of a delay in reaching agree-
ment with the EOC on the operation of the training center. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Rural Projects Agency (RPA) implemented
the majority of the project while the University was responsble for the
USC. The design and construction of the USC was carried out by consultant
architects and contractors under the general supervision of the RPA and the
CSTCs were constructed by RPA departmental forces with community participa-
tion; other construction was carried out fully by RPA. On the whole,
implementation has been effective. There have been examples of breakdowns
in communications between RPA and the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the design and specification of some
buildings have been criticized as being of poor standard and uneconomical
in the long term because of likely maintenance problems. However, the RPA
staff noted that the imposition of ambitious construction programs without
commensurate provision of additional funds in the face of material
shortages and rising costs left few alternatives. All buildings have been
substantially completed, for the most part satisfactorily, although some
design and materials deficiencies are already apparent. Many minor defects
and at least one major defect should have been corrected prior to expira-
tion of the construction guarantee periods.
1.04    The preparation of equipment lists and the procurement and dis-
tribution of equipment has not been as effective as the construction
program. As a result, many institutions are still awaiting final delivery
of equipment, and there are cases of inappropriate items. Delays in the
identification, procurement and distribution of equipment by RPA, an admit-
tedly difficult task aggravated by post Revolution changes, have caused
serious dislocations in training programs. In many cases delays were the
result of factors which could not be foreseen. Procurement was initially
delayed because of EMPDA's lack of experience with Bank Group procurement
requirements. In some cases there was lack of confidence on the part of
suppliers because of changing country conditions and, in others, there were
transport and insurance problems arising out of Red Sea port difficulties.
Storage and redistribution was hampered by limited warehousing and poor
inventory control resulting in further losses and delays. A major cause of
delay was overconfidence of the Borrower and the Bank Group alike, that
implementation of added facilities could be accelerated and completed in a
timely fashion. Funds intended for technical assistance were not utilized
because acceptable alternatives or other sources of technical assistance
were found. Fellowship training, carried out substantially as planned, did
not contribute as expected to the staffing of the AHI. The PIU of the RPA,
responsible for construction, and for the supervision of contracts where
this was carried out by private contractors, functioned well, as did the
consulting architects and building contractors.
1.05    The project was completed with a negligible cost overrun of less
than 1%, at a total cost of Birr 26.5 million as compared with Birr 26.3



- 3-
million estimated during appraisal. Changes in project content and
programs preclude meaningful comparisons of projected and final costs by
categories. However, it is useful to note that the cost of civil works
exceeded appraisal estimates by only 2% despite a 34% increase in gross
building area. Moreover, compounded increases in general construction
costs in Ethiopia reached 100% during this period. The quality of con-
struction at the USC was evidently maintained by a large reduction in
agreed building areas. The cost of furniture and equipment rose only 12%
despite the fact that the cost of imported materials rose substantially
during this period. The reallocation of funds for technical assistance to
other categories of the project resulted in 22% and 50% increases in
allocations to the civil works and furniture/equipment categories respec-
tively. The additional allocations were evidently not sufficient to
provide a comparable quality of buildings and adequate furniture and equip-
ment for the institutions added to the project during implementation as
compared to the institutions originally included in the project.
Project Operating Outcome
1.06    Comparison of available data on projected and actual enrollments
or outputs of the project institutions reveals that quantitative targets
for the most part have been met or exceeded.
1.07    The University Science Center (USC) was designed to provide
facilities for the teaching of basic natural sciences to students enrolled
in all Faculties of the University and for research and community services.
The last-mentioned services are exemplified by chemical analyses or process
evaluations carried out under contract to industries or government depart-
ments. Available information indicates that the facilities are in full
operation, although there are some significant deficiencies in buildings
and equipment. Expected to raise enrollments from 1,100 to 1,750, the USC
now serves 2,950 fulltime students, with additional part-time extension
enrollments. Research and community service activities have been improved
and expanded, but evaluation data are not available. There is, moreover,
a paucity of information on the qualitative aspects of the project com-
ponent's contribution to higher education. Among some of the measures of
quality improvement that should be available to the University administra-
tion are the numbers and qualifications of instructional and other profes-
sional staff, staff/student ratios, pass/fail ratios, the nature of exter-
nal examinations or reviews, the acceptance of AAU degrees by academic
institutions abroad, the employability of graduates, employers' evaluation
of graduates, and facility utilization factors.
1.08    The Science Curriculum Development Center (SCDC) under the MOE has
been utilized to develop a revised general curriculum in addition to
science curricula as planned, with the result that the facilities are
overcrowded. The buildings and furniture are of good quality, but much of
the scheduled equipment has not yet been delivered and there is a shortage
of expendable materials. Nevertheless, the SCDC is well organized and
staffed, and is effectively fulfilling its primary function of developing



- 4-
and evaluating curricula and instructional materials, and conducting cur-
riculum research. In addition to very substantial production of curriculum
materials, the SCDC has trained over 3,500 teachers through seminars,
workshops and conferences.
1.09    The project also provided new and expanded facilities for EMPDA.
It had been planned that the expanded facilities would enable textbook
production to rise from 2.5 million annually in 1975 to about 3.5 million
by 1980. However, by 1980 annual output reached over 11 million titles in
addition to 600,000 textbook trial editions. Moreover, the EMPDA manages a
chalk factory which produces all of the chalk for Ethiopia-s formal educa-
tion system, and is developing the production of science laboratory equip-
ment and other instructional aids. The EMPDA is effective, efficient, and
fulfilling its designed function. An otherwise good record of project
implementation is marred by the seriously defective concrete floors in the
EMPDA warehouse, and the need for better procurement and distribution of
imported instructional equipment.
1.10    The three Agricultural Training Centers (ATCs) are the least effec-
tive of the project components. An unfortunate combination of circumstan-
ces has mitigated against their success: the lack of conceptual planning,
and indecisiveness on the part of the MOA, the Bank Group-s assumption
during appraisal that program planning deficiencies would be resolved in a
timely fashion and, finally, the rise of the Community Skill Training
Center system under MOE, with competing programs for farmers. Only two of
the three project ATCs are in operation, and they have yet to offer the
six-month field assistant training programs in conjunction with farmer
training for which they were planned. The buildings are not well suited
to the intended programs, which in any case have not been effectively
developed or administered. The quality of construction is sub-standard
with the prospect of high maintenance costs. The ATCs have yet to receive
equipment, books, or livestock. The MOA is in the process of reviewing
the entire ATC program with a view to reconsidering their role, possibly
as in-service training centers for MOA personnel or in conjunction with
high-level training for farmers. The project ATCs were envisaged as an
extension of a similar component in the Second Education Project. However,
because of delays, the implementation of the two education projects became
virtually parallel with little opportunity for the project items in Educa-
tion III to profit from the implementation and operational experience of
the Education II ATCs.
1.11    Community Skill Training Center (CSTC).  Following the Revolution
in 1974, the new government decided against the planned role of the EOC
as a major vehicle for social change and rural development. However, the
Borrower's decision to request the reallocation of these resources to the
development of CSTCs was not made until mid 1976 and the Bank delayed its
approval for another year. By May 1979, the government had established 109
non-project CSTCs, but despite the fact that the objectives of the CSTCs
had been broadly identified, the programs, which were to be based upon
local socio-economic surveys, had in many instances not yet been created.



-5-
Consequently, a coherent plan for the development of a national network,
and the feasibility of Bank Group financing, were not immediately apparent.
Further delays ensued before mutually agreeable decisions could be arrived
at respecting the nature of programs, buildings, equipment and staff. All
180 project CSTCs are reportedly in operation, and despite the fact that
equipment is still in the process of delivery, are credited with enroll-
ments in excess of projections, with effective and flexible programs which
are meeting identified community needs; they are generally functioning as
centers of focus for community development. An evaluation process
initiated in November 1980 has not yet produced a report. The most obvious
concern for the future of CSTC programs is the lack of provision for staff
training and of administrative support for this critical element of the
program.
1.12    The Appropriate Technology Center appraised as the Alternative
Technology Center was introduced into the project five years after project
appraisal, and only two years prior to the final Credit Closing Date.
Nevertheless, the component which had received extensive technical assis-
tance and some equipment from UNICEF has now moved into the completed
buildings, and preliminary evidence indicates that it is becoming an impor-
tant element in the identification, evaluation and production of applica-
tions of appropriate technology of particular interest to rural development
agencies. Materials, designs and processes are under examination or
development. However, although the center is developing observably useful
models, there is as yet little available information on operating costs,
product development, cost-benefit analysis or forward program planning.
There is an evident need of an evaluation study, the design of which need
not await full operation of the center.
1.13    The extension of the Animal Health Institute (AHI) at Debra Zeit
has been successfully completed with the exception that the added
laboratory has not been equipped with utilities or furniture. Enrollments
have now reached 147 compared with 140 envisated at appraisal, but failure
to equip the additional laboratory, as planned, adversely affects the
program. The AHI, otherwise, is well staffed and the installed equipment
is well maintained. The financing of postgraduate fellowship training
abroad for prospective staff has not been effective. Two fellows failed to
return to Ethiopia, and the third is employed by the MOA, although in a
position related to his training.
1.14    Technical Assistance.  None of the eight and one half years of
technical assistance specialist services included in the project was
ultimately utilized. In each instance the Borrower was able to demonstrate
that acceptable alternatives had been found and funds were transferred to
other project components.
Recommendations
1.15    The CSTC evaluation study, initiated in November 1980, should be
expedited for consideration in relation to the findings of the study of



-6-
ATCs. Although the Appropriate Technology Center has only recently moved
into the new facilities, an evaluation process should be developed to
demonstrate the impact and cost benefit of the center's activities.
1.16    Government should be encouraged to expedite the proposed study of
the future role and functions of the ATCs, and their relationship to exten-
sion training and services, and farmer training.
1.17    Every effort should be made to correct deficiencies in buildings,
equipment and furniture through detaled final inspections. The institu-
tions most seriously affected are the USC, AHI, the ATCs and EMPDA.
1.18    Departments or agencies responsble for carrying out project
implementation should prepare annual operations reports.
Lessons Learned
1.19    The Borrower's capital investment funding ought not to depend
totally upon external sources. It should be assume that funds will be
required to correct defects and remedy unforeseen deficiencies, some of
which cannot be differentiated from maintenance. In too many instances, in
this complex project, institutions did not have initially the full use of
facilities for the lack of modest funds to correct defects which were
identified only after the effective completion of the particular project
component.
1.20    In the case of innovative project items or institutions still in
the process of conceptual planning, it would be prudent to allow sufficient
time between follow-on projects for the application of lessons learned to
subsequent project components. The Second and Third Education Projects
both assisted the development of ATCs but unforeseen delays resulted in the
parallel rather than sequential development of similar centers in both
projects without opportunity to learn from the experience of the preceding
project. In addition, there should be close cooperation in the Bank between
RMEA and Headquarters when dealing with similar components in different
projects.
1.21    It would be a facile, although perhaps debatable, proposition to
recommend more or better project supervision. Technical assistance in the
guise of more intensive supervision would undoubtedly improve and
accelerate project implementation; whether or not the Borrower's implemen-
tation capability would improve commensurately remains debatable. However,
in the case of the project, issues between Government and Bank staff might
have been foreseen or identified earlier, so that remedial action could
have been initiated in order to minimize delay.



-7-
1.22    In the case of requests for highly sophisticated scientific equip-
ment, it would be advisable for selected items to be referred to an inde-
pendent authority for review. In any case, with respect to higher educa-
tion, the project's funding of applied research as contrasted with fun-
damental research should have been understood in advance.
1.23    In the case of innovative components such as the CSTCs, evaluation
should be built into the project. Reportedly, all 180 Project CSTCs are in
operation, and the limited sampling by the completion mission confirms
assessments during supervision that these institutions are making an impor-
tant contribution to community development. However, no reports have
resulted from the evaluation process started in the latter part of 1980,
and, in any case, the survey instruments produced by the Department of
Adult Education are too limited in scope.
II. INTRODUCTION
2.01     This completion report prepared by a consultant technical
educator is based upon a separate report prepared at the request of
Government, under the World Bank/Unesco Cooperative Program. The Unesco
team reviewed the project files at the Bank's Regional Mission in
Eastern Africa (RMEA), and carried out field visits in Ethiopia from
May 17 to June 3, 1981.
2.02    This report assesses actual project implementation in comparison
with appraisal objectives and the project's impact on Ethiopia-s education
development needs to the extent that they can be evaluated in the immediate
post-implementation period.
2.03    The report is based on:
(a) information and data abstracted from project files and
reports available at RMEA, the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) of Government's Rural Project Agency (RPA),
Addis Ababa University, and the Ministries of Education
and Agriculture;
(b) standard questionnaire forms prepared by the Bank for
completion by the PIU, comparing construction areas
and costs, accommodation and implementation schedules
as originally planned and as implemented; and
(c) interviews with personnel of Ministries and agencies
concerned, including Addis Ababa University, and PIU
administrative staff.



-8-
III. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socio-Economic Setting
3.01    The project, as appraised in 1973, was intended to support the
Third Five-Year Plan which gave priority to agriculture and the infrastruc-
ture required to support agricultural development. Highest priority was to
be given to the rural sector based on the development of commercial
agriculture and the modernization of peasant farming. Per capita income
was estimated at US$76, growing at 2% per annum, and the population of 25
million was increasing at 2.5% per annum. It was recognized that formidable
problems would probably temper the achievement of the somewhat optimistic
Plan target. The sheer size of the country (470,000 square miles), the
widely dispersed rural population which made up 90% of the total, the
ethnic groupings, budgetary problems in meeting recurrent expenses, and
shortage of foreign exchange would be complicating factors.
Education Sector
3.02    The quality of the labor force as a direct consequence of an inade-
quate education and training system was identified as one of the major
constraints to the achievement of Plan targets. Only 7% of the population
was literate, and although agriculture contributed about 60% of GDP,
agricultural productivity was very low. Only 16% of the age group attended
primary schools, and only 5% of the relevant age group attended some form
of secondary level education. These and other education indicators were
among the lowest in the world; only 2.8% of GDP was devoted to domestic
expenditures for education and training. There was evidence that the
educational system was not appropriate to the country's development needs,
and consequently the Second Education Project assisted an Education Sector
Review which was still under consideration by the Government at the time of
project preparation. Pending Government decisions on the major reforms and
investment programs in the education sector, the project identified
immediate educational needs which would inevitably be part of any reform
package. These were:
-  improvement and expansion of science instruction at
the secondary school and university levels;
-  increase in the supply of instructional materials
for primary and secondary schools;
-  improved supply of trained agricultural manpower,
particularly the middle level of field and animal
health assistants;
-  more effective use of educational resources in rural
areas; and



-9-
- better educational planning.
Project Identification
3.03    The First Education Project (Credit 84-ET) was approved in 1966
in the amount of US$7.2 million equivalent. Fully disbursed, the project
assisted the improvement of secondary education, and teacher and agricul-
tural education. The Second Education Project (Credit 243-ET) provided
US$9.5 million equivalent in 1971 to assist primary teacher training and
secondary level education. In addition, the project assisted two
activities of particular significance for future lending: the design and
implementation of an education sector study, and a manpower survey. The
Second Project was scheduled for completion by 1976, but the Closing Date
was extended to July 31, 1977 with the result that project implementation
paralleled in large part that of the Third Education Project.
3.04    Generation of the Third Education Project began with reconnaissance
in January 1972, the mission having been planned on the assumption that the
findings of the Education Sector Review and of manpower surveys would be
available to help identify education development priorities. However, the
manpower studies were carried out by an ILO team from 1974 to 1976, and the
Sector Review findings were not reported to Government until 1972 and were
still under consideration by Government in January 1974. At that juncture,
the Revolution and subsequent events caused the report, although not neces-
sarily its findings, to be shelved while the Government developed new
social and economic strategies.
3.05    The January 1972 reconnaissance mission recommended that an interim
project should be developed, pending Government-s decisions on the Sector
Review. It was felt that a project could be designed which would meet high
priority needs without prejudice to the findings of the Sector Review,
which in any case could be assisted later under a proposed Fourth Education
Project. An inter-ministerial steering committee under the direction of
the MOE prepared a project submission. The reconnaissance report and the
Government s submission became the basis for project appraisal carried out
in July 1972. Unfortunately, the time gained by the good momentum estab-
lished between project reconnaissance and appraisal was lost, in part
because of post-appraisal differences between the Bank and Government on
proposals for support to the University. The original proposal for the
development of the Science Faculty and the Arts Faculty, with associated
classroom blocks, resolved itself into proposals for a Science Center and a
Social Sciences Center. However, such a large concentration of project
resources on higher education appeared to mitigate against balanced educa-
tion development and, in particular, attention to rural development
priorities. Moreover, the appraisal mission was not convinced that
preparation of the Social Science Center components had been sufficiently
advanced. The momentum of project generation also suffered from delay in
respect of the EOC component. Although there was agreement on the poten-
tial role of the EOC as an important animator of rural development, the



-10-
framing of a final agreement between the EOC and Government regarding the
financing of recurrent costs proved difficult.
Project Objectives
3.06    The project as appraised was designed to assist in implementing an
interim investment program aimed at: (a) improving the teaching of science
and the supply of textbooks and other learning aids at various educational
levels; (b) expanding the supply of trained agricultural manpower; and (c)
making more effective EOC's existing rural education network.
Project Content
3.07    The project at appraisal included:
(a) The construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i) offices, laboratories, curriculum workshops and
related facilities for the Science Curriculum
Development Center (SCDC);
(ii) offices, working and meeting rooms, warehouses and
vehicles for the Education Materials Production
Center (which later became EMPDA) to increase local
production of textbooks from 2.5 million to 3.5
million annually;
(iii) educational and boarding facilities for 40 trainees,
and staff housing units, at each of the three new
ATCs in the Gojam, kaffa and Wollo provinces;
(iv) educational and boarding facilities and staff
housing units for 1,000 trainees annually at a new
EOC Training Center.
(b) The renovation and construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(i) lecture halls, science library, laboratories, classrooms
and offices to increase the enrollment of the University
Science Center of the University of Addis Ababa from
1,100 to 1,750 students and to improve facilities;
(ii) educational and boarding facilities for the Animal
Health Institute (AHI) of the MOA at Debre Zeit
to increase the student capacity from 60 to approx-
imately 140.
(c) The provision of specialists and related services for:



-l-
(i) the services of an advisor to the general manager
of the EMPDA, 1 man-year;
(ii)  a feasibility study on the local production of
science equipment, 18 man-months;
(iii) partial staffing of the AHI, 9 man-years;
(iv)  long-range physical development planning, and a
staff development program for the AAMUs laboratory
technicians, 3 man-years;
(v) assistance to Government in programming its educa-
tional reforms and in preparing a plan for the
training of personnel to manage the implementation
of the reform program, 50 man-months;
(d)  The provision of post-graduate fellowships for the training
of future staff of the AHI, 6 man-years; and
(e)  The provision of supplementary operational expenses for the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) including salaries for
architects, engineers and building inspectors and for the
PIUEs general expenses.
3.08    Completion of the project was scheduled for December 31,1978, with
an implementation period of five years, including guarantee periods.
Amendments to the Project
3.09    Of the nine amendments to the Credit Agreement during implementa-
tion, three involved substantive changes, the others procedural matters
(Annex 1). One of the changes, the relocation of three ATCs was sig-
nificant because it revealed deficiencies in the forward planning of the
MOA: almost 3-1/2 years after project appraisal, decisions were being made
about locations of project institutions. The other changes, substituting
CSTCs for the EOC Training Center and providing facilities for the
Appropriate Technology Center instead of technical assistance, were
motivated by the post-Revolutionary Government's wish to utilize the system
of CSTCs rather than EOC as the primary vehicle for rural socio-economic
change. The Appropriate Technology Center is an adjunct to the CSTCs. The
latter amendment was approved in September 1977, over 3-1/2 years after the
Revolution, and only 15 months before the estimated date of completion of
the project. That such fundamental changes were introduced was remarkable
enough; that they could be absorbed into an on-going project was an excep-
tional achievement.



-12-
3.10    By agreement with the Bank, the funds provided for technical assis-
tance were not utilized for that purpose, but were reallocated to other
categories. Sixty of the 72 man-months provided for overseas fellowships
were utilized as planned, but none of the three candidates joined the staff
of the AHI.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness
4.01    The Credit Agreement was signed July 5, 1973 and the original date
for effectiveness was February 1, 1974. The conclusion of an agreement
between Government and EOC regarding the financing, maintenance and opera-
tion of the EOC Training Center was the only special condition of effec-
tiveness. This condition proved unexpectedly difficult to meet and credit
effectiveness was delayed until August 30, 1974.
Project Management
4.02    The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Project Division of
the Construction and Maintenance Department of the MOE had been established
for the implementation of the First and Second Education Projects, and was
assigned responsibility for the Third Project. The PIU was responsible for
the implementation of Bank Group-assisted projects, including the design
and construction of all components with the exception of the USC which was
designed by consulting architects and constructed by private contractors,
both supervised by the University Project Unit under the general supervi-
sion of the Project Director in MOE.
4.03    In 1976, the Construction Division was transferred to a new Minis-
try of Urban Development and Housing, and merged with the Elementary School
Building Unit (ESBU) as a newly organized Rural Project Agency (RPA).(2)
Maintenance responsibility remained with the MOE, although the division of
staff and material resources at the time of reorganization was controver-
sial. Responsibility for the procurement and distribution of instructional
equipment was the responsibility of EMPDA, but the processing of tenders
and the production and procurement of furniture for Bank projects were
vested in the PIU in RPA. The physical facilities provided for the
2. In 1980, RPA became the Ethiopian Building Construction Agency (EBCA)
by merger with the Housing Construction Corporation, Continental General
Construction, National Boring Agency, Rental Administration Agency and the
Technical Department of AAU. The 14 regional offices of RPAs were reor-
ganized into five zonal offices.



-13-
administration and construction activities of the PIU were adequate.
Similarly, the support staff was provided as needed, with the possible
exception that records of force account work did not always provide the
evidence needed for strict accounting control.
4.04    Project implementation was effectively administered by two succes-
sive project managers, assisted by project coordinators. The successive
reorganizations affecting the PIU were accomplished smoothly without
apparent dislocations, each reorganization representing further consolida-
tion of Government's control of the construction industry. The project
manager was assisted until 1974 by technical assistance provided by SIDA
consisting of a project architect and two engineers. They have been
replaced by local personnel.
4.05    The project as appraised consisted of eight discrete component
institutions. The late decision to add 180 CSTCs introduced another dimen-
sion of dispersion, and the need to organize local volunteer labor. The
successful completion of this item, in particular, reflects credit on the
organizational and administrative capacity of the PIU and especially its
regional RPA offices. However, the control of materials and the main-
tenance of records to ensure that expenditures could be identified with
project-assisted components was not adequate.
4.06    The final inspection of facilities following completion of con-
struction could have been more rigorous especially as there were many
instances of relatively minor defects which now cause considerable incon-
venience to the users. These defects could have been easily remedied at
the time but can be corrected, now that construction resources have been
withdrawn from the area, only at considerable cost and inconvenience.
Three major defects - the failure to construct the greenhouse and provide
climate control at USC, the breakdown of the warehouse floors at EMPDA due
to deficient specifications, and failure to complete the laboratory at the
AHI - have not been satisfactorily explained, nor have remedial measures
been proposed. There was also apparent lack of consultation between the
PIU and MOA regarding the design of agricultural buildings at the ATCs
which resulted in design defects.
4.07    Many project institutions lacked equipment at the time of the
completion mission, although all equipment has been procured and was repor-
tedly enroute. The delays may be attributed in part to the dislocations
of the post-Revolutionary period and it must be acknowledged that the
procurement of equipment, much of which is imported, is a demanding
activity. Nevertheless, there is evidence of a lack of coordination and
supervision of listing, procurement and distribution of equipment.
Physical Implementation
4.08    The project as appraised included construction of eight sites.
During implementation the project was amended to delete the EOC Training
Center and substitute 180 CSTCs, to provide the expansion of one ATC in



-14-
lieu of one of the three new ATCs, and additional facilities for an exist-
ing Appropriate Technology Center. Annex 2 gives the details on the
estimated and actual gross construction areas and Annex 3 is the estimated
and actual implementation schedule. The following table compares the
appraised and completed project:
No. of     Additional   | No. of    Additional
Items        Places      | Items         Places
Trng.  Board  |            Trng.  Board
(a) Science Curriculum
Development Center           1       na      na    I      1      na       na
(b) Educational Materials
Prod. and Dist. Agency       1       na      na    I      1      na       na
(c) Agricultural Training
Center   - New               3       120     120   |      2      64       64
-Expansion          -        -        -         1       32      32
(d) EOC Training Center          1       500     500   I      -      -        -
(e) CSTCs                        -         -       -   I    180      na       na
(f) Alternative Tech.
Center                            -            -   I      1      20       20
(g) AAU Science Center           1       650       -   I      1     850       -
(h) Animal Health Inst.          1        80      80   |      1      80       80
8                          188
Sites
4.09    In general, the locations and sites of project institutions are
satisfactory, and utilities were provided in a timely fashion. In the case
of the ATCs, reconsideration of sites by the MOA causd implementation
delays. The ATC site at Woreta, where rice culture and irrigation could be
practiced, was substituted for Bahr Dar, which was becoming urbanized.
Nejo was substituted for Agaro where there was an existing primitive ATC
and an existing agricultural institute. The one unchanged site at Comcol-
cha is surrounded by industrial sites which are likely in the long run to



-15-
isolate the ATC from rural activities. The sites for CSTCs were made
available by the local Farmers Associations with reportedly sufficient
land to provide for crops which would help finance CSTC activities.
Professional Services
4.10    The USC was designed by consultant architects, commissioned in
February 1975, following their selection from a short list. The design
appears to be functional and to minimize maintenance costs. Design work
was facilitated by the close collaboration with the user afforded by the
University-s project director, who in turn maintained liaison with the PIU.
Supervision by the consultant architects and the University project direc-
tor encountered a number of problems, despite the overall success of this
component. The planned greenhouse has been overlooked, there are lighting
deficiencies in lecture halls, sound transmission problems in the geology
department, and security is inadequate in the chemistry department. These
are relatively minor design defects. Site supervision might have been
expected to correct defects such as the omission of gas in the biology
laboratory, incomplete plumbing and connections to fume cupboards in the
chemistry department, and failure to complete the cold room and air con-
ditioning for the spectroscopy laboratory.
4.11    All other project components were designed by PIU staff who super-
vised them. The most serious problems were the breakdown of the warehouse
floors at EMPDA, presumably because reinforced concrete was not specified,
and the failure to complete the new laboratory at the AHI. Some minor
defects, such as the incomplete installation of cupboards and water supply
at SCDC, and lack of windows at Combolcha will be corrected by the PIU
during scheduled maintenance. It is reported that the buildings at the
ATCs are of poor quality with respect to design and specifications and that
maintenance is already a problem.
Equipment
4.12    Equipment lists for USC were prepared under the general direction
of an inter-faculty committee with the result that there was a consensus on
the ultimate lists including the major items such as the spectroscope.
With the exception of certain items of sole manufacture, or where com-
patibility with existing equipment was a factor, equipment was procured
through ICB. Some high technology equipment necessitated visits by Univer-
sity staff to overseas suppliers for which the University had the foresight
to budget funds. The University has experienced some problems with equip-
ment which began to arrive in 1977 and had to be stored pending completion
of the buildings. The equipment could not be tested, with the result that
incomplete shipments went undetected, and in some cases partial shipments
were lost in transit or in storage. Equipment lists for departments of MOE
and MOA as for the University were prepared by the respective departments
to ensure compatibility with program requirements, and procurement was
effected by the PIU using ICB. Tardy preparation of equipment lists
aggravated by procurement delays meant that many institutions still lack



-16-
equipment, although it has now been procured and is in the process of
delivery. The listing of CSTC equipment for Bank approval caused delays
because program objectives had not been defined and, in fact, the equipping
of the centers remains controversial because their programs are still being
reviewed.
Furniture
4.13    For the USC furniture, international competitive bidding was
initiated. Only nine bids were received from 25 suppliers who bought the
bid document.  Due to excessive prices, the Bank agreed to the purchase of
most USC furniture from local suppliers orL a competitive basis. Local
retendering was held but only two bids were received which were later found
to be unsatisfactory in terms of quality standards. Therefore, the Bank
agreed to the recommendation of the Science Center Management Committee
that the contract be given to the University Engineers and Maintenance
Service. With regard to EMPDA, while some furniture of high quality has
been delivered, at the time of the completion mission, most furniture was
still being cleared through customs having been procured through ICB. For
the other furniture included in the project, the RPA proposed in November
1976 to produce furniture for all the items (except for the University) so
as to ensure delivery in phase with construction.
4.14    The furniture produced in the workshops of the University and RPA
is of good quality, although it is noted that the table legs and arm chairs
for the USC lecture halls are not sturdy. Imported seats for the lecture
hall are not durable.
Maintenance of Physical Facilities
4.15    The maintenance of University buildings is satisfactory, funded
by reasonable annual budgetary allocations. With respect to USC, the
consultant architect produced maintenance manuals, and maintenance person-
nel are being trained by the contractor. The maintenance of scientific
equipment is a continuing problem, but is being approached systematically
by the creation of an equipment maintenance section with central organiza-
tion of manuals and trained technicians.
4.16    The maintenance of buildings under the administrative control of
the Ministries of Education and Agriculture is less than satisfactory.
With respect to the MOE, at the time of reorganization of -onstruction in
1976, the Maintenance Department remained at the MOE, but it is contended,
without adequate vehicles, equipment or staff; it also lacks the necessary
regional capability or annual budgetary allocations. The MOE has not taken
the needed initiatives to identify the respective responsibilities of the
administrators of institutions and the regional offices and central Main-
tenance Department of RPA (now EBCA) for the various levels of maintenance
ranging from minor repairs to the replacement of damaged structures. Funds
allocated for maintenance are insufficient. The maintenance problem was
addressed under the Second Education Project and technical assistance was



-17-
provided. However, the Bank was persuaded that the proposed reorganization
of construction (the creation of RPA and MOE maintenance services) would
accomplish the objective, and the technical assistance provision was
dropped. A second attempt to improve maintenance is being made though the
Fifth Education Project (Credit 1141-ET), but in the meantime, serious
deterioration of buildings may occur. Similarly, the maintenance of
instructional equipment has not been organized.
4.17    Technical Assistance.  Of the 224 man-months of technical assis-
tance for specialist services and 72 man-months of fellowship training
originally envisaged for the project, none of the technical assistance and
only 60 man-months of fellowship training were utilized.
Covenants.(3)
4.18    The Borrower complied with most but not all covenants.  With regard
to the diligent and efficient implementation of the project (Section
3.01-a), completion within a net time overrun of 12 months is a remarkable
achievement, but the loss of valuable trained outputs may be attributed, at
least in part, to failure to equip project institutions in phase with the
completion of construction. The lack of staff for the preparation of
equipment lists appears to have been the principal cause of delay. The
covenant (Section 3.06-b) regarding the operations of ATCs has not been
fulfilled: one center has not opened, and the other two have not offered
the intended course for Animal Health Assistants. The functions of ATCs
are presently under review by MOA. Finally, it is evident that many
institutions lack resources for even the most routine maintenance contrary
to Section 4.02(b), and that major defects are left unattended. Some
buildings are deteriorating for the lack of timely maintenance, although it
appears that economy of design (insufficient overhang) and of materials
(soil cement blocks) are significant factors in increasing maintenance
problems.
Bank Group Performance
4.19    The Education Projects Section of RMEA in Nairobi was created in
early 1974 and supervised the project throughout its implementation. Fif-
teen supervision missions exclusive of the completion mission supervised
the project, with an average interval of 6.2 months between missions; the
average duration of missions was 11.4 days, including the supervision of
other education projects. In addition to education missions, the project
was supervised by the Disbursements Unit of RMEA. The complexity of the
project would have necessitated extraordinary breadth of experience in
order to provide specialist supervision for all components. However, it is
probable that the agricultural components would have profitted from more
supervision by an agricultural education specialist and better coodination
3. Annex 4 provides details of covenants and their status.



-18-
between RMEA and Headquarters (para 1.20). Equally important, the CSTC
component should have had earlier and more concentrated attention from a
rural development specialist. The supervision otherwise appears to have
been adequate.
V. PROJECT COSTS
Estimated and Actual Project Costs
5.01    When appraised in May 1973, the total project cost was estimated
at Birr 26.3 million, 79% of which would be met by the US$10 million IDA
Credit. The Credit was expected to finance the total foreign exchange cost
(US$6.7 million) and 55% of local expenditures. The actual cost of the
project, including amendments, was Birr 26.5 million, a cost overrun of
less than 1% with the IDA Credit financing 78%. Government's contribution
was Birr 5.785 million in comparison to Birr 5.614 million envisaged at
appraisal.
5.02    The estimated and actual costs of the project are summarized below
and detailed in Annex 5 and the disbursement schedule is on page (i) of the
Basic Data. Unit costs are in Annex 6.
Appraisal Estimate           Final
(incl. Contingencies)    Expenditures           7
(Birr OOOs)          (Birr OOOs)       Change
Civil Works                       16,488                16,814          +  2%
Professional Fees                    950                 1,286          + 35%
Furniture & Equipment              6,813                 7,641          + 12%
Technical Assistance               1,832                   128          - 93%
Project Unit                         231                   616          +166%
Total           26,314               26,485          +0.65%
5.03    Actual construction costs were about 2% above appraisal estimates.
Gross construction areas exceeded appraisal estimates by 34% because of
project modification, particularly the CSTC whose areas exceeded the EOC
Training Center which they replaced by 260%. The sophisticated nature of
the USC cost about 21% more than estimated for about the same gross area.
Offsetting these factors was an effective freeze on wages in the country
and the strong administration of the PIU which resulted in economical



-19-
designs and efficient construction. Costs for the CSTCs, for example, were
reduced by 30% because of simple designs and materials and the use of
volunteer labor. The actual cost of consultant services for the USC, the
only project component for which consultant services were employed, was
about 35% higher than the appraisal projection because the contractural
time limits were exceeded when construction was delayed. The total con-
sultant fee of 13.7% of the civil works cost is reasonable.
5.04    The cost of furniture was 24% lower than the appraisal estimate due
to procurement from Government workshops. The cost of equipment was 20%
higher than anticipated due to inflation, changes in teaching methods which
resulted in different types of equipment, and the purchase of additional
equipment with savings in other components, notably technical assistance.
The technical assistance program was 93% less than envisaged due to the
reduction in the scope of this component. The increase in PIU costs is due
to larger overheads, the result of using the force account method for
construction.
VI. PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOME
University Science Center (USC)
6.01    The USC component is a much-needed addition to the UJniversity's
science facilities, providing common science services to all Faculties of
the University. During implementation, the Universty's project director
provided direct liaison with the consultant architect and contractors and
communication with the PIU Project Director, to the benefit of the project.
Unforeseen requirements such as a photographic unit, computer room and
glass blowing were introduced without dislocation. On the other hand, the
component remains deficient in many relatively minor respects. Some equip-
ment has not yet arrived, the greenhouse has not been completed, climate
control equipment for specialized equipment has not been installed, biology
equipment was overlooked, and there are instances of failure to connect
utilities. The geology rooms have sound transmission problems, but in
general, the facilities are well regarded, and will be economical to main-
tain. The contractor is training University personnel in building and
equipment maintenance, and the consultant architects have prepared main-
tenance manuals.
6.02    The USC was opened for the 1980-81 academic year with enrollments
of 2,950 as compared with the appraised capacity of 1,750, and design
capacities of 1,950 as follows:



-20-
Enrollment in the Science Center - 1980/81
Subject                      Planned                     Actual
Biology                          300                       450
Chemistry                        300                       450
Geology                           75                       225
Physics                           75                       225
Common Program                 1,200                    1600
Total                1,950                      2,950
In addition, an extension program provided part-time courses as follows:
Extension Program
Subject                        1979/80                   1980/81
Biology                           52                        66
Chemistry                         29                        32
Statistics                       166                       264
Total                   247                       362
6.03    A laboratory technician training program was at the .ime of
appraisal considered of such importance that technical assistance was
provided for, and a special covenant introduced, to ensure that it was
carried out. In the event, a training program was developed by the Dean of
the Science Faculty; 17 of 23 candidates from among 327 ae,plicants for the
6-month course were trained and placed in various higher education
institutes.
6.04    It is apparent that the technical capacities of the University
consultant and contractors have been exceeded in the case of the gas
chromatograph-mass spectrometer and the nuclear magnetic spectrometer.
However, the University was able to send i-aculty members to -he suppliers
for instruction in installation, operation and maintenance; and it is
anticipated that the advanced equipment will ultimately be used success-
fully. Nevertheless, the experience raises the question about priorities



-21-
in Ethiopia, and suggests that there should be agreement during project
preparation that advanced equipment requirements for research, with
reference especially to distinctions between applied and fundamental
research needs, should be referred to an independence panel for evaluation.
6.05    USC has doubled enrollments, well beyond its planned capacity,
raising concern for program quality. The expanded facilities have nevethe-
less improved the internal efficiency of the Universty, increased research
capabilities and the national and international standing of the Universty,
enabled the establishment of a graduate program, and improved the service
capabilities of the Faculty. There is need for objective measures of USC-s
impact. An annual report of operations, an essential management tool,
should include measures of quality improvement, such as numbers and
qualifications of staff, staff/student ratios, pass/fail ratios, external
examination results, acceptability of AAU-s degrees, employers evaluations
of graduates, and measures of facility utilization.
Science Curriculum Development Center (SCDC)
6.06    Administered by the Curriculum Department of MOE, SCDC is respon-
sible for science curriculum development for the school system, for cur-
riculum testing and evaluation, and for the in-service training of science
teachers, including the preparation of teachers- handbooks and curriculum
guides. The new facilities enabled SCDC to move from dilapidatd, inade-
quate quarters into purpose-designed and equipped offices, laboratories and
workshops. The original project items also provided for 18 man-months of
specialist services for a feasibility study of the local production of
science equipment. This study was subsequently undertaken by UNDP, and the
funds in the project were reallocated.
6.07    SCDC is well-organized and administered efficiently by a competent
director and support staff. In 1976, the government announced its new
education policy emphasizing education for production, scientific research
and social consciousness. SCDS-s facilities were thereupon pressed into
service for general curriculum development, including primary and secondary
level curricula, teacher education and technical and vocational education,
organized in three Divisions:
(a) Curriculum Division - responsible for the development of new
curricula in accordance with the new education policies and
objectives. Fourteen subject-area panels prepare curriculum
materials for all levels of education with the exception of
higher education. Trial copies of new curricula are printed
and tested in a number of selected schools. Feedback from
teachers and other evaluators is incorporated into the final
product which is sent to EMPDA for printing and distribution.
(b) Supervision and Evaluation Division - establishes guidelines for
the implementation of new curricula. Analytical techniques for
the evaluation of curricula are in the process of development.



-22-
(c) Research Division - organizes research relevant to curriculum
development in, for example, studies of the child and of the
teacher.
6.08    The buildings are of high quality and are adequate for the science
curriculum development program as planned. However, the greatly expanded
general curriculum development responsibilites thrust upon SCDC overcrowded
the facilities. Additional facilities for non-science areas were financed
under the Fifth Education Project (Credit 1141 -ET).
6.09    The educational impact of SCDC includes:
(a)  Improved, expanded production of curricula has resulted
from the new facilities, equipment and staff. Two
hundred sixty final curriculum titles have been produced
for primary and secondary education.  Success in science
fields has led indirectly to the assignment of broader
responsibilities to SCDC.
(b) Curriculum-related workshops and local and international
conferences have become a regular feature of SCDC. During
its three years of operations, over 3,500 participants
have had further training, and in the 1980-81 school year,
1,300 participants attended workshops, benefitting from
the curriculum development process.
(c) The productivity, efficiency and effectiveness of SCDC
and the impact of its curriculum products have attracted
widespread attention and have given it unprecedented
status. The professional staff has grown from 20 in 1977
to 80 in 1981, fifteen of whom are expatriate.
(d)  Exprimentation, change and improvement have been introduced
into the curriculum development functions of MOE. For the
past three years, 50 selected schools have beer used as
demonstration schools for the testing and evaluation of
new curricula and educational materials. In a further 25
experimental schools, new approaches and methodology are
tested in experimental class groups. At the end of the
1981 school year, an evaluation was started of the
comparative achievements of {experimental groups.
6.10    SCDS's educational impact would be even greater but for some rela-
tively minor but aggravating problems. Although the SCDC has been in
operation for three years, not all of the equipment has been delivered or
installed, particularly in the laboratories and home economics sections.
The equipment has been ordered, and will soon be delivered. Some sinks
have not been installed in the biology laboratory and home economics rooms,
fume cupboards have not been connected to vents, and water service has not



-23-
been connected in the biology laboratory. The PIU has undertaken to make a
final review of deficiencies. Sufficient instructional materials appear to
be available with the exception that chemicals are in short supply.
Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency (EMPDA)
6.11    As appraised the Educational Materials Production Center was to be
established on a business footing as a share company operating at a
reasonable profit under the commercial code of Ethiopia, and managed by a
representative board with the Government as a major shareholder. Students
were to be charged the full cost of textbooks with the possible exception
that in less developed areas a Government subsidy would apply. The center
was to be run by a qualified manager for the first five years, and
expatriate management advisory services were envisaged.
6.12    After the political change in 1974, the center was renamed the
Educational Materials Production and Distribution Agency (EMPDA) and was
established in 1975 under MOE. It was organized on a non-profit basis to
meet the requirements of the new education policy, and with an expanded
responsibility for the production and distribution of textbooks, teaching
materials, teachers guides, furniture and equipment. A well qualified
national was nominated to the post of general manager, whereupon the Credit
funds for this technical assistance activity were reallocated.
6.13    The general manager of EMPDA, directly responsible to the MOE
Permanent Secretary, has been provided with the necessary administrative
and technically qualified support staff. EMPDA-s annual budget is Birr 1.3
million and Birr 10.0 million have already been spent on the production of
textbooks. There is a well-organized system of accounting, storage, inven-
tory control and distribution to schools. Records, including feedback
control, are kept up to date. EMPDA is divided into three divisions with
the following functions:
(a)  Textbook Production.  The production of textbooks from manuscripts
received from SCDC is financed directly by the Government.
Fifty percent of the paper used comes from local mills, and
the rest is financed by SIDA. Textbooks are not sold through
regional centers, but are given out on a loan basis to students
for return at the end of the year. Damaged books are charged
to pupils at cost, but this decision rests with the particular
school administrator. The efficiency of the system which began
in 1980-81 is being evaluated. The loan system is financed in
part by modest service charges as follows: Grades 1-3, no service
charge; Grades 4-6, Birr 1; Grades 7-8, Birr 1.5; Grades 9-12,
Birr 2.
At appraisal it was projected that textbook production would
increase from about 2.5 million textbooks to 3.5 million annually
by 1980 with the additional facilities provided by the project.



Textbook production has increased far above this oDjactive as the
following table illustrates.
Book Production
Trial            Formal            Adult             Total
Textbooks         Education        Education           Titles
1975          520,000            767,427            60,000          827,427
1976          578,000          3,150,OCO        1,326,000         4,476,000
1977          600,000          5,338,000        1,341,000         6,679,000
1978          618,291          3,249,000        3,768,000         7,017,000
1979          630,295          5,610,OO        2,925,000         8,535,000
1980          590,000          7,948,000        3,363,00C        11,311,000
Grand
Total       3,536,586                                            38,845,427
(b) Science, Vocational and Technical Educational Materials. The
Division supervises and is responsible for the administration
of the following activities at Addis Abab.a headquarters and at
regional centers:
(i) The Chalk Factory produces white and colored chalk in
quantities sufficient to meet the needs of the country-s
formal and informal education system.  The unit produced
all of the chalk required by the formal sy, -em in 1979-80,
and, in addition, provided 130,000 boxes for the use of
the adult literacy campaign;
(ii) Educational Materials Production and Training.  The unit
produces laboratory apparatuses, equipment for cottage
industries, technical and vocational equipment for
secondary schools, and science kits. A study of the local
production of science equipment originally included in
project is being carried out with technical assistance
funded by the United Nations.  The tnit produces the
entire range of science equipment required for schools.
Since commencing production in 1980, it has mass-produced
140 science items for science kits to be distributed to
schools. A teachers' kit has been produced, and 100
teachers have been trained in its use.



-25-
(iii) The School Furniture Factory produces all fixed and movable
furniture for schools and, in addition, has provided 28,500
blackboards for the national literacy campaign.
(iv) Educational Materials Procurement and Distribution is respon-
sible for the procurement and distribution of vocational and
technical equipment, science apparatuses, books and teaching
aids. Local purchases are made following tendering and bid
analysis by a process similar to ICB. Other procurement is
through ICB.  The large stock of educational materials in
the warehouse is distributed to regional offices and then to
schools by EMPDA using its own fleet of trucks. Equipment for
project schools is procured by RPA and delivered directly to
schools. The chief of this unit is temporarily located at
MOE, a disadvantage created by the shortage of office space
at the center.
6.14    The EMPDA component of the project was intended to remove a con-
straint on the quality of education in the country, namely the
unavailability of textbooks and other educational materials. The project
was intended to provide the necessary buildings, furniture, equipment and
vehicles, to ensure that the requisite managerial capacity was made avail-
able, and to provide adequate funding.
6.15    EMPDA is achieving its objectives to a commendable degree.  The
production of textbooks and other materials exceeds targets, effective
management has been provided, and the adequacy of the EMPDA-s budget demon-
strates Governments serious commitment to this activity. The products of
the center are visible in schools and the impact on the quality of educa-
tion would seem to be evident. The buildings, furniture, equipment and
vehicles provided under the project are appropriate and of good quality
except that the defective warehouse floor adversely affects levels of
productivity and causes wastage of resources through destruction of
materials and equipment.
6.16    There is need for an annual report on EMPDA activities which would
provide the data base for management decisions on the center-s operations
in comparison with the previous year. There is also a need for better
information on the extent to which science kits and instructional aids are
used in schools, and measures of their relevance and impact on the quality
of education.
Agricultural Training Centers (ATCs)
6.17    General.  The appraised project proposed to add three new ATCs to
the three assisted under the Second Education Project. The objective was
to improve the supply of trained manpower for the execution of Government's
agricultural investment program. The new facilities were to have added 120
new places and equivalent boarding for the training of agricultural field
assistants through nine month programs. The ATCs were to be located in



-26-
Gojam, Kalfa and Wolla Provinces to take adlvantage of ecological differen-
ces and proximity Lo research stations. Government also gave assurances
that in line with the ATCs  extension training responsibilities, complemen-
tary short courses for farmers would be ofjered.
6.18    Implementation was slow, presumably because of MOATs indecision
about the selection of sites and the determination of programs.  Two loca-
tions were changed and one became the renovation of existing facilities
rather than new construction.  The buildings are incomplete and in some
instances the designs are less than satisfactory.  Economies in building
materials will undoubtedly result in high miaintenance costs. The ATCs have
not received equipment, and livestock and books were not orde-red. However,
staffing is adequate and well-organized and an effective program for new
staff has been introduced.
6.19    The two operating ATCs, Combolcha and Woreta, are functioning with
limitations.  Neither has offered the six-month program for agricultural
field assistants (reduced from the appraisal proposal of nine months).
However, both ATCs have evidently cooperated well with local Farmers-
Associations in offering short courses - normally of three weeks  duration
for groups of 50-60 participants.  Eight huindred ten participated in these
courses at Combollcha and Woreta in the second half of 1980.
6.20    Because of implementation delays,  :he Third Education Project was
implemented virtually in parallel with the Second Education Project which
also included assistance to ATCs, with the result that there was little
opportunity for the application of lessons learned, to the follow-on
project.
6.21    The ATC component of the project has not been well implemented
largely because of incomplete planning. The pressure on MOA to accelerate
rural development programs was enormous, and this was complicated by civil
unrest and border conflicts.  The ATC component was premature, and the need
now is for analysis to determinie the extent to which the component, which
comprised about 5% of the project, can be effectively redeployed. Pending
Government decision on the magnitude and phasing of its agricultural
development program, Government should undertake cost-benefit comparisons
of the ATC and CSTC delivery systems.
Community Skill Training Centers (CSTC)
6.22    The request for the substitution of 180 CSTCs for the EOC Training
Center was formally presented to the Bank in mid 1976 and a further 15



-27-
months elapsed before IDA approval in September 1977 was forthcoming. (4)
The project component as amended did not change the rural development
objectives of the program. Whereas the EOC Training Center had been
visualized as a highly centralized system for the training of clergymen as
local agents of change, the amendment proposed a highly decentralized
activity dependent upon local socio-economic surveys for program iden-
tification, and substantially upon the support of Farmers' Associations for
instructors, services, and recurrent funding. The amended project,
however, does not provide for the training of instructional staff.
6.23    By the Closing Date, all the centers had been constructed, but
little equipment had been received, in part because of the time required in
the post-Revolutionary period to articulate and implement a new set of
educational policies. Consequently, there were delays in the preparation
of equipment lists and then in obtaining Bank approval, followed by lags
in the procurement and distribution of equipment, now in final stages.
Although project equipment had not been delivered at the time of the com-
pletion mission, some equipment was provided by Farmers' Associations, and
it was expected that all centers would be in full operation by late 1981.
The centers are normally not in operation during the peak of the agricul-
tural cycle from mid-June to early September.
6.24    In the absence of an annual report on operations, the completion
mission was unable to obtain summary data on the CSTC program: the number,
type and level of courses, number of training days, number and level of
administrative and instructional staffs, operational costs and sources of
income. If one of the two operating centers visited is assumed to be
typical, the following picture of CSTC operations emerges:
(a) The Lege-Dokie CSTC (Shoa Region) is centrally located in a
district in which live over 16,000 farm families and a total
population of 84,000, organized into 67 Farmers- Associations.
The project buildings comprise 207 m2 to which Farmers' Asso-
ciations added 366 m2 from their own resources. A garden
which includes one million seedlings for reforestation is
irrigated from a dammed stream, and 15 hectares are farmed by
the Associations. The produce is donated to the CSTC by the
4. This delay is difficult to understand since the Bank Group agreed to
finance 100 CSTCs in the Fourth Education Project approved by the Bank in
May 1975. It appears that Bank staff in RMEA who supervised but did not
appraise the projects misunderstood the CSTCs as presented by Government
and as described in the Fourth Education Project. That there was this
lack of communication in RMEA is illustrated by its giving higher priority
to equipment to improve communication skills (projectors and radios) when
commenting on Government's equipment proposals under the Third Project
than the more practical equipment foreseen under the Fourth Project (tools
for practical skill training).



-28-
Associations and was valued at Birr 2,500 for the 1980-81
operating season.
(b) Since 1978, 21 courses have been offered and a total of 1,410
persons had taken courses in cooperatives (344), water and
soil conservation (344), animal care (344), weaving (45),
leatherwork (22), metalwork (55), home care (189), and sports
and physical training (67). Craft courses were of four
weeks' duration, the remainder, three weeks. The throughput
was 2,205 trainee weeks per annum, somewhat in excess of the
normal capacity of 60 participants in each of eight one-month
courses. The very substantial proportion of training time
being devoted to courses in agriculture will have implications
for Agriculture Training Centers and the agricultural
extension services generally.
(c) The staff consists of a coordinator (the majority of coordinators
are primary school teachers) employed and trained by the MOE,
part-time instructors from local government development offices,
and local craftsmen employed by the Farmers' Associations.
Recurrent costs are paid from the local education budget:
Birr 4,000 for the coordinator's salary; Birr 6,000 for
instructors salaries (Birr 150 per month); and Birr 2,000 for
miscellaneous expenses. In addition, the Farmers' Associations
contribute Birr 46,000 per year distributed as follows:
maintenance for trainees at Birr 21 per week; Birr 1,500 for
equipment; Birr 10,000 for roofing sheets; and a reserve
fund of Birr 14,000.
6.25    The CSTCs appear to offer an effective approach to education in
rural areas. They help improve skill levels, especially for farmers, and
support basic literacy programs. Above all, they provide a locus for
community development. Courses in agriculture are assisted by local staff
of MOA, with the result that a system of farmer training at the district
level has spontaneously developed.
6.26    An evaluation process was initiated by the MOE in the latter part
of 1980, using a survey questionnaire to poll participants about the use-
fulness of the CSTC programs and ways to improve them. There is no record
of the results of this poll. It is to be hoped that the basic premises of
the CSTC programming will also come under scrutiny. For example, an early
CSTC strategy(5) states that one of the four main objectives in the
organization of courses is "the provision of short courses for many, rather
than long courses for a few, to avoid the creation of a new category of
5. "Basic Working Principles and Strategy for the Development and
Implementation of an Expanding Program of Non-formal Education and Com-
munity Skill-Training Centers." Ministry of Education, April 1975.



-29-
trained elite." The implication that the two are mutually exclusive should
be reviewed because it must be apparent that the usefulness of courses to
participants will be dependent upon the extent to which instructors have
knowledge and skills superior to those of the participants, in addition to
the disposition and the ability to impart them. Well trained, qualified
tradesmen and instructors should not be regarded as an undesirable elite.
6.27    Within the foreseeable future, unless the limited knowledge and
skill of local craftsmen and other resource personnel can be advanced
through training, participants may conclude that the CSTCs have little more
to offer, with resultant loss of interest. The future of the CSTC concept
undoubtedly depends upon the ability of the Government to provide relevant
programs through competent instructors.
Appropriate Technology Center
6.28    At the time of the completion mission, the center was in the
process of moving into its new quarters. UNICEF support in the form of
technical assistance, materials and additional equipment will continue
until 1983, and other support will be provided under a component of the
Fifth Education Project. The center is actively at work designing and
producing prototype units to which appropriate technology analysis has been
applied, in the nature of efficiency stoves, solar cookers, flap valve well
buckets, small scale storage tanks, and improvements in housing construc-
tion and materials. Other demonstration projects include well construc-
tion, fish ponds and instruction through animation and puppetry. The new
facilities will also permit an expansion of training activities. Groups of
up to 20 trainees will be given three-month courses in appropriate technol-
ogy, on a residential basis. The center is administered by the Adult
Education Department, and constitutes an effective support service to the
formal school systems, Basic Education Centers, and the CSTCs.
6.29    Although the center appears to be productive and the output useful,
there is need of an evaluation system, the design of which should be under-
taken without delay. An annual report of operations recording numbers of
trainees, courses and outputs, and operating costs and financing, would be
a useful starting point. In addition, forward planning and cost-benefit
studies of the appropriate technology products will be needed to ensure the
future of the center.
Animal Health Institute (AHI)
6.30    The AHI, now administered by the Department of Higher Education,
was intended to increase the output of an existing institute in order to
exploit better Ethiopia's livestock production potential. The project
component was expected to raise enrollments of animal health assistants
in the two-year course from 60 to 140, and qualified output from 15 to 60.
The expanded facilities have a capacity of 152 and current enrollment is
147 with expected annual output of 70. Target enrollments and outputs are
accordingly being exceeded and AHI is operating well. The teaching staff



-30-
of nine includes five veterinarians and four graduates in related dis-
ciplines. In addition, there are four practical instructors. The profes-
sional staff to student ratio at 1:16 is reasonable for a highly practical
course of this nature. Of the three post--graduate fellows who received
fellowship training abroad under the project, two did not return, and the
third was posted to MOE in a training-related post. However, AHI is
well-staffed despite the failure of the fellowship program.  Recurrent
costs of the center are high at Birr 2,744 per student place.
6.31    The facilities are complete with t:he exception that one laboratory
has not been fitted with fixed furniture and services and equipment, to the
detriment of the program. The design and materials specifications stand-
ards of the new hostel units are below those of existing hostel units, and
there may be maintenance problems in the future.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
ETHIOPIA
THIRD EDUCATTON PROJECT
AMENDMENTS TO CREDIT AGREEMENT 417-ET
No. |       Date                             Particulars
1.   Jan. 21, 1976         Agricultural Training Centres - Changes in sites
2.    June 21, 1976        Deletion of the phrase "within its Min. of Ed."
from Section 3.04 and "other than the Min. of Ed."
from Section l(a)
3.    July 23, 1976        Changes in procurement arrangement - addition to
Part A, Schedule 3 (not officially countersigned)
4.    Sept. 13, 1977       Change of Centre - Construction, furnishing, and
equipping of 180 Community Skill Training Centres,
instead of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church Training
Centre
5.    May 31, 1978         Addition to Part A (1) - Alternative Technology
,-        Centre
6.    Nov. 22, 1978        Closing Date - E.tension from 12.31.78 to 12,31.80
7.    Feb. 28, 1979        Reallocation of funds from Cat. V to Cat. IV for
printing equipment for EMPDA
8.    Jan. 8, 1980         Financing of construction of Alternative Technology
Centre instead of software
9.   July 2, 1980        - Reallocation of funds (expected savings) - Para. 1,
Schedule 1
- Organizational change in administration - from
"the Project Unit' to "Project Administration"
(Part C, Schedule 2)



-32 -
ETHIOPIA - ThlRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ANNEX 2
CREDIT 417-ET
COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY ESTIMATED AND ACTUALLY
PROVIDED GROSS CONSTRUCTION AREAS
Estimated Construction -                         -
Areas for Premises               Actual Gros ,
i  Originally Required          %     Constructicn
Appraisal      Agreed                  Areas    %    %
Project Item       1Architectura* Revisions      Dif  For Completed  Dif. Dif
(School/Institution)   8 Worksheets      M2          2/1   Facilities   3/1  3/2
2 2                                M2-f2
1          23
1.   Science Curriculum
Development Centre           1,666        2,542        +52      2,542       +52  0
2.   Educational Material
Production and Distrib       4,194        4,251        + 1      4,251       + 1  0
Agency
- New warehouse                        1,380         -        1,380        -   0
- Total                   4,194        5,631         +34      5,631       +34  0
3.   Agricultural Training
Centres
. Woreta - New             1,124          645         -42        645       -42  0
- Renov.           _             345         -          345      -    0
- Total           1,124          990         -12        990      -12  0
. Nejo                     1,124        1,060         - 6      1,060       - 6  0
l   Combolcha              1,124        1,060         - 6      1,060       - 6  0
4.   Ethiopian Orthodox
Church Trng. Centre         14,135     Funds Realloc. -          -           -   -
5.   180 Community Skill                      37,260
Training Centres              -         (207x180)       -      37,260        -   0
6.   Appropriate Tech.
Centre                        -             440         -         470        -   + 7
7.   Addis Ababa University
Science Centre
- New                   16,498       16,040         - 3    16,040        - 3  0
- Ren.                   5,000         -             -           0        -   -
8.   Animal Health Institute
- New                     1,830        1,135         -38      1,135       -38  0
- Ren                        600          600          0        600         0  0
- Total                   2,430        1,735         -28      1,735       -28  0
Source: World Bank and Project Unit.



ETHIOPIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 417-ET
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Years                     1973  | 1974   | 1975          1970   |      77       9Th|1979   |  19O8 0           1981
(Calendar)                  II I YTW                        [7    IIZEZ I Z-I-!-                                      I
I11r2,1.74orig. Sohed. Effectlve Date. 12.31.78"27 Orig. Closing Datc
Projaot Dates                   V7S1n1ng ',rtr  Effective Date 8.30.74                                 12.31.
7.  73                             I~~~~~~~~~levised Closing Date 12.31.80
Civil Works
. Preparation of architeotural                  xxxxxxx|xxxxxxx
plhnning and bidding docs.
. Pre-qualifIc&tion of contract-                     xx xxxxxxxxx
or0  to awards of contraots
, Construction                                          X XXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXX
purnlture and Equlpment
.Kxxx    x Kxxxxxx    xxx
F From preparation of procure-                     .                         +11111I 11iI I i +i  1   - 1 11   -I1
rent lists to approbation
xxx  x  xxx  x xxxxxxxx  x
Frci contract to installation                                                   +    +                  4 *t-
Tcehnical Assistance
Xxx XXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXX Xxxxxxxxx
Technical Assistanoe
.                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
Fellowships                                                   +*   I-Il++ +4lll4- IIIi
xxfx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxtxxxxxxxxx                                             Li
Source:  World Bank                                                     !Wii! Ars   ectual
~~ Appraisal eastimiates            +++++    ct1



- 34 -
ETHIOPIA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                             ANNEX  4
CREDIT 417-ET
SCHEDULE OF PARTICULAR COVENANTS AND IMPORTANT EVENTS
(Key Indicators for Project Supervision)
Reference in
Items                                           Credit Agreement      Due Date                  Status/Remarks
The Borrower shall
1.  Furnish the Association for its comments a plan          Section             One year       Plan prepared by Dean of
for training and employing qualified laboratory tech-    3.01 (b) (ii)            7 7/74        Science 7aculty.  Letter of
nicians at the Science Centre of the University,                                                RMEA, Dec. 15, 1977.  Lab
technicians trained and employed.
2.  Cause the preparation of a curriculum                    Section             5j7j74         Amendment of 9/13/77  180 CSTCS
satisfactory to the Borrower and Association for the         3.01 (b)(iii)                      introduced.
new training centre of the EOC at Managasha.
3.  Furnish to the Association for its comments a            Section             5/7/74         Satisfactory
plan for the coordination of science curriculum              3.01 (b)(iv)
development for the Borrower's educationaL system.
4.  Employ architectural consultants mutually                Section           Continuous       Satisfactory performance
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.              3.02 (a)
5.  Submit to the Association for its approval,              Section           Continuous       Satisfactory performance
promptly upon their preparation, the preliminary             3.02 (b)
architectural drawings and the outline of the soeci-
fications for the buildings and facilities included
in the Project.
6.  Employ experts and consultants mutually accentable   Section               Continuous       Satisfactory performance.
to the Borrower and the Association in accordance with   3.02 (c)                               Funds reallocated by
Annex A of Schedule 2 of the Agreement                                                          amendments of   12/15/77
5/31/78 and 2/23/75
7.  Employ contractors acceptable to the Borrower and    Section               Continuous       Satisfactory performance
the Association.                                             3.03
8.  Maintain in its Ministry of 3ducation a Project          Section           Continuous       Satisfactory
Unit to implement the Project as set out in Schedule 4.  3.04
9.  Establish,and staff with qualified and experienced   Section                 7/8/74         Satisfactory
personnel by 8 July 1974 the Educational Materials           3.05
Production Centre.
To that end, the Borrower shall:
(a)  within 3 months from date of agreement furnish  Section                 5/10/74        Satisfactory
the Association with a detailed proposal for the        3.05 (a)
establishment of the Centre;
(b)  establish a revolving fund of not less that        Section              7/8/74         Satisfactory
Eth$ 3 million;                                         3.05 (b)
(c)  appoint a qualified General Manager for the        Section           Continuous        Local Manager apnointed 10/3/77
first 5 years.                                          3.05 (0)                            See amendment of 2/28/79
10.  Acquire all the sites for the three  new Agricul-   Section               9/1/74           Sites acquired but later
turalTraining Centres within 5 months of effective           3.o6 (a)                           changed - amendment 1/21/76
11.  Cause the three new Agricultural Centres to operate Section               Continuous       Two Centres only have farmers'
short courses for farners in addition to the regular         3.06 (b)                           courses; none have regular
courses to be offered.                                                                          courses.
12.  Maintain records adequate to reflect approoriate    Section               Continuous       Satisfactory
accounting practices of the operation resources and          4.01
expenditures in respect to the Project.
13.  Provide promptly all funds and other resources          Section           Continuous       Satisfactory
required -or effective utilization of educational            4.02 (a)
institutions.
14.  Adequately maintain and repair educational              Section           Continuous       Pequires attention
facilities.                                                 4.02 (b)
15.   Operate educational facilities so as to promote    Section               Continuous       Satisfactory - CSTCs
the Borrower's educational objectives.                       14.03                              require attention



ETHIOPIA - THIRD EDUCiCTION PROJECT
CREDIT 417-ET
Cnuntr7.   tikilx.pis                                               COMPARISON OF ORIGINALLY ESTIMATED COSTS AND ACTUAL COSTS
).Lt    417-E7                                                                               (in Birr  'OOOs)
Ed.,oatlcir  hviect no.  111
Conatrcwt1on & Site DeXq10            Purn.tur                          quipent                Pro.ect Unit          Pteional Fees          Technical Assistanes            Total
Appraiast       ~ *    _   _  Appraisal                     Appraisal                                             AprA  ea                 Appraleloa    _    _ awra
ProjeGt            Es--Rtimsten Re,, Actua .     Estimates   ev  A D1       f - Estimates               Di. i.   f. atimatoe -ctaDif,  Eati..esta   ct       f   Estimates ketua       Estimates cn     5    i
p   IzcCt  '  hel. lnci Est  Costu  2'  _ .. Fet i C   2t Dl  Ex1c| In.l E      Ot 2'                               E ci  e'3  l   r,  2/u     Ei.    Iet    2/  E eI. |I..               2/3
Contintene                    CootnF enc         _          Contl ngene.                  Canongen_                Ceotirn4ec              Conti gene              Contingene.
712*                             C-t           r           __     0    _                  _~_                     __9_ __  --l--r --2 -  3 - - .     .  '1  2    -  1  2  1  2    2    1  2
S*Lenf Cast'. 
MdI       n       -6.34 305 7.9    9 3   17.           692         BS5  59   .701    4    * _781 - 15                                                                                0,6N 13.000 13.417 +2.6
ylonovste.i  sof 1,00(                                                                                                                  &K  1.0DO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1* 0
2  Scien ce rurri-
.luo Develop-  A7_         59        87 .48       6C   72          75  +4      62       9         76   11                                                                             617    765  1.030 34
ment C 91tr57_               --~
*. Bducatlov '4&t. 
- entJ     A -                                    2( |  *8   24i    54  41    415    4rf         769  253                                |                           _   _           1.     1.676  352C 89
Fcellr-                    1 Iit                                           _ t_                                                  1
Ago vV-WeJo I 1 314 3921           *M9 I r   18 |             |18        37 | 4                56   27                         I6 I                                             |*          56    43, - 5.5F
Blee4. rd a      '|3           12 - 16.4      1    IS   18 |               3f7 | 4h:          5(   2,7                                                                             36   I I I I            456    403 -12|
| ) DeLlc L  31'                      Ns1 _  1                           0 is  31 o  13  44      56   27                  I|6    456    *71 4    I
t.Exter coJor, o        j-  t                  t ttt                                     t     t       r    t|                             i---              
Ai-a1 Hleaith                                                            *   130                       14I                                                                            736    910    853  6
|  c>-urT j'aiinng                                                       P                                                                          '/1        -1  1  |    |_  _11 I I                         ,D__ _ _ I
17,6Ap             |                 r r                                1                                             -- &                  1t                                                         __p
Ci.,t'ch'2velnl 3,14'                        25 ,                          2      27                                                                                            3,      4,50&
7. ppcp. 'et-                 I 1 -10  10                                                      18~~4-l~~~-~X-0   18                  1                    --1 t----- tI--tl-- -                                   I_____
c|ns 9,en,. _                   4                                                   -                 -           -                                                       -1 --1__ __t  
p                          1                                   1                                                                                     I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-o1  6166
hItCec  t roe-   t    !     i    --    e  --,      es --  -    I   --1----4-    [    +    l   --I   X---- ---- t_   L   W31T   396  792   791                     I        -                       3.993
9._Pr.c1-tUrt UIIt                                                                                             20   231    616  16                                  I                    200    231   616 2166
1                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~762   91)  1.2b6  35512       762    950 1,286    35
lU.1peciL. -ftss4J    ffinlWrig5                                                                                                                                                                                       J
I                                   I                                                                 I1                                         11,594  1,832   12 - 93
1~a    2   .01.5 L.215     2q                        L72*                2                                                       2           .22.34bt,.,                   c
-  -                           - -                           '762  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0>) P2- 012Vi,5i1J1286, 1I 2,4'
',cmr  F; oJ ect Un it                                        Ex        Att~?~,.3 2e   UA  I  Z. .07 at A i p.'e
~~~~  ?OJ~~~~~~~~~~~t halt ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~US$1 I                                       2.07~    c
Noe      L    oo      o.i. of a -N.  c,s,.l..6f
a'24 iiaot.



36                                    ANNEX 6
ETHIOPIA - THIRD EfDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 417-ET
COMPARISON OF ORIGINAL ESTIMATES AND
ACTUAL UNIT CONSLRUCTION COSTS
(in Birr 000's)
Appraisal    _                      Actual   I_____
Cost     Gross                [Cost    i- Gross                Dzff.
Project Items          Includ.   Areas       Cost/mr2  Wnclud,   2re.s |Cost/ 
Conting.    m2                 lonting. |m                        3-6
I F L 2 S 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 _ 
|1.  Science Curriculum  |0,t
Development Centre       594     1,666      0,356        879      2,542  09 345            3
2.  Educational Material 1,154       4,194      0.275      1,366      4,251     0,321    4 l6
1   Product. and Dist.               4          0
Agency
- New Warehouse      _          -          -           520     1,380   1 0,376
- Total                                              1 -    -  1,886  5,631  O ,334   r21
3.  Agricultural Trng.
Centres
-  Woreta, New       _          _                 |  _           645       -
Renov.   -                    _ -     I 3             345 _
Total     394      1,124      0,350        329        990     0,332      5-
-  Nejo               394      1,124      0,350        357  |     060  -  0,336         4
-  Combolcha          394      1,124      0,350        397     1,060      0 374       + 7
4.  Ethiopian Orthodix
Church Trng. Centre  3,927    14,135        0,278   1   _     S_
5.  180 Community Skill
Training Centres       _          _          _         2,806    37,260     0,075        -
6.  Appropriate Tech.                                    I
Centre                 -                 _    _          140        470     0, 297
7.  Addis Ababa Univ.
Science Centre
- New               7,941    16,498       0,481     9,351    16,040       0,582       -21
- Renov.            1,000      5,000      0,200       -         - _        _
8.  Animal Health Inst.
- New                _         1,830       -          -        1,135       -          _
- Renov.             -           600       -          -           600      -
- Total               690      2,430      0,283        669 i_  1,735      0 385        36
Total            16,488    49,725      0,331    16,814,   66,788        0 252       -24
Source:  World Bank and Rural Project Agency.



37 -                                 ATTACHMENT I  p.1
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                                                 AAh
Tel.    1  13
o; 5L z _1,                                          7 ns Y~~~~~~~~rt-. h.
No.    1 f   '  r.           1367
<zi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+- e Atz x,17& Ve- 405 4 #S
1.tLyvt W.+A/C.!                                                                S,t 
THE PROVISIONAL MILITARY GOVERNMENT                             h&fl hnlQ
OF SOCIA  ETHIOPIA                                         ADDIS ABABA
UI NIST   OF EDUCATION
;ro Shiv So Kapur
Acting Director-General
Operations Lvaluation
The World Bank
1818 H. Street, l.dl
dukshington, D.Co 20433
Sub.: Comments on Third Prolect Cormletion Report dated Febo 28^_1398
Dear kiro Karur,
Thank you for your letter and attached Completion Reaorto
In general, the Project Management Office considers the report
comrrehen-3ive and constructive, and the assessment fairo
IHowever, a f'ew comments, not of a major nature, though, are considered
pro)ero Some observations also are made related to the Project as affecting
IIOEo
1. Page (ii) para 3 Ylission Data
In the table the man-days do not agree (ie) the sum of experts
multiplied by kjis-;ion Days do not agree with total man-dayso  It could be
due to shorter duration of stay by individual mission memberso
Again, in the same table E (meaning economist) appears twice in
giving mission compositiono
2. Page (v) para (ii) and page 16 para 4.16
Oteps hi.ve now been taken to maintain buildin,g,s by the establish-
ment of a full fled_ed "School Conm-ruction and Maintenance dJcrvice` as a
departmenit of lhOEo
3.  Page 5 para 1A3 and page 30 para 6030
I)hile talking about the 3 fellowshlip proiSramme particinp.nts, it
is said in the first reference the third fellow is employed by MOA but in
the second reference he is sai(d to have been er.: loyed by kiOLo
AMDE-SELASSIE JEM413RE L
Manager, Ed, proiccts:
Minister's SpcJJ, Adv'.tur  .... 2



38                              ATTACHMENT I p.2
ThA.   11 31 33
P. 0. B3ox  1367
13 <1 2 'Z' i'h f2 3 } 4 St'  + h, +                         No.
?.fLpf                                0C}<thg  .. ,,.  ,,,, _, .. .,,19 ___- .-
THE PROYISIOUAL MILITARY GOVERNMENT                               % flq
OF SOCIALIST ET5hlOPIA                                  ADDIS ABABA
MINISTRY OP E:DUCATION
4a  Page 6 para 121.  The Project Management Office agrees with the necessity
for more intensive building supervision during construction and the need
for technical assistance in this area to employ supervisors and pay the
relative expenseso  The Fifth 1ducation Project has no such provisiono  It
is to be favourably considered in The Sixth Education Project now in pipe
lineo
5. Page 23 para 6013-  "EMPDA is. divided into 3 divisions with the following
functions"o
Following this statement there are only 2 paragraphs (a) and (b).
It may be better if (b) (iv) is marked (c) as educational materials procure-
ment and distribution rests vJith a separate di-visiono
6. Page 25 para (iv).
Di.stributi.on by !2IYDA is not only by "using its own fleet of
trucks9" but it also uses commercial vehicles to&great degree which is an
important cause for delays in distributiono       I
Consideration has been Fiven to this matter in the implementation
of the Fifth Project and steps are being taken to iLicrease JCPDA's fleet of
trucksto some extent using part. of the amounts allocated for distribution
of equipment*
Kind regards, 
*/t g Q-!^ +  91  Yours sircerely,
e*     *}  ~/AMDD E..R          JEMiBERIE
Manager, Ed, projects:
XPc.j~.  Iv~       Minister's Special Ad'isvc



