CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 417 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 5, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 417 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Education Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 5, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1973, between EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the samc force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "University" means the several campuses of the Haile Selassie I
University;
(b)   "EOC" means the Ethiopian Orthodox Church;
(c)   "Commission" means the EOC Development Commission;
(d)   "Education Materials Production Center" means the center to be
established under Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
(e)   "Science Curriculum  Development Center" means the science
curriculum development section of the Curriculum Division of the Borrower's
Ministry of Education.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition un,der procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983, and ending April 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project or cause the same
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and educational practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, within one year from
the date of this Agreement, or such other date as shall be mutually acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association:
(i)         cause   a qualified  laboratory organization   specialist to  be
appointed to the Science Center of the University;
(ii)        furnish to the Association for its comments a plan for training
and employing qualified laboratory technicians at the Science
Center of the University;
(iii)       cause the preparation of a curriculum       satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association for the new training center of
the EOC at Menagasha; and
(iv)        furnish to the Association for its comments a plan for the
coordination of science curriculum development for the
Borrower's education system.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in the design and supervision
of the construction of the new facilities included in Part A(2)(a) of the Project,
the Borrower shall employ architectural consultants mutually acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall submit to the Association for its approval, promptly
upon their preparation, the preliminary architectural drawings and the outline of
the specifications for the buildings and facilities included in the Project.


﻿6
(c)   In carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts
and consultants mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association and in
accordance with Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying
out the civil works included in Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Borrower and the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower undertakes to
maintain, within its Ministry of Education, a Project Unit under the direction of
a manager and including a coordinator and architect, all of whom shall be mutually
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, together with an accountant and
adequate technical and secretarial staff. The Project Unit, its manager, coordinator
and architect shall have such duties and responsibilities as are set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrowe.r
shall, in carrying out Part A(1)(b) of the Project, establish and staff or cause to
be established and staffed with qualified and experienced personnel by July 8,
1974 the Education Materials Production Center and, to that end, the Borrower
shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Association for its comments, within three
months from the date of this Agreement, a detailed proposal for the establishment
thereof;
(b)   establish a revolving fund of not less than Eth.$3 million by July 8,
1974 to cover the estimated annual expenditures of the Education Materials
Production Center, and thereafter provide or cause to be provided sufficient funds
as shall be necessary, by the first day of each fiscal year, to cover the estimated
annual expenditures thereof; and
(c)   for the first five years of its operation, ensure that a qualified General
Manager mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association is appointed
to direct the operations of the Education Materials Production Center.
Section 3.06. In carrying out Part A(1)(c) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)   within six months from the Effective Date, or such other date as shall
be mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, inform the Association


﻿7
of the sites which have been acquired therefor and furnish to the Association
evidence satisfactory to the Association that the Borrower has acquired free of
all encumbrances the ownership of the land on which the three new agricultural
training centers referred to in Part A(1)(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement are
to be built; and
(b)   cause the said three new agricultural training centers to operate short
courses for farmers in addition to the regular courses to be offered therein.
Section 3.07. In carrying out Part A(l)(d) of the Project, the Borrower shall
enter into arrangements with the EOC satisfactory to the Association, including,
inter alia, the financing, operation and maintenance of the facilities included therein.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall assign, or cause to be assigned, qualified
local personnel to work with each of the specialists referred to in Annex A to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, pro1. ptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all funds and other resources required for the
effective utilization, staffing and operation of the educational institutions and
related facilities included in the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the physical plant and equipment of the
educational institutions and related facilities included in the Project to be
adequately maintained and repaired, and to that end shall make available, or cause
to be made available, promptly as needed, all funds and other resources as shall
be required for the maintenance of such educational institutions and related
facilities.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the educational institutions and
related facilities included in the Project to be operated so as to promote the
educational objectives of the Borrower.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with      regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and


﻿9
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.0 1. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.


﻿10
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section
10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has entered into
the arrangements referred to in Section 3.07 of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date of February 1, 1974 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿11
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Ghebeyehou Mekbib
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
category and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
1.   Civil Works                        5,100,000          80% of total
expenditures
II.  Architectural and Engi-             295,000           80% of total
neering Services                                     expenditures
1II.  Furniture                          350,000
(a)  Directly imported                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  Locally manufactured                             100% of local
(ex-factory cost)                               expenditures
(c)  Imported but procured                           80% of total
locally                                         expenditures
IV.  Equipment                          2,100,000
(a)  Directly imported                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  Locally manufactured                            100% of local
(ex-factory cost)                               expenditures
(c)  Imported but procured                           80% of total
locally                                         expenditures
V.   Specialists and related             620,000           80% of total
services and Fellowships                             expenditures
VI.  Project Unit                         78,000           80% of local
expenses                                             expenditures
VII. Unallocated                        1,457,000
TOTAL                  10,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   expenditures on account of Part A(l)(b) and Part B(i) of the Project
prior to the establishment of the Education Materials Production Center.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿14
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to improve the teaching of science and to increase
the supply of textbooks and other instructional materials at various educational
levels, to increase the supply of trained agricultural manpower, and to provide
practical training in rural development to clergymen of the EOC in order to promote
Ethiopia's economic development and its educational objectives related thereto.
The Project includes the following parts:
Part A
(1)   The construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a)   offices, laboratories, curriculum workshops and related facilities
for the Science Curriculum Development Center;
(b)   offices, working and meeting rooms, warehouses and vehicles for
the Education Materials Production Center;
(c)   educational and boarding facilities for 40 trainees, and staff
housing units, at each of the three new agricultural training
centers, one in each of the following provinces: Gojam, Kaffa
and Wollo; and
(d)   educational and boarding facilities for 500 trainees, and staff
housing units, for a new training center for the EOC at the
Patriarchate's farm at Menagasha; and
(2)   The renovation and construction, furnishing and equipping of:
(a)   educational and office facilities for the Science Center of the
Addis Ababa campus of the University to increase the student
capacity from 1100 to approximately 1750; and
(b)   educational and boarding facilities for the Animal Health
Institute of the Ministry of Agriculture at Debre Zeit to increase
the student capacity from 60 to approximately 140.


﻿16
Part B
The provision of specialists and related services including Fellowships
pursuant to Annex A of this Schedule for:
(i)         the services of an advisor to the General Manager of the
Education Materials Production Center;
(ii)        a feasibility study on the local production of science equipment;
(iii)       partial staffing of the Animal Health Institute;
(iv)        long-range   physical  development   planning, and    a   staff
development program for University laboratory technicians; and
(v)         assisting the Borrower in programming its educational reforms
and in preparing a plan for the training of personnel to manage
the implementation of said reforms.
Part C
The provisions of supplementary operational expenses for the Project Unit
including, inter alia, salaries for architects, engineers, building inspectors and general
expenses of the Project Unit.
*           *           *           *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1978.


﻿17
Annex A
Specialists and Fellowships
(numbers in parentheses refer to
man-years unless otherwise indicated)
(i)         Education Materials Production Center (1): one advisor to the General
Manager (1).
(ii)        Local Production of Science Equipment Study (18 man/months):
specialists for a study on the local production of science equipment
(18 man/months).
(iii)       Animal Health Institute (15): one specialist in clinical veterinary
medicine (3), one specialist in parasitology (3), and one specialist in
microbiology and meat hygiene (3), fellowships for post graduate
training of staff (6).
(iv)        University (3): specialists to assist in long-range physical development
planning (2) and a staff development program for University laboratory
technicians (1).
(v)         Implementation of Educational Reform (50 man/months): specialists
and related services (50 man/months).


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Contractors for civil works shall be prequalified and the Borrower shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant from prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower
shall make such additions or deletions from the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for local and international bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    With respect to any contract for civil works for the equivalent of US$200,000
or more, after bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
the final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the architectural
consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the Project Manager and the reasons for the
intended award. The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it
has any objection to the intended award and shall state the reasons for any objection
it may have.
4.    If a contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or if its terms
and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunde. shall be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    With  respect to   any civil works contracts below     the equivalent of
US$200,000, the Borrower shall award such contracts pursuant to its usual
procurement procedures.


﻿19
6.    A conformed copy of every civil works contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution, and before the submission of the first
application for withdrawal in respect of such contract.
7.    The Borrower will request the Association's prior approval for any proposed
change in a civil works contract involving a price increase of 10% or more of
the contract sum together with an explanation of the proposed change.
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1.    Before inviting bids, with respect to any contract for furniture or equipment,
the Borrower will send to the Association, for its approval, the following:
(a)   lists of all items of equipment and furniture required for the Project
showing the specifications and the estimated unit and total price of each item.
Items will be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with: (i) the Project
institutions; and (ii) the spaces for which the items are required. The items to
be purchased will be grouped so as to permit bulk procurement as shall be consistent
with sound technical and procurement practices. Modifications to the furniture
and equipment lists made subsequent to the Association's approval which do not
exceed the equivalent of $1,000 for any one item, or in the aggregate 10% of
the total proceeds of the Credit allocated to equipment and furniture, and which
are in accordance with sound educational practices, may be made without the prior
approval of the Association; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
descriptions of the methods to be used for obtaining bids on local and international
bases.
2.    Financing out of the proceeds of the Credit will be limited to those items
of equipment and furniture specified in the approved lists mentioned in
sub-paragraph B(1)(a) above and identified in contract documents by the same
indices, codes and numbers as in the lists.
3.    If a contract is proposed to be awarded to a bidder other than the lowest
evaluated bidder, the Borrower will, after the bids have been evaluated and before
making the award, send to the Association, in sufficient time to obtain its
comments, a summary and analysis thereof and a brief justification of the
Borrower's proposal for the award.
4.    In cases not covered by sub-paragraph 3 above, promptly after bids have
been evaluated and a contract has been awarded and before submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect of such
contract, the following will be sent to the Association:


﻿20
(a)   certificate signed by the Project Manager that the goods covered by
the contract are in accordance with the quantities and specifications in the list
approved by the Association;
(b)   list of the bids received;
(c)   brief analysis of the bids and justification for the Borrower's decision
in making the award; and
(d)   conformed copy of the contract.
5.    The Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that the award
of any contract referred to in sub-paragraph 1 of paragraph B of this Schedule
is not consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of
this Agreement, and in such event, no expenditures under such contract shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
6.    With respect to any contract for furniture, equipment or Project Unit
expenses for the equivalent of less than $40,000, the Borrower will comply with
the procedures set forth or referred to in sub-paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of paragraph
B of this Schedule, provided that the aggregate of expenditures in accordance with
this sub-paragraph shall not exceed the equivalent of $250,000.
C.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison fbr Furniture and
Equipment
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for
imported goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to
the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in
the evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Preferred Domestic Bid" means a bid offering goods manufactured
in Ethiopia if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Ethiopia of not less than 20% of the ex-factory bid price.


﻿21
(b)    "Non-preferred Domestic Bid" means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in Ethiopia.
(c)    "Foreign Bid" means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    For goods included in Categories III and IV of the table set out in paragraph
I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, a margin of preference may be granted by
the Borrower to Preferred Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by
adding to each Foreign Bid, for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred
Domestic Bids, an amount (hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal
to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or
(ii) 15%  of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:
Stage                     Bids to be Compared                     Preference
I.         All Preferred Domestic Bids and Non-preferred         None
Domestic Bids.
II.        (a)  Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, if           Add Domestic
Preferred Domestic Bid, with all                 Preference
Foreign Bids;                                   Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, if          None
Non-preferred Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III.       If lowest evaluated bid under Stage 11 is not         None
the lowest evaluated bid under Stage 1, all
Foreign Bids.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
The Project Unit
1.    The Project Unit shall be responsible for liaison with the Association, with
the EOC and with all appropriate authorities and agencies of the Borrower on
matters relating to the execution of the Project and shall have the responsibilities
and power for the execution of the Project, including, inter alia:
(a)   the coordination of the Project with ministries, government services
other than the Ministry of Education and the EOC;
(b)   the approval of the civil works design of the educational institutions
and related facilities included in the Project;
(c)   the design and supervision of construction of the items in Part A of
the Project together with the boarding facilities and staff houses which may be
related to those items;
(d)   the preparation of detailed lists of the furniture and equipment
required for Parts A(l) and A(2) of the Project;
(e)   the procurement of civil works, furniture and equipment, including
the preparation of bidding documents, the analysis of bids and the making of
recommendations regarding the award of contracts;
(f)   the selection, briefing, coordination and supervision of the architects
and contractors provided for in Section 3.02(a) and Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(g)   the regular inspection of all construction work;
(h)   the keeping of records, including financial records, of the execution
of the Project, and the preparation of quarterly reports to the Association;
(i)   the coordination of the selection, briefing and supervision of the
experts referred to in Annex A to Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(j)   the preparation of applications for withdrawals from     the Credit
Account.
2.    The specific responsibilities and functions of the Project Manager, the Project
Coordinator and the Project Architect (all of whom, with the exception of the
40


﻿23
Project Manager shall serve in the Project Unit on a full-time basis) shall be as
follows:
(a)   Project Manager: overall guidance, supervision and execution of the
Project, including all such arrangements with other ministries and government
services as shall be necessary for Project implementation;
(b)   Project Coordinator: management of the Project Unit's activities under
the supervision of the Project Manager; and
(c)   Project Architect: subject to the supervision of the Project Manager,
guidance and overall supervision of the Project's civil works and of the architectural
consultants to be employed pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, and
responsibility for the design and supervision of construction of the items in Part
A of the Project together with the boarding facilities and staff houses which may
be related to those items.


